-- Cash Hoards to Baseball Bunts Show Japan Running Scared of Slump
-- B y   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o ,   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2012-12-06T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/decades-of-decline-create-nation-of-bunters-as-japan-shuns-risk.html
Kayoko Okamoto spent a decade
knocking on a hundred doors a day trying to persuade some of
Tokyo’s most well-to-do residents to sign up for free brokerage
accounts. The former saleswoman for Aizawa Securities Co. said
she was lucky if she got 10 people a month to take a chance.  With the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  down 76 percent from its
1989 peak and 1.5 quadrillion yen ($18 trillion) in wealth
erased when the asset bubble burst, a generation of Japanese
investors has grown up believing stocks only go down.  “My job was putting up with rejection,” said Okamoto, who
transferred to the mid-sized brokerage’s planning department in
July. “Most people have no tolerance for risk.”  It isn’t just stocks, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Dec. 10 edition. The country suffers from a play-it-safe
mentality that has become ever-present in daily life, according
to Harvard University sociologist Mary Brinton. “There’s a
tendency to focus more on potential downsides rather than on
opportunities,” said Brinton, co-author of the 2010 book “A
 Japan  That Turns Its Back on Risk.”  That may explain why regulators held up vaccines approved
decades earlier in other countries, and why few Japanese
students study abroad, said Brinton. A record 844 trillion yen,
almost twice the country’s annual economic output, sits idle in
cash at home and savings accounts earning as little as 0.02
percent interest, according to government data.  Risk avoidance even extends into sports. Professional
baseball teams in Japan bunt twice as often as Major League
Baseball clubs in North America, sacrificing a runner to
increase the odds of a safe score, according to a 2005 study by
 Ken Oikawa , a kinesiology professor at Tokyo Gakugei University.  Risk Aversion  By many measures, Japanese people are the world’s most
cautious. About 73 percent describe themselves as risk-averse,
according to a 2008 study of 51 countries by Stockholm-based
 World Values Survey . Ghana, Indonesia and  India  had the highest
rate of respondents who said taking risks is important, the
study showed.  According to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, less than
4 percent of working-age Japanese intend to start a business
within three years. That’s the third-lowest rate among 54
countries surveyed last year, behind only the United Arab
Emirates and  Russia .  Although Japan’s population of 127 million is less than
half that of the U.S., Japanese spent $525 billion on life
insurance last year, second only to the U.S. at $538 billion,
according to a Swiss Re  study .  Culture of Conservatism  A culture of conservatism may also be why polls show the
Liberal Democratic Party will likely return to power in national
elections on Dec. 16. The party governed Japan for more than a
half century after World War II.  The LDP presided over the bubble of the late 1980s and the
“lost decade” that followed in the 1990s and 2000s, when
economic growth averaged just 1.2 percent and public debt rose
to more than 170 percent of gross domestic product. The
frontrunner to become Japan’s new prime minister is the LDP’s
Shinzo Abe, who served as premier in 2006 and 2007.  “There’s a hunker-down mentality and a feeling that the
LDP have been there through thick and thin and have the
experience,” said Jeff Kingston, professor of politics at
Temple University’s Tokyo campus. “On the other hand, these are
the people that got us into all the problems in the first
place.”  Still, there are real reasons for caution when it comes to
Japan’s equities market. “Looking back at the past two decades,
it was absolutely the right decision to stay away from stocks,”
said  Soichiro Monji , who helps oversee 5 trillion yen as chief
strategist at Tokyo-based Daiwa SB Investments. “We’ve had a
few rallies, but they’ve all been temporary.”  ‘Unsavory’ Business  Corporate scandals have also reinforced doubts. Nomura
Holdings Inc. Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe resigned
in July over insider trading at Japan’s biggest brokerage. That
followed a $1.6 billion accounting fraud at Olympus Corp. The
camera maker’s  shares  dropped as much as 81 percent, erasing 548
billion yen in market value, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  “The whole business seems unsavory,” said Toshiya
Enomoto, an engineer who keeps his money in a bank account. “My
parents taught me: ‘Don’t gamble and stay out of the stock
market.’”  The breakdown of the lifetime employment system may be the
main source of anxiety that leads people to play it safe, said
Harvard’s Brinton and co-author Toshio Yamagishi, professor at
Tamagawa University. There’s prejudice against hiring people
mid-career, and with companies firing workers and making fewer
long-term commitments to employees, second chances are hard to
come by.  “There’s a sense that if you screw up, it’s kind of
over,” Brinton said. “Once you get pushed out of a group, you
don’t get back in.”  Investment Incentives  To lure Japanese back to the market, the  Financial Service
Agency  has proposed that those who invest pay no taxes on their
first 1 million yen of stock investment. Japan already has the
lowest taxes on dividends among developed countries and a 10
percent capital gains tax, which compares with 15 percent in the
U.S. and as much as 28 percent in Britain, according to  Ernst &
Young LLP .  The lowest valuations among the world’s major markets have
similarly failed to entice Japanese investors. The Topix Index
trades for 0.9 times book value compared with 2.1 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That means companies on the Topix can be bought for
less than the value of their assets while U.S. firms trade for
twice as much.  Share Ownership  Stocks only account for 6 percent of Japan’s household
assets, compared with 33 percent in the U.S. and 15 percent in
 Europe , according to the  Bank of Japan . Overseas investors now
hold 25 percent of Japan’s shares, compared with 5 percent at
the height of the bubble in 1989, according to the Tokyo Stock
Exchange.  Data from the government statistics bureau show the average
household headed by a person in their sixties has 21 million yen
in savings and investments. That’s less than half the 54 million
yen needed for retirement, according to calculations based on
estimates from the Japan Institute of Life Insurance. Japanese
live an average of 84 years.  “I’m worried my money will run out before I die,” says
Tsuyoshi Kiuchi, a former Tokyo Gas employee whose assets have
shrunk after putting most of his retirement package into a bank
account 12 years ago. “I’m frustrated with getting zero
interest on my savings, but I was too scared to risk losing the
principal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaaki Iwamoto in  Tokyo  at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  