-- Defense Industry Cuts Exceed 500,000 Workers Over Cliff
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-12-06T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/defense-industry-cuts-exceed-500-000-workers-over-cliff.html
John Lutz is following the debate in
Washington over the so-called fiscal cliff with more than
academic interest.  Lutz’s wife has been out of work for more than a year, and
he worries that he may be next if Congress and President  Barack
Obama  fail to reach an agreement forestalling more than $600
billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases scheduled
to start taking effect in January.  Lutz, 50, supervises high-speed milling operations at Alken
Industries Inc. in Ronkonkoma, New York, which makes components
for military jets and helicopters. The company depends on
defense contracts for most of its business, anticipates that
next year’s sales will decline by 10 percent and is trying to
diversify into commercial aerospace, said Kimberly Senior, chief
executive officer, in a phone interview. Its workforce has been
reduced to 57 employees from 72 in 2011.  “It’s kind of scary,” Lutz said. “I believe my work
could be in danger. If you get all these defense cuts in the
budget we’ll probably wind up eliminating some more jobs because
the company will try to downsize more than what they already
have.”  Obama sketched out a potential year-end deal pairing tax
increases and spending cuts, while insisting Republicans accept
higher tax rates for top earners as a condition for
negotiations. “We have the potential of getting a deal done,”
Obama said Dec. 4 at the White House on Bloomberg Television in
his first interview since winning re-election.  Boehner’s Reaction  Reacting to the president’s latest comments, House Speaker
 John Boehner  said Obama “has an obligation” to present a
counterproposal that can be passed by Congress -- a test he said
Obama’s current plan fails -- and that Republicans are “ready
and eager” to discuss such an offer with him. The  Ohio
Republican  has rejected rate increases and said the White House
hasn’t presented sufficient spending cuts. The Republicans’
proposal Dec. 3 included $2.2 trillion in reductions and new  tax
revenue  without raising rates.  More than 500,000 defense industry jobs could be lost next
year if automatic budget reductions are triggered, said  Stephen Fuller , an economist at  George Mason University  in Fairfax,
 Virginia , who prepared the  study  for the Aerospace Industries
Association, the industry’s main lobbying group, in July.  About $1.2 trillion of U.S. spending over 10 years will be
subject to automatic reductions. Half of that will be from
defense and the rest from other federal agencies. In 2013,
$109.4 billion of federal spending will be affected, of which
the share for the Defense Department and other defense-related
agencies will be $54.7 billion, according to a Bloomberg
Government  estimate .  ‘Big Chill’  The cutbacks would “put a chill on the economy, and if
this is combined with tax increases then there is no doubt in my
mind that there will be a big chill,” Fuller said in an
interview.  Tax rates put in place by President  George W. Bush  are also
set to expire Dec. 31. The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget
Office  has projected that if all the fiscal tightening occurs
and taxes increase, real gross domestic product will drop by 0.5
percent next year, and the  unemployment rate  will rise to 9.1
percent in the fourth quarter of 2013. The  jobless rate  was 7.9
percent in October and November’s level will be released
tomorrow by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  The impact on jobs will be gradual because “it’s not as if
spending is going to plummet overnight,” said  Nigel Gault ,
chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “But the further you go in the year, the tighter
those spending constraints will get and therefore the more jobs
we will lose,” said Gault, who estimates as many as 2.3 million
jobs could be lost by the end of 2013.  Job Losses  If all tax cuts expire and budget reductions automatically
kick in, the job losses range from 300,000 to 5.5 million, with
a median estimate of 1.5 million, according to survey of 23
economists by  Bloomberg News .  The result would bump the unemployment rate next year by
0.3 percent in the first quarter and by 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter. Defense industry employment would drop 110,000
according to the median estimate, with a range of as many as
400,000 positions lost.  If lawmakers and Obama reach an agreement, the labor market
impact will be modest, despite any tax increases and spending
cuts such a deal might require, because they will be offset by
long-term deficit reduction and fiscal sustainability, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester, Pennsylvania.  Budget Contraction  Should no deal be made, the Pentagon’s  projected  budget
contraction of $500 billion over the next decade would be in
addition to last year’s agreement to cut $487 billion from the
department’s spending over the next 10 years.  Defense industry stocks reflect the uncertainty. The
Standard & Poor’s  Aerospace & Defense Index (S15AERO) , which includes 28
companies, has gained 9 percent in the last 12 months  compared 
with a 12 percent increase in the broader Standard & Poor’s 500
Index during the same period.  Defense companies have been reducing headcount even before
confronting job losses from the fiscal cliff. Then-Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  said in January 2009 the Obama
administration was beginning to shut the “spigot of defense
spending” that opened with the 2001 terror attacks.  The U.S. aerospace products and parts industry lost 6,100
jobs from January 2009 through September 2012, according to  BLS
data compiled by Bloomberg. Since 2010, Chicago-based  Boeing
Co. (BA) ,  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK)  of Arlington, Virginia, and
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  of Bethesda, Maryland, have cut thousands
of jobs, citing a slowdown in defense spending.  Jobs Cut  Robert Stevens, Lockheed’s chairman and CEO said in July
that as many as 10,000 company employees could lose their jobs
if the fiscal cliff takes effect. The world’s largest defense
contractor, Lockheed has already cut 3,850 jobs and offered
voluntary separation to 6,500 employees.  The job losses at defense contractors affect other
businesses. Ells Snyder said he is worried about the deli and
café he opened three years ago in Linthicum, Maryland, across
the street from  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s Electronic Systems
unit, which announced last month it would cut 350 jobs.  “It does impact us,” he said. Snyder said he is following
the fiscal debate and is “mainly concerned about the
uncertainty.” The deli gets about 400 customers a day, many
from nearby defense contractors and government agencies.  Lunch Caps  Snyder, 60, said 2011 sales of the catering business he’s
owned for 16 years fell from the year before because of budget
cuts at defense companies. He has dropped the price of a catered
lunch package to $9 from $15 because of a $10 cap imposed by
contractors. Snyder, who employs 32 people, said he has cut
hours “but luckily we have not laid people off.”  Job cuts by large defense contractors as a result of
automatic budget reductions will hurt their smaller suppliers
and vendors the most, said Chad Moutray, chief economist at the
 National Association of Manufacturers  in Washington.  “You have a lot of people, especially in the defense
supply chain, who are quite worried about how budget cuts might
affect them,” Moutray said. Smaller suppliers “are going to be
most affected” by automatic budget cuts, he said.  Seal Science Inc. of Irvine, California, is one such
company. Greg Bloom, executive vice president and general
manager, said he gets phone calls “daily from program
managers” at large defense contractors about their orders from
the government “coming to a stop.”  Immediate Reduction  Seal Science supplies precision-engineered seals for
advanced weapons, aircraft, ships and satellites and depends on
the U.S. government for 80 percent of its revenue, he said.
Budget cuts caused by the fiscal cliff or further contraction in
defense spending may mean “we could see a 10 percent reduction
in our workforce immediately,” said Bloom, who currently
employs about 200 people.  Some defense suppliers that also sell to commercial
airplane makers such as Boeing expect to survive the changes
without firing their employees.  Ferco Aerospace Group , a family-
owned company in Franklin, Ohio, that makes sheet metal
components for airplane engines, is less dependent on military
sales, said Joseph Murphy, chairman.  Commercial business, which makes up about 75 percent of the
company’s revenue, is growing while sales of engine components
for the Pentagon’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program may weaken,
he said.  “We are selling parts faster than they can book orders,”
for engines that power Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner and 777
airplanes, Murphy said in an interview.  Small Suppliers  Still, small suppliers who specialize in parts and
components, such as closely held  Alken  in New York, are trying
to be “as lean as possible to be able to compete” with
domestic and foreign competitors, said Lutz, who said he fears
for his job.  Lutz said he may be able to find another position if he’s
fired because of his three decades of experience as a machinist.
The new job may not pay as well as his current one and benefits,
such as for health care, could be worse, he said.  Since his wife, who was a data-entry operator for 15 years,
lost her job, she’s been going through unemployment services to
find a new position without success, Lutz said. “It has been
pretty hard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  