-- Democrats Hint at Entitlement Program Cuts in U.S. Budget
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-12-06T21:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/democrats-hint-at-entitlement-program-cuts-in-u-s-budget.html
Two Senate Democratic leaders
signaled they may have to accept cuts to U.S. entitlement
programs to secure a deficit-reduction deal, after some
Republicans expressed willingness to discuss higher tax rates
for top earners.  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-ranking Senate
Democrat, said he is open to alternatives including expanded
means-testing -- charging higher-income seniors more -- for
Medicare. Republicans are seeking limits to spending on
entitlement programs. Durbin and  New York  Senator Chuck Schumer,
the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, didn’t rule them out while
speaking with reporters today in Washington.  More than $600 billion in tax increases and federal
spending cuts will start taking effect in January unless
Congress acts. President  Barack Obama  has made clear that no
agreement is possible on the so-called fiscal cliff without
raising income tax rates for the top 2 percent of earners.  Republicans need a concession on entitlement programs,
Durbin said, in exchange for any agreement on higher tax rates.  “They want something to put up on the wall and say, ‘OK,
we gave on taxes, they gave on’” entitlements, Durbin said. “I
hope we don’t go that route and we may end up facing it as the
only way out of this.”  “Means-testing to me is the easiest approach,” Durbin
said.  ‘All Options’  A few dozen Republicans have signed a bipartisan letter
seeking to consider “all options” on taxes and entitlement
programs, signaling they are ready to bargain on Obama’s call
for a tax rate increase.  Republican House Speaker  John Boehner , in a $2.2 trillion
debt plan he offered this week, proposed using a new inflation
yardstick that would reduce cost-of-living increases in  Social
Security , as well as raising the Medicare eligibility age. Other
Republicans have also advocated means-testing.  Boehner has insisted that Republicans won’t agree to higher
tax rates for anyone.  Raising the Medicare eligibility age and the different
Social Security yardstick were on the table during unsuccessful
budget talks between Obama and Boehner in 2011.  A Republican leader of the petition to consider all revenue
options, Representative Mike Simpson of  Idaho , said he could
accept higher tax rates for married couples earning more than
$500,000 a year, in exchange for an overhaul of spending in
entitlement programs.  80 Members  About 80 members of Congress have signed the letter, half
of them Republican and half Democratic, according to Simpson
spokeswoman Nikki Watts.  Separately, some  House Republicans  have endorsed Oklahoma
Republican Tom Cole’s call to extend the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts
for middle-class earners while allowing the cuts for top earners
to expire, as Obama has asked Congress to do by the end of the
year.  Representative Kay Granger of Texas called it “just the
right thing to do.”  Simpson said new entitlement limits could include changing
the way seniors’ Social Security cost-of-living increases are
calculated and raising the Medicare eligibility age.  Schumer, when asked about those alternatives, said, “Let
them give it to us officially as an idea,” without ruling them
out.  Signs of Flexibility  Amid the signs of flexibility in both parties, Obama and
Boehner haven’t disclosed any progress in private talks.  Lawmakers of both parties must move from their ideological
corners, and that is best done behind closed doors, Senate
Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  of  North Dakota , a
Democrat, said yesterday.  In the Senate today, Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, sparred over the president’s proposal to give
himself authority to raise the federal debt ceiling without
approval by Congress.  McConnell sought a vote on the proposal, though he quickly
retreated by threatening a filibuster after Democrats determined
they had the 51 votes necessary to pass the bill.  Change ‘Difficult’  Regarding entitlement programs, Durbin said it would be
“difficult” to change the calculation of Social Security cost-
of-living increases, and raising the Medicare eligibility age
could hurt poor seniors who retire early with health problems.  Higher-income senior citizens already pay more for Medicare
benefits.  “The question is what other means-tests should apply,”
Durbin said. “I think that is reasonable and certainly
consistent with the Democratic message that those who are better
off in our country should be willing to pay a little more,”
said Durbin.  Republicans have “got to come through with specifics on
that,” he said.  Durbin was also responsive to Republican Simpson’s
suggestion to raise the annual income threshold Obama is
advocating for a tax increase. The president wants to let tax
rates increase for individuals’ income above $200,000 a year and
married couples’ income above $250,000.  “If you’ve been around here long enough, you know there’s
going to be some give on both sides,” Durbin said. “Some of
the other elements, $250,000, $375,000, $500,000, you know” he
said.  “As the president said, and I’ll just leave it in his
words, ‘I’m open to good ideas,” Durbin said.  -- Editor: Laurie Asseo, Jodi Schneider  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  