-- Denmark Tells Banks to Ignore Basel on Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-12-06T15:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/denmark-tells-banks-to-ignore-basel-on-mortgage-bonds.html
Denmark ’s financial regulator is
telling banks to ignore global standards set by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision and give mortgage bonds the top
liquidity designation reserved for sovereign assets.  The Financial Supervisory Authority is disregarding Basel’s
definition of easy-to-sell assets even as it requires banks to
show they comply with liquidity coverage standards envisaged by
the regulator. The Copenhagen-based watchdog will expand the
pool of reporting banks “in the near future” from Denmark’s
five largest lenders to include institutions with working
capital that exceeds 12 billion kroner ($2 billion).  “We think, based on objective criteria, that a large part
of Danish covered bonds are as liquid as government bonds,”
Kristian Vie Madsen, deputy director at the Copenhagen-based
agency, said in an interview.  The FSA has backed Denmark’s banks in lobbying the European
Commission for equal treatment of mortgage bonds after the Basel
Committee proposed limiting the asset class to 40 percent of
easy-to-sell holdings. Regulators want lenders to hold more
liquid assets to help them withstand market disruptions.  Denmark has fought Basel’s definition of liquid assets as
 Europe ’s debt crisis tests assumptions that sovereign bonds are
safer than other securities. The government in Copenhagen, the
central bank and commercial lenders have argued that Basel’s
liquidity rules would lay the Danish market to waste. Denmark’s
public debt is less than a third the size of its $495 billion
mortgage market, meaning there aren’t enough sovereign bonds to
satisfy banks’ liquidity needs.  Liquidity Tests  The European Banking Authority is now devising a set of
criteria to determine whether an asset satisfies its liquidity
tests. The outcome of the EBA’s evaluation will determine how
Basel’s standards are applied in Europe.  The FSA’s stance is “very positive for Danish covered
bonds” and gives the banking industry some respite from having
to compete for Danish government bonds,  Jens Peter Soerensen,
chief bond analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen, said today.  “This is the first time that I see the FSA show such
strong support,” Soerensen said. “They’ve been pro the banks
on this issue and have worked with them, but I haven’t seen them
so outspoken.”  “Banks won’t be forced to buy Danish government bonds in
the front end as much as we had expected,” he said. “It gives
us more flexibility.”  ‘How Prepared’  The EBA will conduct a “deep” study of Basel liquidity
rules, Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, said
today in a speech in Brussels. The EU said Dec. 3 it was joining
the U.S. in missing a Jan. 1 deadline to begin phasing in
requirements.  What constitutes a liquid asset “is still undecided and
will be so until 2014, we expect,” Madsen said. The FSA is
assuming the outcome will fall in Denmark’s favor, he said.  The regulator wants banks to report their liquidity ratios
“mainly to see how prepared they are and if they face a
challenge,” Madsen said. “Is it a big challenge, is it a small
challenge, for the banks to come up with the liquidity?”  Benchmark Danish mortgage bonds are, on average, as liquid
as the nation’s AAA rated government bonds, even in periods of
market stress, the central bank said in a Nov. 22 working paper.
The study confirmed a 2010 finding. The bonds may become more
popular as issuers grow more profitable.  Nykredit Win  Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s largest mortgage lender and
Europe’s biggest issuer of covered bonds backed by home loans,
won court approval today to raise margins on loans, ending at
least three years of legal wrangling. Danish competition
authorities had capped increases, citing the lender’s market
dominance after its 2003 acquisition of Totalkredit A/S.  Demand for Denmark’s mortgage bonds has soared since the
global financial crisis erupted, and gained momentum as Europe’s
sovereign debt turmoil drove investors out of euro-denominated
assets. Even the nation’s burst housing bubble, which has sent
property prices down about 25 since a 2007 peak, hasn’t curbed
interest. The number of foreclosures rose 8 percent in November
to 455, the statistics office said today.  Yet the  Nykredit index  of Denmark’s most traded mortgage
bonds continues to set new records, and reached its highest
level this week since its creation in 1993.  Good Liquidity  Denmark’s largest banks enjoy “good” liquidity as capital
markets start to function again, the central bank said in an
October report. Most small and medium-sized lenders are also in
a better state following an influx of deposits and cuts in
lending, the bank said, citing the results of its stress tests.  Lenders still have to “adapt to the coming pan-European
liquidity regulation,” Copenhagen-based Nationalbanken said.  Denmark requires lenders to hold enough liquid assets to
cover at least 10 percent of their total debt and guarantees, or
15 percent of their short-term debt exposures. From the end of
this year, the FSA is also telling banks to have excess
liquidity of 50 percent after meeting the legal requirement, or
risk possible sanctions.  The Danish FSA has required the country’s five largest
lenders, including Danske Bank, Nykredit and Nordea Bank AB, to
report their liquidity coverage ratios and net stable funding
ratios since September 2011, Madsen said.  The practice will continue even as prospects fade for the
new global rules for liquidity and capital to be phased in at
the beginning of next year, he said.  Accord Needed  The European Union will join the U.S. in missing a Jan. 1
deadline to implement the Basel recommendations amid
disagreements over banker bonuses, leverage limits and liquidity
ratios. Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
chief, said Dec. 4 an accord may be reached next week so the law
can take effect “as soon as possible” next year.  “It would be good for Europe if we had an agreement and
the rules could come into force,” Madsen said. “We have been
discussing this a long time, and it would be good to have it
finalized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  