-- Dubai Stocks Trump Saudi as U.A.E. Relies Less on Oil, Saxo Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-06T08:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/dubai-stocks-trump-saudi-as-u-a-e-relies-less-on-oil-saxo-says.html
United Arab Emirates shares are more
attractive than those in  Saudi Arabia  because the nation is less
vulnerable to oil price swings and Dubai’s real estate industry
is starting to recover, Saxo Bank A/S said.  A 19 percent advance for Dubai’s DFM General Index makes it
this year’s best performer in the six-nation  Gulf Cooperation
Council (BGCC200) , beating 11 percent gain for Abu Dhabi’s  measure  and 4.9
percent for the Saudi  Tadawul All Share Index. (SASEIDX)  Shares in Dubai
and Abu Dhabi trade at respective price to earnings ratios of 12
times and 9.2 times, below 14 times in Saudi Arabia.  “We are more positive on the U.A.E. as the country’s
policy has been to focus on diversifying its income stream on
tourism and the financial sector, meaning there’s less
dependency on oil,” Peter Garnry, an equity strategist at Saxo
Bank, said in an interview in Dubai yesterday. “Saudi Arabia on
the other hand is exposed to increased vulnerability due to its
dependency on oil.”  U.A.E. shares gained as  Abu Dhabi , holder of most of the
nation’s oil reserves, invests in industries including metals
and chemicals. Investor interest also grew as state-linked
companies in Dubai, which derives about 2 percent of economic
output from oil, restructured debt and property prices in the
city recovered after crashing 65 percent.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) ,
Dubai’s biggest listed company, soared 47 percent this year
after a pickup in tourism and retail industries.  Oil, Iran  Saudi Arabia, the world’s top oil exporter, relies on crude
oil for about 90 percent of government revenue. Its index lost
the position as the GCC’s best performer about six months ago as
concern about King Abdullah’s health triggered questions on
political succession.  Brent crude , the benchmark for more than
half of the world’s oil, dropped 3.2 percent this quarter to
$108.75 a barrel as of 10:59 a.m. in Dubai.  Along with domestic politics, tension between  Iran  and the
West has weighed on Saudi shares in the past month on concern
Israel may consider striking the country’s atomic facilities.
The Tadawul’s 10-day volatility, a degree of price variation,
was 21 yesterday, compared with 30-day volatility of 14. The
same measures for Dubai and Abu Dhabi were little changed. A
higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  “In the event of a crisis between  Israel  and Iran, we’d
see oil prices spike, and this would benefit the kingdom in the
short term, but in the long term it would be negative as it
would slow global economic growth,” Garnry said.  The U.A.E. is also poised to benefit from being less
susceptible to fallout from the so-called Arab Spring than its
peers, he said. Popular unrest in the past two years has toppled
leaders in  Tunisia , Egypt, Libya and Yemen, sparked a civil war
in Syria, and led to protests in  Bahrain  and Saudi Arabia’s
Eastern Province.  “In general, we consider the U.A.E. to be the region’s
safe haven, both in term of capital and business,” Garnry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  