-- The Odd Choice of Jim DeMint at Heritage
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-12-06T21:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/the-odd-choice-of-jim-demint-at-heritage.html
Earlier this year, Tevi Troy wrote an  outstanding essay  for National Affairs
discussing the increasing politicization and decreasing credibility of think
tanks over the last decade or so. This phenomenon is driven by the desires of
donors who increasingly view think tanks as tax-advantaged vehicles for
influencing political outcomes. Today’s appointment of Tea Party Senator Jim DeMint to lead the Heritage
Foundation provides an example of this trend, but with a twist. The DeMint
choice signals a shift toward more conservative activism from one of America’s
largest think tanks and is sure to please conservative donors. But it’s not
likely to provide donors the political results they want. Instead, it is likely
to reduce the relevance of both DeMint and Heritage. Heritage has always been the most political of the major think tanks; indeed,
as Troy describes, its founders acted partly in reaction to their sense that the
American Enterprise Institute and others were failing to effectively influence
the lawmaking process. While most  Washington  think tanks are located in the
city’s main business district, Heritage has its offices on Capitol Hill. In
addition to its headquarters near the Senate, Heritage recently opened an annex
office on the south side of the Hill to be closer to the House. And unlike most think tanks, which rely solely on funding from foundations,
corporations and high-net-worth individuals, Heritage also has a large and
successful direct mail program, which results in small donations from individual
activists motivated by political causes. Nominally a think-tank with a 501(c)4 arm that can take non-tax-exempt
donations and engage in campaign activity, Heritage looks increasingly like the
reverse: a political pressure organization with a policy research arm. And its policy research is increasingly incidental and low in quality. My
favorite example is this 2010 Charles Stimson  paper  against marijuana
legalization, one of whose listed crucial points is: “Marijuana is not at all
like alcohol. Consumption of alcohol carries few health risks and even offers
some significant benefits.” Or consider Heritage's 2011 economic analysis, which said that the House
Republican budget proposal would lead to an economic boom. Many  analysts noted 
that some numbers in that report were screwy; for example, it said that the
Republican plan would cause unemployment to stabilize at 2.8 percent. Facing
pressure, Heritage  adjusted the report  to reflect a higher unemployment rate --
but without any changes to economic indicators that should be tied to
unemployment, such as income tax collections and spending on unemployment
benefits. Although Heritage is not very credible on policy, its political organization
remains excellent, and its tight links with Republicans on the Hill would make a
former Republican senator seem like a logical choice to lead the think tank. But
DeMint isn’t an ordinary senator: He’s arguably the most conservative member of
the Republican conference, and his relations with his fellow Republicans have
often been fraught. The 2010  Politico headline  “Republican senators lash out at
Jim DeMint” is not atypical. Heritage was  closely involved  in developing  Newt Gingrich ’s Contract with
America, the policy platform on which Republicans retook the House of
Representatives in 1994. It is hard to imagine a DeMint-led Heritage playing
that kind of role with John Boehner, who is  currently purging  DeMint allies from
important House committees; or with Mitch McConnell, who resents the headaches
DeMint created while he tried to lead Senate Republicans, including  intervening
against  McConnell’s preferred candidate in the 2010 Senate primary in
McConnell’s home state of  Kentucky . DeMint is also a strange choice to lead a think tank because he is not a
policy entrepreneur. His main accomplishment has been recruiting a number of
other archconservative GOP senators, including Ted Cruz and Ron Johnson. The
Washington Post’s Jennifer Rubin  correctly noted  that Mitch McConnell praised
DeMint today for being “a powerful voice for conservative ideals” but not for
helping to enact a conservative agenda, because he didn't really do the
latter. So the DeMint choice signals that Heritage will continue its shift away from
doing credible policy research and toward being a political pressure group; and
its shift away from being inside the Republican establishment and toward
pressuring it from the outside, in a way akin to Tea Party groups like Americans
for Prosperity. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  E-mail  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .