-- Tebow on Bench Still Yields Jaguars’ Biggest NFL Crowd for Jets
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-12-06T17:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/tebow-on-bench-still-yields-jaguars-biggest-nfl-crowd-for-jets.html
Tim Tebow will help the Jacksonville
Jaguars draw their biggest crowd so far this season, the team’s
top official said, even if he isn’t in uniform for the visiting
 New York  Jets.  The hometown Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback from the
University of Florida is among the reasons the Jaguars have
removed a tarp that usually covers 1,100 seats in the upper deck
of EverBank Field to accommodate increased ticket demand for the
Dec. 9 game against the Jets, Jaguars President Mark Lamping
said in an interview. Those seats sell for $35 each.  “We’re pleased with demand for tickets for this game and
we’re thrilled to be able to make additional tickets available
to our fans,” Lamping said in a statement.  The Jaguars are tied for the worst record in the National
Football League at 2-10. Jacksonville has drawn an average of
63,765 fans for its six home games this season, with a high of
67,012 for a 41-3 loss to the Chicago Bears on Oct. 7, in a
stadium that can hold as much as 82,000 for events such as the
Super Bowl and Georgia- Florida  college football games.  “I have a lot of family and friends who will be there,”
Tebow, the Jets’ No. 2-listed quarterback who is trying to come
back from broken ribs, told reporters yesterday. “Jacksonville
will always be a special place to me. It’s where I grew up and
where a lot of my family still calls home. It will be a lot of
fun.”  Tebow played high school football in Jacksonville before
winning two national championships and the Heisman as college
football’s best player at Florida, about 70 miles southwest of
Jacksonville in Gainesville.  Tebow’s Rib  The Jets will start Mark Sanchez at quarterback against the
Jaguars, one week after he threw three first-half interceptions
and was benched as third-stringer Greg McElroy led the team to a
7-6 win over the  Arizona  Cardinals to move to 5-7 and stay in
the playoff hunt. Tebow wasn’t available in that game due to
cracked ribs, and coach Rex Ryan said Tebow will only be the
backup this week if he’s fully healthy.  “That’s up to the trainers, doctors and coach depending on
how much I continue to heal and what the X-rays say,” said
Tebow, who has completed 6-of-7 passes for 39 yards this season
while rushing for 87 yards on 29 carries.  Lamping said the game against the Jets and a Dec. 23 home
date against the New England Patriots will yield the biggest
turnouts of the season for the Jaguars, without disclosing the
anticipated attendance. He said the crowd for those games is
boosted by residents from the New York and Boston areas who now
live in Florida, as well as fans from the Northeast who are
taking winter vacations.  The Jaguars rank 21st of 32 NFL teams in home attendance
this season.  Offseason Interest  Jacksonville had been one of the teams interested in
acquiring Tebow during the offseason, according to ESPN. Shahid Khan, who took ownership of the club in December 2011, has been
seeking ways to boost ticket sales and interest in the team.
Khan said this year that he “absolutely” would have drafted
Tebow, who was taken by the Denver Broncos with the 25th pick in
2010 after the Jaguars opted for defensive tackle Tyson Alualu
with the 10th selection.  The Jaguars, the only team in the four major U.S.
professional sports to play in Jacksonville, had been favored by
oddsmakers to land Tebow before the Jets got him from the
Broncos for fourth- and sixth-round draft picks.  “I would have loved to play for both organizations, but I
am a Jet, I’m glad I’m a Jet,” Tebow said. “I’m looking
forward to this game and going back home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  