-- ECB’s Draghi Sees Economic Weakness Continuing Into 2013
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-06T14:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/ecb-s-draghi-sees-economic-weakness-continuing-into-next-year.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi comments on inflation, economic expectations, next week’s
European Union summit and a single banking supervisor for the
euro-area.  He made the remarks at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today after policy makers kept  interest rates  unchanged at a
record low of 0.75 percent.  On rate cuts:  “There was a wide discussion, but in the end, the
prevailing consensus was to leave the rates unchanged.”  “I also highlighted the very accommodative  monetary policy 
stance. If you think from July to today, some countries’
spreads, or some sovereign bond yields, went down by 200 to 250
basis points. That’s much more than anything you can achieve by
a reduction in the short term policy rate.”  On Greece:  “A lot has been asked on the public sector. The debt
buyback is part of this and it’s early to say how this is
going.”  “What is most important of this latest agreement is the
medium term commitment to possibly provide new money in case
 Greece  were to have primary surplus, but somehow things were not
going, -- not because of Greece’s lacking of compliance with the
program. This is quite important, that’s the first time it’s
been done.”  There has been “significant progress.”  “I acknowledge progress the government has done. That’s
very important. Part of what’s happening is needed adjustment.
Let’s not forget the imbalances from which the  Greek economy  was
starting were very large.  On Spain and OMT:  ‘‘We all said all the time we would not tell governments
what to do. It’s up to them. They know what the conditions are.
This is going to be a necessary, but not sufficient condition.
The ECB will carry out its own independent assessment. This
holds for  Spain  and any other country.”  “Its hard to say whether it’s a price worth paying.”  “The conditions under which the OMT is activated are very
clear.”  “Don’t speak about negotiations or agreement about a
certain interest rate.”  “The main aim of the OMT is to remove tail risk to
overcome monetary or financial fragmentation of euro area that
stem from redenomination risk.”  “We will do it in a size that would be adequate to achieve
its objective.”  On Ireland:  “The new budget reaffirmation of successful commitment of
Irish government in restoring sound economic conditions.”  On markets and OMT:  “After OMT the improvement on financial markets has been
significant.”  “You have these conflicting signs. Some point downwards,
some point upwards. We will continue monitoring the situation.”  On single supervisor for banks:  “The benefits of one single supervisor in euro area are
not disputed.”  “I’m very confident we will reach an agreement. There are
benefits of having one single supervisor.”  “I’m quite confident we will soon have an agreement.”  “One should aim at having this mechanism covering all euro
area banks from a legal jurisdiction viewpoint.”  “You want to keep a level playing field.”  “In practice it’s quite obvious the ECB supervisor will
not be able to supervise 6,000 banks. But in practice I don’t
think there’s much difference between this and what has been
suggested by others.”  On inflation:  “The underling pace of monetary expansion remains
subdued.”  “Over the policy relevant horizon, inflation should remain
in line with  price stability .”  “Inflation rates are expected to decline further to below
2 percent next year. Underlying price pressures should remain
moderate.”  “In the governing council assessment, risks to the outlook
for price developments are seen broadly balanced.”  “The outlook for the medium term price stability hasn’t
changed substantially. We will continue to look at the
situation, but to some extent, we have already done much.”  On euro-area economy:  “In 2013, economic activity should gradually recover as
our accommodative policy and significantly improve financial
markets work their way through the economy.”  Data “continue to signal further weakness in the final
quarter of thus year.”  “Weak activity is expected to continue into next year.”  “A gradual recovery should start later in 2013.”  “Financial market confidence has improved further.”  “A strengthening of foreign demand should also support
export growth.”  “The governing council continues to see downside risk for
the euro area that relates to sovereign debt risk.”  “Geopolitical issues and fiscal policy issues in the U.S.
are possibly dampening sentiment for longer than currently
assumed.”  “The economic outlook is weak. At same time we haven’t
seen any substantive change in our medium term assessment of
price stability.”  “Monetary policy remains accommodative.”  On  government bonds :  “I haven’t said that higher credit costs are unjustified,
but there is a extent, a range, beyond which, like redomination
risks, which make these differences unacceptable.”  On euro-area summit next week:  “This is going to be an important council.”  “I am sure the determination of the June summit will be
confirmed in the oncoming summit.”  On euro bonds:  “We have to understand that originally there was a breach
of trust in euro area between countries that were always, or
most of time, complying fiscal soundness and countries that
didn’t do so.”  “The issue in last two years was to rebuild trust.”  “It’s pointless to begin from a euro bond. It’s pointless
to begin from a policy where I issue and you spend.”  “That will become realistic when the trust is
reestablished.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  