-- Ecuador to Propose Levy on Oil to Fill Climate Fund
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-12-06T13:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/ecuador-to-propose-levy-on-oil-to-fill-climate-fund.html
Ecuador plans to propose a levy on
every barrel of oil sold by OPEC members to help fund projects
that cut  greenhouse gases  and protect against the effects of
climate change.  The proposal will be made at the meeting of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna on Dec.
12, said Ivonne A-Baki, Ecuador’s delegation chief at United
Nations global warming talks and a state secretary in President
 Rafael Correa ’s government. It builds on a proposal Correa made
in 2010 and is now reviving, she said.  “We’re presenting it again as a matter we must deal with
urgency,” A-Baki said in an interview today in Doha. “We
haven’t proposed a number. It could be a dollar. It could be 30
cents. It should be chosen by OPEC members.”  Envoys at the United Nations climate talks are trying to
come up with new sources of funding for emissions reduction
projects that go beyond  government aid . Industrial nations have
pledged $100 billion in public and private money by 2020,
without saying exactly who would pay what and when.  The Ecuadorian plan wouldn’t contribute to the $100 billion
target because none of OPEC’s 12 members are classed as
“developed” under the UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change. Still, with nations including  Saudi Arabia , Kuwait,
Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, the group would have an
opportunity with the proposal to show its commitment for
tackling climate change.  ’Litmus Test’  “It’s an economically rational and implementable
proposal,” Nick Mabey, chief executive of E3G, a non-profit
group in  London  that works to promote sustainability, said in an
interview in Doha. “This is one of the easiest ways for Arab
countries to live up to their responsibilities as oil exporters
and a litmus test of their seriousness about climate change.”  Correa mooted a variant of the idea as long ago as December
2010, when he suggested at an OPEC meeting in  Quito  that a 5-
percent sales tax on oil could generate $40 billion a year. He
proposed the idea of channeling the proceeds of any fee into a
 climate change  fund. The proposal was made at a meeting of Arab
and South American leaders in  Lima  in October, A-Baki said.  “The fund would be would be especially for adaptation,
mitigation, technology, and renewable energy,” A-Baki said.
“It’s for everything that can help improve emissions
reductions.”  A-Baki is also secretary of state for Ecuador’s Yasuni
initiative, which aims to raise $3.6 billion by 2025 from
countries, companies and private donors. In return, Ecuador
would guarantee to protect the country’s Yasuni National Park
and not extract 846 million barrels of oil, worth $7.2 billion
estimated to lie under the reserve. That’s about a fifth of
Ecuador’s oil reserves.  Coca Cola  To date, donations total about $200 million into a  trust
fund  administered by the UN Development Program, A-Baki said.
She said talks are ongoing with many more countries over
possible donations. She declined to name the nations because she
doesn’t want to jeopardize the discussions.  As well as countries, companies including  Unilever NV (UNA) , and
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  are also contributing to the Yasuni initiative,
the state secretary said. Coke is planning a contribution for
sales in Ecuador of its Dasani bottled water, she said.
Ecuadorian chocolate brand Republica del Cacao has a Yasuni-
branded chocolate bar from which 22 percent of the sales price
is channeled to the initiative, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Doha at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  