-- Egypt Protesters Clash in Cairo Amid Constitution Dispute
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-12-06T02:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/egypt-protesters-clash-in-cairo-amid-constitution-dispute.html
Egyptian secular and Islamist
protesters battled in Cairo after Vice-President Mahmoud Mekki
invited the opposition to talks over a controversial draft
constitution that has sparked a week of demonstrations.  Mekki’s remarks, aired live yesterday on state television,
came as members of the  Muslim Brotherhood  rallied near the
palace in support of Mohamed Mursi in response to protests a day
earlier by tens of thousands of opponents of the Islamist
president. Groups of rival protesters fought and threw rocks and
Molotov cocktails as clashes near the presidential compound in
the capital turned deadly.  Egypt has been locked in a cycle of demonstrations and
counter-rallies since Mursi issued a decree on Nov. 22 expanding
his powers and put the draft constitution to a referendum on
Dec. 15. Activists say the charter, written by an Islamist-
dominated panel, fails to protect freedoms and minority rights,
and accuse Mursi and the Brotherhood of betraying the aims of
last year’s uprising against  Hosni Mubarak . Mekki said the
presidency was open to negotiation over the document.  “In light of what’s happening now outside the presidential
palace, Mursi should bear full responsibility for protecting
peaceful demonstrations if he wants to preserve what’s left of
his legitimacy,” said  Mohamed ElBaradei , an opposition leader
and Nobel laureate. Mursi’s opponents will use all legitimate
means to scrap the charter and that a general strike may be a
possibility, ElBaradei said at a news conference yesterday.  ‘Egyptian Streets’  Five people were killed during clashes around the
presidential palace, the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
reported. At least 350 were injured, Al Jazeera television
reported, citing the country’s health ministry.  Last night, roads near the presidential compound were
blocked by barricades and its walls were covered with graffiti,
including pictures of Mursi. One scrawl on the wall read:
“Leave, you donkey.” Brotherhood supporters began erasing the
messages with beige paint before fighting broke out.  Protesters in Ismailia and Suez set the local headquarters
of the Muslim Brotherhood on fire, MENA reported, citing
security forces. Subhi Saleh, a leader in the Muslim Brotherhood
and a member of the constitutional committee, was injured in an
attack by anti- Mursi protesters in Alexandria, MENA reported  “It’s time for them to reconsider and to see the
polarization and divisions on the Egyptian streets,” ElBaradei
said yesterday. “This is already dragging us to violence and
could drag us to what’s worse. The ball is in their court.”  Mursi Edict  Mursi’s edict gives the presidency and the committee that
drafted the charter immunity from legal challenges. The
president and his backers say the measures are necessary to
steer the country toward democracy and preserve the gains from
 Egypt ’s revolution from courts staffed by Mubarak loyalists.  The protests pose a challenge to Mursi, Egypt’s first
freely elected president, as he seeks to revive a battered
economy. The large turnout on the streets has reinvigorated an
opposition that fractured after Mubarak’s ouster and struggled
to remain relevant amid the Islamists’ rise to power.  Three advisers to Mursi quit their posts to protest the
violence, the state-run Ahram Gate news website reported.  “What we are calling for are peaceful protests to support
that legitimacy as chosen in elections by the Egyptian people,”
said Ahmed Sobea, a media adviser for the Muslim Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party. “Some are trying to make it look
like there is a big group that rejects Mursi’s decrees. We are
showing that there are millions who support Mursi.”  National Dialogue  Egyptian Prime Minister Hisham Qandil urged protesters to
leave the palace area to help calm the situation and create an
opening for national dialogue, the cabinet said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. Qandil said the police are trying to
separate rival groups of demonstrators.  Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Mahmoud Ghozlan said yesterday
that the group would welcome “a mutual and synchronized
withdrawal” by all sides from the presidential palace site,
MENA reported.  Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  rose 1.6 percent yesterday
amid the protests and is up 3.6 percent for the week.  An alliance of opposition groups said it was setting
tomorrow as a deadline for meeting its demands, which include
canceling the referendum, revoking the decree and forming a new
panel to write a new charter, calling it the “Day of Great
Mobilization” at  Tahrir Square  and at the palace, according to
the state-run Middle East News Agency.  ElBaradei said yesterday the opposition was willing to
negotiate with the presidency, but only after it scraps the
draft charter.  Mekki said he wasn’t speaking for Mursi and that his
comments were made in a personal capacity. He estimated that the
president and opposition disagreed on only some 12 to 15 clauses
of the constitution, which has more than 200 in total.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  