-- Mursi Says Referendum to Proceed as Protests Claim Lives
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-12-07T16:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/egyptian-presidential-guards-deploy-outside-palace-after-clashes.html
President Mohamed Mursi’s supporters
and opponents, who clashed violently earlier this week, held
rallies in Cairo after the Egyptian leader vowed to proceed with
a Dec. 15 referendum on a new constitution.  Thousands of Islamists and supporters of Mursi’s Muslim
Brotherhood marched from the Al-Azhar mosque in a funeral
procession for two of the six people killed during protests in
the past two days. “With our souls and blood we’ll fight for
Islam,” they chanted.  Tens of thousands of opposition supporters gathered at the
presidential palace, where the worst violence of this week has
occurred, and  Tahrir Square , scene of the biggest protests
during last year’s uprising against  Hosni Mubarak . The
Republican Guard, which has been protecting the palace, called
up reinforcements, the state-run Ahram Gate website said.  The wave of protests against Mursi and the escalating
violence threatens to derail  Egypt ’s efforts to establish a
democracy after last year’s uprising against Hosni Mubarak, and
restore an economy that has stalled as political upheavals kept
investors and tourists away. Secular activists and other
opposition groups say the constitution was hijacked by
Islamists, and are demanding that Mursi abandon the referendum.  Clashes between the rival camps were reported in other
parts of Egypt, including Alexandria and Kafr el-Sheikh and
Sharqiya in the  Nile Delta .  Obama Call  Opposition groups including the National Salvation Front,
the al-Wafd party and the April 6 youth movement rejected
Mursi’s offer, made in a televised address late yesterday, of
“comprehensive” talks over the proposed constitution. The
president refused to withdraw his Nov. 22 decree, which exempts
his decisions from judicial review and extends similar
protection to the Islamist-dominated panel that drafted the
constitution.  Military engineers erected a concrete wall overnight to
keep protesters away from the presidential compound, the
official Middle East News Agency said. Protesters in that area
have defied orders by the Republican Guard to leave.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , who hailed Mursi for his role
in negotiating a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas last month,
called his Egyptian counterpart to “express his deep concern”
about the deaths and injuries stemming from protests, according
to a White House statement. Obama urged Mursi to open an
unconditional dialogue with the opposition, saying it’s
“essential for Egyptian leaders across the political spectrum
to put aside their differences and come together to agree on a
path that will move Egypt forward,” the White House said.  Shoes Raised  Mursi reminded Egyptians in his televised address that the
new powers are temporary, and accused officials from the Mubarak
era of playing a role in the violence.  “The constitutional decree and all its effects will end as
soon as the results of the referendum are announced -- be it a
yes or a no,” he said. “What I wanted by issuing this decree
is to get to the stage of accomplishing the constitution, and
the referendum on it to allow this great people to express their
will.”  There are signs of discontent within Mursi’s administration
over his handling of the protests.  Rafik Habib  quit as a
presidential adviser and as a Coptic Christian member of the
Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, according to
Ahram Online. Zaghloul el-Balshi, the general secretary of the
committee overseeing the constitutional referendum, resigned
over the “spilled Egyptian blood,” Ahram said.  ‘No Solution’  Opposition activists say the draft constitution fails to
protect freedoms and minority rights, and accuse Mursi and the
Brotherhood of betraying the aims of last year’s uprising
against Mubarak. Mursi, who won election in June, and his
Islamist supporters say they are trying to protect the gains of
the revolution against remnants of the old regime.  The protests and renewed violence have sent Egyptian stocks
plunging. The  benchmark EGX 30 index  slumped 4.6 percent
yesterday, extending its loss since Mursi’s decree to 11
percent. Markets in Egypt are closed today.  The cost of insuring Egyptian bonds through five-year
credit-default swaps jumped to a three-month high yesterday,
while the pound weakened to the lowest level in eight years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  