-- Telecom Italia to Negotiate With State Lender on Fixed Network
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-12-06T18:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/telecom-italia-to-negotiate-with-state-lender-on-fixed-network.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s board authorized
executives of  Italy ’s biggest phone company to negotiate with
state-lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA for an investment in
its fixed-line network.  The company’s management will have the “powers to further
investigate the conditions for the possible participation of
Cassa Depositi e Prestiti in the capital of a company to be
created to manage the access network,” Milan-based Telecom
Italia said in a statement today.  Telecom Italia’s board rejected an offer by Egyptian
financier Naguib Sawiris, who had approached the company about
an investment, the company said. It didn’t elaborate on the
reasons for the rejection.  Telecom Italia Chief Executive Offer Franco Bernabe said in
September the company would seek to decide by the end of this
year whether to spin off its fixed-line access grid. He said at
the time that there was an “open dialogue” with Rome-based
Cassa Depositi for a possible investment in the network.  A separation would be an unprecedented move for a former
government-owned phone company in  Europe  as companies across the
region are facing overwhelming debt, strict oversight and
declining domestic revenue.  Telecom Italia’s board last month received a letter from
Sawiris expressing interest in acquiring new shares in Telecom
Italia. Sawiris offered to invest more than 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) in Telecom Italia, a person familiar with the
matter said last month.  Telefonica, Mediobanca  A sale of new shares would have diluted the stakes held by
Madrid-based Telefonica,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Mediobanca
SpA (MB)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , which together own about 22 percent
of Telecom Italia through holding company Telco SpA.  Telecom Italia’s board today also asked the management to
negotiate better conditions for the sale of its television unit
 Telecom Italia Media SpA. (TME)  The company said it received two bids
for its TV business, without giving additional details.  Private-equity fund Clessidra SGR SpA and its partner
Equinox, and Cairo Communication SpA presented bids for Telecom
Italia Media, daily Il Messaggero reported today.  The stock  fell  1.7 percent to 70.65 cents in Milan today.
The company has dropped 15 percent this year, cutting its market
value to 13.2 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  