-- Help Republicans Rescue Their Party From Itself
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-12-06T23:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/help-republicans-rescue-their-party-from-itself.html
Cruelty, fear, cowardice, xenophobia
and disrespect invaded the inner sanctum of the U.S. government
this week, bringing embarrassment and dishonor to what was once
the greatest deliberative body in the world: the  U.S. Senate .  On Dec. 4, former Senate Majority Leader  Bob Dole , an 89-
year-old Republican whose right arm was shattered in combat
during World War II, was wheeled into the Senate chamber by his
wife to rally support for a United Nations treaty that should
have been entirely unobjectionable.  The  UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with
Disabilities , negotiated under President  George W. Bush  and
signed by more than 150 nations, takes a stand against
“discrimination on the basis of disability” and in favor of
“respect for inherent dignity.” It’s a largely symbolic
document with implementation language that consists mostly of a
weak recommendation for “due consideration” of its lofty aims.
Even so, with U.S. leadership, it could promote compassion for
the disabled in dozens of countries where they are cruelly
shunned.  Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican who long ago
discredited himself as a serious person by championing junk
science on  climate change , said on the Senate floor, “This
unelected bureaucratic body would pass recommendations that
would be forced upon the United States if we were a signatory.”  That’s completely false. Not a single clause or phrase in
the treaty impinges on national sovereignty, unless one believes
-- as some xenophobic neo-isolationists do -- that the UN itself
is a threat to the U.S.  Dramatic Appearance  Dole’s dramatic appearance was meant to advance the values
of compassion and nondiscrimination, not the UN. He was trying
to rally the 13 Republican senators needed to reach the two-
thirds supermajority necessary for ratification. All Democrats
voted in favor. In the end, only eight Republicans voted “aye,”
almost all of them senators who have announced plans to retire
or are in safe seats.  Sometimes-reasonable Republicans such as  Saxby Chambliss  of
Georgia,  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  and  Lamar Alexander  of
Tennessee were profiles in cowardice and voted no. They fear
primary challenges in 2014 from radicals in their party.  Thad Cochran  of Mississippi, his common sense and conscience
succumbing to right-wing nonsense in real time, changed his vote
from “aye” to “nay” when he saw the measure would lose.  As the New Hampshire Republican  Kelly Ayotte  pointed out,
the only impact the treaty would have on Americans would be to
make it easier for disabled people to live and work in other
countries. Democratic Senator  John Kerry  of Massachusetts,
referring to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, which
was signed by Republican President  George H. W. Bush , said Dole
had come to the chamber because “he wants to know that other
countries will come to treat the disabled as we do.”  Imagine that: Taking a stand for basic human decency around
the world.  Opposition to the treaty was led by two of the party’s
ayatollahs: former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  and the
talk-show host  Glenn Beck . None of their arguments made sense
even on their own terms. It was especially disturbing that
Santorum brought his daughter Bella, who suffers from a rare
genetic disorder, into the debate. He argued, preposterously,
that under the treaty the UN could order that she be left to
die. Lest we forget, Santorum took a credible shot at the
Republican presidential nomination this year and could be a
contender for 2016.  ‘Stupid Party’  The big question in U.S. politics is how to stop the
 Republican Party  from sinking into the role of what Louisiana
Governor  Bobby Jindal  called “the stupid party.” The negative
attention generated by the primary victories of radicals such as
Todd Akin in Missouri and  Richard Mourdock  in Indiana -- who
both self-destructed this year over ugly comments about rape --
might be good for Democrats in the short-run. Long-term, though,
a healthy two-party system is in everyone’s best interest.  The options for Republicans are simple. They can do nothing
and allow the Santorums and Inhofes to hijack the party. Or they
can move past the post-election rationalizations and create what
might be called a “Real Republican” movement.  One immediate response should be to finance and repurpose
the conservative super political-action committees that made
such a splash in 2012. Unless the Supreme Court changes, those
groups are going to be with us for a while; they might as well
be put to good use.  Although super-PACs failed spectacularly in the general
election, several shaped the outcome of the Republican
presidential primaries. They need to be involved in the 2014
House and Senate primaries on behalf of fiscally conservative
candidates, not fringe players badly out of touch with the
mainstream of the country.  Eventually, both parties must look beyond their narrow
self-interest and get serious about reforming the primary
process. California, Washington state and Louisiana now have
top-two systems in which the first- and second-place primary
finishers, regardless of party, are on the ballot in the
November general election.  The top-two arrangement, though it was defeated in a
referendum last month in Arizona, has led to some strange repeat
matches involving candidates from the same party, such as
California Democratic Representatives Howard Berman and  Brad Sherman  running against each other in both the primary and the
general. ( Sherman won .)  So far, there’s scant evidence of the new approach yielding
more moderate candidates in the general election. But it’s early
yet -- California’s system debuted this year -- and experiments
in other states could lead to the loosening of the radical-
Republican stranglehold on so many primaries.  The U.S. primary system, a product of the Progressive
movement, is only about 100 years old. It can be changed without
messing with the Constitution. If we want to see fewer displays
of craven behavior such as the rejection of the disabilities
treaty, let’s rescue our politics from the forces of extremism.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 