-- Eritrean Soccer Team Applies for Political Asylum in Uganda
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-12-06T13:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/eritrean-soccer-team-applies-for-political-asylum-in-uganda.html
Eighteen members of Eritrea’s
national soccer team applied for political asylum in Uganda,
citing fear of forced conscription and “bad governance” in
their native country, the Refugee Ministry said.  The Eritreans, including 17 players and the team physician,
disappeared in Uganda after failing to qualify for the final
stages of a regional soccer competition. Their applications to
stay in Uganda will be jointly assessed by the East African
nation’s government and the  United Nations  refugee agency, said
David Kazungu, Uganda’s commissioner for refugees.  “They have approached us and they are seeking asylum,” he
said by phone today from Kampala. “We are together with UNHCR
looking at their issues and we shall decide in a week or two.”  Eritrea has been ruled by President Isaias Afwerki, a
former rebel leader, since it gained independence from Ethiopia
in 1993. The Horn of Africa nation has no privately owned press
and the government has arbitrarily detained thousands of people
including opposition supporters and journalists over the past
decade, according to  Amnesty International , the London-based
advocacy group.  At least four Eritreans sought asylum in the U.K. after
this year’s  Olympic Games , according to  United Press
International , the Washington-based  news agency . Last year, 13
Eritrean footballers had their application for political asylum
rejected by Tanzania’s government, after they refused to return
home following a regional tournament in July.  Amnesty in August urged Sudan to halt the deportation of
asylum seekers from Eritrea because they face detention and
torture by the Eritrean authorities.  The United Nations has imposed sanctions on Eritrea for
supporting al-Qaeda-linked militants fighting to topple the
government of Somalia. The government denies the allegations.  Phone calls to Eritrea’s Information Ministry in the
capital, Asmara, and to the Eritrean Embassy in Kampala seeking
comment weren’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 