-- Tesco Haunted by Leahy Ambitions as Grocer Prepares to Exit U.S.
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/tesco-haunted-by-leahy-ambitions-as-grocer-prepares-to-exit-u-s-.html
In more than a decade as chief
executive officer of  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ,  Terry Leahy  prided himself on
the creation of an international business that grew to become a
third of sales. His successor is starting to dismantle it.  Philip Clarke , who replaced Leahy at the helm of the U.K.’s
largest retailer last year, said yesterday that the Cheshunt,
England-based company will likely exit the U.S., in which Tesco
has invested 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) and which hasn’t
made a profit since it was formed in 2007. Tim Mason, who built
Fresh & Easy from scratch under Leahy, was ousted.  “Terry Leahy definitely left at the right time and  Phil
Clarke ’s life is a lot more difficult because of that,” said
Matt Piner, a retail analyst at Conlumino in  London . “He took
over a business that had reached its peak and begun to fall back
so he has to take bold moves to get it on the right path.”  Without the distraction of a struggling U.S. business,
Clarke can focus most of his attention on reviving growth in the
U.K. In addition to halting U.S. losses, Clarke needs to find
ways of restoring same-store  sales growth  in its domestic
market, which has fallen in all but one of the quarters since he
took the helm. He’s investing 1 billion pounds to upgrade U.K.
stores, add new products and hire additional staff and even that
amount may not be enough, said Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at
Espirito Santo.  During the former CEO’s 14 years in charge, Tesco doubled
its home market share and became the world’s fourth-biggest
retailer. Leahy said in 2010 he was certain that Fresh & Easy
would be a financial success when the  U.S. economy  recovered.
The following year he said competitor  Carrefour SA (CA)  made a
mistake in entering too many international markets.  Scale Required  “We resisted the temptation to rush everywhere,” Leahy
said at the time at an  emerging markets  summit in London.  Now those words are returning to haunt a company which
already this year has paid 40 million pounds to exit  Japan , a
country that it entered during Leahy’s stewardship in 2003.  In neither the U.S. nor Japan was Tesco able to achieve its
ambition of gaining the number 1 or 2 position, unlike the U.K.,
where it still controls more than 30 percent of grocery
spending, or  South Korea , its biggest overseas market.  Retailers need to gain scale to succeed internationally,
according to  Kate Calvert , an analyst at Seymour Pierce in
London. In the U.S., Tesco’s 199 Fresh & Easy stores compete
against Aldi-owned Trader Joe’s and  Whole Foods Market Inc., (WFM) 
while in Japan it left the market with 0.1 percent share.  Carrefour, Metro  “The issue retailers should have learned is that planting
flags isn’t the way to create international businesses,”
Calvert said. “They are victims of trying to do too much. In
the new world you have to watch and preserve your  cash flow .”  Tesco now gets more than a third of  revenue  from outside of
its domestic market, compared with more than half for Carrefour,
France’s largest retailer, which this year has announced deals
to pull out of  Colombia , Indonesia, Malaysia and Greece.  Like Tesco, Carrefour is struggling to address weak
 consumer spending  and declining sales at home. It’s a similar
situation at Metro AG,  Germany ’s largest retailer, which last
month agreed to sell its Real grocery stores in eastern  Europe ,
less than two months after lowering its 2012 profit forecast.  “You have to be able to afford international expansion,”
said Boris Planer, chief economist at Planet Retail in
Frankfurt. “It requires a strong profitability in the home
market. It is something that Metro doesn’t currently enjoy in
Germany and it is something that Tesco doesn’t currently enjoy
in the U.K. Fixing home-market operations is a priority.”  Bad Timing  Fresh & Easy was let down by poor execution, clinical
stores, a predominance of own-brand products in a brand-loving
U.S. market, and a lack of understanding by consumers, according
to Natalie Berg, an analyst at  Planet Retail  in London.  “They never had a clear proposition,” Berg said. “Was it
a discounter, was it a health-food store?”  In addition to the money invested in the unit, Fresh & Easy
has incurred losses of 713 million pounds since its formation.  To be sure, Tesco entered the U.S. immediately before the
crisis caused by the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.  “Tesco was very unlucky in the U.S.,” said Daniel Lucht,
an analyst at Research Farm in London said. “They went there at
a time when everything was booming, but then came the financial
crisis and it definitely had a big impact.”  Tesco said yesterday that approaches were made in recent
months for all and part of Fresh & Easy, which has stores in
Nevada, California and Arizona.  According to Berg, the business is likely to be broken up
piecemeal, with Trader Joe’s, Dollar General Corp., and some
drugstore chains possibly interested in taking over outlets.  For Clarke, exiting the U.S. won’t be the end of his
difficulties as he battles to fend off competition at home from
discounters such as Aldi and upscale chains like Waitrose.  “Growth is going to slow down in the domestic market and
it’s also not as good as it used to be abroad,” said Lucht.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  