-- Ethiopia’s Bank-Secured Sesame Seed-Sales Seen Boosting Exports
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-12-06T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/ethiopia-s-bank-secured-sesame-seed-sales-seen-boosting-exports.html
Ethiopia, the world’s fourth-largest
sesame grower, may see earnings from exports of pulses, oil
seeds and spices rise by a third to more than $900 million this
year.  Africa ’s largest coffee producer and second-most populous
nation is providing free land for processing and warehouses, as
well as waiving related import and export duties, Haile Berhe,
president of the 110-member Ethiopian Pulses, Oil Seeds and
Spices Processors-Exporters Association said.  “The government is helping exporters through many
incentives for each company,” he said in an interview in the
capital, Addis Ababa, yesterday. “If the supply side is there,
I am sure we can export that amount” in the year through July
7, 2013.  If the trends continue, Ethiopia may earn $2 billion a year
from seeds, spices and pulses by the end of a five-year
government growth plan in mid-2015, Haile said.  Ethiopia ’s
government is working to attract foreign investment into
agricultural processing to help it diversify an economy that
relied on coffee for about a fourth of the $3.2 billion it
earned from exports last year.  Sesame seeds accounted for around $460 million of last
year’s revenue of $660 million from oil seeds, pulses and
spices, Haile said. Ethiopia is the biggest sesame grower in
Africa, and largest after India, Myanmar and  China , according to
the United Nations Food and Agriculture Association.  Sesame Collateral  Chinalight General Merchandise Import & Export Corp.,
Qingdao Kerry Vegetable Oils Co. Ltd., and China National
Chemical Fiber Corp. are major Chinese buyers of Ethiopian
sesame, said Haile, who is also marketing manager for Guna
Trading House Plc, part of the ruling party-linked Endowment
Fund for the Rehabilitation of Tigray group.  Sesame seeds are used as in cuisines around the world, from
candies in  India  and the Caribbean, to a hamburger-bun topping
in the U.S. and as both a cooking-oil and ingredient in East
Asian meals.  China buys about 60 percent of Ethiopia’s sesame, and
foreign currency earned from those are legally required to be
deposited at the state-owned Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, the
country’s largest lender, he said.  “This money is then put into an escrow account with the
 Export-Import Bank of China  and used to secure at least one of
the construction loans obtained from that bank,” Deborah
Brautigam, professor and director of the International
Development Program at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore,
said in an e-mailed response to questions Nov. 29.  That is the collateral for credit “that Ethiopia couldn’t
otherwise secure on global credit markets,” she said.
Commercial Bank of Ethiopia took a $300 million  credit line  from
the Chinese trade bank in December 2011.  Government Guarantees  The government in turn has guaranteed 80 percent of each
 bank loan  made to the oil seed, spice and pulse industry, said
Elias Genet, general manager of Agro Prom International Plc, an
Addis Ababa-based exporter.  “The investment environment is better than it ever has
been,” he said in a Nov. 29 interview. Growers have been given
advice by the government and helped with seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides to help boost production, he said.  Around 90 percent of sesame seeds and all white pea beans
are bought by exporters on the state-owned Ethiopia Commodity
Exchange, Elias said. There is potential for increased
production of niger seed, linseed, soybeans, groundnuts,
chickpeas and fava beans, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  