-- EU President Calls for Central Fund to Wind Down Failing Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-06T10:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/eu-president-calls-for-central-fund-to-wind-down-failing-banks.html
European leaders proposed an
industry-financed fund to cover costs of winding down failing
euro-area banks, seeking to deepen the bloc’s integration and
limit fallout from future financial crises.  Nations in the currency bloc should back the creation of a
centrally managed “European Resolution Fund,” according to a
report prepared by European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy .
The fund would be financed by levies on banks and could have a
credit-line to the euro area’s firewall fund for sovereigns,
according to the report.  “Establishing a single resolution mechanism is
indispensable,” according to the report, prepared for a summit
of EU leaders in Brussels Dec. 13-14. The move “would mitigate
many of the current obstacles” to managing bank failure,
including “national bias and cross-border cooperation
frictions,” the report says.  EU nations have provided  4.6 trillion  euros ($6 trillion)
of capital injections, guarantees and other support to their
banks since 2008, in a bid to prevent a meltdown of the
financial system following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.. The banking crisis has ravaged nations’ public
finances, forcing Spain and Ireland to seek international aid.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
will make proposals next year to set up the central resolution
authority and fund, according to the report, which was drawn up
by  Van Rompuy  with input from European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi ,  Jean-Claude Juncker , the president of the
Eurogroup, and  Jose Barroso , the president of the commission.  ECB Oversight  The moves to centralize bank resolution are an essential
accompanying step to existing proposals that would hand the ECB
bank oversight powers, according to the report.  The authority would have the power to impose writedowns,
known as bail-ins, on some creditors at failed banks, so
“ensuring that the private sector bears the primary burden of
bank resolution costs,” according to the document.  EU finance ministers are racing to meet a year-end deadline
to agree a deal on legislation to make the ECB a bank
supervisor, after they failed to reach an accord during talks in
Brussels this week.  The centralized bank resolution system should cover the
euro area and other countries that voluntarily sign up their
banks for ECB supervision, according to the report.  The EU should also “rapidly” adopt a draft law dating
from 2010 that would improve coordination of national deposit
guarantee programs, the report says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  