-- Euro 2020 to Be Played Across Europe in Tournament Restructuring
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-12-06T18:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/euro-2020-to-be-played-across-europe-in-tournament-restructuring.html
European soccer’s governing body will
split games in the region’s 2020 championship between several
nations in a revamp of the competition.  UEFA  announced the decision following a quarterly meeting
of its executive board in Lausanne, Switzerland, today. The plan
was proposed by UEFA President  Michel Platini  on the eve of the
Euro 2012 final in Kiev in July. Poland and Ukraine co-hosted
the last event, and  France  is the next host in 2016.  “The process will be discussed over next couple of
months,” UEFA’s General Secretary Gianni Infantino told a press
conference today. “What’s clear is that it’s not going to be in
one or two countries. How many countries is still to be
decided.”  The change is the most radical in the Euros’ 52-year
history. The competition began in 1960 with four teams in France
before growing to eight and then 16 countries. UEFA said it made
1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) from the most recent edition of
the quadrennial tournament. The event has been expanded to
include 24 teams from 2016.  Turkey ’s representative on the 17-member board was the only
official to object to the decision, which has been taken to
“celebrate” the 60th anniversary of the competition across
 Europe , Infantino said. Turkey’s now failed three straight times
to be awarded rights to host Europe’s top national team
tournament. Istanbul is also bidding to stage the  Summer
Olympics  in 2020.  UEFA, which will decide on host cities by early 2014,
faces several obstacles to ensure its expansion goes smoothly.
On the field it will have to create a format where teams playing
in their home stadiums don’t gain an unfair advantage over
rivals, while also coping with issues arising from differences
in tax systems among member countries and the travel demands on
fans.  “Before taking this decision in the last six months we
have been speaking to all our 53 associations and the response
of 52 out of 53 was very positive,” Infantino said. “The
associations see a chance for their countries to maybe host a
Euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Lausanne,  Switzerland , via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net 
NI SOCCER
NI EFB
NI ECHAMP
NI EFBALL
NI EFBMISC
NI EFBFRANCE
NI EFBGER
NI EFBITALY
NI EFBSPAIN
NI EFBDUTCH
NI EFBPORT
NI EUROPE
NI POLAND
NI UKRAINE
NI FRANCE
NI EUROPE 