-- Euro Area Pushed Into Recession as Trade Slows, Spending Drops
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-12-06T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/euro-area-pushed-into-recession-as-trade-slows-spending-drops.html
The euro-area  economy  was pushed into
a recession for the second time in four years as trade slowed
and government spending declined.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation currency bloc
slipped 0.1 percent in the third quarter from the previous three
months, when it fell 0.2 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today, confirming an
initial estimate published on Nov. 15. Gross fixed capital
formation dropped 0.7 percent from the previous three months,
when it fell 1.8 percent, while consumer spending was unchanged.
Government spending declined 0.2 percent after a 0.1 percent
drop in the second quarter.  European governments, fighting the sovereign debt crisis
that started in 2009, on Nov. 27 eased the terms on emergency
aid for  Greece  and are counting on a bond buyback as a market-
based way of cutting the country’s debt, paving the way for
continued aid payouts. Economists question whether that will be
enough to keep the country in the single currency.  “Greece will continue to go deeper into depression next
year and possibly the year after that,” Megan Greene, director
of European economics at Roubini Global Economics LLC, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Radio on Dec. 4. “The troika will be
willing to just throw money at Greece until at least we’ve had
the German elections and Spain and  Italy  by then will have asked
for support from the bailout funds and the ECB.”  Bank Bailout  Euro-region exports rose 0.9 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months, when they advanced 1.6 percent,
today’s report showed. Imports increased 0.2 percent after a 0.6
percent rise.  In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, GDP rose 0.2 percent
in the third quarter, down from 0.3 percent in the previous
three months.  France ’s economy expanded 0.2 percent, while
Italy’s GDP fell 0.2 percent. In Spain, which locked in a bank
bailout earlier this year, GDP declined 0.3 percent. The
economies of Cyprus,  Austria ,  Portugal  and the Netherlands also
contracted.  With Germany, which leads the creditor governments, going
to the polls next year, Roubini’s Greene sees Greece exiting the
euro in the final quarter of 2013 or in early 2014 after a vote
on the 2014 budget may trigger a collapse of the government.  Euro-area finance ministers meet Dec. 13 to decide on
releasing Greece’s next aid payment and possibly wrap up bailout
talks with Cyprus, the fifth country in the single-currency bloc
to seek international aid since the crisis erupted.  ECB Rate Meeting  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi, who today
hosts the bank’s Governing Council meeting in  Frankfurt , has
pledged to do whatever it takes to save the euro and announced
an unlimited government bond-purchase program. Spain has
hesitated to request a full bailout.  Greece leaving the euro “might be in their best
interest,” David Watts, an analyst at CreditSights Inc., said
on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia” on Dec. 4. “As
far as the euro zone is concerned and as far as presenting a
united front to investors an exit of a country would be a very
grievous blow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  