-- Euro Roadmap Fund Plan Dropped in Concession to Merkel
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-12-06T13:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/euro-roadmap-fund-plan-dropped-in-concession-to-merkel.html
European policy makers dropped
proposals for joint euro-area bond sales or a debt-redemption
fund in a concession to German Chancellor Angela Merkel.  A  roadmap  for the overhaul of the crisis-hit euro zone
deleted earlier calls for the “mutualization” of debt, aiming
instead for a “common but limited” buffer initially financed
by national contributions.  A euro-area “fiscal capacity,” conceivable some time
after 2014, “could take the form of an insurance-type mechanism
between euro-area countries,” according to the roadmap
published by European Union President Herman Van Rompuy in
Brussels today.  The blueprint showed that a German-led bloc that has
underwritten the bulk of 486 billion euros ($635 billion) in
loans pledged to fight the debt crisis has gained the upper hand
in determining the shape of the currency union.  Merkel, the leader of  Europe ’s biggest economy and the
dominant figure in the crisis management, is running for re-
election next autumn on the promise that German taxpayers won’t
have to pay more to combat the Greece-fueled crisis.  Near-Term Overhaul  Until the end of 2013, the euro overhaul will focus on
legislation already in the pipeline, including more EU powers to
intervene in national budgets and the setup of a single banking
supervisor. Finance ministers failed to agree on bank oversight
this week and will meet again Dec. 12 to seek a deal.  Courting more political controversy, the roadmap set an
end-of-2014 deadline for the setup of a central fund equipped to
wind down failing  banks . Such a fund could be financed by taxes
on banks and perhaps tap the European Stability Mechanism, the
euro zone’s emergency lender to counter the debt crisis, the
proposal said.  Van Rompuy took lead responsibility for the document,
drawing on input from European Commission President Jose Barroso, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi and
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who chairs
meetings of euro finance ministers.  Possible euro bill sales and a joint debt-redemption fund,
which featured in an interim roadmap published in October,
didn’t make it into the final version, to be discussed by EU
leaders at a Dec. 13-14 summit in Brussels.  Euro-Area Budget  A budget for the euro zone would evolve in two stages,
starting with “limited, temporary, flexible and targeted
financial incentives” for countries that make binding
commitments to economic reforms as of 2013. Merkel touted a
similar idea in October.  In the next stage, after 2014, the budget would grow into
an insurance fund to help well-managed economies “buffer large
country-specific economic shocks” such as a jolt to energy
prices, the proposal said. Countries would have to show economic
fitness to access the fund.  Euro governments would pay into the fund and draw from it
as the economy ebbs and flows, with tight conditions for
disbursements to make sure that it doesn’t become a permanent
transfer mechanism. Europe’s recent economic ups and downs show
that the flows could go both ways.  Spain, for example, might have been a net payer into the
fund as late as 2006 or 2007, when it was riding a real-estate
boom that has since gone bust.  Germany  might have been a net
recipient during the same phase, when its growth lagged behind
the European average.  Fiscal Neutrality  Payments to and from the fund would not “affect the
overall level of public expenditure and tax pressure in the euro
area,” the proposal said. “Over time, each euro-area country,
as it moves along its economic cycle, would in turn be a net
recipient and a net contributor.”  With negotiations bogged down over the existing budget for
the 27-nation EU, equal to about 1 percent of the bloc’s gross
domestic product, officials have been reluctant to put figures
on a euro-area insurance fund. Guntram Wolff, deputy head of the
Bruegel research institute, estimated in a  Dec. 3 paper  that it
would take 2 percent of euro-area GDP to buffer national and
regional shocks and address banking crises.  While the fund could be empowered to borrow on its own over
the longer term, it wouldn’t absorb or manage national debts,
which will continue to be sold and serviced by each country. One
model is the U.S. system, in which most states are tied by
balanced-budget rules and federal borrowing provides a shock
absorber.  “A euro-area fiscal capacity could indeed offer an
appropriate basis for common debt issuance without resorting to
the mutualization of sovereign debt,” the proposal said.  European-level borrowing wouldn’t be new. Bonds are already
sold by the  European Investment Bank , the EU’s project-finance
arm, and by the debt-crisis rescue funds.  Backers of euro bonds such as French President Francois Hollande can claim that the idea of mutual debt management lives
on in other European proposals, such as a separate  blueprint  put
out by the commission last week and cited in the summit
documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  