-- Eurodollar Curve Flattens as Fed’s Twist Extension Looms
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-12-06T14:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/eurodollar-curve-flattens-as-fed-s-twist-extension-looms-1-.html
Implied yields on Eurodollar futures
expiring in 2015 are falling faster than those on contracts
maturing in a year, suggesting traders consider more stimulus
almost a sure thing when the  Federal Reserve  meets next week.  The difference, or spread, between the implied yields on
the Eurodollar futures that expire at the end of 2013 and those
that expire two years later is 42 basis points. The gap between
the two rolling series contracts was as high this year as 125
basis points, or 1.25 percentage points, on March 20. Spreads
have narrowed, known as a flattening of the implied yield curve,
as traders’ price in record low benchmark borrowing costs for
longer and as perceptions of credit risk in the European banking
sector lessen.  Fed policy makers, who meet Dec. 11-12, may announce more
monetary accommodation as Operation Twist, its program of
swapping short- for long term debt, expires. The three-month
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which Eurodollar
futures are settled in, has fallen after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  vowed to do whatever it took to save the
17-nation euro.  “Investors see front-end rates having a downward bias
given the consensus view that the Fed will continue to add
liquidity and due to a fall in the risk premium of unforeseen
credit events coming out of  Europe ,” said Kenneth Silliman,
head of U.S. short-term rates trading at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
TD Securities unit in New York. “The headwinds point to lower
money market rates and a fall back in repurchase agreement and
fed funds rates toward where they were before Operation Twist.”  Fed Minutes  The Fed lowered its benchmark interest rate to a range of
zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008 and has said economic
conditions will probably warrant holding it at record lows
through mid-2015. The central bank is buying $40 billion in
mortgage debt each month in its third round of quantitative
easing aimed at keeping longer-term borrowing rates low to buoy
economic growth.  A “number” of Fed officials said at their policy meeting
in October that additional monthly purchases of bonds may be
warranted next year, according to the minutes of the  Federal
Open Market Committee . Operation Twist will end this month.  Eurodollar futures, which signal where traders’ see Libor
in the future and expectations on Fed monetary policy, are the
world’s most-traded contracts. Movements in Libor, a gauge of
unsecured bank borrowing costs, also reflect investors’
perceptions of credit risk in the banking sector.  European Sovereigns  The implied yield on the December 2013 contract was 0.36
percent today, while that on the December 2015 contract was 0.78
percent yesterday. The implied yield on the so-called rolling
13th-deferred future, now the 2015 contract, has fallen 27 basis
points since Oct. 17, while the fifth-deferred, now the December
2013 contract, has falling 6 basis points during that time.  Draghi stabilized the European debt markets by showing
greater willingness to use the ECB’s balance sheet to aid  Spain 
and  Italy . On Sept. 6, Draghi unveiled a bond-buying plan to
tame borrowing costs of the region’s most-indebted nations and
restore confidence. Spain is yet to request sovereign aid, a
condition of the ECB purchases.  Three-month Libor has held at 0.3105 percent since Nov. 28,
and is down from as high this year of 0.5825 percent on Jan. 3.
The Eurodollar future’s implied yield is derived by subtracting
the contract price from 100.  Unintended Consequences  Higher overnight  interest rates  on  repurchase agreements 
and federal funds, included among money market rates, was one
unintended side effect of Operation Twist, as dealers sought to
finance record amounts of short-term debt on their balance
sheets.  The overnight  repo  rate for Treasuries climbed to 0.266
percent on Dec. 5, from minus 0.001 percent on Dec. 3, a
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. general-collateral finance
repo index shows. The average daily rate for overnight federal
funds, the so-called  fed effective  has risen to 0.16 percent
from 0.04 percent at the end of last year.  Futures traders are also pricing in lower rates amid a
potential an influx of new cash into the money markets as
government insurance on non-interest-bearing transactions
accounts over $250,000 is set to expire on Dec. 30 and given
heightened regulation.  The insurance coverage beyond the normal government limit
was part of the Transaction Account Guarantee program, or TAG,
which was implemented by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp in
2008 and extended by the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010 as a way to
shore up banks during the financial crisis.  “It’s almost consensus now in the markets that repo and
other money market rates will go down next year,” said Viktoria Baklanova, an analyst in  New York  with Fitch Ratings’ fund and
asset-management group, in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  