-- European Stocks Advance to 18-Month High on U.S. Optimism
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-12-06T16:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/european-stock-futures-advance-before-ecb-growth-forecast.html
European (SXXP)  stocks advanced to an 18-
month high amid optimism U.S. lawmakers will agree on a new
budget and avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. jumped 8 percent
after announcing a new shareholder structure and saying it will
buy back shares.  Daimler AG (DAI)  rose 1.2 percent after selling half
its remaining holding in  EADS. (EAD)  GDF Suez SA slid to its lowest
ever after saying earnings will decline next year.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.7 percent to 278.82 at
the close of trading, its highest since May 31, 2011. The gauge
has surged 19 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as the
 European Central Bank  announced a bond-buying plan, the  Federal
Reserve  boosted stimulus measures and optimism rose that U.S.
lawmakers will agree on a budget.  “Markets are moving on the expectation that however
difficult things may be, there will be a U.S. budget deal,”
said  Mike Lenhoff , chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin Securities
Ltd. in London. “It’s almost inconceivable at this stage that
the Congress will allow the fiscal cliff to happen, especially
when we don’t really know the severity of the recession.”  About 80 members of Congress, comprising Republicans and
Democrats, signed a letter calling for an exploration of “all
options” in to end a deadlock between President Barack Obama
and House Speaker  John Boehner  over taxes for the highest-
earning Americans. Congress must strike a budget deal by the end
of the year to prevent more than $600 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts from coming into effect.  ECB Forecasts  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said he expects weak economic
growth for the euro-area to continue into the next year.  At a press conference in Frankfurt, he said the ECB now
forecasts that the economy will shrink 0.5 percent this year,
more than the 0.4 percent contraction it predicted in September.
The ECB cut its 2013 forecast to a contraction of 0.3 percent
from 0.5 percent growth, he said.  The ECB kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at a
record low of 0.75 percent. The Bank of England also left its
interest rate unchanged today.  Italy’s FTSE MIB Index fell 0.8 percent after its former
prime minister,  Silvio Berlusconi , threatened to withdraw his
party’s support for the incumbent  Mario Monti .  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. Finland’s markets were closed for a national
holiday. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 climbed 0.2 percent, France’s CAC
40 rose 0.3 percent and Germany’s DAX advanced 1.1 percent.  EADS Ownership  EADS jumped 8 percent to 29.40 euros after the company
changed its ownership structure to allow Germany and France to
each hold a 12 percent stake. EADS also said it will buy back as
much as 15 percent of outstanding shares.  Daimler advanced 1.2 percent to 38.65 euros after selling a
7.5 percent-stake in EADS, valued at 1.66 billion euros ($2.17
billion). The automaker will sell more of its remaining 7.5
percent holding after a lock-up period of 180 days from the end
of the sale of the first tranche.  Imagination Technologies Plc (IMG)  climbed 6.4 percent to 426.5
pence after JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Sandeep Deshpande said that the company’s first-half results next week
will meet or beat analyst expectations. The stock has
“considerable upside” in the medium term, they wrote.  Zumtobel AG (ZAG)  advanced 5.9 percent to 9 euros after JPMorgan
wrote that the Austrian lighting company’s profit margins will
improve, raising its recommendation on the shares to overweight,
the equivalent of buy, from neutral.  GDF Suez  GDF Suez (GSZ)  tumbled 11 percent to 15.29 euros, the lowest
price since its initial public offering in July 2005. Europe’s
largest utility by market value said late yesterday that
recurring net income will be 3.1 billion euros to 3.5 billion
euros next year, compared with an expected 3.7 billion euros to
4.2 billion euros in 2012.  Bank of America lowered its recommendation on the shares to
neutral, the equivalent of hold, from buy.  Saipem SpA (SPM) , Europe’s largest oil contractor by market
value, plunged 6.7 percent to 30.49 euros. The company said late
yesterday that Chief Executive Officer Pietro Franco Tali and
Alessandro Bernini, chief financial officer at its biggest
shareholder, Eni SpA, resigned amid an Italian investigation
into contracts in Algeria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  