-- European Soccer to Ban Third-Party Player Funds Within 4 Years
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-12-06T23:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/europe-to-ban-third-party-soccer-player-funds-within-four-years.html
European soccer’s governing body
followed in the footsteps of  England ’s Premier League by voting
to outlaw the practice of investors partly owning player rights.  UEFA ’s executive board agreed to push for an end to the
practice at a quarterly meeting yesterday in Lausanne,
 Switzerland .  FIFA, which regulates soccer worldwide, is looking into a
similar ban of the concept investors use to bet that transfer
fees of players will increase. The technique is widely used in
the top leagues in Portugal, Spain and Turkey, while being
banned in England, France and  Poland .  “We all know third party ownership of players bears many
threats and there are many issues linked with the integrity of
the competition, and it’s really time to regulate that,” UEFA’s
General Secretary Gianni Infantino told a press conference.  Transfers fall under FIFA’s jurisdiction. Infantino said if
the global body doesn’t act, UEFA will ban teams with third-
party players from its Europa League and Champions League
competitions following a “transitional period” of between
three and four years.  English Premier League Chief Executive  Richard Scudamore 
gave a presentation last month to a FIFA group explaining the
dangers of allowing outside investors to have stakes in players
and how the world’s richest domestic league managed to ban it.  Team Selection  Scudamore and other critics cite the lack of transparency
over who the investors are, the risk that they could affect team
selection and concerns that money from player sales doesn’t go
to teams that develop the talent.  UEFA’s data showed 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) was
spent on player trades in the region’s 53 national federations
last season. As many as 1,000 players, or 15 percent of all
squads in  Europe , may be part-owned by investors, according to
Raffaele Poli, a researcher at the  International Center for
Sports Studies  in Neuchatel, Switzerland, who co-writes an
annual study on the soccer transfer market.  Infantino said the time had come to introduce a cross-
European ban on player funds because of new cost control
regulations that limit what teams can spend to what they earn.
Having an outside investor partially fund a player purchase
would distort competition, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Lausanne, Switzerland, through the London
newsroom on  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 