-- Euro Declines as ECB Majority Supports Rate Cut
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-12-07T12:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/euro-holds-drop-on-slowdown-signs-aussie-lower.html
The euro declined against most of its
16 major peers after a majority of European Central Bank members
indicated support for an interest-rate cut if the economy
doesn’t pick up.  The shared currency fell to the lowest in more than a week
against the dollar after the Bundesbank lowered its 2013
forecast for economic expansion in  Germany , following the ECB’s
euro-area downgrade. The yen briefly extended gains after a
magnitude 7.3 earthquake hit  Tokyo , fueling haven demand for the
Japanese currency. The  Dollar Index  rose for a third day before
a report economists said would show U.S. companies hired fewer
workers in November.  The euro is falling as “we are seeing investors re-shift
their ECB policy expectations,” said Michael Sneyd, a currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “Downward revisions by
the Bundesbank acknowledge that the outlook, even for Germany,
is looking poor. Germany has been holding up the euro area.”  The euro slid 0.5 percent to $1.2904 at 7:57 a.m. New York
time, touching $1.2897, the weakest since Nov. 28. The shared
currency dropped 0.6 percent to 106.25 yen.  The Japanese currency 0.1 percent stronger 82.32 yen per
dollar. The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
uses to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.3 percent to 80.521.  Rate Leaning  A majority of ECB policy makers were open to cutting the
benchmark rate yesterday and there is a possibility of a
reduction early next year, three officials with knowledge of the
Governing Council’s deliberations said.  The central bank held its  benchmark  at a record low of 0.75
percent yesterday and kept the deposit rate at zero.  The Frankfurt-based Bundesbank cut its growth projection
for 2013 to 0.4 percent from the 1.6 percent predicted in June
and said the economy,  Europe ’s largest, will expand 0.7 percent
this year, down from its previous forecast of 1 percent. The
economy will contract in the fourth quarter and stagnate in the
first, the Bundesbank said. It will grow 1.9 percent in 2014, it
said.  The European Union’s statistics office said yesterday that
gross domestic product in the euro area fell 0.1 percent in the
third quarter from the previous three months, when it dropped
0.2 percent. That confirmed an initial estimate last month.  Employment Data  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday the region’s
economy is forecast to shrink 0.5 percent this year, more than
the 0.4 percent contraction the central bank predicted in
September.  The euro has lost 2.4 percent this year, the second-worst
performer among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen slid 9.3 percent
and the dollar fell 2.1 percent.  In the U.S., nonfarm payrolls rose by 85,000 workers in
November from the previous month when it increased by 171,000,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ahead of Labor Department figures today.  Payrolls exceeding estimates “will send a message that the
 U.S. economy  is still expanding at a modest pace,” said Hans Kunnen, chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “I’m
more positive on U.S. economic growth, and therefore the U.S.
dollar growth.”  Japan Earthquake  The yen climbed against most major peers after a magnitude
7.3 earthquake struck  Japan , mirroring movements in the currency
after a record temblor in March 2011.  Japan’s currency surged to a record level in the days
following the quake and the tsunami that led to meltdowns at a
nuclear plant in Fukushima. A tsunami alert was issued for
northeast Japan after the quake shook buildings in Tokyo today.  “The yen is being bought in a knee-jerk reaction to
headlines on the earthquake,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing
director in Tokyo at  FX Prime Corp. (8711)  “Given the difference in
the magnitude of this earthquake to last year’s, the impact on
the currency has been quite limited.”  Demand for the yen was muted before this month’s general
election and a central bank meeting. The opposition Liberal
Democratic Party leader Shinzo Abe, whose party leads in opinion
polls before the vote on Dec. 16, has called for unlimited
monetary easing.  The BOJ has failed to end more than a decade of deflation
by being too cautious, according to Takatoshi Ito, a former
finance ministry official who is a contender to become the
central bank’s next governor.  The bank’s board under Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, who
steps down in April, has done “too little, too late,” Ito,
dean of Tokyo University’s Graduate School of Public Policy,
said yesterday in an interview in Tokyo.  A final reading on Japan’s third-quarter GDP will confirm a
0.9 percent contraction from the previous three-month period,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the data due on Dec. 10. A separate poll shows
economists expect GDP will shrink in the current quarter. The
BOJ sets policy on Dec. 19-20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  