-- Ex-Hypo Alpe Managers Charged With False Accounting, Misuse
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-12-06T16:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/ex-hypo-alpe-managers-charged-with-false-accounting-misuse-1-.html
Austria charged former managers of
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG as well as the estate of
the late German industrialist Friedrich Karl Flick today over
the sale of shares in a subsidiary of the bank in 2007.  Prosecutors in the southern province of Carinthia, where
Hypo Alpe is based, charged the former executives with
falsifying accounts because they misrepresented the shares as
core capital, the prosecutors’ spokesman Helmut Jamnig said by
phone from Klagenfurt today. They also abused their authority to
manage the bank’s funds in the deal, causing damages of as much
as 8 million euros ($10.4 million), Jamnig said.  “You mustn’t circumvent rules for minimum  capital ratios 
by generating capital that you don’t have, because that means
the whole business is running a higher risk,” Jamnig said about
the charges against the managers. He declined to identify them.  Flick Privatstiftung said in a statement that it was
cooperating with the authorities and would repay any “unlawful
advantage” it may have gained in the transaction. It added that
it considered the transaction to have been a “normal”
investment that yielded a “risk-adequate return.”  The charge is one of several brought by the Austrian
authorities, which are seeking those responsible for billions of
euros of losses Hypo Alpe caused former owners including
 Germany ’s Bayerische Landesbank as well as Austrian taxpayers.
Hypo Alpe was nationalized three years ago after BayernLB and
its co-shareholders, Austrian insurer Grazer Wechselseitige and
the Carinthia province, withdrew support.  Wolfgang Kulterer, a former Hypo Alpe Chief Executive
Officer, was found guilty and sentenced to prison this May in a
similar share sale that took place two years earlier.  Ferdinand Lanker, Kulterer’s lawyer, denied that his client
was responsible for any wrongdoing linked to the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  