-- Ex-News Corp. Executive Brooks Appears in Court on Bribery Claim
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-12-06T14:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/ex-news-corp-executive-brooks-appears-in-court-on-bribery-claim.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit, and  Andy Coulson ,
who edited its now-defunct News of the World tabloid, appeared
in a  London  criminal court on bribery charges today.  The pair, charged last month with paying public officials
for stories, were ordered by Judge Adrian Fulford to attend
another preliminary hearing on March 8. Other details of today’s
hearing can’t be reported for legal reasons.  The bribery probe, known as Operation Elveden, triggered
the arrest of another journalist today, a 38-year-old woman who
was detained at her home in Sussex,  England . Information
provided by News Corp.’s internal committee probing wrongdoing
at its U.K. newspapers led investigators to her, the
Metropolitan Police said today in a statement.  Prosecutors allege Brooks paid 100,000 pounds ($161,120) to
a defense ministry employee, while Coulson is accused of
swapping cash for a palace phone directory for the royal family
and their staff. Two other journalists and the defense employee
were also charged in the case over claims they conspired with
Brooks and Coulson.  The charges stem from a police probe into News Corp.’s
best-selling Sun daily tabloid and the News of the World, which
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed last year to help quell public
anger over a related phone-hacking scandal. The affairs have
cost New York-based News Corp. at least $315 million in civil
settlements with victims, legal fees and other costs.  Brooks and Coulson, both 44 years old, are already due to
stand trial in London for phone-hacking offenses in September,
along with a dozen other people. A trial for the bribery case
hasn’t been scheduled.  News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  