-- Ex-SAC Steinberg Is Unindicted Co-Conspirator, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/ex-sac-steinberg-is-unindicted-co-conspirator-u-s-says.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP fund manager
Michael Steinberg was described by a federal prosecutor as an
unindicted co-conspirator in the insider-trading scheme that
involved his former analyst.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps in  Manhattan  made the
allegation yesterday at a hearing outside the jury’s presence at
the trial of Todd Newman, a former portfolio manager at
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Diamondback Capital Management LLC,
and Anthony Chiasson, co-founder of Level Global Investors LP.
The U.S. says Newman and Chiasson made trades based on illegal
tips obtained from company insiders and provided by analysts who
worked for them.  Apps told U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan the
government was seeking to show jurors e-mails involving
Steinberg when Newman’s lawyer objected, arguing that
prosecutors failed to prove that Steinberg was a member of the
conspiracy or show any evidence proving that Steinberg knew that
information he had received about  Dell Inc. (DELL)  wasn’t public.  “I am not aware of any evidence suggesting that Mr.
Steinberg joined in his conspiracy regarding Dell or any other
stocks and I don’t think there is sufficient evidence,” said
Steve Fishbein, the defense attorney.  Sullivan told lawyers that he will hold a hearing today to
decide whether to allow prosecutors to show jurors e-mails
involving Steinberg and whether to make a legal determination
that Level Global co-founder David Ganek is also an unindicted
co-conspirator in the case.  Chiasson and Newman have pleaded not guilty to the charges
of securities fraud and conspiracy.  Steinberg, SAC  Barry Berke, a lawyer for Steinberg, didn’t immediately
respond to voice-mail and e-mail messages yesterday seeking
comment on the government’s allegation. Jonathan Gasthalter, a
spokesman for SAC, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message left at his office seeking comment on the prosecutor’s
claim.  Apps told Sullivan that the government views Ganek as an
unindicted co-conspirator during a Dec. 3 hearing outside the
jury’s presence, saying prosecutors seek to show jurors e-mails
involving Ganek.  Steinberg and Ganek haven’t been charged with a crime by
the government.  Ganek’s lawyer, John Carroll, said in a statement that
there’s no evidence that Ganek knew about any inside
information.  A lawyer for Chiasson said in a memo to Sullivan there’s
no evidence backing prosecutors’ claim that Ganek is a co-
conspirator.  Analyst’s Testimony  “Mr. Chiasson respectfully submits that the government has
failed to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that Mr.
Ganek was a member of the alleged conspiracy,” Greg Morvillo, a
lawyer for Chiasson, wrote.  Morvillo said prosecutors allege that Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, 41, a former technology analyst who worked for
Chiasson at the New York-based fund, testified that he passed
information to Chiasson and Ganek during an Aug. 11, 2008,
meeting at the fund and an Aug. 27, 2008, telephone call.
Adondakis has pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the U.S.  “The government’s theory that Mr. Ganek was a co-
conspirator is contradicted by its own witness,” Morvillo said.  Morvillo said Adondakis testified that on Aug. 11, 2008, he
met with Chiasson and Greg Brenner, an analyst at the fund, and
shared with them “what has been referred to as the Dell
Expected Value.” Brenner hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing by
the government.  “Mr. Adondakis testified that immediately following this
meeting, Messers. Chiasson and Brenner brought the analysis into
Mr. Ganek’s office and met with him,” Morvillo said.  Defense Evidence  The defense has evidence it hasn’t yet submitted that
“demonstrates that Mr. Ganek was at his home in Southampton
that day, not in Level Global’s office,” Morvillo said.  Morvillo also said Adondakis testified that he never told
Ganek the source of his Dell information or that it was
illegally obtained.  “Once again, the government’s own witnesses upends its
argument,” Morvillo said. “The government’s conclusions with
regard to those events are firmly undercut by the totality of
other evidence in the record, including their own witness’s
testimony.”  Adondakis was the third cooperating witness to testify at
the trial in a group that also included Jesse Tortora, a former
analyst who worked for Newman.  Illegal Tips  Six men have pleaded guilty to swapping the illegal tips
from insiders at technology companies as part of the insider-
trading scheme.  Apps contends Ganek knew Adondakis was getting inside tips.  “There is substantial circumstantial evidence to support
the inference, based on the preponderance standard, that Mr.
Ganek did in fact that know Mr. Adondakis’s information came
from sources inside those companies, and accordingly, Mr. Ganek
is a co-conspirator,” she wrote in a Dec. 4 filing.  Asked for comment on the government’s claims about his
client, Carroll said: “The government says my client is a co-
conspirator because of a meeting, a phone call and some loose
language in e-mails. But David Ganek was not in the office the
day of the meeting, there is no record of him being on the phone
call and the key witness testified multiple times that he was
not told about any inside information.”  In court yesterday, Sullivan read aloud one of the e-mails
that the government seeks to introduce at the trial, which the
judge said was written by Steinberg in response to analyst Jon Horvath.  ‘Be Discreet’  “In response to a Horvath e-mail about gross margins
missing, Steinberg says, ‘Yes, normally we would never divulge
data like this, so please be discreet. Thanks.’ That doesn’t
look good.”  Fishbein argued that the e-mail the judge cited could also
have another interpretation.  “I think we have heard that hedge funds have proprietary
positions and they generally don’t want everybody in the market
to know what they are trading because that can interfere with
the trade,” he said. “So I’m not sure that is consistent
necessarily with anything being unlawful or part of a
conspiracy.”  When Horvath pleaded guilty, he admitted passing nonpublic
information about technology companies to his portfolio manager.
Horvath didn’t name Steinberg during his guilty plea. Horvath is
cooperating with the U.S.  During his Sept. 28 plea, Horvath told Sullivan that he and
his co-conspirators obtained material nonpublic information on
Dell in August 2008 and about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  in May 2009 from
insiders at the two technology companies.  Sullivan instructed jurors to return to court on Dec. 10.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  