-- Texas Energy Institute Head Quits Amid Fracking Study Conflicts
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-12-06T21:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/texas-energy-institute-head-quits-amid-fracking-study-conflicts.html
The head of the Energy Institute at
the  University of Texas  at Austin resigned following an
investigation that found conflicts of interest in a study on the
risks of natural gas drilling.  Raymond Orbach, 78, resigned as director of the institute
last month, the university said in a statement released today.
The study’s lead investigator, Charles Groat, 72, also retired
from his faculty position, according to the  statement .  The outside panel, which included academics and was headed
by the former chairman of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , Norman R. Augustine, also determined that the institute study represented
a conflict of interest.  “Primary among the shortcomings was the failure of the
principal investigator to disclose a conflict of interest that
could have had a bearing on the credibility a reader wished to
assign to the resulting work,” the panel said in its report
released today.  Bloomberg News  reported July 23 that Groat has been on the
board of  Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP)  since 2007, a
relationship he didn’t disclose in the report. As a board
member, Groat receives 10,000 shares of restricted stock a year,
according to company reports. He also receives an annual fee,
which was $58,500 in 2011, according to filings.  Groat’s Connection  Orbach said that he learned of Groat’s connection to the
company from a Bloomberg reporter’s inquiry.  Groat’s study, titled “Separating Fact from Fiction in
Shale Gas Development,” concluded that there’s no evidence of
groundwater contamination from hydraulic fracturing, commonly
known as fracking.  Critics say the practice endangers water supplies and have
called for increased  government regulation .  The University of Texas has accepted the recommendations
from the outside panel that the study be withdrawn, according to
the statement. The university has pulled the study from its
website and stopped distributing copies.  Groat said in an e-mail that he decided to take over as
director of the Water Institute of the Gulf in  Baton Rouge ,
 Louisiana , early this year, before “any of the issues about me
or the report emerged.” He declined to comment on the report
until he could read it.  The university’s Energy Institute released the report Feb.
16. At the time, Groat was associate director of the Energy
Institute. He’s the former director of the  U.S. Geological
Survey .  Texas’ news release, which accompanied the study, was
titled, “New Study Shows No Evidence of Groundwater
Contamination from Hydraulic Fracturing.” The outside panel
concluded that the university’s news release didn’t reflect the
“tentative nature of the conclusions” in the report.  Orbach, who will remain on the faculty, was traveling and
unavailable for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  