-- Mexico’s Peso Rises for Third Day on Pena Nieto, U.S. Optimism
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-12-06T22:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/mexico-s-peso-strengthens-third-day-on-pena-nieto-u-s-optimism.html
Mexico ’s peso advanced for a third
day on speculation U.S. politicians will reach a budget deal and
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s policies will boost economic
growth in the Latin American country.  The peso appreciated 0.4 percent to 12.8702 per  U.S. dollar 
at 4 p.m. in Mexico City. The currency has rallied 8.3 percent
this year, the biggest gain among the greenback’s 16 most-traded
counterparts.  Pena Nieto has signaled in his first week in office that he
will adopt measures to fuel growth in  Latin America ’s second-
biggest economy. A day after being sworn in, he signed an accord
with leaders of the three biggest political parties that
included a pledge to allow competition for some of state-run
Petroleos Mexicanos’s operations. The company has had a monopoly
on production, exploration and refining since President  Lazaro Cardenas  nationalized the oil industry in 1938.  “There’s a certain optimism about the new government,
political agreements and the possibility of reforms,”  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB,
said in a phone interview from Mexico City. “Positive sentiment
about eventual agreements regarding the fiscal issues in the
U.S.” also is contributing to the peso’s advance.  About 80 members of the  U.S. Congress , including
Republicans and Democrats, signed a letter calling for an
exploration of “all options” to break the political impasse
over taxes for the highest-earnings Americans. Lawmakers are
working to head off $600 billion of scheduled tax increases and
spending cuts that may sap growth. Mexico ships about 80 percent
of its exports to its northern neighbor.  U.S. Payrolls  U.S. employers added 85,000 jobs in November after an
increase of 171,000 in the prior month, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before tomorrow’s
report from the Labor Department. The  unemployment rate  probably
held at 7.9 percent, according to the median forecast.  Yields on peso-denominated bonds due in 2024 fell one basis
point, 0.01 percentage point, to 5.45 percent today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price increased 0.09 centavo
to 140.02 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  