-- Eximbank Cuts Bond Yield in Boon for Hungary Debt Return
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-12-06T16:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/eximbank-cuts-bond-yield-in-boon-for-hungary-debt-return-1-.html
Magyar Export-Import Bank Zrt. , a
state-owned Hungarian lender, lowered the yield on its $500
million dollar bonds after getting four times as much in bids,
boosting the government’s prospects for a Eurobond sale.  Eximbank, as the lender is known, cut the yield on the
five-year notes to 5.75 percent from a previous guidance of
5.875 percent after receiving bids for $2.2 billion, according
to an e-mailed statement today. The yield on  Hungary ’s 2019 euro
bonds fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to a one-
month low of 5.415 percent at 4 p.m. in Budapest.  Hungary, which hasn’t sold debt denominated in foreign
currencies since May 2011 and whose aid negotiations with the
 International Monetary Fund  have been deadlocked more than a
year, may issue notes in euros in 2013 depending on “market
conditions,” the Economy Ministry said by e-mail yesterday. A
bond sale by the government is independent of Eximbank, the
ministry said.  “I see this as a sign of Hungary trying to test the
international market,” Esther Law, a London-based strategist at
Societe Generale SA, wrote by e-mail today. “It does give the
impression that they may issue Eurobonds before the IMF deal.”  Reference Point  The Eximbank debt sale, for which Deutsche Bank AG and
Jefferies International arranged investor meetings, “may be a
point of reference when the government decides on a foreign-
currency bond sale,” Gergely Tardos and Levente Papa, Budapest-
based analysts at OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender,
wrote in a research report today.  “The demand for Eximbank’s bond issuance reflects
investors’ confidence,” the  Economy Ministry  said in an e-
mailed statement today, adding that the funds from the bank’s
debt will help improve the competitiveness of exporters.  This week’s sale, the first step in a 2 billion-euro ($2.6
billion) medium-term note program, was the first public
benchmark deal on the international market for Eximbank, said
the lender, which had total assets of 196 billion forint ($898
million) at the end of 2011.  In a sign of improving sentiment, Hungary issued 75 billion
forint in 12-month Treasury bills today, the highest amount sold
at an auction of that maturity and 50 percent more than planned,
as borrowing costs fell to the lowest in 15 months.  Eximbank Example  The government, which tends to issue foreign-currency bonds
with maturities longer than five years, may be able to sell
dollar notes at yields around 5 percent based on the Eximbank
sale, Gabor Orban, who helps manage $2.5 billion at Aegon Fund
Management in Budapest, said in e-mailed comments.  Yields on the government’s dollar-denominated bonds due in
2021, and issued in March 2011, when Hungary last sold dollar
bonds, were little changed at 4.889 percent.  The Debt Management Agency, which had shelved plans to sell
4 billion euros in Eurobonds in 2012, waded into foreign-
currency financing with a plan to issue 200 million euros in
inflation-linked, three-year notes to Hungarian households and
other investors. The agency sold 104 million euros of notes at a
coupon of 5.1 percent, AKK said on Dec. 4.  Standard & Poor’s  last month cut Hungary’s long-term
sovereign ratings one level to BB, two steps below investment
grade, citing government policies that are eroding growth
prospects, according to a Nov. 23 statement.  Fitch Ratings  and
Moody’s Investors Service rate Hungary one step below investment
grade. Both have a negative outlook.  IMF Negotiations  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  nationalized assets of private
pension funds and pushed banks to swallow losses on their
clients’ foreign-currency mortgages last year. This helped
trigger the downgrade of Hungary’s sovereign credit to junk and
forced the government to request international aid.  Orban’s commitment to cut the budget deficit, coupled with
investors’ growing appetite for higher-yielding, riskier assets,
stoked by bond buying from the U.S. Federal Reserve and the
 European Central Bank , has helped drive down Hungary’s borrowing
costs and strengthened the forint this year.  The forint weakened 0.3 percent to 283.62 per euro today.
The currency has gained 11 percent against the euro in 2012, the
most among more than 100 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  While Hungary can finance its  budget deficit  from the
market next year, the Cabinet should continue aid talks with the
IMF, Mihaly Varga, the government’s chief aid negotiator, said
in Budapest today.  “A foreign-currency bond from the government is a bigger
deal than issuance from Eximbank, but it seems no IMF agreement
would be needed for it amid such good sentiment,” Andras Sovany, a Budapest-based fixed income trader at ING Groep NV,
wrote by e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  