-- Facebook Said to Be in Talks to Buy Microsoft’s Atlas Ad Product
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-12-06T20:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/facebook-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-microsoft-s-atlas-ad-product.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is in talks to purchase
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Atlas Web advertising-placement service, a
person familiar with the matter said, a deal that would step up
 Facebook ’s rivalry with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in the online-ad market.  Microsoft, seeking to sell assets from its $6.3 billion
acquisition of AQuantive Inc., is unlikely to get more than a
price in the tens of millions, according to another person, who
asked not to be named because the discussions are private.
Microsoft wrote down almost the entire value of the 2007
AQuantive deal earlier this year.  Atlas’s tools help companies choose and place ads on
websites and monitor their effectiveness. Facebook, the biggest
social network, may be looking to bolster its challenge to
search leader Google, which gained ad-serving technology with
its $3.2 billion acquisition of DoubleClick in 2008. At stake is
an online display-advertising market that is expected to reach
$32.8 billion this year, up 19 percent from 2011, according to
ZenithOptimedia.  AllThingsD  reported  the talks earlier today.  Brandon McCormick, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to
comment. Microsoft declined to comment in an e-mailed statement.  Microsoft has focused more of its attention and funds on
building its search-based advertising business, at the expense
of the graphical-display ad business that includes Atlas and the
AQuantive assets. At the same time, Microsoft would benefit from
increased display-ad competition for Google, making a sale to
Facebook -- a Microsoft partner -- a good option, said one of
the people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  