-- Fading Domestic Demand Curbs Slovak GDP Growth to Three-Year Low
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-12-06T10:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/fading-domestic-demand-curbs-slovak-gdp-growth-to-three-year-low.html
Slovakia’s economy expanded at the
slowest pace in almost three years in the third quarter, curbed
by weakening domestic demand as the government seeks to cut the
 budget deficit  with higher income taxes.  Gross domestic product  rose 2.1 percent from a year
earlier, the weakest expansion since the end of 2009 and
compared with 2.6 percent growth in the second quarter, the
Slovak Statistics Office said in a statement posted on its
website today. The third-quarter reading was below the 2.2
percent increase reported in the flash estimate published Nov.
15. On a quarterly basis, GDP grew 0.6 percent.  “Growth was again driven solely by foreign demand, helped
by an increased output in the car factories following the
expansion of their production capacities,” Martin Balaz, an
analyst at Slovenska Sporitelna AS in Bratislava, said in an e-
mailed report. “We expect economic growth to slow slightly
further in the fourth quarter due to the uncertain situation in
the  euro zone  and a slowdown in our main trading partners.”  Slovakia’s growth still outperformed its bigger neighbors
in central  Europe  also affected by weakening domestic demand.
Poland  economy , the biggest among the post-communist EU members,
expanded 1.4 percent in the third quarter, while GDP in the
 Czech Republic  shrank a preliminary 1.5 percent from a year
earlier.  OECD Forecast  Even as the short-term outlook for the economy has
worsened, it is set to advance 2.6 percent this year and 2
percent in 2013, one of the fastest expansions in the euro area
which Slovakia joined in 2009, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a survey released today.
This matches the European Commission’s November projection.  “The main priorities now are to restore public finances
while fostering domestic drivers of growth and ensuring the
funding of items to promote growth, such as education and active
labor market policies,” the OECD said in the report.  Still, Slovakia’s medium- and long-term growth prospects
are uncertain as the country must improve its labor market and
education efficiency to remain competitive, the Paris-based
group said.  Slovak lawmakers approved on Dec. 4 tax increases for
individuals and companies, dismantling the previous system of a
uniform 19 percent  tax rate  as the east euro-region country
seeks to boost budget revenue.  The government raised the corporate tax rate to 23 percent
and imposed a 25 percent top rate for income of individuals
exceeding 2,867 euros ($3,748) per month. The changes are
effective from next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  