-- Fannie and Freddie Are Not Piggy Banks
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-06T23:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/fannie-and-freddie-are-not-piggy-banks.html
What does a U.S. immigration program
have to do with the housing market? Nothing. Yet lawmakers are
once again attempting to  tap  mortgage-finance giants Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac to fund unrelated legislation, this time to
cover the cost of increasing the number of green cards for
foreign graduates with advanced degrees. Fannie and Freddie, it
seems, have become  Washington ’s favorite piggy bank.  Some may see this as a good thing. The U.S., after all,
spent $190 billion bailing out the companies, so why not siphon
some of the money back to pay for other priorities? The reality
is that doing so raises mortgage costs for borrowers regardless
of their credit risk, threatens to stall the housing market’s
comeback and lowers the odds that Washington will ever fix the
two companies.  To pay for the immigration bill it passed last month, the
U.S. House voted to extend for one year higher fees Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac charge lenders to guarantee the loans they make
to home borrowers. Last year, Congress increased the so-called
guarantee fee by 10 basis points (0.1 percent) through 2021 to
fund a payroll-tax cut. The House bill extends the higher fees,
which reflect a loan’s expected rate of return, through 2022.
The measure isn’t going anywhere -- it faces a presidential veto
 threat  and was blocked this week by the Senate -- but the
temptation to tap Fannie and Freddie whenever Congress needs a
ready supply of cash is likely to grow.  Guarantee Fees  There’s no question guarantee fees should slowly increase.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac don’t make mortgage loans but
guarantee them by charging lenders a fee to cover projected
losses from defaults. For too long, the companies underpriced
risk and charged too little for the mortgages they were agreeing
to back, which is one reason they were bailed out and placed
under government control.  Absent a broader effort to overhaul housing finance,
raising fees with no consideration to their effect on the
housing market poses new risks. The guarantee fees are passed on
to borrowers, typically through higher interest rates. Raising
fees too quickly could hamper the housing recovery by making it
more expensive to borrow. Higher fees also thwart the Federal
Reserve’s attempts to stimulate the economy by keeping interest
rates low.  What’s more, guarantee fees have already been slowly
rising,  according  to the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which
oversees the companies. Fees averaged 0.28 percent in 2011 and
are expected to average about 0.48 percent in 2012 as a result
of the payroll-tax increase and a separate fee increase ordered
by the housing agency. A 0.1 percentage point bump adds about
$4,000 to a 30-year, fixed mortgage of $200,000.  Rather than divert guarantee fees to unrelated causes,
Congress should use them to attract private capital back to the
mortgage market once the housing recovery seems on solid
footing.  Higher fees could lure private lenders by raising interest
rates for borrowers whose mortgages are backed by Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, making such loans more profitable for the lender.
Higher fees could also encourage borrowers to seek out cheaper
alternatives to Fannie- and Freddie-backed mortgages. The FHFA
already is gradually raising fees as part of a broader  attempt 
to reduce the companies’ roles in housing finance, and is
considering a  plan  to charge higher fees in states where default
costs have been above the national average.  Private Capital  Right now, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own or guarantee
almost 84 percent of mortgage debt. Private capital is almost
nonexistent, largely because of the heavily subsidized presence
of Fannie and Freddie. Until the government decides what role it
wants the companies to play, including whether they should
provide any type of mortgage guarantee, private capital is
likely to stay on the sidelines.  A new Bloomberg Government report says the mortgage giants
will probably escape a major overhaul in President  Barack
Obama ’s second term because they are no longer draining taxpayer
money and instead are returning funds to the Treasury. Both
reported third-quarter profits, forgoing Treasury Department
cash infusions.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are finally healing, and
Congress should resist the impulse to turn to them whenever it
needs a ready supply of cash. The companies are supposed to
smooth out the ebbs and flows of the mortgage market, not serve
as ATMs.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 