-- FTC’s Rosch Says Agency Not a Tool for Antitrust Attacks
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-12-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/ftc-s-rosch-says-agency-not-a-tool-for-antitrust-attacks.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission,
under pressure from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and its allies to sue  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , shouldn’t be seen by big companies as a tool to bring
antitrust cases against competitors, Commissioner  Thomas Rosch 
said.  “They can darn well bring it as a private antitrust action
if they think their ox is being gored instead of free-riding on
the government to achieve the same result,” Rosch, one of two 
Republicans  on the five-member commission, said yesterday in an
interview.  The FTC and Mountain View, California-based Google are in
discussions to settle a 20-month investigation into whether the
world’s most popular search engine is quashing competition in
the Internet industry, people familiar with the talks have said.
The most serious allegation competitors make -- that Google
skews search results to favor its own services -- isn’t part of
the negotiations, the people have said.  To highlight what its members call Google’s anticompetitive
behavior, FairSearch.org was formed in October 2010. The group
includes companies such as Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft,
U.K. shopping comparison website Foundem and Bellevue,
Washington-based  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , an online travel service.  FairSearch.org has pressed the FTC to sue Google over the
search-bias claim, among other alleged violations. In a paper
FairSearch.org prepared to make its case to the commission, the
group said, “Closing the investigation, or accepting inadequate
relief, will further entrench the very conduct and exacerbate
the harm the antitrust laws are designed to prevent.”  Rosch, who declined to comment on the Google probe, was
nominated to the commission by former Republican President
George W. Bush and took office in 2006. He plans to leave the
commission when a replacement is confirmed by the Senate.
President  Barack Obama  in September nominated Joshua Wright, a
Republican law professor at George Mason University, to take the
Republican seat on the commission now held by Rosch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at   jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 