-- Heating Oil Drops to Four-Month Low as ECB Cuts Outlook
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-12-06T21:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/gasoline-sinks-to-three-week-low-as-ecb-reduces-europe-outlook.html
Heating oil slid to a four-month low
as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the area’s
economic weakness will persist into the second half of 2013,
reducing fuel demand, and as U.S. budget talks are stalled.  Heating oil and gasoline each fell 1.6 percent as Draghi
said the ECB forecast the euro area economy will shrink 0.5
percent this year, more than the 0.4 percent contraction
predicted in September. President  Barack Obama  and Republican
leaders are at loggerheads in negotiations to avoid a so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic tax increases and spending cuts
scheduled for January.  “Draghi’s comments make the market concerned that any
significant amount of growth is not returning for a substantial
period of time, which of course impacts demand,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “His
concern also about the  U.S. economy  shows the extent to which
the world is worried about the fiscal cliff.”  January-delivery heating oil fell 4.75 cents to $2.9432 a
gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Aug. 6.  Gasoline for January delivery slipped 4.09 cents to $2.5969
a gallon, the lowest settlement since Nov. 7. Futures have
fallen five straight days, dropping 6.8 percent. It’s the
longest streak of declines since Oct. 24.  The ECB cut its 2013 forecast to a contraction of 0.3
percent from 0.5 percent growth.  Broader Decline  Oil products’ losses were part of a broader market decline
as the dollar strengthened, making commodities less attractive
to investors. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24
materials sank 1.2 percent at 3:20 p.m. in New York. The dollar
surged 0.8 percent against the euro.  “The euro is getting crushed a bit,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “This
is a Draghi drop, no doubt about it. Some of the traders are a
little distressed with the comments by Draghi.”  More than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts
will start taking effect in January. Obama, a Democrat, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview on Dec. 4 that the stalemate
will continue as long as Republicans refuse to raise marginal
income tax rates on the top 2 percent of earners.  Today’s gasoline loss follows a 1.9 percent slide yesterday
after the Energy Department reported that inventories of the
motor fuel rose the most last week since the terrorist attacks
on the World Trade Center in  New York .  “It’s a little hard to be optimistic about the market with
big builds in inventories,” Flynn said.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  fell 0.1
cent to a $3.379 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. That’s
the lowest level since July 6. The pump price reached a 2012
high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Marino in New York at 
 dmarino4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  