-- GDF Suez Boosts Share of Gas Supply Deals Linked to Market Price
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-12-06T18:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/gdf-suez-boosts-share-of-gas-supply-deals-linked-to-market-price.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  is boosting the share of
its French natural-gas supply contracts linked to market prices
amid a legal battle with the government on regulated tariffs.  Indexation to spot prices is now higher than the 26 percent
at the start of 2012, Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet
said today. A formula for calculating tariffs reflecting the
shift may be unveiled next week, he said. GDF Suez’s biggest
suppliers are  Norway , Russia, Algeria and the Netherlands.  Environment and Energy Minister Delphine Batho will reveal
on Dec. 10 household rates for natural gas from the start of the
year. The government, which last week lost a court challenge by
distributors to a price cap, may raise regulated rates 2 percent
to 3 percent on Jan. 1, Le Figaro said without citing anyone.  GDF Suez and peers have won cases against the government in
the past year to set regulated rates high enough to cover supply
costs. The former monopoly said today a shortfall in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
second half totaled 185 million euros ($240 million).  “The costs will have to be covered, this is the law,”
Mestrallet said today at a conference. “We have not hesitated
to sue our own shareholder. We’re on the safe side of the law.”
 France  has to apply “clear rules” on setting prices, he said.  Europe’s natural-gas pricing system that links contracts to
oil futures is impossible to maintain while long-term and spot
prices are diverging, GDF Executive Vice President Jean-Marie Dauger says. Spot gas prices in Europe have dropped as economic
stagnation cuts demand and liquefied natural gas imports rise.  European utilities including GDF Suez, EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) 
have pressed suppliers including Russian gas-export monopoly OAO
Gazprom to revise long-term agreements after losing hundreds of
millions of euros on contracts linked to  oil prices .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  