-- Germany Said to Be Close to Selling Properties to Lone Star
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-12-06T16:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/germany-said-to-be-close-to-selling-tlg-immobilien-to-lone-star.html
The German government is close to
selling its TLG Immobilien GmbH real estate unit to  Lone Star 
Funds, three people with knowledge of the plan said. It would be
the country’s biggest commercial-property transaction this year.  The German  Finance Ministry , which is divesting real estate
to reduce the  budget deficit , may approve the sale as early as
next week, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because an agreement hasn’t been reached. TLG Immobilien, owner
of shops, offices and land in cities including Berlin and
Leipzig, will fetch about 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion), one
of the people said.  The government is trying to take advantage of demand for
German real estate as investors look for a safe place to put
their money as economies contract in other countries that use
the euro. Last month, it agreed to sell the residential arm of
TLG Group, the real-estate management company that includes TLG
Immobilien, to  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG)  for 215 million euros.  Pavao Vlajcic, a spokesman for Dallas-based Lone Star,
declined to comment when asked about a possible deal. The
Finance Ministry and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which is advising the
government, also declined to comment.  Loan Deal  Lone Star, a private-equity firm, agreed to buy property
loans formerly held by the German arm of now defunct Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. from the Bundesbank in April. Those loans
had a nominal value of 1.4 billion euros, the German central
bank said.  TLG Group replaced Treuhand Gesellschaft, the company that
oversaw the sale and restructuring of thousands of companies
after the collapse of communist East Germany. The government
shelved a plan to sell TLG in 2008 because of the global
financial crisis.  TLG Immobilien has about 200 employees and manages
buildings ranging from a  Porsche showroom  in Dresden to  a
factory in Chemnitz .  The German government targets a deficit of 17.5 billion
euros in 2013 compared with 25 billion euros this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net . 