-- German Stocks Rally to Highest Level Since January 2008
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-12-06T17:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/german-stocks-rally-to-highest-level-since-may-2011.html
German stocks  rallied to their
highest level since January 2008 amid optimism that Republicans
will agree to higher taxes as part of a new U.S. budget, and as
factory orders in Europe’s biggest economy surged in October.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  rose 3.4 percent as Germany’s largest drugmaker
sought permission to use one of its medicines to treat a new eye
condition.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  gained 2 percent as the maker of Nivea
skin cream raised its full-year sales forecast for the second
time in little more than a month.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 1.1 percent to 7,534.54 at the close
of trade in Frankfurt, its highest level since Jan. 15 2008. The
equity benchmark has  rallied 26 percent  from this year’s low on
June 5 as the  European Central Bank  approved an unlimited bond-
buying program and euro-area finance ministers eased the terms
of bailout loans to  Greece . The broader HDAX Index jumped 1.2
percent today.  “Progress in the negotiations between Republicans and
Democrats in the U.S. has helped the market to reach a new year
high,” Soeren Steinert, who helps manage about $22 billion as
associate director for equities trading at Quoniam Asset
Management GmbH in Frankfurt, wrote in a message. “Volumes are
not high. Therefore, the market move right now is not supported
by a broad mass.”  The volume of shares changing hands in shares listed on the
DAX was 9.5 percent greater than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Budget Negotiations  In the U.S., some Republicans have signaled they will
accept President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to increase taxes on
higher earners. More than $600 billion of additional taxes and
spending cuts will come into force at the beginning of next year
unless politicians can agree on a new  federal budget .  Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  proposed a $2.2
trillion plan this week to raise revenue by limiting  tax
deductions , a measure that would mostly affect high earners. He
insisted he won’t agree to higher tax rates at any income level.  German factory orders  jumped in October at almost four
times the pace that economists had forecast. Orders, adjusted
for seasonal swings and inflation, surged 3.9 percent from
September, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. It revised
September’s drop to 2.4 percent from 3.3 percent. The increase
in October exceeded the median forecast for a 1 percent gain in
a  Bloomberg News survey  of 42 economists.  ECB Forecasts  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said today that economic
weakness will persist into next year.  “Later in 2013, economic activity should gradually recover
as global demand strengthens and our accommodative monetary-
policy stance and significantly improved financial market
confidence work their way through to the economy,” he said at a
press conference in Frankfurt.  The central bank also left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a record low of 0.75 percent.  “Relatively clearer policy in Europe compared with the
U.S. is leading to an outperformance in European stocks,”
Daniel Weston, a portfolio manager at Aimed Capital Management
LLC in Munich, said in a message.  Bayer gained 3.4 percent to 72.54 euros as the drugmaker
applied for approval to sell its medicine Eylea as a treatment
for macular edema degeneration. European doctors already use the
drug for a different eye disorder.  Beiersdorf rose 2 percent to 61.73 euros after saying
revenue at its consumer business will grow more quickly than
estimated. Sales will rise more than 4 percent this year, the
Hamburg-based company said today. Beiersdorf had predicted
growth of about 3 percent. On Nov. 2, it increased the forecast
to between 3 percent and 4 percent.  ThyssenKrupp, Daimler  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  added 2.3 percent to 16.43 euros as
 Germany’s largest steelmaker  ousted three top executives in an
attempt to repair a boardroom tainted by corruption allegations
and an unsuccessful expansion in the Americas.  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , the country’s second-biggest steelmaker,
added 1.7 percent to 37.49 euros. Kloeckner & Co. SE, Europe’s
largest independent steel trader, jumped 6.1 percent to 8.97
euros. A gauge of commodity companies posted the second-biggest
gain of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Daimler AG (DAI)  gained 1.2 percent to 38.65 euros after the
 world’s third-largest maker of luxury vehicles  sold a 7.5
percent stake in  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) ,
valued at 1.66 billion euros ($2.2 billion). Daimler will sell
part of its remaining 7.5 percent stake after a lock-up period
of 180 days from the end of the sale of the first tranche.  Continental, Kuka  Continental AG (CON)  rose 1.3 percent to 85.89 euros as the
Economic Times reported that Europe’s second-largest auto-parts
maker will invest 7.15 billion rupees ($132 million) in India.
The company will invest the money over the next three years, CEO
Elmar Degenhart was quoted as saying in the report.  Kuka AG (KU2) , Europe’s largest maker of industrial robots,
surged 4.7 percent to 27.75 euros as Morgan Stanley initiated
coverage of the stock with an overweight rating, forecasting a
target price of 30 euros on the shares.  RWE AG (RWE)  fell 1.4 percent to 31.79 euros. A gauge of
utilities companies posted the only decline of the 19 industry
groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  as GDF Suez SA tumbled
after forecasting that earnings will drop next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  