-- German Manufacturing Orders Surge in Sign of Resilience
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-12-06T11:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/german-factory-orders-surge-almost-four-times-more-than-forecast.html
German factory orders surged almost
four times as much as economists forecast in October, driven by
foreign demand.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, jumped
3.9 percent from September, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said
today. It revised September’s drop to 2.4 percent from 3.3
percent. The increase in October is the biggest since January
2011 and exceeds the median forecast for a 1 percent gain in a
 Bloomberg News survey  of 42 economists. From a year earlier,
orders fell 2.4 percent when adjusted for work days.  German business confidence unexpectedly rose in November
after growth slowed less than economists predicted in the third
quarter. At the same time, the euro area,  Germany ’s largest
export market, slipped into recession. The Bundesbank has warned
that the economic slowdown could continue in the fourth quarter
as the region’s debt crisis and weaker global growth damp
demand.  “The music is playing outside the euro region, where the
label ‘Made in Germany’ is enjoying everlasting popularity,”
said  Mario Gruppe , an economist at NordLB in Hanover. “That’s
good news for the economic outlook. We’re in for a cold winter
but not a recession - everything speaks for an economic dent.”  The euro rose after the report and was trading unchanged at
$1.3068 at 12:40 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The benchmark DAX index rose
1 percent today to 7526.30.  Export Orders  Export sales soared 6.7 percent in October, driven by an
8.5 percent increase in orders from outside the euro area,
today’s report shows. Orders from the 17-nation currency bloc
rose 3.5 percent and domestic orders were up 0.4 percent.  Orders for intermediate goods rose 3.4 percent, investment-
goods orders climbed 4.5 percent and consumer goods orders were
up 2.1 percent. The number of bulk orders was below average, the
ministry said.  The “considerable” October increase, the first in three
months, “markedly tempers the negative trend in industrial
demand,” the ministry said. Still, “the economic environment
remains weak and industrial production should remain muted in
the coming months.”  While at least five of the economies sharing the euro are
battling recessions, Germany’s expanded 0.2 percent in the third
quarter.  Moderate Pick-Up  “Since there’s so much austerity going on in the euro area
and the U.S., we won’t have a booming economy,” said  Aline Schuiling , senior economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“But there’s increasing evidence for the fact that the global
industrial cycle has bottomed out. For Germany, that means we
will see a moderate pick-up. Moderate, but still a pick-up.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
predicts German growth of 0.9 percent this year, 0.6 percent in
2013 and 1.9 percent in 2014. That compares with projected
contractions of 0.4 percent and 0.1 percent this year and next
for the euro area as a whole, followed by growth of 1.3 percent
in 2014.  “The economy is currently influenced by a streaky overall
picture that is likely to continue to darken by the end of the
year,” the Bundesbank said in its monthly report published Nov.
19. “The uncertainties stemming from the sovereign-debt crisis
are as much a concern as the mixed economic signals from other
regions of the world.”  The Frankfurt-based institution will publish fresh
forecasts tomorrow.  Asia , U.S.  New Zealand ’s central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 2.5 percent today.  South Korea ’s economy grew less
than initially estimated in the third quarter, according to Bank
of Korea data, while  Australia  reported today its  unemployment
rate  unexpectedly dropped in November.  The U.S. Labor Department may say fewer Americans filed
first-time claims for unemployment insurance payments last week,
a survey shows.  Germany’s Schaeffler AG, the roller-bearing maker that’s
the biggest investor in car-parts manufacturer  Continental AG (CON) ,
lowered its 2012 sales forecast on Nov. 20 because of weaker
demand in Europe and Asia.  Still,  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  today raised its full-year sales
forecast for the second time in little more than a month as the
maker of Nivea skin cream said revenue at its consumer business
would grow more quickly than anticipated. Sales will rise “well
over” 4 percent this year, the Hamburg-based company said.  “The German economy is set to stagnate in the winter
months,” said  Andreas Moeller , an analyst at WGZ Bank in
Dusseldorf. “However, it’s doing better than other euro
countries and growth should pick up in the spring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  