-- Ghana Leaders Bid for Office as Voters Seek Oil Benefits
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-12-06T15:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/ghana-leaders-bid-for-office-as-voters-seek-oil-benefits.html
Ghanaian voters will decide tomorrow
whether President John Dramani Mahama’s party has done enough to
spread the benefits of one of  Africa ’s fastest-growing economies
as he tries to fend off a challenge from opposition candidate
Nana Akufo-Addo.  Neither Mahama nor Akufo-Addo, whose parties have traded
power in the two decades since Ghana ended military rule, may
secure the minimum of 50 percent needed to win in the first
round, according to analysts from  Standard Bank  Group Plc,
Songhai Advisory,  Renaissance Capital  and Eurasia Group.  The winner will face mounting calls from Ghanaians to share
wealth from oil production that began in 2010. Spending promises
made on the campaign may be hindered by a widening budget
deficit and slowing economic growth in a nation where 18 percent
of the population have formal employment, according to the 2010
census. After expanding 14.4 percent in 2011, the fastest pace
in Africa, Ghana’s economy is projected to grow 8.2 percent this
year and 7.8 percent in 2013, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  “There’s a real frustration about the economic growth
Ghana is supposed to be having,” Songhai’s Kissy Agyeman-Togobo
said by phone from Accra, the capital, on Nov. 28. “People have
been complaining about the general costs of living and not
really benefiting from the oil revenues that were said to come
in.”  Jubilee Oil  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  started pumping crude at the Jubilee field
in December 2010. Production slowed to an average of 63,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day in the first half of this year,
according to the central bank. Tullow said 2011 production
averaged 78,200 barrels and by the end of 2012, output is
expected to increase to 90,000 barrels.  Tullow, Anadarko Petroleum Ltd. and Eni SpA are developing
more wells, while  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Newmont Mining
Corp. (NEM)  are expanding their  gold mines  after prices for the metal
rose 8.1 percent this year.  Cocoa production, which reached a record 1 million metric
tons in the 2010-11 season, may slow to 800,000 tons from the
harvest that started in October, according to the Ghana Cocoa
Board.  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , Barry Callebaut AG and
Cargill Inc. process cocoa in Ghana, the world’s second-biggest
grower.  “I am struggling to take care of my family and to pay
their fees, things are getting worse by the day,” 42-year-old
Charles Kweku Annan, who drives a tro-tro, a public
transportation minivan, said in an interview at a bus station in
Accra, the capital, on Nov. 30. “Those economic figures are
either lies or useless, they mean nothing to me.”  Growth Promise  Mahama, 54, became the ruling National Democratic Congress
party’s candidate after the death in July of President John Atta
Mills. Akufo-Addo, 68, of the New Patriotic Party, lost to Mills
by less than 1 percentage point in the 2008 vote that went to a
second round. Six other candidates are also contesting the
presidency.  The 14 million registered Ghanaian voters will also choose
members of a Parliament that’s expanded by 45 seats to 275 since
the last election. The NDC held a majority in the previous term.
While the electoral commission has 72 hours to release results,
an announcement is likely within 48 hours, Kwadwo Afari-Gyan,
head of the agency, told reporters yesterday.  A former communications minister and parliamentarian from
the Northern region town of Damongo, Mahama, who was Mills’
deputy, is promising annual growth of 8 percent to “expand our
economy from its marginal middle-income status to a full-fledged
middle-income status where growth and prosperity are spread
equitably across the country and poverty is substantially
reduced,” according to his campaign manifesto.  Free Education  Akufo-Addo, a former attorney general and foreign minister,
was born in Accra and represented the Eastern region
constituency of Abuakwa South in Parliament. He vowed free high-
school education and said he would “make a systematic effort to
launch an industrial revolution and find new markets for
Ghanaian products and services,” according to the NPP plan.  The NPP, which governed  Ghana  under John Kufuor from 2001
to 2009, is “liberal democratic and conservative,” while
members of the NDC, founded by two-time coup leader Jerry Rawlings, are “social democrats,” according to the parties.  “There’s very little that separates them,” said Agyeman-
Togobo. “They are both pro-business, they pledge to promote the
private sector and they want to open up Ghana’s market to
foreign investors.”  Deficit Widens  The election winner “will be significantly constrained by
the need to rebalance state finances after a period of pre-
election fiscal loosening,” Ben Payton, an analyst at Bath,
U.K.-based Maplecroft, said in an e-mailed response to questions
on Dec. 3. “The need to bring the deficit under control is
likely to impact upon future spending plans, and force the
government to delay or abandon key manifesto commitments.”  Ghana’s deficit soared to 7.3 percent of gross domestic
product in the first three quarters of this year from 1.9
percent during the same period in 2011 as the government
implemented a plan to boost wages for the country’s 700,000
civil servants, according to the  Bank of Ghana .  “Some fiscal restraint next year will subsequently enable
the BoG to start easing  monetary  policy, subject to sustained
exchange rate stability,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets
strategist at Standard Bank, said. “The country’s democratic
credentials and improving institutional framework, coupled with
the peaceful power shifts in 2000 and 2008, mitigate any major
political risks.”  The cedi, which has weakened 13 percent this year, gained
less than 0.1 percent to 1.8911 a dollar by 3:11 p.m., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Ghana’s $750 million
Eurobonds declined for a fifth straight day, easing 3.1 basis
points to 4.963 percent, the lowest in more than three weeks.  Ivorian Violence  Ghana’s four elections since the return to constitutional
rule in 1992 have been regarded as free and fair, with disputes
handled through the electoral commission or in the country’s
courts. In neighboring  Ivory Coast , 3,000 people were killed and
many fled into Ghana during violence that followed a disputed
2010 presidential election.  While the campaign has been largely calm, at least five
clashes were reported during the voters’ registration period
earlier this year and two people were shot and injured during an
NPP meeting in Kumasi, the second-biggest city, on Nov. 29.
Preserving the peace in the country became a recurrent campaign
theme, with celebrities, religious leaders and school children
recording songs and making pledges.  “The fears of electoral violence will be with us every
four years, as the winner-takes-all system remains,” Michael
Kpessa Whyte, a political scientist and research fellow with the
University of Ghana’s Institute of African Studies, said by
phone yesterday. Ghanaians “will vote for the candidate who
they can trust with the peace and stability of the nation,
anything else comes second.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in  Accra  at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  