-- Ghana Plans to Fire Primary Dealers Missing Bond Auction Quotas
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2012-12-06T14:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/ghana-plans-to-fire-primary-dealers-missing-bond-auction-quotas.html
Ghana ’s central bank said it plans to
fire some primary dealers of the nation’s bonds for failing to
take their share of securities at weekly auctions, pressuring
other traders to pick up the slack.  “Primary dealers are supposed to buy 7 percent of the
amount of bills and notes offered,”  Adams Nyinaku, head of
treasury at the Accra-based Bank of Ghana, said by phone today.
“Our quarterly appraisal shows some of them are under-
performing. We may drop some of the current primary dealers and
add those on the waiting list.”  When a brokerage doesn’t take its full proportion of bonds,
other dealers are compelled to step in and buy extra, for which
the central bank pays a fee. Traders purchase  91- and 182-day
bills  and one- and two-year notes at auctions held every Friday,
either for themselves or customers.  The Bank of Ghana is planning regulations from next year
aimed at deepening the secondary  bond market , Nyinaku said.  “We need rules regarding issues such as pricing and
underwriting,” he said. “The minimum capital requirement for
banks is 60 million cedis ($31.7 million) but we want primary
dealers to reserve part of their portfolio for secondary
trading.”  While foreign investors are allowed to directly buy Ghana
debt with a duration of more than three years, they can only
purchase shorter-dated notes on the secondary market.  There are times when investors want to redeem debt before
maturity and the central bank wants lenders “to be able to
settle among themselves and not fall on the central bank for
lack of liquidity,” Nyinaku said.  Barclays Plc, Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Standard Chartered
Plc (SCB) ,  Ghana Commercial Bank Ltd. (GCB) ,  Ecobank Ghana Ltd. (EBG) ,  SG-SSB
Ltd. (SGSSB) , Agricultural Development Bank of Ghana and  Access Bank Plc (ACCESS) 
are currently primary dealers. The rest are  Cal Bank Ltd. (CAL) ,
 United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA) , Merchant Bank Ltd., Fidelity Bank of
Ghana, Bank of Africa Ghana, ARB Apex Bank Ltd. and the state-
pension fund, Social Security and National Insurance Trust.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  