-- Gillard Links Budget Surplus Pledge to Trend Economic Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-12-07T00:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/gillard-links-budget-surplus-pledge-to-economic-growth-at-trend.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  signaled
a 2013 budget surplus goal relies on the economy expanding at
trend, as weaker growth threatens to curb revenue and derail her
election-year commitment.  “Our last economic update had us at trend growth and that
is why the last economic update had us with a surplus,” Gillard
said in an interview with Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio
today. “We are still determined to deliver the surplus.”  Gillard’s government is bidding for a A$44 billion ($46
billion) swing in the budget back to the black in time for an
election due late next year. Ministers are preparing to dump the
surplus pledge if growth slips below trend -- a long-term
average of just above 3 percent -- in the December quarter, the
Australian Financial Review reported today without identifying
the source of the information.  Australia ’s first female prime minister, whose  Labor party 
has closed the gap with the opposition coalition in opinion
polls, has staked her economic credibility on delivering the
first surplus since the 2009 global recession. Threatening that
commitment is a weaker international outlook, lower prices for
commodity exporters and a high local dollar that’s hurting non-
resource industries such as tourism and manufacturing.  “Gillard has placed herself in a corner by promising a
surplus in a bid to counter the opposition’s claims that she
can’t manage the economy,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a lecturer at
the School of Political and Social Inquiry at Melbourne’s  Monash
University . “With factors overseas reducing government revenue,
she can make the case to voters that it’s better to back away
from that commitment to promote growth.”  Weakest Gain  Third-quarter gross domestic product advanced 3.1 percent
from a year earlier, slowing from 3.8 percent year-on-year gain
in the prior quarter, a Bureau of Statistics report released
Dec. 5 showed. Growth was 0.5 percent from the previous three
months, the weakest quarterly gain since January-March 2011, the
data showed.  The report covered a period when companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  scaled back mining projects in response to lower
commodity prices.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  reduced rates four times this year to help support
consumption and the nation’s housing market.  ‘Resilient Economy’  “We have got a resilient economy,” Gillard told the ABC.
“Even with these pressures, commodity prices coming off, the
high Aussie dollar, our economy’s fundamentals are still
strong.”  The Financial Review cited unidentified officials who
pointed to several statements from government ministers linking
the budget surplus commitment to  economic growth .  The Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development last month predicted Australia’s economy will grow 3
percent next year, compared with 3.7 percent this year.  Labor’s primary vote remained on 36 percent with  Tony
Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition staying on 43 percent,
according to a Newspoll survey published in the Australian
newspaper on Nov. 26. Taking preference votes into account,
Labor had 49 percent support and the opposition had 51 percent
on a two-party preferred basis, unchanged from a poll two weeks
earlier.  The telephone survey of 1,156 people, conducted Nov. 23-25,
had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  