-- MGM Resorts International Seeks $5.25 Billion to Refinance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-12-06T22:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/mgm-resorts-international-seeks-5-billion-for-debt-refinancing.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM)  is seeking
$4 billion in loans and today sold $1.25 billion of senior notes
as the biggest casino operator on the  Las Vegas Strip  works to
refinance its outstanding obligations. Its stock  surged .  The company issued 6.625 percent bonds maturing in December
2021 that pay 525 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds
will help fund the repurchase of senior secured debt and
refinance its existing senior credit facility, Las Vegas-based
MGM said today in a regulatory filing. MGM, which began a tender
offer for about $3.1 billion of outstanding secured debt, will
also meet with lenders tomorrow to discuss the loans, according
to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  MGM shares increased 10 percent, the most since Aug. 24,
2011, to $10.97 in New York trading. Swaps linked to its debt
declined 36.9 basis points to 565.6 as of 4:30 p.m., the lowest
level since 2008, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The transaction will reduce MGM’s interest burden by
trimming high-coupon debt and improve its ability to generate
cash, according to report from  Standard & Poor’s , which today
boosted the company’s credit rating to B+, four levels below
investment grade.  ‘Important’ Deal  “It’s very important for the company,” said John Kempf,
an analyst with RBC Capital Markets LLC. “They’re able to
refinance and generate free  cash flow .”  The loan financing will consist of a $1.5 billion term
portion B, a $1.25 billion term loan A and $1.25 billion
revolving line of credit, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  “They’re taking out very high-priced debt taken on at the
peak of the financial crisis and refinancing at much lower
cost,” said Robert LaFleur, a gaming analyst with Cantor
Fitzgerald & Co. “It’s pretty significant.”  MGM had about $12 billion of bonds outstanding before
today’s sale, $4.9 billion of which come due before 2016,
Bloomberg  data  show. The securities had an average maturity of
4.3 years and paid an 8 percent coupon.  “The proposed transaction will allow us to significantly
lower our cost of borrowing while enhancing our maturity
profile,” Alan Feldman, an MGM spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Covenant-Lite  The seven-year term loan B portion will be covenant-lite,
meaning the debt won’t carry typical lender protections such as
financial-maintenance requirements. Lenders will also be offered
one-year of soft-call protection of 101 cents, meaning the
company would have to pay 1 cent more than face value to
refinance the debt during the first year, the person said.  Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG, Barclays Plc and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. are arranging the loans, said the person.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  