-- GMR Set to Lose Male Airport Control as Maldives Wins Appeal
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-12-06T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/gmr-set-to-lose-male-airport-control-as-maldives-wins-appeal.html
GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)  may lose
control of Male international airport in the Maldives after a
Singapore court allowed the island-nation to take over the
facility following cancellation of the contract.  The court yesterday set aside its Dec. 3 order preventing
Maldives from interfering with the performance of GMR, according
to a decision handed out by three judges led by Chief Justice
Sundaresh Menon. Maldives plans to run the island’s biggest
airport from tomorrow, according to Masood Imad, a spokesman for
President Mohamed Waheed.  Maldives may have to compensate GMR in accordance with the
agreement between them, according to the court’s decision.
 Maldives Airport Co. , the state-owned airport company, is liable
to pay GMR and its lenders more than $700 million in
compensation, Sidharath Kapur, chief financial officer of
airports at GMR, said Dec. 5.  GMR is not in a position to comment, according to a text
message from the company.  GMR  shares  dropped 1.3 percent to 19.80 rupees at the close
in Mumbai yesterday. The stock has fallen 5.7 percent this year,
compared with a 32 percent gain in the S&P CNX 500 Index.  The project was awarded to GMR, which also runs  India ’s
biggest airport in  New Delhi , and  Malaysia Airports Holdings
Bhd. (MAHB)  in 2010 by then-President Mohamed Nasheed, who was ousted
in February. The contract never received the necessary approval
from parliament and was signed under “dubious circumstances,”
according to Imad. Waheed took power after Nasheed resigned.  Malaysia Airports owns 23 percent of GMR Male International
Airport Pvt. and the rest is held by GMR.  GMR moved the Singapore court, the designated arbitrator,
after Maldives canceled the contract on Nov. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  