-- Gold Fields Cut to Junk by Moody’s Following Spinoff Plan
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-12-06T09:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/gold-fields-cut-to-junk-by-moody-s-following-spinoff-plan-1-.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the fourth-largest
producer of the metal, had its credit ratings cut to junk by
Moody’s Investor Service because of the initially negative
effects of a plan to spin off some South African mines.  The unbundling “will initially lead to an overall weaker
credit profile after the transaction is concluded,” Gianmarco Migliavacca, a Moody’s analyst, said in an e-mailed statement
today. Moody’s cut the global scale issuer rating and senior
unsecured  rating  of Gold Fields Orogen Holding (BVI) Ltd. to Ba1
from Baa3 and said the outlook was negative.  Gold Fields plans to separate a unit controlling the Kloof-
Driefontein Complex,  Africa ’s largest gold operation, and the
Beatrix mine, it said Nov. 29, naming the new company Sibanye
Gold Ltd. The deep-level mines under Sibanye require a different
management and strategy to those remaining within Gold Fields to
maximize value to shareholders, the company said.  Gold Fields’  credit  profile will initially be weaker as two
cash-generative assets will be spun out to Sibanye, Moody’s
said. The profile will recover once South Deep, a mine under
development, begins generating cash, it said. Standard & Poor’s
cut Gold Fields to junk on Nov. 15, saying the risk in  South
Africa  increased as social and political tensions rose.  “The negative outlook assigned to  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ’s
ratings is primarily driven by the near-term deterioration of
free  cash flow  and higher reliance of cash flows from its
operations in  Ghana  in the short to medium term, until the South
Deep project is complete and can contribute towards healthy
positive free cash flows,” Moody’s said.  Paring Loss  Gold Fields pared a loss of as much as 2.8 percent to trade
1.3 percent lower at 100.50 rand by 11 a.m. in Johannesburg,
where the company is based.  The rating also accounts for “the credit positive aspects
of the transaction such as lowering the company’s cost base,
thus contributing towards more sustainable higher operating
margins and reducing exposure to South African mining industry
risk factors,” Moody’s said. Those include productivity losses
because of labour unrest and higher-than-inflation wage and
electricity price increases, Migliavacca said.  Gold Fields and larger rival  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  had all
of their South African mines halted in the third quarter as
unauthorised strikes for higher pay spread across the country.  Following the unbundling of its Kloof-Driefontein complex
and Beatrix assets, Gold Fields will be the seventh-largest gold
producer with projected annual production of 2 million ounces a
year, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  