-- Greek Bond Buyback Leads S&P to Cut to Selective Default
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-06T01:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/greek-bond-buyback-leads-s-p-to-cut-to-selective-default.html
Greece ’s credit grade was reduced to
SD, or selective default, by Standard & Poor’s from CCC after
the government began buying its bonds back from investors, a
statement on the rating company’s website said yesterday.  The nation has offered 10 billion euros ($13.1 billion) to
purchase debt issued earlier this year as the bailed-out country
attempts to cut a debt load that may threaten future
international aid. The rating was lifted to CCC from SD in May
after undergoing the largest sovereign restructuring in history
earlier this year.  “I don’t think the downgrade will have a big impact,”
said Hajime Nagata, who helps oversee the equivalent of $125.1
billion as an investor in  Tokyo  at Diam Co., a unit of Dai-ichi
Life Insurance Co.,  Japan ’s second-biggest life insurer. “They
have already restructured.”  Greece began repurchasing bonds maturing from 2023 to 2042
this week, offering a higher-than-planned price to increase
demand for the debt-reduction measure.  The buyback “constitutes the launch of what we consider to
be a distressed debt restructuring,” S&P said in its statement.
“Any potential upgrade to the CCC category rating would
reflect, among other factors, our view of the debt relief that
is being delivered through the buy back and its contribution to
putting the sovereign’s public finances on a sustainable
footing.”  The SD designation “includes the completion of a
distressed exchange offer, whereby one or more financial
obligation is either repurchased for an amount of cash or
replaced by other instruments having a total value that is less
than par,” according to S&P’s  website .  Debt Reduction  The purchases have helped buoy the nation’s debt. Greek
bonds have returned 72 percent in the past three months, the
best performance of 174 sovereign debt indexes tracked by the
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  European finance ministers last week eased the terms on
emergency aid for Greece to help nurse the debt-stricken country
back to health.  Euro-area finance ministers last week announced debt-
reduction steps for Greece, including lower bailout loan rates
and a recycling of the European Central Bank’s profits on the
nation’s bonds back to the Athens treasury.  Ministers from all 27 European Union nations will return to
Brussels next week to ratify Greece’s next aid payment, the
fifth-straight week they’ll have descended on the Belgian
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net . 