-- Gretchen Mol Hugs Beagles; Pocket Square Framed: Scene
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y   a n d   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-12-06T16:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/gretchen-mol-hugs-beagles-pocket-square-framed-scene.html
Two beagle puppies at Animal Haven’s
Holiday Bash last night got their pictures taken with actress
Gretchen Mol, and that’s not the only reason they’re likely to
find a home.  “We make it a pleasure to adopt a dog,” Archie Gottesman,
a board member of  Animal Haven  and chief branding officer of
Manhattan Mini Storage said at the speakeasy-themed party at the
private club Norwood. “We have a completely different kind of
shelter. It doesn’t look like a shelter, it looks like a
boutique.”  Among the guests who attended the $400-a-plate dinner and
$125-a-head performance at Norwood, were James Keyte, partner at
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, the pro- bono law firm
of Animal Haven, and creative director Alexandra Burch of
Trademark, a fashion line.  The beagles were kept downstairs in the basement area,
which at least spared their delicate ears and noses the assaults
of human music and food.  Located near the boutiques of the downtown Manhattan
districts Nolita and SoHo, Animal Haven offers not only a
temporary home for cats and dogs but a place to buy them
accessories.  Last year the shelter, with an annual budget of $1.2
million, placed 800 animals. Tiffany Lacey, executive director
of Animal Haven, said she hopes to increase the number to 1,000.  The holiday benefit, which featured music by Vince Giordano
and the Nighthawks, raised about $30,000.  Pocket Square  Norwood on Tuesday night was a showcase for a more obscure
man’s best friend: the pocket square.  Details magazine and the  Council of Fashion Designers of
America  arranged an exhibition and auction of framed and signed
pocket squares created by a host of menswear designers including
 Band of Outsiders  and Richard Chai.  Erika Bearman, head of public relations for Oscar de la
Renta, bought a $200 Michael Bastian plain-white pocket square,
featuring the phrase “less words, more love” embroidered in
red, for the man in her life. The highest bid, $500, was for a
very vintage-looking American flag with fringe by John Varvatos.  “It’s like any other sort of men’s accessory: a really fun
way to take your look up a notch without having to step outside
your comfort zone,” said Matthew Marden, fashion director at
Details.  Proceeds went to the CFDA Foundation. Unframed, unsigned
pocket squares are on sale at Bonobos.com for $100 each, with
100 percent benefiting the CFDA Foundation. Bastian is offering
a plaid design, Billy Reid’s features a pelican, and  Marc
Jacobs ’s is steel-gray.  (James Tarmy and  Amanda Gordon  are writers and
photographers for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
 Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology ,
 Jason Harper  on  cars .  To contact the writers on this story:
James Tarmy in  New York :  Jtarmy@gmail.com ;
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 