-- GSW Shares to Rise More Slowly Next Year, Chief Executive Says
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-12-06T07:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/gsw-shares-to-rise-more-slowly-next-year-chief-executive-says.html
GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  shares will
probably rise more slowly next year after posting one of the
best performances by a mid-cap German company in 2012, Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Zinnoecker said.  GSW,  Germany ’s third-largest residential landlord by market
value, has gained 71 percent since first selling shares to the
public in April 2011, including 49 percent this year. Like other
German companies, GSW has attracted investors seeking a safe
place to put their money as economies in countries that use the
euro such as  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and Spain contract.  “We can’t keep growing at 50 percent a year,” Zinnoecker,
51, said in an interview at GSW’s headquarters in central
Berlin. “For real estate shares, the growth isn’t limitless
when they start trading at a premium to net asset value.”  GSW owns 60,000 apartments, mainly in Berlin, and is
benefiting from rising rents as the population in the German
capital increases. The company is this year’s 10th-best
performer in the German DAX Mid-Cap Index, which has risen 31
percent. GSW’s market value is 1.64 billion euros ($2.2
billion).  The company’s net asset value is 27.95 euros per share,
according to data compiled by the company, compared with the
stock price of about 32 euros.  Analysts expect the shares to trade at 29 euros to 35 euros
in 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. There are
five recommendations to buy the stock, five to hold and none to
sell.  ‘Sensible’ Deals  GSW has about 250 million euros available to make
acquisitions next year if “sensible” opportunities arise,
Zinnoecker said. That could buy 3,000 to 4,000 apartments, he
said.  “If we find something that fits, we’ll go for it,” he
said. “But we’re under no pressure.”  GSW can also increase its capital to make additional
purchases, he said. The company has  bought 7,000 apartments  this
year.  The number of households in Berlin rose 13 percent to
almost 2 million in the 10 years through 2011, according to the
latest Berlin census.  The property investor may raise its guidance for the 2012
dividend, Zinnoecker said. Last month, GSW said its dividend for
2012 will equal about 65 percent of its funds from operations.
That would amount to between 79 cents and 83 cents a share,
based on the company’s FFO forecast of 61 million euros to 64
million euros.  The company wants to at least match the previous year’s
payout, the CEO said. That was 90 cents a share.  ‘Satisfied Shareholders’  “We want to keep our  shareholders  satisfied when it comes
to dividends,” he said. “It’s just an idea; Nothing’s been
decided,” he said.  The dividend will be set at a supervisory board meeting in
March. Most analysts expect a payout of 90 cents per share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  GSW plans to remain independent despite speculation that a
merger with  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) , Germany’s largest residential
landlord by market value, would be beneficial, Zinnoecker said.
Such a deal would reduce costs and increase the amount of shares
being traded, JPMorgan Cazenove said in a Nov. 21 note to
investors.  “For a friendly merger, we’d have to see where the benefit
is for our shareholders, and at the moment we don’t see it,” he
said.  Manuela Damianakis, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Wohnen,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 