-- Michigan Legislature Approves Right-to-Work Measures Amid Tumult
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-12-07T02:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/michigan-governor-snyder-promises-to-sign-right-to-work-bill-1-.html
Michigan  lawmakers began approving
so-called right-to-work measures after Governor  Rick Snyder  said
for the first time he’d sign the bills, eroding labor’s power in
the cradle of the United Auto Workers union.  The Republican majority’s action yesterday prompted
demonstrations at the Capitol in Lansing by hundreds of chanting
union supporters. Police used pepper spray and arrested eight
people, recalling protests over similar measures in Wisconsin
and Indiana.  “This is just one shot in a long battle,” said Kristin Dziczek, a labor analyst at the Center for Automotive Research
in  Ann Arbor , Michigan. “This will not be a stable situation.
This will be just as much a flashpoint.”  If the bills become law, Michigan would be the 24th state
to make paying union dues voluntary, rather than a customary
requirement in organized workplaces.  Indiana  did the same in
February. The past year has been a time of historic tumult for
organized labor, which in 2011 represented 11.8 percent of
American workers, down from 20.1 percent in 1983, according to
the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Gretchen Whitmer, the Senate Democratic leader from East
Lansing, said the bills were meant to crush labor’s power.  “This legislation is petty and vindictive politics at its
most disgusting,” she said yesterday on the Senate floor.  The bills cover public and private employees, though police
and firefighters would be exempt, the governor told reporters
yesterday.  ‘Workplace Fairness’  “This is about workplace fairness and equality,” said
Snyder, who previously said the issue wasn’t on his agenda.
“This is about the relationship between workers and their
union. Workers should have a right to choose who they associate
with.”  Snyder said only 17.5 percent of Michigan workers are union
members, so the measure would affect relatively few people.  Similar measures were considered in 21 states this year,
without passage. A right-to-work bill is also being discussed in
Wisconsin, where Republican Governor  Scott Walker  this year
survived a recall after curbing collective bargaining for most
public-employee unions.  Even in decline, union money and volunteers were crucial to
the re-election of President  Barack Obama  this year. AFL-CIO
President  Richard Trumka  said in an e-mailed statement that the
push to open union workplaces is led by “a radical group of
Republicans.”  The Michigan House passed one of the three bills as the
Senate acted on two.  Democratic Walkout  The House vote was delayed after the Michigan State Police
closed the Capitol because of the crush of demonstrators,
prompting most Democrats to walk out in protest. They returned
about 15 minutes later when the doors were ordered opened.  Both chambers must approve a bill before it’s submitted to
the governor. Because of procedural rules, the package can’t be
sent to Snyder to be signed into law until at least Dec. 11.  The three U.S. automakers based in Michigan are remaining
neutral, according to e-mailed statements from Katie McBride of
 General Motors Co. (GM) , Kevin Frazier of Chrysler Group LLC and Todd Nissen of  Ford Motor Co. (F)   That neutrality might anger the UAW, considering its
advocacy during the U.S. government bailout of the industry in
2009, said  Harley Shaiken , a professor of labor relations at the
 University of California , Berkeley. The union, he said, “was
essential to the industry’s survival.”  “The pre-eminent U.S. manufacturing industry has just come
through the roughest time in its history and is back on its
feet,” Shaiken said. “And all of a sudden, one of the partners
in this is under attack.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  