-- Michigan Governor Snyder Seeks New Emergency Manager Law
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/michigan-governor-snyder-seeks-new-emergency-manager-law.html
Financially distressed Michigan
cities and school districts could choose between mediation with
creditors, bankruptcy or a state-appointed emergency manager
under legislation Governor  Rick Snyder  and Republican lawmakers
said they’ll introduce today.  The proposal would replace a 2011 law repealed by voters
Nov. 6, according to a treasury department statement. That law
gave emergency managers sweeping powers to fire elected
officials, sell community assets and cancel union contracts to
balance budgets. Five cities and three school districts now
operate with emergency managers under a weaker 1990 law, which
would be replaced by the new measure.  The repeal of Public Act 4 left the state without enough
clout to rescue cities and schools from insolvency, Snyder has
said. The governor had championed the 2011 law, which opponents
called undemocratic and an affront to local voters.  “Governor Snyder feels strongly that he has a
responsibility to the citizens of those communities and school
districts, and the state as a whole, to protect the health,
safety and welfare of residents and ensure children receive a
first-class education,” according to the statement.  The proposal comes as Republicans who run the Legislature
consider a right-to-work law banning mandatory dues collections
from workers covered by union contracts.  Several hundred union supporters crammed into the state
Capitol yesterday to protest against the bill with loud chants
audible in the Senate chamber.  Financial Rescue  The new financial rescue proposal would retain the state’s
power to declare financial emergencies in cities and school
districts, while giving local governments the options to reach a
consent agreement with the state -- similar to one  Detroit  has -
- mediation, an emergency manager or a Chapter 9 bankruptcy
filing.  Under current law, the state must approve a bankruptcy
request. The proposed new law would tie a Chapter 9 filing to a
full state review of city or school district finances.  While the new bill would reinstate broad powers for
emergency managers, local officials would have authority to
approve certain decisions made by the managers, or develop
alternate solutions that produce equal savings.  The proposal would also permit local officials to ask the
governor to remove emergency managers after a year, or dismiss
them with a two-thirds vote of the governing body, such as a
city council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  