-- U.S. Deploys Ships to Monitor North Korea Rocket Launch
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-12-07T08:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/mideast-turmoil-won-t-deter-u-s-asia-shift-admiral-says.html
The U.S. is deploying ships to
monitor and potentially shoot down a rocket  North Korea  plans to
fire as soon as next week, as  Japan  readied its military to
destroy any possible debris.  “We’ll move them around so we have the best situational
awareness that we have,” Admiral Samuel Locklear, head of the
U.S. Pacific Command, said at a Pentagon news conference in
Washington yesterday. “To the degree that those ships are
capable of participating in ballistic missile defense, then we
would position them to be able to do that.”  North Korea’s plan to fire the rocket between Dec. 10-22
reflects signs of growing instability in the totalitarian state,
a South Korean government official said today. Leader Kim Jong Un has worked to secure his hereditary grip on power since his
father  Kim Jong Il  died a year ago, and last month called for a
crackdown on “rebellious elements.”  The regime’s priority is ensuring the success of the launch
after a similar attempt exploded in April and not any possible
nuclear weapons test, the official said, speaking to reporters
in  Seoul  on condition of anonymity. Locklear yesterday made a
similar point.  The launch “is intended to demonstrate to the world that
they have the capacity to be able to build missiles and have the
missile technology to be able to use it in ways of their
choosing,” he said.  ‘Unexpected Occurrences’  North Korea expects the rocket’s fuselage to fall about 140
kilometers (87 miles) west of  South Korea  and its second stage
to drop into waters about 136 kilometers east of the
 Philippines , South Korea’s Transportation Ministry said today in
an e-mailed statement, citing the North’s launch plan that was
submitted to the  International Maritime Organization  and the
 International Civil Aviation Organization .  Defense Minister Satoshi Morimoto today ordered Japan’s
military to intercept and destroy any part of the rocket that
would threaten the country, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu
Fujimura said, adding that it isn’t expected to do so.  “We want to take every precaution against unexpected
occurrences,” Fujimura told reporters in  Tokyo .  North Korea’s plans coincide with South Korea’s Dec. 19
presidential election. Both ruling party candidate Park Geun Hye
and opposition nominee Moon Jae In are calling for re-engagement
after five years of deteriorating ties marked by atomic bomb and
missile tests and two clashes in 2010 that killed 50 South
Koreans. Kim has shown no willingness to heed international
calls to halt a nuclear weapons program.  ‘Some Hope’  The North made a rare admission of failure four hours after
April’s botched test that scuttled a food aid deal with the U.S.
Kim, who was partially educated in  Switzerland  and is believed
to be under 30, has openly censured officials and delivered
speeches on television in contrast with his father.  He has made development and foreign investment priorities
to boost an economy burdened by international sanctions imposed
over its nuclear program. Locklear said there’s reason to think
the new leader is taking “a more rational approach” to the
country’s economy.  “Generally, there’s a feeling that there might be some
hope there,” he said, without elaborating.  North Korea has invested about $480 million to ready its
rocket launch, South Korean Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan told
lawmakers this week. South Korea estimates the launch site to
have cost $400 million, another $50 million for parts
manufacturing operations near Pyongyang, and $30 million for the
satellite itself, he said.  North Korea’s military arsenal includes Scud, Rodong and
Musudan missiles. The Musudan has a range of more than 3,000
kilometers and can carry a 650 kilogram warhead, according to
South Korea’s defense ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  