-- IMF Says Slovenian Banks ‘Vulnerable’ to Worsening Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-12-06T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/imf-says-slovenian-banks-vulnerable-to-worsening-credit.html
Slovenian banks are “highly
vulnerable” to further credit deterioration and refinancing
risk, the International Monetary Fund said.  Banks including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova
Kreditna Banka (KBMR)  Maribor should be recapitalized in the amount of
around 5 percent of the euro region nation’s gross domestic
product to be able to sustain a double-dip recession, the IMF
said today in a Financial System Stability Assessment.  “Strengthening the financial condition of banks should be
the short-term priority,” the Washington-based lender said in
the report. “A structural adjustment in the balance sheets is
needed for banks to become less dependent on wholesale or the
Euro-system’s financing and a stronger bank capitalization would
reduce downward pressure on the sovereign rating.”  Slovenian banks, which rely on the European Central Bank
loans for financing, are burdened with surging bad loans as the
export-dependent economy slips into its second recession in
three years. Prime Minister Janez Jansa has embarked on an
economic overhaul, including the recapitalization of the state-
owned banks. These efforts may be hampered by a threat of a
referendum called by trade unions and opposition leaders.  Slovenia is rated Baa2 at Moody’s Investors Service, the
second-lowest investment level, while Fitch Ratings has an A-and
A at Standard & Poor’s. All three companies keep a negative
outlook on their assessments.  The Adriatic nation is ready to sell its entire holding in
Nova Ljubljana Banka, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic has said.
NLB, based in the capital Ljubljana, needs a second capital
boost of 375 million euros ($456 million) as the country’s
biggest lender is set for a fourth year of losses. Nova Kreditna
bank may also be sold to outside investors.  “The privatization would help address the long-standing
governance weaknesses of these banks,” the IMF said in today’s
report. “Reducing government influence on the day-to-day
operations and lending decisions of banks would help improve the
risk management practices and the efficiency and stability of
the banking system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  