-- India Pushing Intellectual-Property Rights at UN Climate Talks
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2012-12-06T18:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/india-pushing-intellectual-property-rights-at-un-climate-talks.html
India  is seeking a fund that it says
would help protect intellectual-property rights while aiding in
the transfer of clean-energy technologies to  developing
countries  grappling with  climate change .  The world’s fourth-largest greenhouse-gas emitter, needs
the support to help meet its goal of cutting emissions
intensity, or carbon dioxide released per unit of gross domestic
product, by as much as 25 percent by 2020, Mira Mehrishi,
India’s lead climate negotiator, said in an interview at United
Nations climate treaty talks in Doha.  “If we don’t get cheap technology we will never be able to
adapt’ to climate change, Mehrishi said.  India has long been at odds with industrialized nations
such as the U.S. over intellectual property rights. Developing
countries are concerned they can’t trust companies that hold
valuable patents to make their innovations affordable.  ‘‘This has been a long-standing issue with India,” said
Jake Schmidt of the  Natural Resources Defense Council , a group
following the talks. “The claim is that the intellectual
property rights raise the price and makes the more dependent on
Western technologies and they’d like to have it for themselves
at a low cost.”  India’s proposal is a fund that would be accessible to all
developing countries and pay out royalties to patent holders
while facilitating the transfer of technologies countries say
they need to cut  greenhouse gases  and deal with the risks of a
more volatile climate.  ‘Think Positively’  “We understand that the person who holds the patent
doesn’t want to give it away for free, but why can’t everybody
think positively and come up with a solution?” Mehrishi said.  India’s proposal in Doha was rejected last night by the
U.S. and other countries including Canada and  Australia , said
Schmidt, who observed the talks.  U.S. delegates, who have been firm in their stance against
any measure that would weaken intellectual-property protections,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  The issue is among the sticking points that rich and
developing nations have been unable to agree upon in global
talks. Delegates from more than 190 countries are working on a
deal that would begin three years of negotiations for a treaty
that would be agreed to in 2015 and take force in 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Doha at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  