-- Internet Mogul McAfee in Guatemala Hospital After Asylum Denied
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-12-06T22:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/internet-mogul-mcafee-in-guatemala-hospital-after-asylum-denied.html
Internet entrepreneur John McAfee,
wanted for questioning in the shooting of an American citizen in
Belize, was transferred to a hospital in  Guatemala City  after
being denied political asylum by the government.  Guatemalan media showed McAfee, 67, being carried on a
stretcher from an immigration center, where he had been detained
for illegally entering the country this week. A post on McAfee’s
blog urged supporters to e-mail Guatemala’s president, without
providing details. Raphael Martinez, a spokesman for Belize’s
National Security Ministry, said it’s unclear if McAfee will be
sent back to the neighboring country today.  “He’s still in the hands of the Guatemalans,” Martinez
said in a telephone interview. “All we know is that he was to
be expelled.”  His detention follows a month-long chase by authorities
which McAfee, founder of an anti-virus software company,
documented in updates to Wired magazine and on his own website
and Twitter account. He said he previously avoided capture by
burying himself in sand and altering his appearance.  Belize police searched his home on the island of Ambergris
Caye on Nov. 11 after the murder of neighbor Gregory Faull, a
52-year-old contractor and Florida native. Belize wants to
question McAfee over the murder and “as far as we’re concerned,
he’s not a criminal,” Martinez said.  Asylum Rejected  McAfee and his 20-year-old Belizean girlfriend fled Belize
to meet with a lawyer in the capital Guatemala City, where he
requested political asylum for fear of persecution by police.
President Perez Molina told reporters today that Guatemala
refused the request, the  Associated Press  reported. Efforts by
 Bloomberg News  to reach McAfee’s attorney today were
unsuccessful and Guatemalan police officials were not
immediately available.  In an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg
West” this week, McAfee said he was being sought in a political
vendetta after he didn’t donate enough money to the government.  McAfee relocated to Belize in 2008 after his $100 million
fortune was reduced to $4 million following a series of failed
investments in property, real estate and bonds at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., according to a 2009 article in the  New
York  Times.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  agreed to buy McAfee Inc. for $7.68 billion, at
the time its largest acquisition, in 2010.  Retirement  McAfee spokeswoman Tracy Ross said Nov. 12 the company
doesn’t comment on former employees, and the founder of the
anti-virus software maker “retired from McAfee in 1994, and has
not had any affiliation with the company since then.”  McAfee said in a letter published in Wired last month that
he was afraid to turn himself in to authorities in Belize. The
country is a “pirate haven” where “the list of people who
died while in the custody of Belizean police would fill a phone
book from an average American town,” he wrote.  McAfee was described by Martinez last month as “a person
of interest” in Faull’s killing. The two Americans had a
conflict that was believed to be linked to McAfee’s dogs,
Martinez said at the time. Faull was found dead Nov. 11 with a
bullet wound in the back of his head.  U.S. officials met with McAfee today and will ensure that
he receives any needed medical care, a State Department
spokeswoman, who asked not to be identified, said in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  