-- Investindustrial Said Close to Buying Aston Martin Stake
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-12-06T11:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/investindustrial-said-close-to-buying-aston-martin-stake.html
Private equity fund Investindustrial
is near an agreement to buy an Aston Martin stake to shore up
the finances of the British sports-car maker, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Investindustrial, based in  London , has trumped Indian
automaker  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  to invest in the Gaydon,
England-based automaker, said the people, who asked not to be
identified discussing private negotiations. A final agreement
has not yet been signed, the people said.  The exact size of the stake transaction, which values the
automaker at about 750 million pounds ($1.21 billion) including
debt, has not yet been determined, one of the people said.  The deal would give Aston Martin a much needed cash
infusion to invest in automotive resources to compete with
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari. Investment Dar
Co, led a group of investors that bought Aston Martin from  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  in 2007 for 503 million pounds.  “An industrial owner would have been preferable to a
financial owner,” said  Ashvin Chotai , the managing director of
Intelligence Automotive Asia in London. “Probably Mahindra
could have provided them with a long-term commitment. That said,
it was a trophy asset for Mahindra and would have required a lot
of investment with very few synergies.”  Aston Martin, Investindustrial, Mahindra and Investment Dar
representatives declined to comment on the talks. The Times of
 India  reported earlier today that Mahindra had pulled out of the
bidding, citing unidentified sources.  Ducati Sale  The deal would return Investindustrial to high-end
vehicle manufacturing after selling Italian motorcycle maker
Ducati to VW’s Audi this year for 860 million euros
($1.11 billion). While the original Mahindra bid was higher,
Investindustrial’s offer includes plans to use technology and
car parts from AMG, the Mercedes-Benz unit that makes sports
cars, two people familiar with the talks said last week.  Investment Dar hasn’t had funds to spare for Aston Martin.
The Kuwaiti company agreed in February last year to reorganize
1.37 billion dinars ($4.9 billion) of its own debt after missing
payment on an Islamic bond in May 2009. The restructuring is
being implemented under  Kuwait ’s Financial Stability Law,
enacted by the government in April 2009 to bolster financial
institutions hurt by the credit crisis.  BMW Investments  Aston Martin is the only global luxury-car brand that’s not
part of a larger auto group and its independence could be a
handicap with the auto industry under pressure to develop
technologies to improve fuel efficiency. Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG is investing more than 1 billion euros this year on
making engines more efficient and developing electric vehicles.
That sum exceeds Aston Martin’s 2011 revenue of 507 million
pounds.  The bulk of Aston Martin’s lineup consists of two-door
coupes like the DB9, Vanquish and Vantage. It also offers the
Cygnet city car, which is based on  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s iQ.
Aston Martin vehicles have been featured in 11 James Bond
movies, including the vintage silver DB5 in the latest one,
“Skyfall.”  The British carmaker’s adjusted earnings before interest
taxes, depreciation and amortization last year fell 18 percent
to 76.2 million pounds, with deliveries steady at about 4,200
vehicles. Aston Martin said Nov. 28 it was seeking funds to
pursue growth plans.  Moody’s Investors Services highlighted the British elite
brand’s deteriorating finances when it put the company on review
for a downgrade on Nov. 30. Aston Martin had negative free cash
flow of 27 million pounds in the third quarter, reducing its
liquidity to 24.8 million pounds as of Sept. 30, Moody’s said.  Sales Tumble  The carmaker’s sales tumbled 20 percent to 2,520 vehicles
in the first nine months of 2012. Declining deliveries and
weaker demand for cars with 12-cylinder engines led to an
operating loss of 3.6 million pounds, Moody’s said, citing data
released to bond investors on Nov. 28.  Moody’s rates Aston Martin’s debt with a non-investment
grade B3 rating, which is defined as having “high credit
risk.” The ratings company said an agreement on a new investor
would have a “material positive” effect on Aston Martin’s
finances.  Large carmakers can help niche manufacturers stay
competitive by spreading development costs across brands and
models. Fiat owns Maserati and Alfa Romeo  as well as Ferrari.
VW completed the purchase of the Porsche car brand this year,
adding the maker of the 911 alongside Audi, Bentley, Lamborghini
and Bugatti.  VW uses the same platform to underpin the Lamborghini
Gallardo and Audi’s R8, while the Bentley Continental Flying
Spur and GT models share components with the VW Phaeton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  