-- Invest AD Buys Saudi Stocks During Dip to Tap Consumer Boom
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2012-12-06T13:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/invest-ad-buys-saudi-stocks-during-dip-to-tap-consumer-growth.html
Invest AD, an Abu Dhabi-based asset
manager, increased stakes in Saudi Arabian stocks during recent
price swings on expectation consumer-related businesses are set
to benefit from a young and increasingly wealthy population.  “We used the volatility to buy,” Sachin Mohindra, who
manages Invest AD’s $27 million GCC Focus Fund, said in an
interview in Abu Dhabi yesterday, referring to recent price
swings caused by concern over the king’s health. “We look at
valuation closely. Unless there is a fundamental deterioration
in the company and the stock has come down, we would buy.”  Saudi Arabian equities make up about 63 percent of its GCC
Focus Fund, Mohindra said. About 70 percent of the country’s
population is under 30 and per capita income is rising amid
economic growth spurred by $500 billion of investment plans,
buoying demand for  consumer goods  from food to televisions.
United Electronics, an electronics retailer, and food company
Savola Group will benefit from increased consumption and are
among the fund’s top picks, he said. The GCC Focus Fund bought
more shares of United Electronics Co. recently, Mohindra said.  The largest Arab economy will likely grow 5.1 percent this
year, the second-fastest pace in the Gulf Cooperation Council
after Qatar, according to the median forecast of 15 economists
compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark Saudi Arabian stock index
fell 3.8 percent last month.  Iraqi Fund  Invest AD also manages an Iraqi equities fund and its
manager Sherif Salem said he expects interest in stocks in that
country to increase once international custodians are licensed.
Currently, custody of shares is managed by a division within the
stock exchange, he said.  “We’ve had a number of interested investors that would
invest in our fund right there and then but they’ve been held
back because of this custody issue,” Salem said in an interview
in  Abu Dhabi  yesterday.  The initial public offering of Asiacell, the Iraqi telecom
operator majority owned by Qatar Telecom QSC, will also attract
interest from foreign investors when it starts trading next
year, he said. Two thirds of Invest AD’s $18 million Iraq
Opportunity Fund is made up of banks, according to its October
fact sheet. At the end of October, the fund’s value had
decreased 7.4 percent year-to-date.  “The banking sector is the one that is operating closest
to normal,” Salem said. “They are able to lend, take deposits
but they are doing little finance. The potential is there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  