-- IRS Warns Congress About Failure to Address Alternate Tax
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-12-06T20:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/irs-warns-u-s-congress-against-failure-to-address-alternate-tax.html
Failure by Congress to act on the
alternative minimum tax by year’s end will lead to
“significant” delays in tax filing and a strain on taxpayers,
said  Steven Miller , the  Internal Revenue Service ’s acting
commissioner.  The alternative minimum tax, or AMT, is part of the so-
called fiscal negotiations in Congress. Leaving it untouched
would affect taxpayers early in 2013, because its reach would be
expanded for returns filed for tax year 2012.  Without action by Congress, the parallel tax system would
affect 32.4 million households for tax year 2012, up from 4
million in 2010, according to the Congressional Research
Service. It would increase tax collections by $92 billion,
shrinking or erasing many taxpayers’ expected refunds.  “Taxpayers and the IRS need to know what the tax
provisions are for 2012, so that you know what you owe and we
know how to process your return in January,” Miller said at a
tax conference today in  Washington , in his first major speech
since becoming acting commissioner last month.  Also, the IRS’s computer systems have been programmed
assuming that Congress will act this year to prevent the AMT’s
expansion, leading to a delay in the agency’s ability to accept
tax returns if lawmakers do nothing. He didn’t set a firm
deadline for action.  “There’s no magic time,” he said. “As soon as possible
would be great.”  High-Tax States  Because of the tax’s structure, which limits the benefit of
the state and local tax deduction, it tends to have a
disproportionate effect in high-tax states such as  California ,
 New York  and  New Jersey . The number of AMT payers in New York
would rise to 3.9 million from about 493,000, and in California
would reach 5.9 million, up from about 746,000, according to the
 Congressional Research Service .  Lawmakers in both parties want to prevent the AMT’s
expansion. The issue has been caught up in the disagreement on
other budget issues, such as whether to extend tax cuts for top
earners.  In a letter to congressional tax-writers last month, Miller
said that it was “entirely possible” that “more than 60
million taxpayers” would be unable to file their returns until
at least late March if Congress doesn’t act. That’s more than
two months after the scheduled start of the filing season and
just a few weeks before the mid-April deadline.  Congress must pass language blunting the AMT’s effect,
because taxpayers would be “really cranky” about delayed
filing and smaller or nonexistent refunds, said Kenneth Kies, a
tax lobbyist and former chief of staff of the Joint Committee on
Taxation.  “This is a doomsday scenario for the IRS,” Kies said
today on a webcast sponsored by KPMG LLP.  AMT’s Forerunner  Congress created the forerunner to the AMT in 1969 in
response to news that 155 high-income taxpayers owed no income
taxes.  Taxpayers must calculate their liability under the AMT and
the regular tax and pay whichever is greater. The AMT has an
exemption that isn’t indexed for inflation permanently, leading
Congress to enact so-called patches that prevent the full reach
of the tax from taking effect.  In addition to the AMT, other tax breaks for individuals
expired at the end of 2011 and haven’t been extended, including
deductions for teachers’ out-of-pocket expenses and state sales
taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  