-- Mississippi Water Level Buoys Odds of Keeping River Open
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-12-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/mississippi-water-level-buoys-odds-of-keeping-river-open-longer.html
Barge traffic on the drought-shrunken
 Mississippi River  may not be impeded until later this month
because the water level isn’t falling as fast as projected,
according to a U.S. estimate.  The  National Weather Service  now says that without
significant precipitation, the river at St. Louis may drop to
about nine feet by Dec. 26, according to Mark Fuchs, a
hydrologist with the agency. That’s the level at which officials
have said barge traffic could be restricted.  Shippers are concerned that depleted water levels,
exacerbated by the worst drought in more than 50 years, will
hamper barge traffic on a stretch of river near the towns of
Thebes and Grand Tower,  Illinois , south of St. Louis. That’s the
area where officials had originally projected barges carrying
oil, coal grain and other commodities could be restricted as
early as next week.  “For the next week or so, we are not planning any
restrictions,” said Lt. Colin Fogarty, incident management
chief for the U.S. Coast Guard in  St. Louis . “But we won’t
handcuff ourselves if we see a threat to safety.”  Low water levels already have forced barge companies to cut
their loads, which increases shipping costs. That’s because it
takes more barges and fuel to move the same amount of cargo.  “It is impacting the industry,” Fogarty said in a
telephone interview.  Ingram Barge Co., a Nashville-based shipper, plans to
reduce its loads so that boats can operate in as little as nine
feet of water, Keel Hunt, a company spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  Daily Judgment  “This is a day-by-day judgment,” Hunt said. “We’re all
hoping for heavy rain.”  Canal Barge Co., a New Orleans-based marine transport
company, began cutting its loads on boats Nov. 28, Ron Zornes,
the company’s corporate operations director, said in a phone
interview last week.  The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers had previously projected
low water levels would affect commercial traffic by Dec. 11 and
the river would reach a record low by Dec. 22. The  Mississippi 
River at St. Louis now won’t reach its historic low point within
the next four weeks, according to the latest National Weather
Service  forecast , issued yesterday.  The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers plans to begin blasting
rock structures that could obstruct barge traffic near Thebes by
Jan. 3. Lawmakers led by Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois
Democrat, also are pressing the Corps to quickly increase the
flow of water from the  Missouri  River, which joins the
Mississippi near St. Louis.  Missouri Water  Legislators have asked the Corps to provide by today an
impact study of releasing water from the Missouri. A group of
lawmakers from states along the river sent a letter to President
 Barack Obama  on Nov. 30 arguing that the Corps has no authority
to increase the water flow to help commerce along the
Mississippi.  The water level near Thebes would have to fall by about 18
inches before navigation begins to be affected at that point in
the river, according to the Corps.  There’s a possibility for showers in the St. Louis area
beginning tomorrow and continuing through the weekend, according
to the  National Weather Service .  Fogarty said that may not be enough to forestall commercial
traffic restrictions on the river.  “The rainfall is a palliative at best,” he said. “Unless
we see a real long, sustained rainfall, it’s not going to
radically impact the water levels.”  “Right now the Midwest is like a dry sponge,” Fogarty
said. “Any rain we get, the land wants it. Even if we do, the
effects should be minimal at best.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  