-- Liverpool, Tottenham Among Four Teams Advancing in Europa League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-12-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/liverpool-tottenham-among-four-teams-advancing-in-europa-league.html
Liverpool beat Udinese 1-0 and
Tottenham defeated Panathinaikos 3-1 to claim two of the final
five spots in the round of 32 of soccer’s Europa League.  Steaua Bucharest, Stuttgart and Basel also advanced last
night as group play concluded in Europe’s second-tier club
competition. The top two in each of the 12 groups qualified for
the knockout rounds, alongside the eight third-place finishers
from the elite  Champions League  group stage.  Jordan Henderson  scored in Liverpool’s win in Italy, which
combined with  Young Boys ’ 3-1 victory over Anzhi Makhachkala,
left the three teams tied in Group A with 10 points each.
Liverpool won the tiebreaker of the head-to-head results between
the trio to jump over already qualified Anzhi as group winner.  “It was always going to be a very tight group and you saw
how close it finished,” Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  said
on the club’s website. “I said to the players I thought we
could finish top of the group with a good result tonight. I’m
absolutely delighted for them because they have been superb
throughout the campaign.”  Two scores in the final 14 minutes gave Tottenham the win
over Panathinaikos and a second-place finish in Group J behind
Lazio, which routed Maribor 4-1.  Emmanuel Adebayor scored for Spurs in the 28th minute and
Zeca pulled Panathinaikos even early in the second half.
Tottenham went ahead in the 76th minute as  Clint Dempsey ’s
header hit the crossbar and was deflected in by goalkeeper
Orestis Karnezis for an own goal and  Jermain Defoe  clinched the
victory six minutes later.  Steaua, Stuttgart  Steaua Bucharest won Group E after drawing with Copenhagen
1-1, while Stuttgart lost 1-0 to Molde but still finished
runner-up on the tiebreaker over Copenhagen.  Basel’s 0-0 draw with qualified Genk gave it the point it
needed to advance from Group G over Videoton, whose match
against Sporting Lisbon was postponed by a wet field in Portugal.  Bordeaux topped Group D after a 2-0 win over second-place
Newcastle, while Viktoria Plzen won Group B after beating
defending champion  Atletico Madrid  1-0 in a matchup of qualified
teams.  The two qualified teams from Group C met with runner-up
Monchengladbach beating Fenerbahce 3-0. Dnipro claimed the top
spot from Group F with a 4-0 win over AIK, while Napoli, which
had already qualified, was a 3-1 home loser to PSV.  Rubin Kazan  tied 1-1 with Partizan Belgrade to secure first
in Group H over Inter Milan, which drew 2-2 with Neftchi. Lyon
beat Hapoel Kiryat Shmona 2-0 to finish top in Group I.  Metalist Kharkiv lost 1-0 at Rapid Vienna but still won
Group K on a tiebreaker over Bayer Leverkusen, a 1-0 winner over
Rosenborg. Hannover and Levante, the top two in Group L, played
to a 2-2 draw.  The draw for the round of 32 will be held Dec. 20, with the
two-game series played Feb. 14 and 21.  TEAMS QUALIFIED FOR THE EUROPA LEAGUE KNOCKOUT STAGE: *Ajax,
Anzhi Makhachkala, Atletico Madrid, *BATE Borisov, Basel, Bayer
Leverkusen, *Benfica, Bordeaux, Borussia Monchengladbach,
*Chelsea, *Cluj, Dnipro, * Dynamo Kiev , Fenerbahce, Genk,
Hannover, Inter Milan, Lazio, Levante, Liverpool, Lyon, Metalist
Kharkiv, Napoli, Newcastle, *Olympiacos, Rubin Kazan,  Sparta
Prague , Steaua Bucharest, Stuttgart, Tottenham, Viktoria Plzen,
*Zenit St. Petersburg.  *Qualified from Champions League group stage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 