-- Japan Opposition LDP’s Main Ally Cautions Abe on BOJ Pressure
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-12-06T05:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/japan-opposition-ldp-s-main-ally-cautions-abe-on-boj-pressure.html
Japan ’s Liberal  Democratic Party 
should tone down its pledges on inflation targeting and
increased defense spending, the party's key ally said ahead of 
Dec. 16 parliamentary elections the LDP is forecast to win.  Natsuo Yamaguchi, head of the New Komeito Party, said he is
against forcing the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to set an inflation target of
2 percent, something LDP leader Shinzo Abe has repeatedly called
for. Abe’s party has pledged to consider changing the law
governing the central back to achieve its objective, which
Komeito opposes.  “If we oblige the Bank of Japan by law to reach a two
percent inflation target, or to form an accord with the
government, we may undermine its independence,” Yamaguchi said
in an interview today. Coordination between the government and
the BOJ can be achieved without changing the law, he said,
adding that an inflation rate of 1-2 percent is desirable.  Polls show the LDP, the largest opposition party, is on
track to return to power it lost in 2009 with an absolute
majority in the Diet’s lower house. Abe, in line to become prime
minister, has called for “unlimited” monetary easing to end
more than a decade of falling prices.  The LDP’s platform also advocates increasing defense
spending and strengthening control over islands at the heart of
a territorial dispute with China that has damaged a $340 billion
trade relationship between  Asia ’s biggest economies. Yamaguchi,
whose party is backed by the pacifist Soka Gakkai Buddhist sect,
said raising military outlays is a mistake.  “We have so far kept defense spending at about 1 percent
of gross domestic product,” he said. “Changing this
drastically may cause unease and confusion both at home and
abroad, so it is not desirable.”  DPJ Dissatisfaction  Support for Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s Democratic
Party of Japan has plummeted over dissatisfaction with its
economic stewardship and the handling of last year’s record
earthquake that sparked the Fukushima nuclear crisis.  The LDP and New Komeito, which have been allied for more
than a decade, may win more than 300 of the 480 seats in this
month’s race, while the DPJ may win fewer than 100, the Yomiuri
newspaper predicted today. The paper polled 101,167 people on
Dec. 4-5 and gave no margin of error.  Before Noda dissolved parliament last month, the DPJ had
230 seats in the lower house, while the LDP had 118 seats and
New Komeito had 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  