-- Japan Stocks Rise on Optimism U.S Will Avoid Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2012-12-06T06:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/japan-stocks-rise-on-optimism-u-s-will-avoid-fiscal-cliff.html
Japanese  stocks  rose, with the Nikkei
225 Stock Average reaching a seven-month high, on optimism U.S.
lawmakers will reach a budget compromise to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff. Toyota Motor Corp. rose after U.S. services and
factory data beat estimates.  Toyota, which counts on North America for 25 percent of its
revenue, gained 1 percent.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s biggest
camera maker by sales, rose 2.6 percent on a Wall Street Journal
report the company plans to triple its  China  sales in five
years. Renesas Electronics Corp. climbed 0.7 percent amid
optimism lenders will relax terms on emergency loans to the
chipmaker.  The Nikkei 225 gained 0.8 percent to 9,545.16 as of the 3
p.m. close of trading in  Tokyo . The equity gauge capped the
biggest monthly gain since February last month on speculation
 Japan ’s opposition will win the Dec. 16 election and call for
more stimulus. The broader Topix Index climbed 0.9 percent to
788.74, with about four stocks rising for each that fell.  “Investors are optimistic that the U.S. is slowly
recovering,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , chief  fund manager  at Shinkin
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $6.3 billion. “The
U.S. should be able to reach some kind of agreement on the
fiscal cliff issue and we’ll see a soft landing, so it’s good to
buy stocks that get sold off on that theme, like exporters.”  The Topix traded at 0.9 times  book value  today, compared
with 2.1 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.5 for the
Europe Stoxx 600 Index. A number less than one means that
companies can be bought for less than the value of their assets.  Crossing the Aisle  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.1 percent
today. The gauge rose 0.2 percent yesterday as a few dozen
Republicans joined a bipartisan call to break the impasse
between President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner 
over taxes for the highest-earning Americans, signing a letter
calling for exploration of “all options.” Obama told a
business group that the budget debate could be solved in about a
week if Republicans move.  U.S. orders for equipment such as computers and electrical
gear climbed in October by the most in eight months, indicating
manufacturing is stabilizing heading into the looming fiscal
cliff, a series of spending cuts and tax increases that will
take effect unless a budget deal is reached.  Service industries 
unexpectedly grew at a faster pace in November.  Toyota, the world’s biggest automaker by market value,
gained 1 percent to 3,535 yen.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , a carmaker that
counts  North America  as its biggest source of revenue, increased
1.6 percent to 2,747 yen.  Canon Climbs  Electrical appliance makers contributed the most to the
Topix’s advance. Canon climbed 2 percent to 3,000 yen. The
company plans to increase annual sales in China to $10 billion
over five years from a current $3 billion, the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing managing director Hideki Ozawa.  Renesas advanced 0.7 percent to 291 yen. Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. will decide
as early as this week to extend repayment periods and cut
interest rates, three bank officials with knowledge of the
matter said. The supplier to Apple Inc. and Nintendo Co. is
cutting jobs and considering closing or selling factories as
demand for its microchips declines.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  is trading at its highest level since April
26, with its  relative strength index  at 70.52. Some investors
view a reading above 70 as a signal the gauge is overbought.  The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index lost 2 percent to
17.25 today, indicating traders expect a swing of about 4.9
percent on the benchmark gauge over the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  