-- Fuel Import Plan to Ease Airline Pain: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-12-07T11:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/jet-fuel-import-plan-set-to-ease-airline-pain-corporate-india.html
Indian airlines including  SpiceJet
Ltd. (SJET)  and IndiGo may be allowed to store imported jet fuel at
state-owned refiners’ facilities as the government works to ease
rules to help carriers pare their biggest cost.  The petroleum ministry agreed to allow airlines to use
refiners’ infrastructure at airports when they import the fuel,
Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said in a Dec. 4 interview. Oil
Minister Veerappa Moily said the next day that his ministry will
discuss the terms of access with the refiners. He didn’t give a
timeframe for concluding the talks.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government allowed airlines
to import fuel and sell stakes to overseas carriers as high
operating costs and a price war caused industrywide losses and
forced  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  to halt flights. Purchasing fuel
overseas will help operators save on local taxes that are as
high as 30 percent.  “It’s a very positive step,” said Sharan Lillaney, an
analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. who recommends buying SpiceJet
shares. “The industry is going through a structural change and
everybody is working to improve the state of airlines.”  Airlines have been holding back on plans to import jet
kerosene even nine months after a ban was lifted because of lack
of storage facilities. Prior to the rule change, only state
trading agencies were permitted to import the fuel. In
September, the government also allowed airlines to sell as much
as 49 percent to overseas operators.  Bangkok, Dubai  Carriers pay at least 60 percent more for fuel in the
country than in Bangkok, Dubai,  Kuala Lumpur  or  Singapore 
because of state taxes ranging from 4 percent to 30 percent,
according to a civil aviation ministry document in June.  Jet
Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s biggest listed carrier, and
discount airline SpiceJet both posted second-quarter losses as
fuel costs eroded gains from carrying more passengers.  SpiceJet  rose  0.6 percent to 49.30 rupees at close of
Mumbai trading, while Jet Airways fell 2 percent to 530.50
rupees. Kingfisher rose 0.3 percent. The BSE  India  Sensitive
Index declined 0.3 percent.  Sales tax charged by the state government, excise duty and
freight-related costs account for 32 percent of the retail price
of  aviation fuel  in Mumbai, according to the oil ministry.
Airlines need to pay a 5 percent customs duty when they  import 
the fuel, according to the aviation ministry. Fuel imported
directly by users is exempted from local  sales tax .  Aviation fuel price in India sometimes move contrary to the
international market rate, according to the aviation ministry.
Jet fuel prices in major airports also suggest that the rates
are almost uniform for all the three state-owned oil marketing
companies, the ministry said in its note on industry viability.  Indian Oil  On June 1, price of jet kerosene sold by Indian Oil Corp.,
the nation’s largest refiner, dropped 0.6 percent to 66,588
rupees per kiloliter in Mumbai from 66,990 rupees on March 16.
In comparison, the fuel slumped about 17 percent in Singapore
trading during the same period.  Indian Oil Chairman R.S. Butola declined to comment on the
plan to share airport infrastructure. Hindustan Petroleum Corp.
Chairman S. Roy Choudhury and Bharat Petroleum Corp. Chairman
R.K. Singh didn’t answer two calls each to their mobile phones.  The federal government allows state-run refiners including
Indian Oil to sell jet fuel to carriers at market-linked prices,
which are revised every 15 days. Jet fuel accounted for 3.4
percent of Indian refineries’ total fuel sales at home in the
seven months to October, according to oil ministry data. Diesel,
kerosene and cooking gas are sold at prices set by the Indian
government to curb inflation.  Import Permission  The Directorate General of  Foreign Trade  in April gave
 permission  to budget carrier IndiGo to import 715,000 kiloliters
of the fuel within 18 months. SpiceJet was allowed to import
50,000 kiloliters of the fuel.  Air India Ltd. won approvals to import 100,000 kiloliters
and Go Airlines Ltd. 200,000 kiloliters, Aviation Minister Singh
told parliament Aug. 17. Kingfisher won permission to import
500,000 kiloliters. The carrier’s didn’t immediately respond to
e-mails seeking comments on their fuel purchase.  Carriers may not benefit much by importing the fuel because
of the charges for storage and transportation, said Harsh
Vardhan, chairman of New Delhi-based Starair Consulting, which
advises airlines. “The costs involved in importing, storing and
moving the fuel defeat the purpose.”  Combined Debt  CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry consultant, predicted
in May that rising fuel and airport costs will increase the
combined debt of local carriers by 18 percent to $20 billion
within 12-18 months. Half of the debt are aircraft related and
the rest are working capital loans and dues to airport operators
and fuel companies, according to the aviation ministry.  The government is also working to introduce a uniform rate
of sales tax on jet fuel across Indian states, aviation minister
Singh said. Talks are under way with the  finance ministry  on
this proposal, he said without specifying a timeframe for a
decision.  “The government has kept trying to arrive at one solution
or another,” to help airlines, said New Delhi-based Kapil Kaul,
who heads the Indian unit of CAPA. “Facilitating imports will
eventually lead to a uniform tax on the fuel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  