-- JPMorgan Investment Bank Bonus Pool Said to Decline Up to 2%
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-12-07T21:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/jpmorgan-investment-bank-bonus-pool-said-to-drop-as-much-as-2-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s bonus pool for
the corporate and investment bank may shrink as much as 2
percent this year as the firm finishes performance reviews,
three executives with direct knowledge of the process said.  The amount in the pool won’t be set until after the company
closes out 2012, said the people, who requested anonymity
because the talks are private. Year-end bonuses at New York-
based JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, are determined
primarily by the performance of the company, followed by the
division and individual employees, the executives said.  Workers across  Wall Street  are facing pay cuts or losing
their jobs as revenue growth wanes and  shareholders  demand
higher returns.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank,
plans to shrink bonuses by as much as 10 percent, excluding top
performers, at the trading and investment-banking division,
people with direct knowledge of the decisions said last week.  “If the JPM bonus pool only shrinks 2 percent this year,
then I’d say that those guys, and women, are the luckiest folks
on earth,” said  Nancy Bush , an analyst and contributing editor
at SNL Financial LC, a bank-research firm in Charlottesville,
Virginia. “I expected much more shrinkage.”  JPMorgan gained 2.6 percent to close at $42.56 in New York,
 the most  on the  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  The shares have climbed 28
percent this year, outpacing by 3 percentage points the advance
of 24-company index.  London Whale  The lender, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56,
posted a record $19 billion in net income last year and may earn
$20.8 billion in 2012 even as a wrong-way bet on  credit
derivatives  cost the bank more than $6.2 billion in the first
nine months, according to the average of  estimates  by 12
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The losses were linked to a trader in JPMorgan’s chief
investment office, who was nicknamed the London Whale because
his wagers were big enough to move the market.  “I’m surprised it wasn’t lower considering the London
Whale fallout,”  Matt McCormick , who helps oversee $7.3 billion
as a  money manager  at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., said
of the projected decline in the bonus pool. “I’d have thought
that would have gone across all strategic business units.”  The trading loss won’t directly affect the corporate and
investment bank bonus pool because the position was isolated at
the CIO in London, two executives said.  ‘Feeling Fortunate’  Average 2012 compensation for JPMorgan’s 260,000 employees
will drop or stagnate as the company resists an industry trend
of mass firings, one executive said. Citigroup announced Dec. 5
that it’s cutting 11,000 positions as part of an industrywide
contraction. Financial companies have announced more than
300,000 job cuts worldwide during the past two years.  JPMorgan faces fewer competitors in certain businesses and
the bank’s $2.32 trillion balance sheet gives it more
flexibility in offering financing to clients, which can then
lead to more investment-banking business, said Chris Whalen,
senior managing director at Tangent Capital Partners LLC.  “Bankers who have jobs right now are feeling fortunate,”
Whalen said. “It’s a tough environment and people should be
happy that JPM is paying bonuses. It’s indicative of the fact
that they are one of the last men standing.”  JPMorgan doesn’t publicly disclose the size of the bonus
pool.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  