-- King Seen Maintaining QE as Osborne Extends Fiscal Squeeze
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-06T09:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/king-seen-keeping-qe-on-hold-as-osborne-extends-fiscal-squeeze.html
Bank of England  officials may today
leave their bond-buying program on hold as they assess the need
for more stimulus a day after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  committed the country to five more years of austerity.  Governor  Mervyn King  and the  Monetary Policy  Committee will
probably leave their quantitative-easing target at 375 billion
pounds ($604 billion), according to a  Bloomberg News survey  of
economists. Still, they have left the door open to more
purchases if needed, and Osborne said yesterday his “credible”
fiscal plan “allows for supportive monetary policy.”  The central bank is struggling to stoke a recovery amid a
squeeze on consumers and headwinds from  Europe ’s debt crisis.
 Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  was appointed last month to
lead that effort from July, and Osborne’s affirmation yesterday
of his fiscal strategy confirmed the BOE’s role as the key
source of stimulus for the economy.  “There’s no prospect of any unwinding of any quantitative
easing before Mervyn leaves, or a rate increase,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA and a former central
bank official. “In fact the risks lately have shifted a bit to
doing more QE because the data haven’t been so good.”  All 36 economists in the Bloomberg poll see no increase in
gilt purchases today, while the median forecast in a separate
survey is that the  benchmark interest rate  will remain at a
record-low 0.5 percent. The central bank will announce the
decisions at noon in London.  The pound rose 0.1 percent against the dollar today and was
trading at $1.6114 as of 9:58 a.m. in London. The yield on the
10-year gilt rose 2 basis points to 1.8 percent.  Carney’s Term  In his autumn statement to Parliament, Osborne cut his
forecasts for economic growth and pushed out the term of his
budget squeeze to 2018. Carney is due to serve as BOE governor
until June of that year. The  Office for Budget Responsibility 
sees the economy expanding 1.2 percent next year instead of the
2 percent predicted in March.  The  European Central Bank  will publish new projections
after its governing council meets in  Frankfurt  today. The ECB
will hold the  benchmark rate  at a record low of 0.75 percent,
according to 56 of 61 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Two days ago, the Bank of Canada held its  key rate  at 1
percent. Carney kept his bias to raise rates, saying economic
growth will accelerate next year and a “small degree of slack”
in the economy will gradually disappear.  King’s Assessment  The OBR’s forecast cuts follow King’s downbeat assessment
of the economy last month. The governor said the U.K. faces a
“zig-zag” recovery after its first double-dip recession since
the 1970s ended in the third quarter. Surveys this week showed
manufacturing shrank in November while growth in construction
and services weakened.  The MPC finished its latest 50 billion-pound round of QE
last month. Since then, King said the MPC hasn’t lost faith in
QE, “nor has it concluded that there will be no more
purchases.”  “With the OBR growth forecast, which is still probably at
the optimistic end of the spectrum, there’s no reason for
monetary policy to put its foot on the brakes,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at Scotiabank Europe Plc in London. “We
have years of loose monetary and tight fiscal policies ahead of
us.”  Fiscal Measures  Osborne announced a range of measures aimed at boosting the
economy yesterday, including a 1 percentage point cut in the
corporation-tax rate. To help pay for the move, a levy on banks
will increase in January.  Osborne said he’ll miss his target to start cutting debt as
a percentage of gross domestic product in 2015 by a year. His
plans drew attacks from the opposition  Labour Party , which says
he is damaging the economy by trying to cut the deficit too
quickly.  While Britain’s economy grew 1 percent in the quarter
through September, the London Olympics contributed to the surge.
The Bank of England said last week that the prospects for
financial stability have improved a little since June, though
threats from Europe remain “considerable.”  The continued risks to growth underpin policy makers’
refusal to tighten policy as  inflation , now at 2.7 percent,
remains above their 2 percent goal. Rising utility prices and an
increase in university tuition fees threaten to stoke further
gains in consumer prices.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean , who has
extended his term by a year to June 2014 to assist Carney
through his first months in London, said last week that U.K.
domestic inflation is “not too much of a concern” and
officials haven’t closed the door on further asset purchases.  “Monetary policy shouldn’t be worried about a temporary
rise in inflation in the next few months,” said Rob Wood, an
economist at Berenberg Bank in London and a former Bank of
England official. “They’re going to do at least another 50
billion pounds of QE next year, but it’s not clear if they’ll do
it before or after Carney gets there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  