-- KKR Sees Southeast Asia Investment Opportunity on Wealth Growth
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-12-06T00:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/kkr-sees-southeast-asia-investment-opportunity-on-wealth-growth.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , sees investment
opportunities in Southeast Asian companies that will benefit
from economic growth and increased consumer spending in 2013.  Consumer goods companies, retailers, education and health-
care industries are attractive as urbanization spurs more people
moving into cities, forming a large pool of middle class, said
Ming Lu, member of KKR and regional leader of Southeast Asia.
KKR is focused on bigger economies of Singapore,  Malaysia ,
 Indonesia ,  Thailand , the  Philippines  and  Vietnam , he said.  “We will see an increase in investment opportunities and
an increase in activities in the Southeast Asia region,” Lu
said in a telephone interview on Dec. 3. “As markets slowly
improve and stabilize, we will start to see more opportunities
that we can actually capitalize.”  KKR, which set up its first office in Asia in 2005 and
opened its seventh in the Asia-Pacific region in Singapore in
October, is raising a $6 billion Asian fund and has commitments
for about two-thirds of that amount. Private-equity deals in
 Southeast Asia  are expected to rebound over the next two years,
according to research by Bain & Co.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors with a
mandate to buy companies within about five to six years,
overhaul and then sell them, and return the funds with a profit
after about 10 years. The firms typically use debt to finance
the deals and amplify returns.  ‘Burgeoning Economy’  “The relative stability and continuous growth of Asian
economies and business in the region is an attractive
proposition for managers looking to take advantage of new and
growing business opportunities,” said Mitul Patel, manager of
Asia Research at Preqin Ltd. in Singapore. “Private equity
managers are realizing that making a mark in  Asia  before their
competitors do could reap much longer-term rewards.”  Lu said valuations look attractive for investments amid
global challenges including low growth in the U.S, Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis and limited growth prospects in China and
 India .  Worldwide, the value of private-equity deals announced in
the third quarter fell 29 percent to $95.1 billion from a year
earlier, with leveraged buyouts rising 62 percent to $39.3
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “While we don’t see that 2013 globally is going to be a
great year, we think this is a great time to invest,” Lu said.  Benign Valuation  “Slow growth will translate into a benign valuation
environment, which in our point of view, is a great time to
invest,” he said. “If you compare the valuations versus the
potential growth, we think that relationship today is better
than when the valuations were sky high and growth is robust like
2007 or 2010.”  Private-equity deals in the region this year are expected
to match 2011’s $5.3 billion or post a decline, before staging a
rebound over the next two years, said Sebastien Lamy, a partner
at Bain, citing the company’s research. The investments dropped
from a peak of $12.3 billion in 2007, according to data from the
corporate consulting firm.  Funds that have primary focus on Asia have risen to 270,
reflecting demand and have surpassed the 221 of them that are
focused on  Europe , according to data compiled by Preqin, a
London-based research firm.  “Regions such as Asean have become a hot topic across the
industry,” said Preqin’s Patel, referring to the grouping for
Southeast Asian nations. “The arrival of KKR and other managers
to these shores and the increased percentage of global funds
that larger mangers are allocating to Asia is indicative of this
trend.”  ‘Patient Capital’  Navis Capital Partners Ltd., which manages $3 billion of
private and public equities, said in October that private-equity
investors are set to increase bets in Southeast Asia.  In 2013, sluggishness in public markets and slowing global
growth may impact potential exits, Lu said, adding that KKR is
“very relaxed about this” because of its strategy to invest in
“strong market leading companies with strong business
fundamentals.”  “We are long-term patient capital,” Lu said. “We’re not
looking for next year; we’re looking at the next five years.”  KKR opened the  Singapore  office to expand investment
activities in Southeast Asia, in which the company has been
investing in for more than six years in deals exceeding $1
billion, Lu said. KKR now employs almost 100 executives in the
region.  KKR expects industries including natural resources to
provide opportunities because they make up large portions of
economies, Lu said. For manufacturers, those that are coming out
with globally competitive technology are attractive, he said.  “We believe that the region will resume robust growth in a
couple years and that’s when the valuations will recover and
growth will recover, so I am quite optimistic for 2013,” Lu
said. “This is when you really need to take the medium-to-long-
term view about the overall economy and about the company
performances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 