-- N.J. Beach Fees Face Ban as Sandy Aid Brings Call for Free Swims
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/n-j-beach-fees-face-ban-as-sandy-aid-brings-call-for-free-swims.html
Hurricane Sandy  destroyed Lucia Van
Cleef’s $5 million, 10-bedroom oceanfront weekend retreat. With
plans to rebuild, she wants New Jersey taxpayers to pay for
higher and stronger protective dunes.  Those taxpayers can’t get on that sand unless they pay $12
to the borough of Mantoloking for the privilege.  New Jersey, unlike California,  North Carolina  and other
states, doesn’t ensure citizens free access to its shoreline.
State Senators Michael Doherty and Stephen Sweeney want to force
towns to choose: They can have state or federal aid -- much of
which will go to protect exclusive real estate -- or they can
have beach fees.  “It only seems fair to ensure that everyone have the
opportunity to enjoy free access to the beaches they will
support and help rebuild with their tax dollars,” said Doherty,
a Republican from Washington Township in Warren County.  Sandy, the lawmakers say, gives  New Jersey  an opportunity
to resolve a decades-old complaint of tourists who find that 67
of the state’s 71 shore towns charge to swim. Inland residents
have long resented having to pay to maintain beaches, then
having to cough up for admission -- not to mention dealing with
scarce parking and bathrooms, Doherty said.  Taxed Twice  Doherty and Sweeney, a West Deptford Democrat who is Senate
president, introduced legislation this month to require beaches
replenished with state and federal money to provide free access,
as well as bathrooms.  “Where taxpayers are paying for beach restoration, they
shouldn’t be taxed a second time just to walk on the sand,”
Sweeney said.  The hurricane that struck Oct. 29 battered oceanfront
communities, splintering boardwalks and leveling homes along the
state’s 127-mile coastline. Governor  Chris Christie , a 50-year-
old Republican, has put Sandy’s cost to New Jersey at $36.9
billion, including $7.4 billion to prevent future damage.  Christie, who plans to seek re-election next year, has
vowed to rebuild “the Jersey shore of my youth” better than
before. States and localities expect the federal government to
reimburse at least 75 percent of their expenses.  Public Access  History’s biggest Atlantic storm has put the interests of
shore homeowners on a collision course with the rights of
visitors whose beach fees and tax dollars subsidize million-
dollar views.  The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection
requires public access to tidal waterways, though in practice
that’s not always the case. The nonprofit American Littoral
Society, a Sandy Hook-based coastal-conservation group, and
other advocates have documented -- and sometimes sued over --
rights-of-way blocked by illegal fences, marked by “private”
signs or otherwise inaccessible.  Because of Sandy’s destruction, state regulators and local
officials no longer can say shore towns are built up, with no
space for parking or new access points, according to Tim
Dillingham, 51, executive director of the Littoral Society.  “There’s a new landscape, literally,” Dillingham said by
phone Nov. 16. “We have the opportunity to do the right thing,
which is to increase the public’s access to beaches they’re
going to pay for.”  Beach Upkeep  Sweeney and Doherty expect their bill to come up for a vote
in January. It would apply to towns that accepted aid after
November, and would put New Jersey beaches on par with those in
 Virginia ,  Florida  and North Carolina that don’t charge. It also
would cut off localities from the revenue that, by New Jersey
law, they must plow back into beach upkeep.  Mantoloking, whose yacht club lays claim to 10 Olympic
athletes, has a year-round population of about 300, swelling to
5,000 in the summer. The median  household income , $151,700 from
2006 to 2010, was 117 percent greater than the state average.  For  visitors  to Mantoloking’s beach, there are no
restrooms, places to eat or change clothes, or shady areas. On-
street parking is limited. A beach badge costs $12 for the
season, and cheaper daily passes aren’t available.  Lucia Van Cleef and her husband, Scott, who owns a home-
building company in Hillsborough, bought their Mantoloking house
seven years ago and have taken steps to protect the dunes. She
said she’d like to see them rebuilt higher and with large
boulders at the base to keep them from washing away.  “After Sandy, I’m not sure where all this is going to come
from,” Van Cleef said. “Whatever it takes, whatever amount of
money, everyone’s going to have to do their part.”  Landmark Ride  In Belmar, Mayor Matt Doherty, who isn’t related to the
senator, has promised to rebuild 1.2 miles (1.9 kilometers) of
boardwalk, plus repair damage elsewhere, at no cost to locals.
Out-of-towners will make up what FEMA doesn’t cover with $8
daily beach fees, a dollar higher than last summer, he said.  In Seaside Heights, where a roller-coaster track partially
submerged in the Atlantic became emblematic of Sandy’s power,
Republican Mayor Bill Akers said his town’s $5 daily beach
charge, the lowest in Ocean County, pays for 50 lifeguards,
police patrols, sanitation and sand raking.  “I don’t think our tax base would be able to absorb those
fees,” Akers, 56, said in an interview Nov. 29, as he guided
state lawmakers on a tour of ruined boardwalk.  Wildwood Free  A colleague on the tour, Thomas Kelaher, the 80-year-old
Republican mayor of neighboring Toms River, said the crowds
wouldn’t tolerate beaches like those in  California , which
doesn’t charge.  “They’re loaded with timber; they’re loaded with kelp and
all that stuff,” Kelaher said. “It’s a disgrace.”  Only four of New Jersey’s 71 shore towns don’t charge beach
fees: Wildwood, North Wildwood, Wildwood Crest and  Atlantic
City , according to Wildwood Mayor Ernest Troiano Jr., 61, a
Republican.  In his city of 5,300 residents, property owners pay about
$1.5 million a year for beach upkeep.  “That’s something we take out of our pocket as a gift and
incentive for tourists to come,” Troiano said by phone Nov. 30.
Free beaches wouldn’t work everywhere, he said.  “I can understand,” he said of towns that rely on fees.
“They’re actually being proactive keeping that share off their
residents.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  