-- National Oilwell Deputizes ‘Jocks’ as CEO Reduces Role
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-12-06T14:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/national-oilwell-deputizes-jocks-as-ceo-reduces-role.html
National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , the
largest U.S. maker of oilfield equipment, is promoting two of
its top executives as part of Chief Executive Officer Pete
Miller’s plan to strengthen the company’s management bench ahead
of his eventual retirement.  Miller, 62, said he will remain chairman and CEO while
relinquishing the position of president, along with its day-to-
day operational duties, to Chief Financial Officer Clay Williams. Williams, 50, also will become chief operating
officer. Jeremy Thigpen, 38, will succeed Williams as CFO,
moving from his current role as head of the company’s downhole
pumping and solutions group.  National Oilwell Varco said the changes will take effect
immediately, according to a statement today. Miller, who also
serves on the board of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , didn’t say when
he planned to retire.  When he does leave, “My successor will come from inside
this company,” Miller said in an interview at his Houston
office earlier this week. “I’m setting this up to be a very
effective management team.”  Williams joined the company in National Oilwell Inc.’s 2005
takeover of Varco International Inc., where he was chief
financial officer. Thigpen joined the company after his
graduation from Houston’s Rice University in 1997.  Succession Line  “They may have set up a nice long line of succession
here,” James West, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. He rates the shares at
overweight, which means investors should buy the stock, and owns
none. “Clay is going to do an excellent job when he eventually
does succeed Pete as CEO.”  Miller’s retirement isn’t expected “anytime soon,”  James Crandell , an analyst at Dahlman Rose, wrote in an e-mail.  Miller joined National Oilwell in 1996, serving as
president of the company’s products and technology group before
becoming CEO in 2001.  During his 11 years as CEO, Miller expanded National
Oilwell’s international sales of offshore rigs and oilfield gear
through 28 acquisitions valued at almost $16 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company, which today is
benefiting from a boom in demand for ultra-deepwater drilling
rigs, is waiting to close the $2.54 billion purchase of  Robbins
& Myers Inc. (RBN) , a maker of blowout preventers for rigs.  Having Fun  “When you look at the history of CEOs, 11 years is a hell
of a long time,” Miller said. “I’m having fun. I enjoy what
I’m doing. I think I do it pretty well.”  An investment in National Oilwell would have almost
quadrupled from when Miller took over, compared with a 13
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a doubling
of the S&P Energy index.  “There’s very few companies that can match our
performance,” he said.  Miller has worked closely with both men in recent years and
all three have a history on the college gridiron. Miller, who
played defensive lineman for the U.S. Military Academy,
personally hired Thigpen, who played on the offensive line at
 Rice University  in Houston. Williams played football while he
attended  Princeton University  in  New Jersey .  “I like jocks,” Miller said. “They’re competitive. If
you’re good in business, you gotta be competitive.”  The executive promotions show “I’ve got a lot of
confidence in these two guys,” Miller said. “But I’ve got a
lot of confidence in other people within the company as well.”  The person chosen to ultimately succeed him as CEO will be
a board decision, “not a Pete Miller decision,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  