-- Netanyahu Says Settlements Will Be Part of Israel
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-12-11T17:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/netanyahu-says-settlements-to-be-israeli-in-merkel-clash-1-.html
(Corrects story from Dec. 6 to show that assertion on
impact of new settlement in fourth paragraph comes from United
Nations.)  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said expanded West Bank settlements near  Jerusalem 
will eventually become part of  Israel  as he clashed with German
Chancellor Angela Merkel over the prospective housing plan.  The West Bank land where Netanyahu gave preliminary
approval for building 3,000 new homes last week, sparking a wave
of international criticism, is a “small corridor” between
Jerusalem and a major settlement bloc, Netanyahu said today
after meeting with the German leader in Berlin.  “The curious thing is that most governments” that have
looked at the settlement activity, “including the Palestinians
themselves, as revealed in leaked documents, understand that
these blocs, these arrangements, are going to be part of Israel
in a final political settlement of peace,” Netanyahu said.  The Israeli leader signaled he wouldn’t back away from the
expansion plans, which the  United Nations  says threatens to
split a future  Palestine  and cut off Palestinians from their
desired capital of east Jerusalem. Merkel, who said that
Israel’s security is part of  Germany ’s “reason of state” seven
decades after the Holocaust, said the two disagreed over the
settlement issue.  Israeli Disappointment  Expansion approval, which could result in more Jewish
housing in an area known as E-1 between Jerusalem and the West
Bank settlement of Maaleh Adumim, was announced less than 24
hours after Palestine was recognized as a non-member state on
Nov. 29 by the  United Nations General Assembly . The U.S. and
Israel rejected the resolution, while Germany abstained.  Netanyahu reiterated his “disappointment” that Germany
declined to stand with Israel in the UN and said that the Jewish
state remains ready to negotiate directly with Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas .  “My hope is that, as the dust settles,  Abu Mazen ,
President Abbas, decides to abandon unilateralism,” Netanyahu
said alongside Merkel at a press conference.  The U.S. and  Europe  have pressed Israel for years not to
proceed with development in E-1, with the UN this week saying
the preliminary approval complicates a two-state solution. While
the British and French governments this week summoned Israeli
ambassadors in protest, Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said the move “shrinks the geographic space for a
Palestinian state.”  Memorial  Merkel declined to criticize the Israeli plan directly and
said Germany wouldn’t take diplomatic action in response.  “I’m not one who threatens,” Merkel said. The chancellor
also said Israel is a “sovereign country -- we can only give an
assessment as partners.”  A planning committee voted yesterday to approve advancement
of the construction plan in E-1, a decision that doesn’t yet
constitute a building permit.  Netanyahu later attended a  memorial  service at Berlin’s
Grunewald train station for Jews deported to Nazi death camps.  “The Germany of today is not the Germany of back then,”
he said, speaking in a tent during a snowstorm. “The Germany of
today is a friend of Israel. It is committed to the security of
Israel. We appreciate that.”  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle , who also spoke
at the ceremony, said 55,000 German Jews were deported to
concentration camps from the Grunewald station.  Netanyahu and Westerwelle laid a wreath on the railroad
tracks once used by trains departing for the death camps.
Netanyahu and his wife lit two candles on the railway platform.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  