-- New York Pension Funds May Finance Post-Sandy Housing, Liu Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-12-06T19:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/new-york-pension-funds-may-finance-post-sandy-housing-liu-says.html
New York Comptroller  John Liu  said he
wants to let the city’s public pension funds invest millions
of dollars to finance or own housing for people displaced by
 Hurricane Sandy .  Liu, a 45-year-old Democrat who may run for mayor next
year, said he intends to submit the proposal to board members of
the city’s five pension funds, which held assets valued at $128
billion on Sept. 30. If they accept the plan, the specifics
would be announced in the next few weeks, he said. The
comptroller serves as custodian and investment adviser to the
funds.  “Now that there is a huge need to rebuild tens of
thousands of homes in the city, the use of the city’s pension
funds as capital to accelerate these projects is going to be
vitally necessary, and it can be done in a way that we gain a
good return for our pensioners and taxpayers,” Liu said today
after meeting in  Manhattan  with the  Business and Labor Coalition
of New York , a civic group.  Sandy, the biggest Atlantic storm on record, came ashore
Oct. 29, pounding New York with winds of as much as 100 miles
(160 kilometers) an hour, killing more than 40 city residents
and flooding transit tunnels and underground utilities.  About 200 houses were destroyed or damaged beyond repair
and 500 have structural problems so severe that they are
temporarily uninhabitable, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said today in
a speech to the  League of Conservation Voters  in Manhattan. The
mayor, who is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, is barred from seeking a fourth term.  Owning Buildings  Aside from providing mortgage financing, Liu said
retirement systems may own buildings as real estate investments.
Pensions may also finance restoration of infrastructure and city
properties damaged by the storm, he said.  “The pension funds earn returns on the interest paid on
the financing, but there are also opportunities where we go
beyond debt financing and actually look at equity ownership,”
Liu said.  Liu’s proposal represents an expansion of a program the
comptroller’s office has managed since the 1980s: City pension
funds allocate 2 percent of their assets for so-called
economically targeted investments that provide capital for
projects in  New York ’s poor and working-class neighborhoods.  The funds provide retirement benefits for teachers, school
administrators, police, firefighters and civil servants. Through
the Public Private Apartment Rehabilitation Program, they have
financed $757 million in preservation or new construction of
29,694 affordable apartments, according to the comptroller’s
 office . Almost $2 billion has been invested since the target-
investment program began.  Targeted Investment  “Building efforts in the aftermath of Sandy will require
much larger amounts of capital financing, and it’s money that
can be part of the city pension funds’ economically targeted
investments,” Liu said.  Funds representing civil-service workers, police, and
teachers this year financed a $13 million, 30-year mortgage that
enabled construction of Brooklyn apartments for the disabled<
according to the comptroller’s office.  Another project, financed by the civil-service and police
retirement plans, provided $19 million for a 30-year mortgage on
a 1,231-unit affordable-housing apartment building in the Bronx,
Liu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net  or Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
   mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  