-- New York Man Arrested by FBI for Alleged Export Violation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-06T23:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/new-york-man-arrested-on-charges-of-exporting-restricted-goods.html
A  New York  man was arrested and
charged with exporting goods restricted by the U.S. government
the day after prosecutors announced charges against three other
people for illegally sending carbon fiber to  Iran  and  China .  Mark Henry, 49, was arrested today without incident at his
home in Queens, New York, by agents of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  and the U.S. Commerce Department, according to
 Peter Donald , an FBI spokesman.  He is accused of shipping to Taiwan materials that can be
used as protective coating for rocket nozzles without required
U.S. State Department permission. He also allegedly tried to
send microwave amplifier equipment to China that could have
military applications while lacking a Commerce Department
license.  Henry’s initial court appearance is scheduled for today,
according to the office of New York U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.
He is also to be arraigned tomorrow before U.S. District Judge
Jesse M. Furman. Henry faces as long as 20 years in prison if
he’s found guilty of violating either the Arms Export Control
Act or the International Emergency Economic Powers Act,
according to the prosecutor’s office.  The U.S. yesterday announced charges against three men for
illegally exporting carbon fiber, which can be used for  uranium
enrichment . A fourth man was accused of trying to send
helicopter parts to Iran.  Customs Declaration  Among those whose charges were announced yesterday is Peter
Gromacki, 48, of Orange County, New York. Arrested yesterday and
accused of using his business to ship more than 6,000 pounds of
carbon fiber to China via  Belgium  in June 2007 and of lying on a
customs declaration, he faces federal charges of violating the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act, conspiring to
breach that law and making false statements.  “The law prohibits the exportation of goods to Iran and
certain goods to China,” George Venizelos, assistant director
of the FBI, said in a statement yesterday. “Whether motivated
by greed or otherwise, these defendants allegedly violated the
law.”  Gromacki, a U.S. citizen, pleaded not guilty and was
released on bond yesterday, according to Bharara’s office.  Hamid Reza Hashemi, 52, a dual U.S.-Iranian citizen, is
accused of working with co-defendant Murat Taskiran of  Turkey ,
to have carbon fiber sent to his company in Tehran in 2008.
Hashemi faces two counts of violating the IEEPA and one count of
conspiracy.  Airport Arrest  Hashemi, who was arrested Dec. 1 at  John F. Kennedy
International Airport , pleaded not guilty Dec. 4 and is being
held without bail. Taskiran isn’t in custody, Bharara’s office
said.  Iranian Amir Abbas Tamimi, 40, was accused of trying to
export helicopter parts from the U.S. to Iran through South
Korea last year. He was arrested at JFK Airport as he tried to
enter the country in October and arraigned at that time in
 Manhattan . He pleaded not guilty and is being held without bail,
according to the U.S. Attorney’s Office.  The cases include U.S. v. Henry, 12cr902, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). U.S. v.
Gromacki, 12-cr-302, and U.S. v. Hashemi, 12-cr-804, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( White Plains ) and
U.S. v. Tamimi, 12-cr-615, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  