-- New Oriental’s Hsieh Says SEC Push May Lead to Losing Situation
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-12-06T07:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/new-oriental-s-hsieh-says-sec-push-may-lead-to-losing-situation.html
A U.S. regulatory move to sanction
auditors for blocking investigations of China-based companies
may lead to a “lose-lose” situation for the U.S.-listed
companies and investors,  New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU)  said.  On Dec. 3, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission took
enforcement action against China-based affiliates of the Big
Four accounting firms, escalating a three-year impasse between
the two nations over whether auditors can share work documents.
Failure to reach an agreement may prompt regulators to seek to
delist Chinese companies.  “It would be disastrous for  capital markets , would be
disastrous for Chinese-based companies and disastrous for U.S.
investors,” Louis Hsieh, president of New Oriental Education &
Technology, said on Bloomberg TV today.  New Oriental fell 9.2
percent, declining for the second day, to $16.41 in the U.S.
trading yesterday.  Auditors that don’t comply with SEC demands face temporary
or permanent deregistration in the U.S., according to the rule
under which the proceedings are being brought. Chinese law bans
the removal offshore of audit papers, while foreign regulators
aren’t allowed to work inside the country’s borders.  Failure to reach an agreement on cross-border access to
records may prompt U.S. regulators to seek to deregister the
firms, said Paul Gillis, professor at Peking University’s
Guanghua School of Management.  Delisting Unlikely  The barring of auditors’ businesses in China and widespread
delisting of Chinese U.S.-listed companies is unlikely,
Citigroup Inc. analysts led by Ravi Sarathy and Deutsche Bank AG
analysts including  Jun Ma  wrote in separate reports dated
yesterday.  New Oriental, which is audited by  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu ,
isn’t one of the companies being investigated by the SEC that
led to the sanctions against the auditing firms, Hsieh said.  Of about 400 Chinese companies that trade in the U.S., at
least 115 have been audited by the domestic subsidiaries of the
Big Four accounting firms, according to data on stocks with
market values of at least $5 million compiled by Bloomberg. More
than half are audited by units of Deloitte, Ernst & Young, KPMG
or PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Muddy Waters  Hsieh today also denied allegations by short-seller Muddy
Waters LLC about the company’s franchising operations.  Carson Block , founder and research director of  Muddy
Waters , said in July that New Oriental inflated its cash
balances to gain approval from its auditor, spurring the stock’s
slide to a five-year low.  “His main contention is that New Oriental’s revenues and
profits are inflated, because he claims we franchise our brand
name, which we don’t,” Hsieh said. “We franchise a sub-brand
called POP Kids.”  Block had no basis for the allegations and in November
Block said he had lost interest in shorting Chinese companies,
Hsieh said.  “We fully cooperated with the SEC -- we gave them all the
documents they requested and they are not asking us for
anything,” he said. Any deregistration or delisting would take
months, he said. “We are fully compliant right now with the
SEC.”  If forced to delist because of an inability to be audited,
Hsieh said the company would probably re-list in  Asia ,
preferably in  Hong Kong , Shanghai or  Singapore . Hsieh favors
 Hong Kong (388)  because it’s the biggest of those exchanges, with the
most liquidity, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  