-- NHL Players Want Federal Mediators to Intercede in Labor Talks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/nhl-players-ask-federal-mediators-to-return-to-contract-talks.html
The  National Hockey League ’s players’
union, whose latest proposal to end a labor dispute was rejected
yesterday, said it has asked U.S. federal mediators to rejoin
collective-bargaining discussions.  The request, confirmed by union spokesman Jonathan Weatherdon, came amid negotiations between the two sides in a
 New York  hotel to try to end a lockout that began Sept. 16 and
so far has canceled more than a third of the season. NHL
spokesman John Dellapina didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Officials with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
Service stepped away from the talks after two days last week,
saying they had determined that the sides remained too far apart
for productive discussions.  Talks ended last night after a one-hour meeting in which
the union made an offer that was spurned by the league. No
negotiations are scheduled, according to the league website.  “I am disappointed beyond belief that we are where we are
tonight,” NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said during a press
conference last night. “We’re going to have to take a deep
breath and regroup.”  A group of 18 players and six team owners met during the
first two days with league and union officials in an effort to
end the 83-day stalemate.  Talking Points  The two sides are arguing over how to split revenue and
other issues, including salary arbitration and the length of
unrestricted free agency. League revenue grew to $3.3 billion
last season, up 50 percent from $2.2 billion in 2003-04. Under
the previous agreement, players received 57 percent, or $1.9
billion, of league revenue. The remaining $1.4 billion, or 43
percent, was shared among the league’s 30 team owners. The
league offered a 50-50 split in its latest contract proposal.  The dispute has forced the cancellation of more than a
third of the NHL’s regular season so far, including the outdoor
Winter Classic, plus the All-Star Game.  The owners attending the meeting, according to NHL.com, are
Jeremy Jacobs of the  Boston Bruins , Murray Edwards of the
Calgary Flames, Mark Chipman of the Winnipeg Jets, Larry Tanenbaum of the  Toronto Maple Leafs ,  Ron Burkle  of the
 Pittsburgh Penguins  and Jeff Vinik of the  Tampa Bay Lightning .  The NHLPA said in a release on its website that the players
included Penguins captain  Sidney Crosby  and Buffalo Sabres
goaltender Ryan Miller.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  