-- NHL Broadcasts, Data Collection, Market Abuse: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-12-06T12:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/nhl-broadcasts-data-collection-market-abuse-compliance.html
A group of baseball and hockey fans
can go forward with claims that the National Hockey League and
Major League Baseball violate U.S. antitrust law in their
control over television and Internet broadcast rights.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in New York yesterday
denied the leagues’ request to dismiss the suits, filed by
subscribers to broadcasts of hockey and baseball games. The
group sued the leagues; individual clubs; regional TV sports
networks;  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable broadcaster; and
 DirecTV LLC (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite television provider.  The plaintiffs, seeking to represent other MLB and NHL
viewers in a class-action suit, claim the practice of dividing
live game broadcasts into exclusive territories, protected by
local blackouts, is anti-competitive. They also targeted the
sale of “out-of-market” packages only through the leagues.  “Plaintiffs have adequately alleged harm to competition
with respect to the horizontal agreements among individual
hockey and baseball clubs, as part of the NHL and MLB, to divide
the television market,” Scheindlin said yesterday in a written
opinion.  The cases are Laumann v. National Hockey League, 1:12-
cv-01817, and Garber v. Office of the Commissioner of Baseball,
12-cv-3704, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  Compliance Action  FTC Settlement Stops Consumer Data Collection by Advertiser  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission ordered online
advertising company Epic Marketplace Inc. to stop using
“history sniffing” technology that allowed it to collect data
on the Internet browsing habits of millions of consumers.  In a settlement announced yesterday, the agency also
ordered Epic Marketplace to destroy all the information it
gathered unlawfully from consumers.  Epic Marketplace put so-called cookies on the Internet
browsers of consumers who visited its sites that allowed the
company to track them outside its own network, including which
sites they visited and which advertisements they viewed, the FTC
said. In its privacy policy, Epic Marketplace claimed it would
only collect information about consumers’ visits to sites within
its own network, the FTC added.  “Consumers searching the Internet shouldn’t have to worry
about whether someone is going to go sniffing through the
sensitive, personal details of their browsing history without
their knowledge,” said FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz in a
statement. “This type of unscrupulous behavior undermines
consumers’ confidence, and we won’t tolerate it.”  Ocwen Needs Monitor Under Mortgage Deal, New York Says  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) , which won a $3 billion auction for
Residential Capital LLC’s mortgage servicing business, must hire
a monitor to review operations, New York’s banking regulator
said.  The monitor is required to ensure the company complies with
an agreement to reform servicing practices, the state’s
Department of Financial Services said in a statement yesterday.
A review by the department found “indications” Ocwen violated
the agreement reached with the regulator.  “To protect homeowners facing the risk of losing their
homes, we must ensure that the companies are actually living up
to their promises,”  Benjamin Lawsky , superintendent of the
department, said in the statement.  Ocwen reached an agreement with the state last year to make
changes to its servicing operations, according to the
department. In October, Ocwen and Walter Investment Management
Corp. won the bidding for ResCap’s loan servicing and
origination assets.  Katarina Wenk-Bodenmiller, a spokeswoman for Ocwen, had no
immediate comment on the state’s announcement.  Big Lots CEO to Retire Amid Report of SEC Stock Sale Probe  Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Steven Fishman will retire, amid a report that the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating a $10
million sale of stock by the executive.  Fishman, 61, will step down, effective when a successor is
named, as he seeks to prioritize time with his family, the
Columbus, Ohio-based discount retailer said yesterday. The Wall
Street Journal  reported  Dec. 4 that the SEC started the inquiry
in March and that the probe is at an early stage, citing a
person familiar with the inquiry.  Fishman, who took over in July 2005, sold the stock on
March 20 at a price of about $45, the Journal said. On April 23,
the company told investors its sales had slowed, and the
following day the stock fell 24 percent to $34.71. Fishman’s
trades were properly made at a time when they were allowed, Big
Lots hasn’t been contacted by the SEC and Fishman’s stepping
down is coincidental to any regulatory interest, the Journal
said, citing the company.  The company understands and complies with the rules on
stock trading by individuals, Charles Haubiel, executive vice
president and chief administrative officer, said on a  conference
call  with analysts Dec. 4, in response to a request for comment
on the Journal’s report.  Big Lots hasn’t received anything from the SEC on Fishman’s
stock sales, Andrew Regrut, a company spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. He declined to answer other questions and
directed inquiries to Haubiel, who didn’t return a call.  MF Global Customers Must Wait for More Money, Trustee Says  The trustee liquidating the failed  MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ)  brokerage
said only 200 of more than 28,000 commodities and securities
customer claims filed haven’t been completed in the past six
months.  “However, the size and timing of future distributions on
customer claims remains dependent on the resolution of the major
contingencies facing the trustee,” particularly disputes over
claims with the brokerage’s U.K. affiliate and parent company,
trustee James W. Giddens said Dec. 4 in a report filed in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Giddens has paid U.S. and foreign customers almost $4.9
billion since the firm failed about 13 months ago, and has $1.2
billion in hand, out of $1.4 billion in remaining assets,
according to data through Oct. 31 included in the report. Most
of the money in hand must be kept in reserves because of the
fights with affiliates and customers, Giddens said.  Commodity customers shouldn’t expect to get paid in full,
unless Giddens wins the key legal battles, he said. A U.K. trial
over his $911 million in client claims against the London-based
unit is set for April.  Giddens, who also is liquidating the Lehman Brothers Inc.
brokerage, lost a bid to claim $463 million in collateral from
MF Global’s U.K. unit. The lawyer expects to sue insurers to try
to recover $141 million in wheat futures losses by a trader in
2008, unless they agree to pay, he said.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Wells Fargo Banker Sued by SEC in Probe of Insider-Trading Ring  A  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  investment banker was at the heart of a
10-person insider-trading ring that reaped $11 million in
profits from tips on pending mergers, U.S. regulators said.  John W. Femenia gave friends confidential information about
four deals involving clients of the bank from March 2010 to July
2012, the Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday in a
complaint filed in federal court in  Charlotte , North Carolina.
The SEC sued nine others for participating in the ring.  “Here you have an investment banker who clearly knew
better that inside information can’t form the basis of trading
decisions,” William P. Hicks, associate director for
enforcement in the SEC’s Atlanta office, said in a statement.
“Instead he basically started a phone tree of nonpublic
information.”  Femenia, an associate in Wells Fargo’s investment-banking
business, was “immediately” placed on leave when the company
learned of the allegations,  Elise Wilkinson , a bank spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “Wells Fargo has detailed policies and training programs
on the handling of confidential information, and we have a zero-
tolerance policy for the misuse of such information,” she said.
“We learned about the underlying allegations yesterday and are
assisting and fully cooperating with the SEC and other agencies
in these proceedings.”  Femenia didn’t return calls to his office and mobile phones
seeking comment on the complaint.  For more, click here.  SAC’s Steinberg Said to Be Unindicted Co-Conspirator at Trial  SAC Capital Advisors LP fund manager Michael Steinberg was
described by a federal prosecutor as an unindicted co-
conspirator in the insider-trading scheme that involved his
former analyst.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps in Manhattan made the
allegation yesterday at a hearing outside the jury’s presence at
the trial of Todd Newman, a former portfolio manager at
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Diamondback Capital Management LLC,
and Anthony Chiasson, co-founder of Level Global Investors LP.
The U.S. says Newman and Chiasson made trades based on illegal
tips obtained from company insiders and provided by analysts who
worked for them.  Apps told U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan the
government was seeking to show jurors e-mails involving
Steinberg when Newman’s lawyer objected, arguing that
prosecutors failed to prove that Steinberg was a member of the
conspiracy or show any evidence proving that Steinberg knew that
information he had received about  Dell Inc. (DELL)  wasn’t public.  “I am not aware of any evidence suggesting that Mr.
Steinberg joined in his conspiracy regarding Dell or any other
stocks and I don’t think there is sufficient evidence,” said
Steve Fishbein, the defense attorney.  Sullivan told lawyers that he will hold a hearing today to
decide whether to allow prosecutors to show jurors e-mails
involving Steinberg and whether to make a legal determination
that Level Global co-founder David Ganek is also an unindicted
co-conspirator in the case.  Chiasson and Newman have pleaded not guilty to the charges
of securities fraud and conspiracy.  Barry Berke, a lawyer for Steinberg, didn’t immediately
respond to voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking comment on the
government’s allegation. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for
SAC, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message left at his
office seeking comment on the prosecutor’s claim.  Apps told Sullivan that the government views Ganek as an
unindicted co-conspirator during a Dec. 3 hearing outside the
jury’s presence, saying prosecutors seek to show jurors e-mails
involving Ganek.  Steinberg and Ganek haven’t been charged with a crime by
the government.  Ganek’s lawyer, John Carroll, said in a statement that
there’s no evidence that Ganek knew about any inside
information.  A lawyer for Chiasson said in a memo to Sullivan there’s no
evidence backing prosecutors’ claim that Ganek is a co-
conspirator.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Whistle-Blowers Claim Crisis Coverup, FT Reports  Three former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  employees told U.S.
regulators that the German lender covered up paper losses during
the financial crisis, the Financial Times reported. The company
disputed the allegation.  The employees -- a trader and two risk managers -- told the
Securities and Exchange Commission that the Frankfurt-based bank
inflated the value of credit derivatives to avoid recognizing as
much as $12 billion in losses, the newspaper reported, citing
people it didn’t identify. The portfolio had a notional value of
$130 billion, the FT said.  “The valuations and financial reporting were proper, and a
significant portion of these positions were subsequently unwound
in an orderly sale,”  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Deutsche
Bank in New York, said in a statement. She said the bank will
continue to cooperate with the SEC’s investigation and that it
looked into the matter itself and found the claims to be false.  Matthew Simpson, the trader, settled a whistle-blower
lawsuit against the bank last year for $900,000, Reuters
reported in June 2011. Eric Ben-Artzi, one of the risk managers,
claims he was fired after alerting the SEC to the pricing issue,
according to the FT, which didn’t identify the third person.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Compliance Policy  EU Nations Agree on Draft Market-Abuse Law With Libor Curbs  European Union nations agreed to bolster the bloc’s rules
against market abuse, including sanctions for rigging interbank
rates such as Libor, in a move that paves the way for a final
accord on the legislation.  Nations must now reach a compromise deal on the measures
with the European Parliament before the rules can take effect,
according to a statement from the EU’s Council of Ministers in
Brussels.  Nations also rubber stamped a November deal on tougher
regulation of credit rating companies.  In the Courts  Barclays Employees Get More Time on Libor Suit Anonymity Request  Barclays Plc (BARC)  staff won more time from a judge to seek
anonymity in the U.K.’s first lawsuit related to manipulation of
the London interbank offered rate.  Barclays is being sued by affiliates of Guardian Care Homes
Ltd. over a loss-making interest rate swap tied to the
benchmark, and was ordered to hand over a list of 208 people
named in the bank’s disclosure to regulators over Libor-rigging
allegations.  Judge Julian Flaux extended the Nov 28. deadline on
applications for confidentiality until Dec. 12, following a
letter from lawyers at Morrison & Foerster LLP representing some
of the workers, according to a Nov. 27 court order made
available yesterday.  Kevin Roberts, a lawyer at Morrison & Foerster, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  Citigroup Sues Developer Casden Over Corporate Jet Loan  Citigroup Inc. (C)  sued Alan Casden, a Beverly Hills,
California, real-estate developer, for $43.4 million, claiming
his company defaulted on the financing of a Gulfstream 550
corporate jet.  A unit of Casden Co. took out a $37.5 million loan in 2005
to finance the aircraft, engines and related equipment,
Citigroup said in a complaint filed yesterday in Manhattan
federal court. The loan was later increased to $45.9 million and
was guaranteed by Casden personally and by Casden Co., according
to the New York-based bank.  Citigroup said it declared the loan in default and demanded
full payment in a letter Dec. 3.  The developer’s Casden Properties LLC has built more than
$10 billion in residential real-estate projects over 45 years,
according to its  website .  A phone message seeking comment from Casden Co. on the
lawsuit wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Citicorp USA v. Casden, 12-CV-8820, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Deals  UPS Said to Propose Concessions in 13 Countries to Save TNT Deal  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  proposed concessions in 13 of
the European Union’s 27 countries as it tries to push through
its 5.16 billion-euro ($6.75 billion) bid for  TNT Express NV (TNTE) ,
two people familiar with the matter said.  UPS is primarily offering to sell TNT businesses in smaller
European markets, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  UPS, based in Atlanta, submitted an offer to regulators
last week that included the sale of some business units and
granting access to its air network. UPS has twice pushed back
the target date to complete the biggest acquisition in its 105-
year history, which will double its size in Europe, as the
merger review continues. European regulators’ official deadline
for a ruling is now Feb. 5.  UPS’s rivals and customers are being asked to comment on
the company’s proposal and their feedback will be used by the EU
to determine whether the offer is sufficient to resolve
competition problems. Regulators sent formal objections to UPS
in October, saying the acquisition would remove one of its few
serious rivals in the European delivery-services market,
according to a person familiar with the regulators’ complaint.  “We have carried out a market test of the remedies
proposal,” EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia told
reporters in Brussels yesterday. He said he’d come back to the
two companies “informing them of some of our concerns given the
results.” The market test process hasn’t yet been completed,
Almunia’s spokesman Antoine Colombani said in an e-mail.  Peggy Gardner, a spokeswoman for UPS, yesterday declined to
give details of any proposals.  Interviews and Speeches  Murky Laws Complicate Insider Cases, Rajaratnam Prosecutor Says  Insider-trading laws are “a little bit murky” and
confusing to investment professionals, the lead prosecutor on
the Raj Rajaratnam case said during a panel discussion in New
York.  “There’s incredible confusion on what is or is not
illegal, and it’s a real problem,” Jonathan Streeter, a former
Manhattan assistant U.S. attorney now with Dechert LLP, said
yesterday at the Bloomberg Hedge Funds Summit. “The law is very
complicated and the lines are a little bit murky.”  New York defense lawyers Gerald Shargel and  Ira Sorkin 
joined Streeter on the panel to discuss the government’s
insider-trading investigations, which have centered largely on
hedge funds since Galleon Group LLC co-founder Rajaratnam was
arrested in 2009.  To see the video of the panel, click here.  Comings and Goings  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday
announced two departures. Mark Cahn, the agency’s general
counsel, and Robert Cook, the director of the SEC’s Division of
Trading and Markets, are both leaving the agency.  Cahn, who was a partner at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale &
Dorr LLP before joining the SEC, will leave by the end of the
year and return to the private sector. Cook, who was previously
a partner at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP will stay
through a transitional period, according to the statement from
the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  