-- Nigeria Seeks $1.5 Billion From China for Rice, Cassava
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-12-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/nigeria-seeks-1-5-billion-from-china-for-rice-cassava.html
Nigeria is holding talks with  the
Export-Import Bank of China  for a $1.5 billion loan to boost
processing of rice and cassava in Africa’s most populous
country, Agriculture Minister Akinwunmi Adesina said.  The loan is being sought on “concessionary terms at a 2
percent interest rate with a repayment period of 20 years,”
Adesina said in an interview yesterday in Abuja, the capital.
“We want to reduce our import dependency.”  Part of the loan will fund the procurement of 100 large-
scale rice mills, with a combined capacity to process 2.1
million metric tons of rice a year, from Chinese companies,
Adesina said. The rest will be devoted to expanding capacity for
processing cassava into flour to substitute wheat flour and
reduce imports, he said.  Nigeria, which has more than 160 million people, spends $10
billion annually importing rice, wheat, sugar and fish,
according to the Agriculture Ministry. While the country grew
enough food to feed itself in the 1960s, it is now the world’s
largest importer of rice and sub-Saharan  Africa ’s biggest
importer of wheat and sugar.  The government will provide “single-digit interest rates
for all agriculture loans” from next year, Adesina said. At
least 10 million mobile phones will be distributed to farmers in
2013 to provide weather and market information as well as
extension services on the use of inputs including seeds and
fertilizer, he said. Nigeria’s annual inflation rate rose to
11.7 percent in October.  Investment Commitments  Africa’s top oil producer is also expecting an additional
$500 million in funding from the World Bank, at least $250
million from the African Development Bank and an $80 million
loan from the International Fund for Agricultural Development to
fund agriculture next year, according to the minister.  The government’s strategy is to help small-scale farmers,
who produce most of the country’s food, with access to credit
and improved farming methods while encouraging private
investments in large-scale farming. At least $8 billion worth of
investment commitments in agriculture were secured by President
Goodluck Jonathan’s administration this year, Adesina said.  Food production rose by about 8.1 million tons, or 41
percent of its 20 million-ton four-year target, this year,
creating a buffer food stock against floods, he said.  In September, Nigeria experienced its worst flooding in
decades leaving farms, food stores, highways and oilfields
inundated. At least 363 people died and 2.2 million were
displaced, according to figures from the National Emergency
Management Agency.  The government started a dry-season rice farming program
last month, helping farmers cultivate 330,000 hectares (815,000
acres) of land with an estimated output of 1.8 million tons
expected, Adesina said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  