-- NJ Transit Had $400 Million in Hurricane Sandy Damage
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-12-06T19:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/nj-transit-had-400-million-in-hurricane-sandy-damage.html
New Jersey Transit, the second-
largest U.S. public transportation system, sustained $400
million in damage from  Hurricane Sandy  and needs twice that
amount to prevent damage from future storms, its  executive
director  told a U.S. Senate panel today.  The losses included $100 million in train cars, locomotives
and equipment, James Weinstein said in written testimony to the
Commerce Committee’s surface transportation subcommittee. It was
the most detailed estimate provided of the system’s costs from
the storm.  “The storm did unprecedented damage to our transportation
system,” Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat, said
at the hearing.  Sandy, an Atlantic Ocean superstorm, hit the New Jersey and
 New York  shorelines on Oct. 29, causing more than 100 deaths and
leaving a path of destruction. The storm’s wind and high waters
crippled transportation networks, downing overhead  power lines 
and flooding train tunnels.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  was in  Washington  today
to press for federal aid to help the state recover from the
storm, and met with President  Barack Obama  and White House
officials. The Republican governor’s trip comes three days after
New York’s Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo  traveled to
Washington to ask for $42 billion in aid.  Federal Aid  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
yesterday that Obama may submit a request as soon as today
seeking about $60 billion for recovery.  Jay Carney , the White
House press secretary, said today Obama may send Congress a
request by week’s end for aid to states most affected by Sandy.  “The administration is committed to helping the region
recover,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood told
reporters today.  Amtrak , which experienced flooding in four of the six
tunnels it uses to pass through  New York City , is asking
Congress for $336 million to improve infrastructure and cover
operating losses, it said in a release today.  Some of the most lasting damage occurred on  New Jersey
Transit ’s system. Surging waters damaged 62 of the authority’s
203 locomotives, including one-third of the engines that can run
on either diesel or electric power, according to initial
estimates, Weinstein said last month in an interview.  It also left 261 of 1,162 rail cars in need of repair,
according to John Durso, a NJ Transit spokesman. Many of the
cars and locomotives were left at low-lying rail facilities in
Kearny and Hoboken, New Jersey.  State lawmakers have raised concerns about why the transit
agency left the equipment in the rail yards.  ‘Vulnerable Location’  “Those trains should not have been left in such a
vulnerable location,” New Jersey state Assemblyman John Wisniewski, who heads the body’s transportation committee, said
Nov. 20.  The transit authority’s preparations for the storm were
based on weather reports and had to be put in place hours before
it hit, Weinstein said at the hearing.  The authority needs $800 million to protect the system
against future storms, Weinstein said.  New York and New Jersey lawmakers, along with executives of
transportation systems, used the platform to urge Congress to
invest in transportation networks in the Northeast U.S.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said at the
hearing that Congress should give money to an unfunded program
to provide emergency relief for transit systems.  “It’s the life blood of New York,” Schumer said of the
region’s transit network. “It’s our circulatory system. We
depend on it.”  Improvements Worked  Amtrak was able to rapidly pump out water in its tunnels
because of improvements made since 2001, Joseph Boardman, the
U.S. intercity passenger railroad’s chief executive officer,
said in written testimony.  Pipes installed in tunnels to help fight fires were used to
suck water out after the flood, Boardman said.  “If there’s a single idea I would ask the committee to
take away from this hearing, it’s this: investment works,” he
said. “Investment buys more than just capacity. It buys
resilience.”  Of the $336 million the passenger rail service is asking
for, $276 million would be used for improving protection for New
York’s  Penn Station  and its tunnels, according to a release.  Tunnel Proposal  Lautenberg, Boardman and Joseph Lhota, chairman of New
York’s  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , urged approval of
an Amtrak proposal to build two additional rail tunnels under
the Hudson River. The tunnels would relieve subway and passenger
rail congestion and make area rail systems better able to
withstand another hurricane, they said.  “This tunnel is absolutely needed,” Lhota told reporters
after the hearing.  Christie in 2010 canceled a $8.7 billion New Jersey Transit
project to add a Manhattan rail tunnel, saying the state
couldn’t afford it.  Sandy’s waters reached 13 feet (4 meters) above  sea level ,
which was two feet above the predictions for flooding in the
worst storm in 100 years, according to testimony by Patrick Foye, executive director of the  Port Authority  of New York and
 New Jersey . The agency oversees airports, the largest port on
the East Coast, bridges and tunnels.  The storm’s impact on ports caused a 19 percent decrease in
maritime freight shipments in October compared with the same
month in 2011, according to the committee.  Replacement Equipment  In New York, eight MTA subway tunnels were flooded when
Sandy’s surge coincided with high tide. The largest U.S. public-
transit service suffered $5 billion in damage and lost revenue,
it has estimated.  “While we have restored service, we are nowhere close to
normal operations and won’t be for quite some time,” Lhota said
in written  testimony .  The system was forced to use more than 80 percent of its
inventory of replacement equipment and two subway lines remain
out of service, Lhota said. Almost 500,000 commuters still have
no service or reduced service, he said.  Lhota also urged lawmakers to invest in improvements to
reduce the risks of flooding and other damage.  The New York region accounts for 11 percent of gross
domestic product and the area’s economy can’t function without
the transit system, he said.  “This is a national issue; a national need,” Lhota said.
“And we’re going to need the federal government’s help to
rebuild.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  