-- Noonan ‘Confident’ on Anglo Deal as Draghi Signals Goodwill
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-12-06T15:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/noonan-pretty-confident-of-avoiding-anglo-irish-payment-1-.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
said he’s “pretty confident” of reaching an agreement to allow
the state to avoid a 3.1 billion-euro ($4.1 billion) payment due
to former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. next year.  “It’s not done yet,” he told Dublin-based broadcaster RTE
today. “I don’t want to pre-announce or anything like that.”  Noonan is in talks with the  European Central Bank  about
replacing 30 billion euros of so-called promissory notes used to
rescue the bank in 2010. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said today
in reply to a question on a possible accord, that while the
central bank can’t do anything that would be viewed as monetary
financing, “other than that there is plenty of goodwill.”  Noonan said in October that there is “plenty of room for
negotiation” for refinancing the promissory notes without
getting into monetary financing. The Irish government has said
it doesn’t want to make the next Anglo Irish payment due in
March, making that the deadline for an accord with the ECB on
refinancing the lender’s bailout.  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said today that the
country’s European partners have pledged to cut the cost of the
nation’s bank bailouts through renegotiations. Ireland has
injected or pledged about 64 billion euros to rescue its
financial industry including Anglo Irish.  ‘Sound Conditions’  Ireland yesterday unveiled its budget plans for next year,
with planned savings of 3.5 billion euros through higher taxes
and spending cuts. Draghi at his regular monthly press
conference in  Frankfurt  welcomed the measures.  “The new budget is a reaffirmation of the successful
commitment of the Irish government in restoring sound economic
conditions, both fiscal but also more broadly structural
conditions,” he said.  Noonan said yesterday that the promissory notes are not a
budgetary matter and he wouldn’t have made an announcement on
Anglo Irish yesterday even if a deal had been reached.  Irish authorities favor using  government bonds  to
restructure the rescue of Anglo Irish, renamed Irish Bank
Resolution Corp., to ease pressure on the state over the next
decade, two people with knowledge of the matter said in
September. Under the plan, the state would inject as much as 40
billion euros of notes of as long as 40 years in maturity into
banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  