-- Norwest Equity Seeks Agriculture Asset After Sale to BASF
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-12-06T12:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/norwest-equity-seeks-agriculture-asset-after-sale-to-basf.html
Norwest Equity Partners, the 51-year-
old buyout firm based in  Minneapolis , said it’s seeking more
assets in biological crop care after selling Becker Underwood to
 BASF SE (BAS)  for $1 billion a week ago.  Even with heightened demand among agrochemical companies
for biological products to boost yields and protect crops,
private-equity firms can find targets that haven’t yet attracted
attention, Tim DeVries, a partner at Norwest Equity, said
yesterday in a phone interview.  The sale to Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF, completed
Nov. 28, coincided with a spate of deals in the pesticide and
fertilizer industry, with traditional producers such as  Bayer AG (BAYN) 
and  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  buying companies offering technology based on
bacteria, enzymes and biotechnology. Norwest Equity plans more
acquisitions as the market for using bacteria rather than
chemicals to help crops’ growth is on the “cusp of a
revolution,” DeVries said.  “This is an area whose time has come,” said DeVries, who
started out in agricultural investments by buying farm-equipment
makers in the 1980s. “The use of this family of biological
products is going to be more and more mainstream. The guys that
jump early on this stuff are really going to prosper, even at
what appears to be a frothy price.”  The private-equity industry is finding new potential in
agriculture after the commodity nature of the industry and
volatile pricing deterred investors, DeVries said.  Developing Technology  Norwest acquired Ames, Iowa-based Becker in 2004. The
buyout firm increased research and development to focus the
company on its coating technology to enhance the shelf-life of
rhizobium bacteria to allow farmers to combine the nitrogen-
fixing yield-improvement agent with seeds rather than spreading
it on the soil.  Industry transactions this year have included Bayer’s $425
million acquisition of Davis, California-based AgraQuest in July
and Syngenta’s purchase in August of a $286 million stake in
Agrinos, a Norwegian biological crop-additives company that
plans an initial public offering next year. Basel, Switzerland-
based Syngenta is also about to complete a $523 million takeover
offer for biotech seedmaker Devgen.  Norwest also owns Poet, an ethanol manufacturer that’s
building a second-generation cellulosic plant with  Royal DSM NV. (DSM) 
Other assets include plant-nutrient developer Actagro as well as
a stake in chemical distributor Univar, owned by Clayton
Dubilier & Rice LLC.  “We have a number of Beckers in our portfolio” in a range
of industries, DeVries said. “We’ll find something else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  