-- Norway Pays Brazil for Deforestation Cut Amid Verification Row
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-12-06T15:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/norway-pays-brazil-for-deforestation-cut-amid-verification-row.html
Norway will contribute $180 million
to  Brazil ’s  Amazon Fund  after the South American country reduced
deforestation for a third year in a row, even as the countries
disagree over who should measure carbon savings from forests.  Brazil reduced the rate at which forests are being lost by
27 percent from 2011 to 2012, according to a statement from
Norway’s  Environment Ministry . The rate of deforestation has
fallen nearly 70 percent from historic levels, Norway said.
Payments from the Scandinavian country now total $670 million,
out of a total $1 billion pledged through 2015.  “The importance of what Brazil has achieved on
deforestation over the last few years can hardly be
overestimated,” Bard Vegar Solhjell, Norway’s environment
minister, said in the statement.  Under the  United Nations ’ Reduced Emissions from
Deforestation and Forest Degradation program, developing nations
protect and manage their forest cover in exchange for funding to
support their efforts from developed states. A disagreement
between Brazil and Norway over who should be responsible for
verifying the amount of carbon dioxide absorbed by trees is
delaying efforts to produce a set of rules for protecting
forests.  Greenhouse-gas discharges caused by deforestation represent
about 20 percent of the world’s total emissions, according to
the UN. Nations have been discussing since 2008 how to
incorporate  REDD  into global action on  climate change .  National Measures  Brazil’s envoy to the UN global warming talks in Doha said
actions to prevent deforestation are national measures that may
be verified under existing rules, known as International
Consultation and Analysis, while Norway is seeking more high-
level monitoring procedures.  The disagreement threatens efforts to create rules for REDD
programs. The forest talks under way at the UN conference are
scheduled to finish tomorrow.  “No developing country will have international
verification of its actions, especially if they are national
policies,” Luiz Alberto Figueiredo, Brazil’s under-secretary
for environment, said in Doha. “We’ll have a system to check
the accuracy of our data, done domestically.”  The disagreement is overshadowing work on identifying
additional benefits from REDD activities and ensuring they are
reflected in negotiating text, according to Stephen Leonard, the
president of the Climate Justice Program who has followed the UN
talks since 2009.  Norway  “wants a higher degree of verification than Brazil
is prepared to give,” Leonard said in an interview yesterday.
“This causes huge delay while we’re losing forests at an
alarming rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in Doha at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  