-- NYC May Build Levees as Mayor Reviews Sandy Preparation
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-12-06T17:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/nyc-may-build-levees-as-may-reviews-sandy-preparation.html
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said
the most populous U.S. city will review how to better prepare
for and recover from storms like  Hurricane Sandy , as he shunned
calls to invest in costly sea walls.  The administration will look at what the city must do to
withstand even worse weather than Sandy, and may need to shift
evacuation zones, update building codes and add levees and
jetties to deflect storm surges. A review of the storm
preparation and response will be made public by February,
Bloomberg, a 70-year-old independent, said today in  Manhattan .  “We may or may not see another storm like Sandy in our
lifetimes, but I don’t think it’s fair to say that we should
leave it to our children to prepare for the possibility,”
Bloomberg said in a speech sponsored by New York’s League of
Conservation Voters and the Regional Plan Association, which
prepares long-range development strategies for the region.  New York’s ability to protect and revive itself after
extreme weather took on urgency after Sandy hit Oct. 29. The
record-breaking storm was the worst in the city’s history and
shut down parts of all five boroughs, grounded mass transit,
blacked out entire neighborhoods and killed 43.  King Canute  With 520 miles (837 kilometers) of shoreline, New York City
can’t abandon the waterfront altogether, though it must build
better and stronger in preparation for storms to increase in
intensity as ocean temperatures continue to rise, the mayor
said. New York can’t solve all the country’s problems caused by
climate change, “but I think it’s fair to say we can lead the
way,” he said.  An expedited engineering analysis will look at coastline
protections other than sea walls, including berms, dunes,
jetties and levees, he said. A study on the topic by the Army
Corps of Engineers will take years and the city can’t wait that
long, he said.  “We live next to the ocean, and the ocean comes with risks
that we just cannot eliminate,” he said. “It would be nice if
we could stop the tides from coming in, but King Canute couldn’t
do it -- and neither can we,” a reference to the 11th century
leader of  England  who once commanded, unsuccessfully, the waves
to turn back.  New Yardstick  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , among the utilities the state is
investigating for management of blackouts during the storm, has
committed to an initial investment of $250 million to harden its
electric, gas and steam systems, the mayor said. And the Federal
Emergency Management Agency is updating its maps -- last done in
1983 -- to better reflect flood zones after two-thirds of homes
damaged by Sandy were outside the agency’s 100-year flood maps.  “The yardstick has changed, and so must we,” said
Bloomberg, the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  The mayor’s plan builds on years in office spent preparing
for climate change while reducing New York’s carbon footprint.
He has spearheaded a $2.4 billion green initiative to capture
rainwater and protect neighborhoods and sewage systems. He also
has called on building owners to paint roofs white to cut energy
costs and is restoring 127 acres of wetlands, one of the best
natural storm barriers. In 2007, the mayor set a goal of
reducing carbon gas emissions 30 percent by 2030.  Deputy Mayors Cas Holloway, Linda Gibbs and Bob Steel, and
Economic Development Corp. President Seth Pinsky will lead the
efforts. They will be joined by Marc Ricks, an infrastructure
specialist and former administration member, who will take a
leave of absence from his post at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Former Vice President Al Gore, a critic of U.S.
environmental policy, lauded the mayor in his introduction and
called on the federal government to follow New York’s lead.
Sandy was related to the planet’s warming and U.S. democracy has
been “hacked” by people unwilling to admit that, he said.  “Dirty energy causes dirty weather, and we have to come to
our senses and do something about it,” Gore said. “We cannot
have four more years of mentioning this occasionally and say
it’s too bad that the Congress can’t act.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  