-- Obama Has Edge in Poll Over Republicans on ‘Good Faith’ Efforts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-06T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/obama-has-edge-in-poll-over-republicans-on-good-faith-efforts.html
U.S. voters trust President  Barack Obama  and his Democratic allies more than congressional
Republicans to make “good faith” efforts to deal with pressing
issues, including the deficit-reduction talks, according to a
poll released today.  The poll also shows that, by a more than 2-1 margin, voters
support Obama’s proposal to let tax cuts expire as scheduled for
high earners. That’s a key sticking point in the current
negotiations over cutting the deficit while averting more than
$600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts set to start in
January -- the so-called fiscal cliff.  In the survey by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac
University , Obama’s approval mark surpasses 50 percent for the
first time in more than 18 months, as 53 percent give him a
favorable rating compared with 40 percent who disapprove of his
job performance. Obama was in negative territory in July, with
45 percent approving his job as president and 49 percent
disapproving.  “Nothing like winning an election to boost your job
approval,” said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the
Quinnipiac polling institute.  The latest figures are Obama’s best showing in the poll
since 52 percent approved of his job performance while 40
percent disapproved in May 2011, shortly after the death of
 Osama bin Laden  in a raid the president authorized.  ‘Optimistic’ Voters  Asked to gauge Obama’s second term, which begins in
January, 58 percent of voters said they are “optimistic” about
the next four years while 38 percent are “pessimistic.”  By 56 percent to 38 percent, respondents said they believe
Obama and congressional Democrats will make good faith efforts
“to cooperate with the Republicans on issues” of importance.
In contrast, 51 percent said Republicans won’t make such an
effort and 43 percent said they will.  On avoiding the fiscal cliff, 53 percent said they have
more trust in how Obama and congressional Democrats will handle
the issue, compared with 36 percent who give the advantage to
 congressional Republicans .  “Voters see Republicans as more likely to be
obstructionist and have less confidence in their ability to come
up with the right solution to the nation’s financial woes,”
Brown said.  The Quinnipiac poll was the second released this week
giving the Democrats the upper hand in the fight over taxes and
spending. A  Pew Research Center/Washington Post survey  taken
Nov. 29-Dec. 2 found 53 percent of respondents planning to blame
congressional Republicans if a solution isn’t reached, compared
with 27 percent who would blame Obama.  Accord Prospects  On prospects for an accord, 48 percent in the Quinnipiac
survey said they anticipate an agreement will be reached while
43 percent said they don’t.  Obama, backed by congressional Democrats, is pushing in the
deficit-reduction talks to let tax rates paid by families with
incomes exceeding $250,000 annually rise as scheduled in 2013.
Supporting this position are 65 percent of voters in the latest
poll, while 31 percent oppose it.  Two percent of taxpayers and 3 percent of small businesses
would pay more if the tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush  expire for those earning more than $250,000 a year,
according to the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a
Washington-based research group.  Congressional Republicans oppose the higher tax rates,
proposing instead to increase government revenue through
limiting deductions.  The poll also shows 51 percent oppose raising the
eligibility age for Medicare to 67 from 65 as part of a deficit-
reduction deal and 44 percent favor such a move.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 