-- Loblaw Soars on REIT IPO Plan, George Weston Rises Too
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-12-06T21:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/loblaw-to-create-reit-with-c-7-billion-in-assets.html
Loblaw Cos. (L)  posted its biggest gain
in 25 years after Canada’s largest grocery chain said it will
create a real estate investment trust and sell units in an
initial public offering.  Loblaw rose 14 percent to C$38.20 at market close in
Toronto, its biggest intraday jump since October 1987, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rise gave  George Weston Ltd. (WN) 
a paper gain of about C$771.4 million ($778.3 million) from its
holdings of about 60 percent. George Weston, 63-percent owned by
W. G. Galen Weston, surged 6.8 percent to C$67.71.  Loblaw plans to contribute about 35 million square feet of
real estate with a current value of more than C$7 billion, and
intends to retain a “significant” majority interest, according
to a statement today.  The REIT will be one of  Canada ’s largest, Brampton,
Ontario-based Loblaw said. The IPO is expected to be completed
next year pending regulatory approvals and authorization to list
the units on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the company said.  “We expect the REIT to not only unlock value for our
shareholders, but also increase our financial capacity to pay
down debt, buy back shares, and create a long-term source of
capital to invest and grow,” Galen Weston, Loblaw executive
chairman, said in the statement.  The contributed real estate portfolio will be largely
retail focused and comprise a geographically diverse mix of
stores and shopping centers, and will also include warehouses
and office buildings, the statement said.  “It’s positive no matter how you look at it,” Brian Yarbrough, a consumer analyst at  Edward Jones , said in a phone
interview from St.Louis. “The real estate is going to unlock
value. Loblaw will have significant revenue generated from their
interest in the REIT -- though near-term it doesn’t change a
lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Callan in  New York  at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  