-- Lockheed Said Close to Pentagon Backing for 29 F-35 Jets
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-06T21:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/lockheed-said-close-to-pentagon-backing-for-29-f-35-jets.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  is close to
winning Pentagon backing to build all 29 F-35 fighters planned
for the coming fiscal year after three years of cutbacks in
orders for the nation’s costliest weapon, U.S. officials said.  The Pentagon wants to provide stability after postponing
orders for 425 planes since February 2010, according to the
officials, who asked not to be identified discussing budget
deliberations. While the Defense Department’s budget proposal
for the year that begins next October isn’t final and some
reduction in F-35 funding is still possible, no plan for major
cuts is under consideration, the officials said.  Inclusion of funding for all 29 planned F-35s in the budget
proposal President  Barack Obama  is due to submit in February
would be the latest show of Pentagon support for the fighter
after past criticism. The Defense Department said last week it
had reached an “agreement in principle” with the company on a
contract valued at as much as $4 billion for the fifth
production batch of 32 F-35s. Funding for those planes will come
out of money already appropriated.  Previous postponements of planes were based on development
setbacks and rising costs for the F-35, now estimated to cost
$395.7 billion for 2,443 planes, a 70 percent increase since
2001.  The plane, known as the Joint Strike Fighter, is “a very
big growth priority” for Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed
Martin, the world’s biggest defense contractor, according to
Marillyn Hewson, who will become chief executive officer in
January.  Lockheed Sales  “It represents a significant part of our revenue today,
and it will continue to grow going forward,” Hewson, who is
currently president and chief operating officer, said Nov. 29 at
an investors’ conference in  New York . The F-35 accounted for
about 14 percent of Lockheed Martin’s net sales for the nine
months ending Sept. 30, according to a company regulatory
filing.  Lockheed Martin fell 5 cents to $91.48 at the close in New
York trading after rising 13 percent this year.  The Pentagon’s plan for the fiscal 2014 budget doesn’t
include the potential effects of sequestration, automatic
defense cuts of $500 billion over a decade. Those reductions
will start taking effect in January unless Obama and Congress
reach a deal to avert the combination of spending cuts and tax
increases known as the fiscal cliff.  “We’d have to cut” F-35 procurement by 9.4 percent, the
same level of cuts as for research and development, Pentagon
Comptroller Robert Hale said at the analyst conference. The
effects on the F-35 program would be “minimal,”  Bruce Tanner ,
Lockheed Martin’s chief financial officer, said at the
conference hosted by Credit Suisse Group AG.  Past Delays  The Pentagon’s budget plan for the current year, fiscal
2013, delayed the purchase of 179 aircraft, the third
consecutive year the Pentagon has reduced its annual request for
the fighter from earlier plans.  The number of planes postponed was 124 in February 2011 and
122 in February 2010.  The Pentagon’s current budget plan calls for 29 aircraft in
fiscal 2014, rising to 44 in fiscal 2015 and 66 in fiscal 2016.  While Pentagon officials have cited recent signs of
progress for the F-35, Air Force Lieutenant General Christopher Bogdan, who at the time was deputy director of the fighter
program, said in September that his office’s relationship with
Lockheed had deteriorated to “the worst I’ve ever seen.”
Bogdan takes over this week as the F-35 program manager.  Short-Term Goals  “Lockheed has seemed to them to be focused on short-term
business goals, and we’d like to see them focused more on
execution of program and successful delivery of the product,”
Frank Kendall, undersecretary of defense for acquisition, told
reporters at the Pentagon on Nov. 13, explaining the background
to Bogdan’s comments.  Work on the F-35 “is progressing very well,” Hewson said
Nov. 12 on a conference call with analysts.  “We are going to meet our commitments this year on
delivering the aircraft that we’ve committed to,” she said.
“We’ll continue to be very much engaged.”  The F-35 will be “the cornerstone of air dominance” for
the U.S. for more than three decades, Deputy Defense Secretary
 Ashton Carter  said today at a retirement ceremony for Vice
Admiral David Venlet, who has overseen the fighter program since
February 2010.  At that time, the program was progressing technically “but
it had some serious problems with execution -- both process
discipline and cost discipline,” Carter said. “These issues
were leading to an erosion of support here at home,
internationally, in Congress and with the taxpayer.”  The F-35 program today “is operating on sound footing,
making real progress” and will succeed “with continued careful
program management,” Carter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  