-- Oil Falls to Three-Week Low as ECB Cuts European Growth
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-12-06T21:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/oil-falls-to-one-week-low-as-ecb-cuts-european-growth.html
Oil fell to the lowest level in three
weeks in New York after the  European Central Bank  cut its euro-
area growth forecasts and as U.S. lawmakers struggled to reach
agreement on a budget plan.  Futures dropped 1.8 percent as ECB President  Mario Draghi 
said the bank now projects the economy will contract 0.5 percent
this year, worse than the September forecast of a 0.4 drop. More
than $600 billion of new taxes and spending cuts, known as the
fiscal cliff, will come into force at the beginning of 2013
unless U.S. politicians agree on a  federal budget .  “The reduction of the ECB growth forecast and Draghi’s
statements that economic weakness may be extended are adding to
worries about the European situation,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “Concern about the fiscal cliff and what
next year portends for energy demand has been in the forefront
of investors’ minds the last week.”  Crude for January delivery fell $1.62 to $86.26 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Nov. 15. Futures have dropped 13 percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement declined $1.78, or 1.6
percent, to end the session at $107.03 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the lowest closing
price since Nov. 7.  The European benchmark crude grade closed at a $20.77-a-
barrel premium to West Texas Intermediate oil traded in New
York, the narrowest spread since Oct. 19. The gap has decreased
for six days, the longest stretch of declines since June.  ‘Weak Activity’  “Weak activity is expected to extend into next year,”
Draghi said today at a press conference in  Frankfurt  after
policy makers left the benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75
percent. “Later in 2013, economic activity should gradually
strengthen,” supported by the central bank’s accommodative
monetary policy, Draghi said.  The ECB cut its 2013 forecast to a contraction of 0.3
percent from 0.5 percent growth, and projects expansion of 1
percent in 2014, he said.  The euro slid as much as 0.9 percent against the dollar,
heading for the biggest decline since July 20, on the worsening
European economic outlook. A weaker common currency and stronger
greenback reduce the appeal of dollar-denominated raw materials
as an investment.  “The market remains stuck between $84 and $90 a barrel and
is searching for a signal of what direction it should move,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in Stamford, Connecticut. “The market is hemmed in by concerns
that there won’t be a budget agreement in Washington and ongoing
problems in Europe.”  Budget Talks  The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the  U.S. economy 
will contract by as much as 0.5 percent next year if Congress
fails to stop the tax-and-spending measures from taking effect.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner 
spoke by telephone yesterday,  Michael Steel , a spokesman for
Boehner, said without giving details. A White House aide also
confirmed the call, speaking on condition of anonymity.  The U.S. accounted for 21 percent of the world’s oil
consumption last year while the 27 members of the European Union
were responsible for 16 percent, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  Prices fell yesterday after an Energy Department report
showed that U.S. fuel supplies surged last week as demand
tumbled.  Gasoline stockpiles  rose 7.86 million barrels to 212.1
million, the highest level since April 13. Inventories of
 distillate fuel , a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, climbed 3.03 million barrels to 115.1 million.  Fuel Demand  Total  fuel demand  dropped 3.3 percent to 18.3 million
barrels a day in the week ended Nov. 30, the report showed.
 Gasoline consumption  declined 0.9 percent to 8.35 million
barrels a day.  “Supplies are more than ample and demand is weak,”
McGillian said.  Prices may rise tomorrow because of political tension in
the  Middle East , where one-third of the world’s oil is produced,
said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence
Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion.  Obama warned  Syria ’s Bashar al-Assad on Dec. 3 not to use
or distribute the country’s stock of chemical weapons, as U.S.
officials saw evidence that the Syrian regime may be preparing
to unleash such weapons to repel rebel fighters. Egypt’s
Republican Guard were deployed around President Mohamed Mursi’s
palace after his opponents and supporters engaged in clashes.  Mideast Unrest  “A trader would have to be pretty bold taking home a short
going into this weekend, given the situation in Syria,” O’Grady
said. “The U.S. has made it quite clear that the use of
chemical weapons would be crossing a line. It’s surprising that
the situation in both Syria and Egypt hasn’t moved the needle at
all so far this week.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 459,573
contracts as of 4:14 p.m. Volume totaled 450,961 contracts
yesterday, 14 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.56 million, the highest level since Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  