-- Oil Trades Near One-Week Low as Gasoline Stockpiles Surge
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-06T13:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-as-u-s-gasoline-stockpiles-surge.html
Oil traded near its lowest price in a
week in New York as inventories of fuels such as heating oil
rose by the most since July and U.S. lawmakers struggled to
reach agreement on a budget plan.  West  Texas  Intermediate declined as much as 0.5 percent.
U.S. distillate stockpiles climbed 3.03 million barrels,
according to the Energy Department. They were forecast to gain
850,000 barrels. Crude also dropped amid disagreement between
President  Barack Obama  and Republican leaders in talks to avert
more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending
cuts known as the fiscal cliff.  “Supplies are plentiful going into early 2013, which would
cushion any surprise disruptions,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an
analyst at VTB Capital in London. “Uncertainty over the U.S.
debt reduction negotiations is seeing very cautious trading in
crude at the moment.”  WTI crude for January delivery was at $87.59 a barrel, down
29 cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 1:34 p.m. London time. Prices fell 62 cents
yesterday to close at $87.88 a barrel, the lowest since Nov. 28.
Futures have dropped 11 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was down 56 cents at $108.25 a barrel
after sliding $1.03 yesterday. The European benchmark crude was
at a premium of $20.71 to WTI. It closed at $20.93 yesterday,
the narrowest gap since Nov. 2.  Brent Forecasts  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. predict Brent will average $110 a barrel
next year.  Morgan Stanley lowered its outlook from $115, citing slower
economic growth,  Hussein Allidina , the bank’s New York-based
head of commodities research, said in a report today. Concern
that a euro-area recession will curb demand will be countered by
geopolitical tension that may disrupt Middle East supplies,
according to OCBC’s Barnabas Gan.  Brent will slide to $105 in 2014 as halted supplies in the
Middle East and Africa resume, Jeff Currie, Goldman’s head of
commodities research in New York, said in an e-mailed report
yesterday. Some of the suspended output in Iran,  Sudan ,  Syria 
and Yemen will be restored within the next three years, he said.  OPEC Production  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries may need
to lower production by 1 million barrels a day, or about 3
percent, in the first half of next year, according to Societe
Generale SA. Brent may drop 20 percent by June if the group
doesn’t cut output, the Centre for Global Energy Studies said.
The exporter group meets next week in Vienna.  Gasoline stockpiles rose by 7.86 million barrels, the most
since Sept. 21, 2001, the Energy Department said. Demand for
slid for a third week even as refineries ran at the highest rate
since August.  Consumption declined 73,000 barrels a day and refineries
ran at 90.6 percent of  capacity , the government report showed.
Gasoline  inventories  in the week ended Nov. 30 were forecast to
increase by 1.55 million barrels, according to the median of 12
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Crude stockpiles slid 2.36 million barrels compared with a
forecast decline of 500,000, the report showed. Inventories have
dropped in December in the past six years, according to
department data. Companies in Texas can be taxed on the value of
stored crude as part of local property taxes, R.J. DeSilva, an
Austin-based spokesman for the Texas Comptroller of Public
Accounts, said in an e-mail.  Fiscal Cliff  The Obama administration is “absolutely” willing to go
over the fiscal cliff if Republicans don’t agree to raise tax
rates on highest-income earners, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday in an interview on CNBC.  Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner  spoke by telephone
yesterday,  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, said without
giving details. A White House aide also confirmed the call,
speaking on condition of anonymity.  The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the  U.S. economy 
will contract by as much as 0.5 percent next year if Congress
fails to stop the measures from taking effect. The U.S.
accounted for 21 percent of the world’s oil consumption last
year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  