-- Olam Should Reduce Debt While Increasing Transparency, Dee Says
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-12-06T21:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/olam-should-reduce-debt-and-increase-transparency-dee-says.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity trader that Muddy Waters LLC said may fail, should
reduce debt and increase transparency, according to Michael Dee,
a former senior managing director at Temasek Holdings Pte.  Shares in Olam , the world’s second-largest rice trader,
fell for a second day in  Singapore  yesterday, declining 4.3
percent to S$1.45, the lowest since April 1, 2009.  “Olam’s immediate priority should be to reduce their debt
relative to equity, become cash-flow positive and increase
transparency,” Dee said in a phone interview yesterday from the
city-state. He worked at Temasek, Singapore’s state-owned
investment company, from 2008 to 2010.  Olam announced this week it would sell as much as $1.25
billion of bonds and warrants to existing shareholders, with
Temasek, its second-largest shareholder, agreeing to buy any
rights not taken up by other investors. The offer will address
“lingering doubts,” according to Olam CEO Sunny Verghese,
which was sparked by  Muddy Waters  claim that the company is at
risk of collapse.  Dee called for Olam to sell stock, instead of issuing
bonds, in an article in Singapore’s Business Times newspaper
yesterday, saying “the supply of cheap debt is over.”  “Excluding the costs of the warrants attached to the
bonds, the yield will be about 13 percent instead of the 8
percent that Olam would like investors to believe,” Dee said in
the interview. “The market place hasn’t really understood what
the real costs for the company are.”  Olam Bonds  Financing costs for Olam have risen since Nov. 19 when
 Carson Block , research director and founder of Muddy Waters
first questioned the company’s accounting methods. Its $500
million of 5.75 percent notes due September 2017 were yielding
9.259 percent yesterday, almost 280 basis points higher than
Nov. 19, after reaching a record 10.28 percent Nov. 30.  Olam, also one of the world’s top three coffee traders, on
Dec. 3 said it will offer $750 million in bonds and as much as
$500 million in warrants. Temasek, which holds 16 percent of
Olam according to data compiled by Bloomberg, “made its own
independent assessment” before deciding to back the sale, it
said in a separate statement the following day.  “We’ve stated the logic, the rationale, the strategy of
why we’ve taken this particular course of action,” Aditya Renjen, Olam’s general manager of  investor relations , said by
phone yesterday. “The objective from our perspective was to
have something in both equity as well as debt, and for the
benefit of our long continuing shareholders.”  Olam has enough capital for the next 12 to 18 months even
if it’s unable to raise money from the  capital markets ,
Anantharaman Shekhar, an Olam executive director, said Nov. 28.  Expensive Debt  “The latest Temasek-backed transaction raises significant
issues, as it is extremely expensive debt and equity capital,
capital that Olam spent a week telling the market it didn’t
need,” said Dee in the article. “Muddy Waters is not the issue
here, it is Olam’s strategic and financial decisions that have
brought this situation to a head.”  “It’s definitely expensive debt to raise,” said Vincent
Fernando, an analyst at Religare Capital Markets in Singapore.
“It sort of highlighted fears that were raised by Muddy Waters
in terms of the company needing capital. A few days before it
seems like the company indicated it was not needed. I think this
is where it has backfired a bit.”  Olam was unchanged at $1.20 in  New York  over-the-counter
trading yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  