-- Olam Plunges After Dee Calls for Share Sale: Singapore Mover
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-12-06T04:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/olam-plunges-after-dee-calls-for-share-sale-singapore-mover.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity trader that Muddy Waters LLC said may fail, slumped to
the lowest in three and a half years in Singapore, after Michael Dee, a former senior managing director at Temasek Holdings Pte,
called for Olam to sell stock.  Shares in the world’s second-largest rice trader fell as
much as 5.9 percent before trading 5 percent lower at S$1.44,
set for the lowest close since April 1, 2009, as of 12:15 p.m.
local time. Dee said Olam’s Temasek-backed debt and warrant sale
announced this week is an expensive way to raise money.  “Olam made a strategic error in saying equity was not
needed until 2015. It needs equity now,’” said Dee, who worked
at Temasek from 2008 to 2010, in an article published in
 Singapore ’s Business Times newspaper. Dee joined Temasek after
serving as the Southeast Asia chief executive officer for Morgan
Stanley.  Olam, also one of the three largest coffee traders,
announced the sale of as much as $1.25 billion of bonds and
warrants to existing shareholders this week. The offer will
address “lingering doubts,” according to Olam CEO Sunny Verghese, which was sparked by Muddy Waters claim that the
company is at risk of collapse.  “The latest Temasek-backed transaction raises significant
issues, as it is extremely expensive debt and equity capital,
capital that Olam spent a week telling the market it didn’t
need,” said Dee. “Muddy Waters is not the issue here, it is
Olam’s strategic and financial decisions that have brought this
situation to a head.”  Bond Offer  The company will offer $750 million in bonds and as much as
$500 million in warrants and Temasek agreed to buy any rights
not taken up by other investors, Olam said. Temasek, which holds
16 percent of Olam according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
“made its own independent assessment” before deciding to back
the sale, it said in a separate statement on Dec. 4.  “It’s definitely expensive debt to raise,” said Vincent
Fernando, an analyst at Religare Capital Markets in Singapore.
“It sort of highlighted fears that were raised by Muddy Waters
in terms of the company needing capital. A few days before it
seems like the company indicated it was not needed. I think this
is where it has backfired a bit.”  Olam has enough capital for the next 12 to 18 months even
if it’s unable to raise money from the capital markets,
Anantharaman Shekhar, an executive director at Olam, said Nov.
28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  