-- Toll Officials Settle Investor Suits for $16.2 Million
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-12-07T17:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/toll-brothers-officials-settle-investor-claims-for-16-2-million.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  officials agreed
to a $16.2 million settlement of claims that they misled
shareholders about the company’s prospects while selling stock
worth about $615 million, according to court filings.  The accord resolves investor claims that executives of the
largest U.S. luxury-home builder wrongfully issued bullish
 forecasts  in the face of falling demand in fiscal 2006 and 2007,
according to a filing yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court. The
investors also alleged company directors, including co-founders
Bruce Toll and Robert Toll, sold shares at inflated prices
because of the forecasts, according to a 2008 complaint.  Insurers covering Toll Brothers directors will pay
$9.8 million of the settlement while the remaining $6.4 million
will be paid personally by individual defendants, according to
the filing. The money will be returned to Toll Brothers’ coffers
rather than paid to shareholders.  The settlement “confers substantial benefits upon Toll
Brothers and its current stockholders,” the investors’ lawyers
said in the filing.  Martin Connor , the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based builder’s
chief financial officer, declined to comment today on the
settlement because it’s still awaiting a judge’s final approval.  Toll Brothers fell 28 cents to $30.39 at 12:19 p.m. in  New
York  trading. The shares had climbed 50 percent this year before
today.  Housing Recovery  The accord comes as Toll Brothers reported higher income
than analysts had estimated in part because of an increase in
home sales. Net  income  was $411.4 million, or $2.35 a share, in
the three months ended Oct. 31 compared with $15 million, or
9 cents, a year earlier, the company said Dec. 4.  The U.S. housing market is recovering after a six-year
slump as low  interest rates  and rising  consumer confidence  spur
demand for new homes. Construction spending climbed more than
economists estimated in October as work on homes jumped to the
highest level since November 2008, the Commerce Department
reported Dec. 3.  Toll Brothers shareholder Milton Pfeiffer sued the
directors in November 2008, accusing them of misleading
investors with the  forecasts , which included a 20 percent
increase in earnings. Other Toll Brothers investors also sued
the company in federal court in Philadelphia over the
statements.  Federal Suits  In the federal suits, executives are alleged to have used
the predictions to mislead investors from February 2005 to
November 2006, according a Toll Brothers  filing  with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in 2009.  Pfeiffer’s lawyers contend that during that period, eight
members of the homebuilder’s board sold a total of 14 million
shares for proceeds of $615 million.  The executives made the predictions while knowing fewer
prospective customers were visiting Toll Brothers communities,
the plaintiffs alleged. They also knew that the rate at which
new contracts were signed was trending lower throughout 2005,
according to the Pfeiffer’s complaint.  The targeted forecasts prompted Toll Brothers’ stock to
rise to as high as $45.15 in February 2005, Pfeiffer’s lawyers
said in the suit. “Defendants promptly disposed of 3.8 million
shares of their stock for $166.7 million in proceeds,”
Pfeiffer’s lawyers said.  As part of that sale, Robert Toll sold 2.5 million  shares ,
bringing in more than $110 million, while Bruce Toll sold
1 million shares “for proceeds of over $44.3 million,”
Pfeiffer’s attorneys said.  Revised Projections  In December 2006, Toll Brothers revised projections,
cutting the predicted 20 percent earnings growth number to 0.5
percent, according to the  Delaware  suit.  The settlement resolves Pfeiffer’s case in state court
Delaware and two federal suits filed by other Toll Brothers
investors in Philadelphia, according to the Delaware filing.  Toll Brothers officials said in the filing outlining the
settlement that board members weren’t admitting to any
wrongdoing as part of the accord.  The defendants agreed to the settlement to “permit the
operation of Toll Brothers without further distraction and
diversion of its directors and executive personnel” by the
litigation, according to the filing.  Investors’ lawyers will ask Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster to approve the settlement and their request for
$4.3 million in fees and expenses, according to court filings.
No hearing date has been set on that request.  The Delaware case is Pfeiffer v. Toll, 4140, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  