-- Money Fund Overhaul Wouldn’t Hurt Debt Issuers, SEC Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-12-06T19:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/money-fund-overhaul-wouldn-t-hurt-debt-issuers-sec-says.html
The mutual fund industry’s argument
that new money-market fund rules would hurt companies, states
and cities that sell short-term debt has been contradicted in a
new Securities and Exchange Commission study.  Should new rules shrink money funds, non-financial
companies wouldn’t be significantly affected because they don’t
lean heavily on the funds, while banks are well suited to find
alternative funding, according to the  report  prepared by SEC
staff for three commissioners. The report also said a reduction
in demand by money funds wouldn’t necessarily cause a drop in
demand for short-term debt.  “Given the supply of very short-term securities is likely
to be limited to the same securities in which money funds
currently invest, shifts in investor capital are likely to
increase demand for these same assets, reducing the net effect
on the short-term funding market,” the report said.  The SEC report, made public yesterday, undermines the case
put forth by fund companies that a planned overhaul of money
funds would hurt the  U.S. economy  by disrupting markets for
short-term debt. Fund executives have been fighting efforts by
regulators to impose changes the companies believe would destroy
the attraction of the products that manage about $2.6 trillion
and represent the largest collective buyer of commercial paper
in the U.S.  Ianthe Zabel, a Washington-based spokeswoman for the
 Investment Company Institute , a trade association that has
fought the proposed rules, declined to comment.  “These changes would destroy money-market funds, at great
cost to investors, state and local governments and the
economy,” ICI President Paul Schott Stevens said in written
testimony before the Senate Banking Committee on June 21.  Tighter Restrictions  Regulators, including outgoing SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro ,
have worked to impose tighter restrictions on money funds since
the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund. Its failure, because it owned debt issued by  Lehman
Brothers  Holdings Inc., set off a run by money-fund investors
that helped freeze global credit markets.  The SEC created liquidity minimums, lowered maturity limits
and required more disclosure in rules introduced in 2010.
Schapiro also supported another round of changes that would have
forced funds to choose between abandoning their traditional $1
share price or building capital buffers to absorb losses and
imposing redemption restrictions to discourage runs.  Plan Shelved  Schapiro shelved her plan in August when commissioners Luis A. Aguilar, Troy A. Paredes and Daniel M. Gallagher signaled
they would reject it, saying they wanted more study of the
issue. The three then asked SEC staff to examine the 2008
crisis, the impact of 2010 reforms and the potential impact of
further changes.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of
regulators headed by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , on
Nov. 13 began a process by which it will pressure SEC
commissioners to reconsider Schapiro’s plan and other overhaul
proposals.  The SEC paper, prepared by its division of risk, strategy
and financial innovation, said the run on money funds in 2008
was due to many factors, including the Reserve Primary failure
and the collapse of Lehman Brothers. It said 2010 changes had
reduced risks posed by funds.  “Funds are more resilient now to both portfolio losses and
investor redemptions than they were in 2008,” the report said.  Demand Decline  Examining short-term debt markets and issuers, the report
concluded that most companies had little to worry about from any
potential drop in demand from money funds.  “Commercial paper financing by non-financial businesses is
a small portion (1 percent) of their overall credit market
instruments,” the report said.  While financial companies are more reliant on commercial
paper, that dependence has declined “dramatically” since 2008,
according to the report. In addition, financial companies are
“by their nature, well suited to identify alternate mechanisms
for short-term funding,” it said.  The report said municipal issuers have also already shifted
away from money funds since 2008. At the same time, they have
increased aggregate borrowing even as money funds have decreased
municipal holdings by 40 percent.  “A decline in demand from money-market funds is unlikely
to significantly reduce the ability of municipalities to fund
their debt,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  