-- Hong Kong’s Leung Says Small Homes Will Drive People Away
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-12-06T08:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/hong-kong-s-leung-says-small-homes-will-drive-people-away-1-.html
Hong Kong will lose talented workers
and struggle to attract foreigners to the city as small spaces
detract from its living standards, Chief Executive Leung Chun-
ying said today.  “We need to have adequate land supply not just to meet new
demand, but also to give people more elbow room in their living
space and their work space,” Leung told a lunchtime address.  Home prices  in Hong Kong, the world’s most expensive place
to buy an apartment and to lease commercial spaces, have doubled
in the past four years on near record low mortgage rates and an
increase of buyers from other parts of  China . That prompted the
government to introduce measures such as tightening mortgage
lending and increasing land supply to rein in prices.  Hong Kong needs to make hard choices about the use of land
in the city, including how much of the countryside it wants to
keep, Leung said.  “If we cannot, within the space of the next two or three
decades, increase the space that’s in Hong Kong, the best and
the brightest of the next generation will leave us,” he said.  About 32 percent of the more than 1.1 million private
housing units in Hong Kong are smaller than 430 square feet,
with another 49 percent between 431 square feet and 752 square
feet, according to figures compiled by the government’s  Rating
and Valuation Department .  His comments today echoed those by officials in  Singapore .
The city-state last month capped the number of homes that can be
developed outside the city’s central area to curb the building
of so-called shoebox apartments, or those smaller than 50 square
meters (538 square feet).  Leung, who took over in July, has pledged during his
election campaign to bridge the city’s widening wealth gap and
make housing more affordable to the general public.  Capping Sizes  Since taking over, the former surveyor has imposed three
rounds of major home price curbs, including imposing an extra 15
percent tax on buyers from overseas, including mainland China.
In the past month officials, including the city’s central bank
chief, have signaled it won’t rule out additional measures.  Under Donald Tsang, Leung’s predecessor, the government
capped the size of units on most of the land it sold to
developers over the past two years, as it sought to increase new
apartment supply to help curb prices.  “It’s a real dilemma the government faces,” said Buggle
Lau, chief analyst at Midland Holdings Ltd. “On one hand they
try to bring down sizes so more people can buy at more
reasonable prices. At the same time you have these tiny units
that are really hurting people’s desire to live here.”  Air Quality  Leung, who has been criticized by lawmakers over alleged
illegal structures built at his properties, also pledged today
he will focus on improving the city’s roadside  air quality .  “The priority over the next five years is air quality,”
Leung said. “Within the next 12 months you will probably see
government initiatives dealing with commercial vehicles, which
are the main source of roadside air pollution.”  Hong Kong’s polluted air causes more than 3,000 premature
deaths a year, according to the Civic Exchange. The research
group said in a statement on Jan. 12 that 49 million doctor
visits “can be attributed to Hong Kong’s persistently poor air
quality” since 2005.  Leung was speaking at a luncheon at the city’s Foreign
Correspondents’ Club.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  