-- Hong Kong May See Progress on RQFII Program Within Months
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2012-12-06T20:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/hong-kong-may-see-progress-on-rqfii-program-within-months.html
Hong Kong  may reach an agreement with
mainland  China  “in the next few months” on expanding a program
that lets investors buy financial products using yuan raised
overseas, a government official said.  Talks are progressing on boosting the quota for the
 Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor mechanism by
200 billion yuan ($32 billion), that will also add new products
and allow a broader range of participants, according to Julia Leung, the undersecretary for financial services and the
treasury.  “I’d like to see an agreement in the next few months,”
Leung said in an interview in  New York  yesterday. Changes under
an agreement, including the quota expansion, will probably be
phased in, rather than take place simultaneously, she said. The
RQFII’s current quota is 70 billion  yuan .  China approved the RQFII program last December, allowing
the Hong Kong units of Chinese financial companies to raise yuan
offshore for investment in Chinese  capital markets  and recently
agreed in principle to raise the quota. Candidates for an
expanded program include banks and insurers, both Chinese and
non-Chinese, Leung said.  While the yuan is freely convertible for trade
transactions, investment from Hong Kong and from overseas into
stocks or bonds in China can only be made using quotas assigned
by the government and direct investments need regulatory
approval.  Mutual Recognition  The China Securities Regulatory Commission, the  People’s
Bank of China  and the  State Administration of Foreign Exchange 
are involved in the talks on the mainland side, Leung said. The
Hong Kong parties include the Financial Services and the
Treasury Bureau and the Securities and Futures Commission, which
will vet any new products under the RQFII program, she said.  Talks on mutual recognition of fund products by Hong Kong
and the mainland are also under way, Leung said. The issues
involved are more complicated and an agreement is further away,
Leung said, declining to give a possible time frame.  “Hong Kong is in a very good position” to act as a
testing ground as China moves toward full convertibility of the
yuan and introduces new investment products, Leung said.  A  task force  in Hong Kong charged with examining the
establishment of a Financial Service Development Council will
publish its report in the “short term,” Leung also said. The
body’s role will be advisory and not regulatory, she said.  The city government is happy with the current system
whereby the Hong Kong Monetary Authority invests fiscal
reserves, and has no plans to set up a separate sovereign wealth
fund like those in  Singapore  and mainland China, Leung also
said.  Leung was in New York to speak with investors and
regulators, including the U.S. Treasury Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  