-- Monti Clings to Power as Berlusconi Seeks Early Vote
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-12-07T11:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/monti-clings-to-power-as-berlusconi-seeks-early-vote.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said he plans to keep his government intact as his biggest
parliamentary supporter, billionaire media magnate  Silvio Berlusconi , threatens to withdraw his backing.  The two have put the dispute in the hands of President
Giorgio Napolitano, who met today with the general secretary of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party,  Angelino Alfano . Neither
side made comments after the meeting Monti’s government, which
will expire by May, survived two confidence votes yesterday
after People of Liberty, or PDL, gave its partial support. .  “We’re doing our  ordinary work ,” Monti told reporters
yesterday after a six-hour Cabinet meeting in  Rome . “I have
been in touch with the president of the republic and I am
awaiting his evaluation.”  Berlusconi’s challenge pushed Italian bond yields higher
and will test Napolitano’s resolve to get results out of
lawmakers who have already begun campaigning. Napolitano, whose
term also ends next year, is pressing parliament to pass the
budget and a new election law before considering the request to
dissolve the government before its expiration. Alfano has said
the PDL will support the budget.  “I suspect that Napolitano doesn’t want the end of his
mandate to be colored by bowing to Berlusconi’s wishes,” said
Peter Ceretti, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  New York .
Napolitano is “not going to be particularly conciliatory if he
doesn’t have to,” Ceretti said.  PDL’s Slide  Berlusconi, 76, is seeking to halt the PDL’s slide in
opinion polls and reassert his control in the party after being
convicted of fraud by a Milan court in October.  The challenge yesterday cost Berlusconi the support of
former Foreign Affairs Minister  Franco Frattini , who broke from
the PDL and voted with the government in the lower house of
parliament.  Support for the PDL slipped to 18.2 percent from 23.5
percent in March, according to a poll by Demos & Pi published in
newspaper La Repubblica today. The Democratic Party saw its
backing rise to 37.8 percent, the highest since its founding in
2007, the poll showed.  Bonds Decline  The yield on  Italy ’s benchmark 10-year bond rose 4 basis
points to 4.62 percent, extending yesterday 13-point gain, the
biggest one-day increase since Sept. 10. The difference with
comparable German bunds rose by 4 basis points to 332 basis
points. Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB stock slipped 1 percent after
slipping 0.8 percent yesterday, when it was the only decliner
among  Europe ’s main indexes.  “Markets are still sensitive to Italian political risk,”
said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in  London . “Mr. Berlusconi’s attempt to undermine the
Monti government is mostly about his own political calculations,
but is also a symptom of the implosion of Italy’s center-
right.”  The PDL insurgency came less than 12 hours after
Berlusconi, who was forced to resign the premiership in November
2011, announced he was considering another run for prime
minister. Monti postponed his morning cabinet meeting and rushed
to the Senate to oversee the confidence vote on a stimulus bill
after Maurizio Gasparri, the PDL’s whip in the chamber, said his
forces would move to a “position of abstention.”  The move was more symbolic as PDL appeared to have the
numbers to block the vote and bring down Monti’s government.
Abstentions by PDL senators gave Monti a quorum, without which
the vote would have failed.  Anti-Austerity  Berlusconi is cultivating an anti-austerity message to
contrast with Monti before the general election. Still, the
differences between the two extend beyond policy. Berlusconi,
whose recent fraud conviction carries a four-year prison
sentence that was put on hold pending appeal, staged his
challenge just as Monti’s Cabinet was passing a plan to ban some
lawmakers convicted of crimes from serving in parliament.  Berlusconi is currently standing trial on charges of abuse
of power and engaging a minor in prostitution, allegations he
has denied.  The strain of supporting Monti’s unelected technocrat
government has shown among members of the ruling coalition
beyond the PDL. Pier Luigi Bersani, general secretary of Italy’s
 Democratic Party , has appealed to voters by pledging to re-
evaluate Monti’s budget-saving pension law changes. Berlusconi
is seeking a broader rollback of Monti’s austerity policies.  Monti has said that while he won’t run for reappointment,
he will be available to serve if called on after the election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  