-- Monti Says He Consulted Napolitano on Fate of Government
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-12-06T18:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/monti-faces-government-crisis-as-berlusconi-readies-for-election.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said he consulted President Giorgio Napolitano about the future
of his government after former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
threatened to withdraw his parliamentary backing.  “I have been in touch with the president of the republic
and I am awaiting his valuation,” Monti told reporters after a
six-hour Cabinet meeting in  Rome .  His government is hanging in the balance after Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party today said it passed from supporting the
government to “a position of abstention,” according to the
PDL’s Senate whip, Maurizio Gasparri. The shift came before a
confidence vote in the Senate that prompted Monti to travel from
his office to the chamber to cast a ballot.  The yield on  Italy ’s benchmark 10-year bond rose 13 basis
points to 4.57 percent, the biggest one-day gain since Sept. 10
and widening the difference with comparable German bunds by 18
basis points to 328 basis points. Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB
stock index declined 0.8 percent as equities across  Europe  rose.  The challenge by Berlusconi’s party less than a day after
after the billionaire media magnate criticized the government
and said he may run in the general elections, which must be held
by May. Napolitano called on lawmakers to avoid a rift with the
government and assured people outside of Italy that his country
could handle the political upheaval.  Alarms Unnecessary  “These are pre-electoral tensions that even outside of
Italy can be understood without sounding alarms on the
institutional soundness of our country,” Napolitano said in a
speech today. “This soundness is beyond question. I must
publicly reiterate it and I feel up to the task.”  Berlusconi, 76, is cultivating an anti-austerity message to
contrast with Monti before the general election. Still, the
differences between the two extend beyond policy. Berlusconi,
who was sentenced in October to four years in prison for  tax
fraud , staged his challenge just as Monti’s Cabinet was passing
a plan to ban lawmakers convicted of crimes from serving in
parliament.  The People of Liberty party “is trying to hold the
majority in check,” said Raffaele De Mucci, a professor of
politics at the Luiss University in Rome. “Their pawns to trade
are clearly the election date, the electoral law and the
parliamentary convict ban.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  