-- Top Football Schools to Get $300,000 Academic Standards Payment
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-06T13:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/top-football-schools-to-get-300-000-academic-standards-payment.html
Schools in the National Collegiate
Athletic Association top football division will receive $300,000
each annually for meeting academic standards under the playoff
format that begins after the 2014 regular season.  The payout will be made to universities that score 930 or
higher on the Academic Progress Report, Bill Hancock, the
executive director of the group overseeing the playoffs, said at
the  IMG Intercollegiate Athletics Forum  in New York.  “You have to meet the NCAA APR standard,” Hancock said in
an interview yesterday. “Otherwise your school doesn’t get
it.”  The NCAA’s minimum APR for postseason participation is
currently 900.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN agreed last month to pay about $470
million annually over 12 years to televise the games tied to the
new college football national championship system, the
 Associated Press  said. The format includes a four-team playoff
to determine the champion. ESPN and ABC currently pay $155
million annually for rights to the national title game and four
Bowl Championship Series games.  With about 125 BCS schools, the academic payout would total
$37.5 million if every school met the APR requirement.  A framework for each conference’s payment from the format
has been determined, although the structure won’t be announced
until after this season, when the revenue from television deals
and game receipts is determined, Hancock said.  Under the current system, the biggest portion of revenue is
shared among the Atlantic Coast,  Big East , Big Ten, Big 12,
Pac-12 and Southeastern conferences, each of which automatically
qualify one team for a BCS bowl game.  Big East  The Big East will be the main loser under the new format,
as it will be demoted to a “Group of Five” competing for an
automatic bid to a BCS bowl game, according to ESPN.  “I don’t know what the Big East will receive,” Hancock
said. “We do anticipate that every conference will grow on a
pro-rata basis. Revenue went up so their share will go up.”  With the major conferences taking in most of the revenue
from the playoff and other TV, it will create a division between
big and small programs that will make it difficult to regulate
them together, said Jack Swarbrick, the athletic director at the
University of  Notre Dame , which will play  Alabama  in this
season’s national championship game on Jan. 7.  “Whether membership in a single association can continue
to exist” may be the biggest change in college sports over the
next five years, Swarbrick said during a panel discussion at the
IMG forum.  “Every business association -- it doesn’t matter what it
is -- has as a core element that there’s got to be a commonality
among the members,” Swarbrick told reporters. “It might be
another division of the NCAA. It might be more people going to
the Ivy League model at one end of the spectrum. I can’t begin
to enumerate all the ways it might go. The only point is the
tension grows as the business models diverge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  