-- Morgan Stanley Backs Gold, Corn, Beans as Best Picks in 2013
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2012-12-06T08:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/morgan-stanley-backs-gold-corn-soybeans-as-best-picks-in-2013.html
Gold, silver and corn will outperform
other raw materials next year as a weaker dollar and rising
investor demand bolster precious metals while supply curbs aid
grains, Morgan Stanley said, listing top picks for 2013.  Silver will track gold, which is poised to gain on low real
 interest rates , buying by central banks and geopolitical
uncertainty, analysts including  Peter Richardson  and  Hussein Allidina  wrote in a report today, reiterating an October call.
Corn and soybeans should benefit from harvest delays in South
America, they said. The bank is bearish on aluminum, sugar,
nickel and uranium as supplies are set to outpace demand.  Commodities as tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index are down 0.4 percent this year, led by declines in coffee,
cotton and sugar. The gauge almost doubled in the three years to
2011 as central banks and governments around the world took
action to boost their economies hurt by the global financial
crisis in 2008. Morgan Stanley joins Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
predicting the so-called super-cycle isn’t over.  “Higher prices in recent years have brought both a supply
and demand response, bringing many to call for the end” of the
super-cycle, they wrote. “We view this as too simplistic.
Commodities are cyclical but the elasticity of supply and demand,
as well as the length of the cycle, vary significantly.”  Gold may average $1,853 an ounce in 2013, while silver may
be $35 an ounce, Morgan Stanley said. That compares with gold’s
average of $1,668 so far this year and $31.1542 for silver.
Soybeans may average $15.70 a bushel in 2012-2013, it said.  Overweight Call  Goldman reiterated an overweight call on commodities,
yesterday, forecasting prices will return 7 percent in 12 months,
 Jeffrey Currie , head of commodity research, wrote in a report.
Citigroup Inc. believes the super-cycle has ended, according to
Edward L. Morse, global head of commodities research, on Nov. 19.  “With commodity-supply constraints easing, Chinese growth
slowing and producer-company returns normalizing,” it is
tempting to say the super-cycle is over, Currie wrote. “Current
developments are simply the next phase of a commodity-investment
cycle that began in the late 1990s. We therefore view the
current transition as a renaissance, rather than an end.”  Goldman, backing crude, corn and copper, expects gold to
peak in 2013 on a recovery in the  U.S. economy . In contrast,
Morgan Stanley called for higher prices on low nominal and
negative real interest rates, as well as risks in the  Middle
East  and central-bank buying. So-called negative real interest
rates describe savings rates that are lower than inflation.  Central Banks  Spot gold, up 8 percent in 2012, is rallying for a 12th
year as central banks join investors buying bullion to diversify
assets.  South Korea ,  Brazil  and  Russia  are among those adding to
 gold reserves  this year. Holdings in  exchange-traded products 
are at a record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Morgan Stanley expects higher corn and soybean prices on
the potential for lower supplies from  South America . Rains and
flooding have impeded planting in Argentina, while dry weather
in Brazil is threatening beans.  The bank is bearish on aluminum as an increase in
production capacity exacerbates an oversupply. So-called
financing transactions and long waiting times for delivery from
London Metal Exchange warehouses are supporting output, the bank
said. Aluminum may average $2,300 a ton in 2013, the bank said,
compared with $2,049 a ton so far this year.  Global sugar supply may outpace demand on rising Brazilian
crush volumes and stable Indian production, said Morgan Stanley,
while  China ’s import demand may slow on high inventories and
improved domestic output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  