-- Morgan Stanley No Boost for Yongye as Concerns Taint Bids
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-12-07T21:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/morgan-stanley-no-boost-for-yongye-as-concerns-taint-buyout-bids.html
Even a buyout bid from Morgan Stanley
isn’t enough to boost investor confidence in  Yongye
International Inc. (YONG) , a Chinese fertilizer maker listed in the
U.S. that short sellers say manipulated accounting.  Yongye, whose name means “forever business” in Chinese,
has trimmed more than half of its 17 percent rally on the Nasdaq
Stock Market since a group including Chairman Wu Zishen and
Morgan Stanley’s private equity unit proposed a takeover Oct.
15. The stock trades at a 24 percent discount to the offer
price, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company, whose management short sellers including
Absaroka Capital Management LLC said embezzled funds through a
fake transaction, joins dozens of Chinese stocks seeking to
delist from U.S. exchanges. While lower valuations are luring
private equity, U.S. regulators probing potential fraud are
intensifying concern over U.S.-listed Chinese companies by
accusing the largest auditing firms of withholding documents.
Securities and Exchange Commission spokesman John Nestor
declined to state which companies are being investigated when
contacted by phone yesterday.  “Investors’ sentiment is so poor that the faith in these
companies doesn’t exist at all,” said Joe Giamichael, an
analyst at Umbrella Research, a research and advisory firm in
New York that follows Haidian, China-based Yongye. “That level
of distrust and disbelief out there, a lot of it is well
earned.”  A  gauge  of Chinese and Hong Kong shares traded in New York
has dropped 61 percent since the end of 2010.  Short Interest  Yongye rallied 17 percent to $5.61 on Oct. 15, when the
company said it received a non-binding proposal from the buyout
group to purchase the company at $6.60 a share. Yongye said in
an Oct. 25 statement that it formed a special committee to study
the $295-million offer from the buyers, which also include Hong
Kong-based Abax Global Capital Ltd. There can be no assurance
that any definitive offer will be finalized or that any
agreement will be executed, according to the statement.  The shares fell 2.3 percent to $5.04 in New York today, the
lowest level since Nov. 16.  Since Yongye announced the buyout plan, short interest in
the company has fallen to about 1.5 percent of total shares
outstanding, from 8 percent on Sept. 10, according to data
compiled by the U.K. researcher Markit. In short selling,
investors borrow shares and sell them later, betting a decline
in prices will allow them to buy back at lower costs.  Mark Tobin, co-director of research at Roth Capital
Partners in Newport Beach,  California , said  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s
investment is a vote of confidence in Yongye, and the takeover
deal will probably be concluded.  ‘Some Comfort’  “Given the fact that Morgan Stanley had previously made an
investment in the company and is now also involved in the
privatization, that should provide some comfort that the deal
has a good chance of getting done,” he said Dec. 4. A Chinese
buyout deal takes about five months to complete, according to
Roth.  The investment bank helped Yongye raise capital following
its listing in 2009 via a so-called reverse merger, a process
where a publicly traded shell company is purchased in order to
gain a listing. The SEC has said reverse mergers may be prone to
fraud.  Nick Footitt , a spokesman at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong,
declined to comment on the buyout or Yongye’s discount in an e-
mail. John Capodanno, an investment relations representative for
Yongye, didn’t return two calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Muddy Waters  Investors and regulators have boosted scrutiny of Chinese
companies trading on North American stock exchanges over the
past two years after short sellers led by Muddy Waters Research
LLC. exposed financial irregularities in companies such as  Sino-
Forest Corp. (SNOFF)  and China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. Sino-Forest, a
Chinese plantation company listed in  Canada , filed for
bankruptcy protection in March.  Concern has been mounting since Dec. 3 after the SEC said
that Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd., Ernst & Young Hua Ming
LLP, KPMG Huazhen and PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs
Ltd. refused to cooperate with accounting investigations into
nine Chinese companies.  The  market value  of Yongye has fallen to $260 million,
below its net worth, with the shares trading at 0.64 times book
value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Since April 2010, 19 of the 49 companies that have
announced their intention to go private have concluded the
transactions, while four have failed, according to a Nov. 5
report by Roth. Firms such as TPG Capital, Bain Capital LLC. and
Carlyle Group LP have been involved in the deals.  Focus Media  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a Shanghai-based advertising
company, slipped 2.6 percent to $24.12 today in New York, the
biggest one-day decline since Sept. 24, after Dow Jones
Newswires reported CDH Investments Fund Management Co. is
dropping out of a consortium led by Carlyle Group LP that is
bidding to take it private in a $3.5 billion deal.  The report, which cited an unidentified person, said that
CDH didn’t see the returns on the investment as sufficient.
Beijing-based CDH didn’t reply to an e-mail sent to the address
listed on the company’s website after business hours.  Muddy Waters claimed in Nov. 2011 that Focus Media
overstated its network. The company said the following day that
the allegation was based on “innuendo.”  ‘Exceptional Company’  Kevin Barnes, then an analyst at Cheyenne, Wyoming-based
hedge fund Absaroka, said in a report in May last year that
Yongye falsified a $35 million acquisition in 2010 of lignite
coal exploration and production rights from Wuchuan Shuntong
Humic Acid Company Ltd. in order to transfer cash out of the
company to management. Yongye said in a statement the following
day that the purchase was legitimate and intended at reducing
its production costs.  Two weeks later, Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia said it
would invest $50 million into Yongye, calling it “an
exceptional company” after “extensive due diligence.” Morgan
Stanley, the sixth-largest U.S. bank, can get its money back
with a premium should Yongye fail to meet specified targets,
including at least 20 percent annual profit growth from 2011 to
2014, according to SEC filings.  Barnes, who now works as an analyst at New York-based
Kerrisdale Capital Management Co., said in an interview on Nov.
11 that he stands by his report on Yongye.  SEC Query  Yongye’s rising account receivables and negative cash flow
are also causing investor concern, according to Nate Weisshaar,
a senior analyst at The Motley Fool financial-services company
in  London .  While Yongye’s  sales increased  to $130 million in the third
quarter, from $18 million in the same period of 2008, cash flow
from operations has been negative as the company expands its
distribution network.  The company changed its sales recognition methods from the
start of the fourth quarter of 2011, after the SEC questioned
its accounting practices in July of that year.  Net income  fell
to $16.8 million in the three months through September, from $39
million a year earlier, as the company delayed the revenue
recognition. KPMG LLP audited Yongye’s accounts.  KPMG’s Hong Kong-based spokeswoman, Nina Mehra, declined to
comment when reached by phone today.  “When you have issues clouding things like growing
receivables, it’s become a little harder to take their sales
growth at face value,” Weisshaar, who holds Yongye’s shares as
a personal investment, said by phone. “To me, that’s not a
concern because they have demonstrated they are able to collect
throughout the company’s history, but it raises the question
what the sales growth looks like going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  