-- Morgan Stanley Alters Broker Pay Plan as Revenue Bonus Takes Hit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-12-07T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/morgan-stanley-revises-broker-compensation-plan-for-2013-1-.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the brokerage with
the biggest corps of financial advisers, changed its wealth-
management compensation plan to encourage brokers to increase
revenue and allow them to buy discounted  stock .  The 2013 program pays a bonus of 2 to 5 percentage points
of revenue for advisers who bring in new assets and are in the
top 40 percent in revenue growth, according to terms outlined in
a summary obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News. That comes at
the expense of a 2 percentage-point reduction in the revenue
bonus paid to all brokers who generate at least $750,000.  Greg Fleming, president of Morgan Stanley’s wealth-
management business, is seeking to control costs while avoiding
defections and meet his target of a mid-teens pretax margin next
year. Wealth-management employees typically have been paid a
higher portion of revenue than colleagues in trading units
because the brokerage business takes less risk and demands lower
levels of capital.  “There remains a lot of pressure from a recruiting
standpoint,” Fleming, 49, said at a Dec. 4 investor conference
in response to a question about possible changes to pay
structure. “The existing system for compensation also works for
shareholders.”  The changes don’t affect the so-called grid payout, usually
the largest portion of a broker’s compensation, or the bonus
based on tenure.  Street’s Richest  The growth bonus, in addition to the revenue percentage
award, includes as much as $285,000 for bringing in more money
from customers and making additional loans to clients, according
to the document. The bonus, which the firm described as
“richest on the Street,” is paid upfront in 2014 and
structured as a five-year forgivable loan.  Brokers can invest as much as $250,000 of their
compensation in Morgan Stanley stock and will get as much as a
25 percent bonus on shares they purchase, according to the plan.
The bonus shares vest in April 2016, when the purchased shares
are distributed.  Fleming said this week that his unit can reach
 profitability  targets solely through cost cuts, meaning revenue
improvements may provide a further boost. Integration expenses
will end this quarter, allowing the pretax profit margin to
increase next year, Fleming said. The margin was 13 percent in
the third quarter, excluding one-time charges.  Brokerage Venture  Morgan Stanley now owns 65 percent of the brokerage after
paying  Citigroup Inc. (C)  $1.89 billion for an additional 14 percent
stake in September following a two-month fight over the value of
the venture. The two banks agreed on a valuation for the
purchase of the remaining 35 percent stake, which Morgan Stanley
must acquire by June 2015. The firm will probably ask the
Federal Reserve for approval to purchase the rest next year, a
person briefed on the bank’s thinking said in October.  The brokerage is seeking to boost revenue through more
lending and moving additional client assets into managed
accounts, Fleming said. The average annualized revenue per
adviser in the third quarter was $790,000. About 1,900 of the
firm’s 16,829 brokers produce more than $1 million in annual
revenue, he said.  Morgan Stanley tweaked the pay structure last year as well.
The firm raised the minimum amount of revenue a broker must
generate to avoid pay cuts to $300,000 from $250,000. It also
reduced bonuses based on revenue production by 1 percentage
point across the board, while introducing new bonuses for
bringing in assets and making loans to customers, a person
briefed on the plan said at the time.  Employees across Wall Street are facing pay cuts or losing
their jobs as revenue growth wanes and  shareholders  demand
higher returns. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s bonus pool for its
corporate and investment bank may shrink as much as 2 percent
this year as the firm completes performance reviews, three
executives with direct knowledge of the process said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  