-- Morrison Descent Converges With Tesco as Christmas Nears: Retail
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-06T00:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/morrison-descent-converges-with-tesco-as-christmas-nears-retail.html
For millions of Britons, Christmas
just isn’t Christmas without a turkey and a mince pie.  Yet with austerity measures leaving consumers with less to
spend and a rainy local summer combined with a U.S. drought
making food more expensive, the cost of Christmas dinner is
forcing people to trade down and buy less this holiday season.  “Christmas is going to be about value,”  William Morrison
Supermarket Plc (MRW)  Chief Executive Officer Dalton Philips said in
an interview. To keep the cheer, he’s offering 2.99-pound
($4.82) bottles of kir royale or peach Bellini for festive
toasts and maintaining last year’s turkey prices.  Absent the annual rite of feasting of American
Thanksgiving, the British Christmas is the biggest epicurean
occasion of the year, with households spending a total of 4
billion pounds on food in the final week before Dec. 25. This
year, Britons will cut spending by 8.5 percent to an average 161
pounds per household, a YouGov poll of 1,000 adults found.  To capture what spending there is, retailers including
 Tesco Plc (TSCO)  are slashing prices on the most popular items to get
cash-conscious customers in the door and away from hard
discounters like Aldi and Lidl.  Tesco, the nation’s biggest grocer, yesterday posted its
seventh quarterly decline in U.K. same-store sales in eight
quarters after losing market share in the 12 weeks through Nov.
27. Aldi increased its share to 3 percent from 2.5 percent,
research company Kantar Worldpanel said Dec. 4.  The battle has left Tesco and Morrison shares down 16
percent and 18 percent this year, respectively, two of the four
biggest declines among 24  European retailers  on the Stoxx 600
Retail index.  ‘Slow Start’  “It’s been a roller-coaster year, so we’ve been
forecasting a slow start to Christmas trading,” said Mike Watkins head of retailer insight at Nielsen. “With so many
money-off coupons available, consumers are already planning
where to shop.”  To ensure it’s at Morrison, the fourth-biggest grocer is
offering a 13-item Christmas dinner for eight including a 3.8-
kilogram (8.4 pound) frozen turkey, potatoes, Brussels sprouts
and carrots as well as desserts, for less than 20 pounds. At
2.49 pounds per person, that’s almost 30 percent less than last
year’s cheapest deal. Tesco has cut the price of its Everyday
Value  Christmas pudding  to 98 pence and is selling budget mince
pies in smaller packages of six for 75 pence.  “Discounting will be a major part of retailers’
strategies,” said Cliona Lynch, senior retail analyst at
Verdict Research in  London . “People are sticking really tightly
to budget so if prices go up they will buy less and be more
selective.”  ‘No Leftovers’  Verdict predicts U.K. Christmas spending will barely
increase this year, with food the only growth area due to rising
prices, while non-food spending suffers. Shoppers are expected
to spend 2.9 percent more for 0.5 percent less food by volume.
Non-food spending, meanwhile, will fall 0.3 percent.  “Put it this way, we won’t be having leftovers like we
used to,” Pat McInerney, a 44-year old health worker said
outside a Tesco in central London. “There are some good deals
out there, and my wife and I are always on the look-out, so
we’ll stretch it as far as we can.”  The rainiest U.K. summer in 100 years hit vegetable
production and the worst U.S. drought since the 1950s has pushed
up the price of wheat futures, corn and soybeans, while hot, dry
weather also damaged harvests in Russia, Ukraine and  Australia .  Morrison is keeping costs down by taking lower-quality
parsnips, where production has fallen by 15 percent, and
potatoes, down by around 45 percent. Brussels sprouts may cost
15 percent more this year after the crop shrunk by a third.
Smaller and misshapen vegetables that wouldn’t previously have
been accepted are being bundled in-house into packs sold for a
pound, produce specialist Adrian Ford said.  Green Potatoes  “Potatoes are greening because of all the rain in the
U.K., onions are not as good as they were,” Asda Chief
Executive Officer Andy Clarke told journalists last month.
“There is a good chance there will be food price inflation in
second half of the year.”  Asda, the U.K. chain owned by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , has
also has been cutting prices of basic items like a half-dozen
free-range eggs to 1 pound, Chief Financial Officer Richard Mayfield said in an interview. Families have 8 percent less
disposable income, according to the Asda income tracker, meaning
every pence count to people who have an average of 13 fewer
pounds to spend each week.  Those prices make Asda more competitive against discounters
like Poundland, which added 100 grocery items priced at 1 pound
last month including Kellogg’s cornflakes, Ritz crackers, Hovis
white bread and McVities digestive biscuits.  Slowing Growth  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , seen as a more upmarket alternative to
Asda and Tesco, says consumers will switch to supermarket labels
from brand names to offset inflation. Its Taste the Difference
Irish cream liqueur costs 9 pounds on promotion right now
compared to a bottle of  Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s Bailey’s for about 20
pounds. The grocer expects to sell 150,000 bottles this year.  “Yes, times are tough and challenging, but family and
special occasions are still there to be enjoyed,” Chief
Executive Officer Justin King said at a press conference last
month. “We see Christmas spaced over time, people planning the
shop, being timed and spreading the cost of Christmas because
they want to have a special Christmas.”  Zada Mitchell, a 37-year-old mother of two, says she is
turning to Aldi as well as Sainsbury to economize on dinner
while still providing her children with gift-filled stockings.  “I spend 30 pounds less on a weekly shop in there, and the
quality surprises you,” she said. “Prices have gone up, I’ll
be looking for deals, try and be clever with what I buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  