-- Osborne Has ‘Effectively Abandoned’ U.K. Debt Rule, IFS Says
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-12-06T17:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/osborne-has-effectively-abandoned-u-k-debt-rule-ifs-says.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  has “effectively abandoned” a key pillar of his
fiscal strategy after conceding he will probably miss his debt-
reduction target, the  Institute for Fiscal Studies  said.  The London-based research group also said the spending cuts
required to fill the hole in the public finances are
“inconceivable,” meaning further tax increases and welfare
savings will be needed after the 2015 general election.  Osborne in his autumn statement yesterday said he’s no
longer likely to meet his target to begin cutting the burden of
government debt in 2015-16 after his fiscal watchdog cut its
growth forecasts. The IFS said the rules underpinning the public
finances are ripe for reform.  “Osborne has had, effectively, to abandon one of his
fiscal rules,” IFS Director  Paul Johnson  said at a briefing in
London today.  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  said yesterday debt is
forecast to peak at 79.9 percent of gross domestic product in
2015-16 and start to decline the following year, a year later
than planned. Osborne chose to let the target slip rather than
move it or tighten fiscal policy.  Osborne opted not to raise taxes or cut spending overall
over the next four years. He instead extended austerity by
another year to 2018 after the OBR said the  budget deficit  will
be higher than it previously thought.  “The underlying forecast has deteriorated by almost 36
billion pounds and Osborne has chosen to do nothing about it,”
said Gemma Tetlow, an IFS economist.  If spending on health and foreign aid remains protected
from cuts after the election, other departments will face
reductions of 16 percent in three consecutive years, the IFS
said.  “That begins to look inconceivable,” Johnson said.
“Further welfare cuts and tax rises must be on the cards.
Twenty-seven billion pounds would be required.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  