-- Oscar Niemeyer, Designer of UN Building, Dies at 104
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-12-06T01:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/oscar-niemeyer-designer-of-un-building-dies-at-104.html
Oscar Niemeyer, the prolific
Brazilian architect who helped design the  United Nations 
headquarters in  New York  and major public buildings in Brasilia,
his country’s modernist capital, has died. He was 104.  He died yesterday at Hospital Samaritano in  Rio de Janeiro ,
according to a spokeswoman at the medical center who spoke on
condition of anonymity because she wasn’t authorized to speak to
the press. She didn’t give a cause of death. Niemeyer was
treated at the hospital for two weeks in May for pneumonia and
dehydration, and readmitted for another two weeks in October for
dehydration, the  Associated Press  reported.  Rio de Janeiro Governor Sergio Cabral declared three days
of official mourning in the state to honor a “genius of world
architecture.”  In a career that lasted more than 75 years, Niemeyer was
credited with bringing billowing imagery and tropical exoticism
to the stark and angular lines common in modern architecture.  Coming to prominence in the 1950s as  Brazil ’s leaders
sought to remake their rural agricultural nation into an urban,
industrialized power, Niemeyer was given artistic license that
few architects have enjoyed, said  Zeuler Lima , a professor of
architectural history at  Washington University  in  St. Louis .  “He was talented and skilled at a very important moment in
Brazilian culture, and art was given the chance by politicians
to help them express a vision of the future,” Lima said.  That era, which peaked with the inauguration of  Brasilia , a
capital built from scratch between 1958 and 1960 in the
country’s sparsely populated central highlands, coincided with
the advent of the Bossa Nova music of Antonio Carlos Jobim and
Joao Gilberto and the ascent of Brazil’s soccer star, Pele.  World’s Fair  Niemeyer began his career in Rio de Janeiro in the 1930s as
a pupil of Lucio Costa, later his partner in the creation of
Brasilia, and Charles-Edouard Jeanneret, also known as Le Corbusier, the Franco-Swiss modernist pioneer. He first gained
attention as part of a group that designed the Brazilian
pavilion at the 1939-1940 New York World’s Fair, Lima said.  In 1943, Niemeyer’s Church of Saint Francis of Assisi, a
collection of concrete arched rooms adorned with abstract tile
mosaics in  Belo Horizonte , Brazil, was considered so radical
that the Catholic Church at first refused to sanctify it,
according to the website of the  Oscar Niemeyer Foundation , a Rio
de Janeiro-based organization dedicated to preserving the
architect’s work.  The project resulted in Niemeyer’s friendship with the
city’s former mayor, Juscelino Kubitschek.  Soon after Kubitschek became Brazil’s president in 1956, he
picked Niemeyer and Costa to realize his dream of moving
Brazil’s capital from Rio de Janeiro to Brasilia.  ‘Utopian Horror’  While Costa designed the new city’s layout -- a series of
neighborhoods, commercial districts and government areas plotted
in the shape of an airplane -- Niemeyer designed Brazil’s
presidential palace and national cathedral as well as buildings
for the  Supreme Court , Congress and major ministries.  While his Brasilia buildings were Niemeyer’s main
achievement, the city itself is scorned by many critics for its
grey, drab exteriors that evoke Eastern Europe in the 1970s.
Manufacturers, hotels and clubs are grouped into separate
neighborhoods.  Brasilia is a “utopian horror,” said Time magazine’s
former art critic  Robert Hughes .  Niemeyer joined the Communist Party in 1945 after meeting
 Luis Carlos Prestes , an early 20th century insurgent who aimed
to topple the ruling oligarchy and aid the underprivileged. He
left the party in 1990, yet he still followed the ideas of Marx
and Stalin.  Communist Ties  “Coming from a Catholic family, I forgot the old
prejudices and the world seemed to me unjust, unacceptable. I
joined the Communist Party, embracing the thoughts of Marx,
which I follow until today,” Niemeyer said.  Fidel Castro , the former president of Cuba and a close
friend, once said that he and Niemeyer were the last living
communists. Niemeyer, in turn, said Castro is Latin America’s
only great leader, and often complimented the former Cuban
president for his views against capitalism and the U.S.  Niemeyer’s communist ties made his life difficult when
Brazil’s generals seized power in 1964. His offices were
ransacked, and he went into exile to  France .  Architecture critics were another problem at times. New
York Times art critic Michael Kimmelman described a museum
Niemeyer designed in the 1990s in Niteroi, a city outside Rio,
as something that looked “like a flying saucer.”  Design Revolution  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , in a statement
lamenting Niemeyer’s passing, praised him as a “genius” and
“revolutionary” who fought to instill a new style of design
that upended the conventions of his time and was motivated by
the goal of a more equal society.  Oscar Ribeiro de Almeida Niemeyer Soares Filho was born on
Dec. 15, 1907, in Rio de Janeiro, the son of a typographer. He
spent much of his early adulthood enjoying the city’s bohemian
pleasures and didn’t finish high school until he was 21,
according to the Niemeyer Foundation’s website.  He married Annita Baldo, a second generation Italian-
Brazilian, who prompted him to seek a career. He worked in his
father’s business and studied engineering and architecture at
Rio’s School of Fine Arts, graduating in 1934.  In 1988 Niemeyer was awarded the  Pritzker Architecture
Prize , one of the world’s most prestigious architecture awards,
along with American Gordon Bunshaft.  Niemeyer said he loved his native city more than any other
place in the world, working even after his 100th birthday from
his penthouse overlooking Copacabana beach in Rio de Janeiro.  Last Projects  His dominance in winning commissions to build important
structures half a century after Brasilia was inaugurated spurred
concern that Brazil’s architectural scene had stagnated.  Niemeyer kept at it, designing at age 102 the ambitious
project for the so-called Administrative City -- a group of five
buildings that house state government offices -- in Belo
Horizonte, the capital of  Minas Gerais  in southeastern Brazil.  He remained professionally active until near the end.
Slouched in a wheel-chair at his 104th birthday in his office,
he discussed three projects he was working on: a museum in
 London , a theater in a Rio de Janeiro park and a university in
Foz do Iguacu, named after the nearby world-famous waterfalls.  One of his last concluded projects -- a cultural center in
 Spain ’s northern city of Aviles inaugurated early in 2011 -- was
mired in controversy when a new local government temporarily
shut it down and threatened to strip his name off the building,
alleging public money had been misspent.  Niemeyer paid little heed to his detractors. “I’m not
interested in what people say,” Niemeyer said in a 2005
interview. “I won’t talk to people who know nothing about
architecture.”  He was married to Baldo for 76 years until her death in
2004. They had one child, Anna Maria. In 2006, at age 99, he
married his long-time secretary, Vera Lucia Cabreira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt at   rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  