-- Emerging Stocks Rise Second Day as Consumer Shares Gain
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-12-07T01:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/most-emerging-stocks-rise-on-u-s-fiscal-talks-tech-stocks-drop.html
(Corrects fund manager’s name in fourth paragraph of
article published on Dec. 6.)  Emerging-market stocks rose to a
seven-month high as speculation U.S. politicians will reach a
budget deal spurred risk appetite and support widened for
policies allowing foreign investment in  India ’s retail market.  Hyundai Mobis Co. (012330) , which got 21 percent of third-quarter
sales from America, climbed to a six-week peak in Seoul. OAO
Rostelecom, Russia’s state-run telephone operator, had the
biggest gain in almost two months after a court ruling allowed
investor Konstantin Malofeev to keep immunity from prosecution.
 Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  headed for the highest close since June on
Barclays Plc’s plan to increase its stake in the Johannesburg-
based lender.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.2 percent to
1,019.48 at 1 p.m. in  London , heading for the highest close
since May. A few dozen Republicans joined a bipartisan push to
break an impasse between President  Barack Obama  and House
Speaker  John Boehner  over taxes for the highest-earning
Americans, signing a letter calling for openness to “all
options.” The leader of India’s fourth-largest party in the
parliament said she would support the government’s plan to allow
foreign investment in retail.  “There has been growing optimism that a solution can
finally be reached to resolve the fiscal cliff problem,” said
Saharat Chudsuwan, who helps oversees $5 billion at Tisco Asset
Management Co. in Bangkok.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , gained for a
third day, adding 0.5 percent. The rupee strengthened 0.8
percent versus the dollar, the highest in a month. Russia’s
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  increased 0.3 percent, rising for a second day, and
Brazil’s Bovespa index declined 0.5 percent.  China Stocks  The  Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.1
percent after posting its biggest gain in three months
yesterday. Egypt’s EGX 30 Index plunged 4.9 percent, sliding for
the first time in three days, after clashes yesterday between
supporters and opponents of Mohamed Mursi in Cairo.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  surged 1.3 percent, the
most among Asian benchmark indexes, after exchange data showed
overseas investors made the biggest purchases of the nation’s
equities in two weeks. A report yesterday showed Philippine
inflation slowed to a five-month low in November and central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco said his bank’s monetary stance
“remains appropriate.”  Gauges (MXEF0CD)  of industrial and material companies gained the most
among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
rising 0.5 percent. The developing-nations measure has climbed
11.3 percent this year, compared with an 11.4 percent increase
by the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The emerging-markets index trades at
11.8 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries added two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 287 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Hyundai Mobis, South Korea’s biggest auto-parts maker, rose
2.1 percent, its second day of gains.  Rostelecom  surged  3.2 percent in Moscow. A court in
Russia’s Smolensk region overturned a previous ruling, allowing
Rostelecom investor Konstantin Malofeev to remain an elected
official, keeping immunity from prosecution.  Absa jumped 4.8 percent to the highest since June 25 on a
closing basis. Barclays Plc said it will increase its stake in
the South African lender to 62.3 percent from 55.5 percent and
combine most of its African operations with the Johannesburg-
based lender to boost growth across the continent, according to
Absa’s regulatory statement today. Absa will be renamed Barclays
Africa Group Ltd., it said.  Gold Declines  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-largest producer
of the metal, fell 2 percent in Johannesburg, on course for the
lowest close since Sept. 4. Gold declined for a third day.  Largan Precision Co. (3008)  jumped 7 percent in Taipei, the most
in four years, after sales last month more than doubled.  Poly
Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , China’s second-biggest listed developer,
gained 1.6 percent in  Shanghai  after November sales jumped 77
percent.  NHN Corp. (035420) , South Korea’s largest Internet search-engine
operator,  tumbled  7.9 percent in Seoul, the most in a year and
the biggest decline in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  KTB
Investment & Securities Co. said the company’s mobile games
business performed worse than expected.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest software exporter,
sank 1.9 percent to the lowest close since Nov. 20 in Mumbai.
Infosys will be replaced by Facebook Inc. on the Nasdaq-100
Index next week, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  