-- Motlanthe’s Indecision May Cost Him South African ANC Post
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-12-07T15:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/motlanthe-s-indecision-may-have-cost-him-south-african-anc-post.html
Kgalema Motlanthe’s failure to openly
challenge South African President Jacob Zuma for the leadership
of the  African National Congress  threatens to leave him
sidelined in the ruling party.  Nominations made by ANC members ahead of a party election
next week show Zuma could win backing from about 70 percent of
the 4,500 conference delegates to retain leadership for a second
five-year term. Zuma’s supporters dropped Motlanthe, 63, from
their list of preferred candidates for the top six party
positions, with most opting for  Cyril Ramaphosa , the union
leader turned tycoon, to replace him as deputy ANC leader.  Zuma, 70, who wrested control of the ANC from  Thabo Mbeki 
in a party election in 2007, has faced little opposition to his
re-election as party leader even as his administration battles
to curb a 26 percent  unemployment  rate and public protests over
a lack of housing, water and other services. Motlanthe abided by
a party ban on campaigning and refused to say if he would
contest the presidency, a strategy that may have backfired.  “ANC members are wondering if they want a leader who is
not willing to take a position,” Sipho Seepe, a political
analyst in  Pretoria , said in a Dec. 3 phone interview. “It’s a
reluctance which shows a certain degree of cowardice.”  Rand Weakens  The 100-year-old ANC led the fight against white
segregationist rule and has dominated South African politics
since sweeping to power under  Nelson Mandela  in 1994. If Zuma is
re-elected at the ANC’s national conference from Dec. 16-20, he
becomes the party’s presidential candidate in the country’s next
vote scheduled for 2014.  The incoming ANC president is faced with restoring investor
confidence in an environment of slowing growth. The rand has
declined 5.1 percent against the dollar since Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded South Africa’s credit rating on Sept. 27. The
currency was trading at 8.6764 against the dollar as of 5:50
p.m. in Johannesburg.  Motlanthe yesterday praised Zuma in a lecture organized by
the ANC to commemorate its centenary. Zuma was instrumental in
political talks that led to the first all-race elections in 1994
and in helping to end violence between the ANC and rivals in
KwaZulu-Natal, Motlanthe said, according to the South African
Press Association.  “President  Jacob Zuma ’s life is exemplary of how positive
thinking thrives against all odds,” the Johannesburg-based SAPA
quoted Motlanthe as saying.  ‘Still Agonizing’  Zuma won majority support in six of the nine provinces,
while Motlanthe won backing from the other three. The party’s
electoral commission will now approach candidates for the top
six positions to determine if they’re willing to accept
nomination.  “I am still agonizing over it,” Motlanthe told reporters
in Pretoria on Nov. 30. “I don’t have to be in a position of
leadership. I have never regarded myself as having a political
career.”  Motlanthe, a former labor leader, served as president of
the country for eight months between the time Mbeki was ousted
from his post and Zuma installed after April 2009 elections. As
deputy president he has been responsible for coordinating the
building of new  power plants , improving railways and expanding
ports, while also overseeing the government’s anti-AIDS program.  Ramaphosa Nominated  “Even the people who are very loyal to him might have been
discouraged by the fact that he hasn’t made clear that he is
prepared to stand,” Somadoda Fikeni, a political analyst at the
Pretoria-based University of South Africa, said in a Dec. 3
phone interview. “This is hardly a way of contesting this
race.”  Motlanthe’s popularity has improved amongst ANC members,
according to a poll by research company Ipsos Markinor. His
average approval rating jumped to 64 percent in November from 57
percent in May, according to a survey of 3,563 randomly selected
adult South Africans. Zuma’s rating among ANC supporters slipped
to 70 percent from 71 percent in May, Ipsos said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Even so, Motlanthe says he isn’t interested in striking
deals with various factions within the ANC that would allow him
to retain his post. That may lessen his chances of winning a top
post in the party and pave the way for Ramaphosa, who is the
second-richest black South African, according to Johannesburg-
based Sunday Times newspaper.  Divisive Battle  Motlanthe “is clearly trying to play quite a principled
game,” said Zwelethu Jolobe, a political analyst at the
University of  Cape Town . “I have yet to see a candidate who has
been successful on that basis. For the position of deputy
president, it looks like Ramaphosa pretty much has it in the
bag.”  Ramaphosa, 60, hasn’t said whether he will contest the
election. Party officials may yet broker a deal in which
Motlanthe retains the deputy president post by agreeing not to
challenge Zuma, while Ramaphosa is persuaded to refuse the No. 2
spot, Seepe said.  Many senior ANC members want to avoid a repetition of the
divisive leadership battle that occurred at its last elective
conference in 2007 when Mbeki was ousted and hope to still reach
consensus over posts, said Daniel Silke, a political analyst and
author of “Tracking the Future: Top trends that will shape
 South Africa  and the World”.  “The ANC cannot withstand another tear in its political
fabric,” Silke said in a Nov. 30 phone interview from Cape
Town. “This is a short-term patchwork job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  