-- Tottenham May Make $37 Mln Offer for Moutinho: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-06T11:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/tottenham-may-make-37-mln-offer-for-moutinho-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Spurs Spree?  Tottenham Hotspur may make a 24 million-pound ($39 million)
offer for Porto player Joao Moutinho, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas, who managed Porto before
taking charge at Chelsea, watched the 26-year-old Moutinho play
earlier this week in their 2-1 defeat to Paris Saint-Germain in
the  Champions League .  Honda Swoop?  Moscow CSKA player Keisuke Honda may join Liverpool in a 12
million-pound move in January, the  Daily Star  reported.  The Japan international, whose contract runs out after this
season, has recently been criticized by his coach for his
performance on the pitch.  Fellaini to Russia?  Everton player Marouane Fellaini is wanted by Russian side
Zenit St Petersburg, the  Sun  reported. Chelsea and Manchester
City are also interested in the player.  Newest Galaxy?  Kaka, who joined Real Madrid three years ago from AC Milan
for 56 million pounds, may move to Los Angeles Galaxy after
failing to secure a spot in the first team, the  Sun  reported.  The 30-year-old, who has struggled with a long-term knee
injury, has started one league game this season.  The Galaxy may be interested in Kaka following the
departure of  David Beckham , the paper said.  Mona Mario  Manchester City striker  Mario Balotelli  is “as valuable as
the  Mona Lisa ,” the  Guardian  said, citing his agent Mino
Raiola.  Speculation had mounted the Italian may be moving back to
his home country after AC Milan president Silvio Berlusconi
confirmed his interest. Balotelli has started in only one of
City’s last eight games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  