-- Moutai Slumps on Product Testing Speculation: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-06T11:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/moutai-slumps-on-product-testing-speculation-shanghai-mover.html
Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519)  fell to the
lowest in nine months on speculation samples of its drinks were
tested by an external food safety agency after excessive
plasticizer was found in a rival’s products.  Kweichow Moutai, the biggest producer of baijiu liquor,
dropped 1.2 percent in Shanghai trading today, the lowest close
since March 7. The shares are being hurt by speculation that
some consumers sent samples of its white spirit to a food safety
agency run by the Hong Kong government to test for plasticizer
levels, according to Liu Wei, an analyst at  Masterlink
Securities Corp. (2856)   There is speculation the results on the Moutai tests may be
“out very soon,” Shanghai-based Liu said in a phone interview
today. “It might have caused some panic selling in the
market.”  Elizabeth Au, media officer at the Hong Kong government’s
Food and Environmental Hygiene Department, said the agency
didn’t conduct any checks on Moutai products. The company’s
drinks as well as the materials and equipment used during
production meet national standards, the company said in a
statement to the Shanghai stock exchange today. The Guizhou-
based company doesn’t add additives during production, it said.  Some drinks made by Chinese liquor-maker  JiuGuiJiu Co. (000799)  were
found to have more than three times the permitted level of
dibutyl phthalate, a plasticizer used to flavor drinks and in
plastic containers, the Xinhua News Agency reported on Nov. 21.  Jishou, Hunan-based spirit maker JiuGuiJiu apologized after
the Xinhua report, saying that it would run strict checks on its
distribution and packaging processes to rectify the issue.  The Moutai stock decline was also due to signs that baijiu
demand will remain weak as the slowdown in the economy and a
government clampdown on public spending on cars, dining and
travel weighs on the sector, Liu said. Prices have remained flat
this year, when year-end demand usually drove up prices of high-
end liquors in the past, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  