-- Toxic Cloud Covers Downtown Buenos Aires From Container Fire
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-12-06T18:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/toxic-cloud-covers-downtown-buenos-aires-from-container-fire-1-.html
A toxic cloud covered downtown Buenos
Aires, forcing the evacuation of some buildings, after a fire
broke out in a container loaded with pesticide in the city’s
port, delaying flights and public transport.  The fire, which began this morning and caused a chemical
reaction between its contents, has been extinguished, Sergio
Berni, the national security secretary, told reporters today in
Buenos Aires.  “The pesticide presents a low level of danger and affects
the respiratory tract,” Berni said.  People should stay inside buildings with windows and doors
closed if they can’t leave the area quickly, the city’s  Civil
Defense  chief Daniel Russo said an interview with CN23
television channel. Argentina’s Health Ministry said in an e-
mailed statement that the container had a pesticide called
thiodicarb, a product of “low toxicity.” Russo had earlier in
the morning said that the toxic cloud was caused by mercury.  Pedestrians in the city center covered their faces with
masks and handkerchiefs as the fumes caused tearing and
vomiting. Some subway and train services were canceled, a
railway terminal and streets near the port closed, Todo Noticias
television channel reported. The subways resumed normal
activities as of 2:53 p.m. local time. A cruise ship in the port
was evacuated.  The rains in the city this morning have prevented the toxic
cloud from expanding, Gabriel Ive, national director of sanitary
emergency at the Health Ministry, said in a telephone interview.
He said people should wash their clothes that have been in
contact with the rains.  “There has been an increase in the number of people who
went to hospitals suffering from the symptoms,” Ive said.
“None of them have been of severity.”  Trading on the  Buenos Aires  stock exchange started as
normal at 11 a.m. local time. Stocks in the  benchmark Merval 
index fell 1.14 percent to 2,441.93 at 3:36 p.m. in Buenos
Aires, the biggest drop in two weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  