-- Palm Oil Shipments From Indonesia Falling to Five-Month Low
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-12-07T04:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/palm-oil-shipments-from-indonesia-seen-falling-to-five-month-low.html
Palm oil  exports from  Indonesia , the
world’s largest producer, will probably drop to the lowest level
in five months in December as a global economic slowdown curbs
demand, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Shipments may fall 3 percent to 1.55 million metric tons
from an estimated 1.6 million tons in November, according to the
median of estimates from two traders, a plantation executive,
refiner and an analyst compiled by Bloomberg. Inventories may
remain unchanged at 3 million tons, the survey showed.
Production is set to drop to 2.51 million tons from 2.54 million
tons, four of the respondents said.  Palm oil, used in everything from soaps to candy to
biofuels, has slumped 24 percent since the end of August as a
decline in demand from  Europe  and  China  boosted stockpiles in
Indonesia and Malaysia, the top growers. The commodity will
probably tumble into a  bear market  next year as monthly output
in Malaysia and Indonesia surges to records, according to Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.  “Demand from Europe is still weak especially for
biodiesel,” Sahat Sinaga, executive director of the Indonesian
Vegetable Oil Industry Association, said by phone from Jakarta.
“We could see demand picking up in the first quarter with  India 
maintaining its import tariff and recovery in China. It will
help boost prices.”  Cheaper Oil  Futures in  Kuala Lumpur , the global benchmark, may rally to
2,700 ringgit ($886) a ton by January, Sinaga said. The
commodity will trade between 2,300 ringgit and 2,600 ringgit a
ton between now and February, and drop below 2,200 ringgit in
August or earlier, Godrej’s Mistry told a conference on Nov. 30.  The contract for February delivery was little changed at
2,296 ringgit a ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange today.
Futures have lost 28 percent this year, set for the biggest
annual loss since the financial crisis in 2008.  Food demand for palm oil “is still relatively stable
because palm is cheap compared with other oils,” said Hariyanto Wijaya, an analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas. Exports typically
slow in December because of year-end holidays, he said.  Indonesia’s exports this month would be the lowest since
July, when they reached 1.51 million tons, according to data
from the palm oil association, known as Gapki. Shipments were
1.8 million tons and 1.5 million tons in November and December
of last year, data showed. Gapki, which releases monthly export
data, doesn’t publish stockpiles and production figures.  Malaysia’s  inventories  probably held near a record last
month as production exceeded exports, according to another
Bloomberg survey published yesterday. Stockpiles were 2.5
million tons compared with 2.51 million tons in October,
according to the median of estimates from four analysts and two
plantation executives. Output probably fell 5.7 percent to 1.83
million tons, while  exports  gained 1.7 percent to 1.79 million
tons, the survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  