-- Palo Alto Networks Reaches Lowest Price Since IPO
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-12-07T14:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/palo-alto-networks-first-quarter-sales-misses-highest-estimates.html
Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  fell to its
lowest level since its market debut after reporting fiscal
first-quarter sales that failed to meet analysts’ most bullish
estimates, a sign of lofty projections for growth at the maker
of firewalls and other security technologies.  Shares of  Santa Clara , California-based  Palo Alto  declined
2.9 percent to $49.82 at 9:41 a.m., after earlier trading at
$48.50, the lowest intraday price since the company’s July
initial public offering. Through yesterday, the stock had gained
22 percent since the IPO.  Sales during the three months that ended in October rose 50
percent to $85.9 million, the company said in a statement
yesterday. While that was more than than the average prediction
for $83.8 million, the highest estimate was $87.3 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit before certain
costs was 4 cents a share, higher than analysts’  projection  of 3
cents a share.  Palo Alto, whose technologies are a combination of hardware
and software, is benefiting as companies seek to defend against
sophisticated hacking attacks that traditional security
technologies have had difficulty stopping. The company is
carving out a niche in an industry dominated by large rivals
such as  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)   “The expectations for investors are pretty high for Palo
Alto,” said  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets &
Co. in  New York . “This company has been kind of put in a
different sphere in terms of how investors view it.”  Ives has a market perform rating on the stock, equivalent
to neutral. The net loss was $3.52 million, or 5 cents a share,
compared with net income of $4.12 million a year earlier.  Second-Quarter Outlook  For the second quarter, profit before certain costs will be
4 cents a share, Steffan Tomlinson, Palo Alto’s chief financial
officer, said on a conference call yesterday. That forecast is
in line with the average estimate of analysts. Sales will be $90
million to $94 million, he said, compared with analysts’
projection for $90.7 million.  The rise in advanced threats and increased regulatory
requirements around data protection is helping drive sales.
Worldwide spending on security technologies is expected to grow
to $66.2 billion in 2013, a 9 percent increase from 2012,
according to market research firm  Gartner Inc.   Palo Alto raised $299.5 million in its July 19 IPO, when it
sold 7.13 million shares, including an over-allotment, at $42 a
piece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  