-- Peru Holds Rate at 4.25 Percent as Inflation Slows to Target
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-12-06T23:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/peru-holds-benchmark-rate-at-4-25-as-inflation-slows-to-target.html
Peru ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 19th consecutive month as inflation and
credit growth ease in  South America ’s fastest growing economy.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, matching the
forecasts of 12 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The central bank increased lenders’ reserve requirements
three times since September to restrain credit growth and stem a
rally in the  sol , which rose to a 15-year high this week.
Inflation last month slowed to the central bank’s target range
of 1 percent to 3 percent the first time since mid-2011, giving
policy makers leeway to gauge the effect of  Europe ’s debt crisis
on investment and exports, said Cesar Penaranda, the head of
economics at the Lima Chamber of Commerce.  “The outlook for next year is very similar to this year so
there’s no need to change monetary policy,” said Penaranda,
who’s also a vice president at Banco de Comercio, in a phone
interview from Lima. “It’s not clear where the European
situation is headed.”  Concern that the global economic outlook could deteriorate
has led policy makers to keep rates unchanged for the longest
period since Peru’s central bank began targeting inflation in
2002.  The central bank said today’s decision reflects “economic
growth close to its potential and a still highly uncertain
external backdrop,” according to a  statement  posted on its
website. Inflation will continue to slow as supply of some
perishable foods improves, the bank said.  Credit, Investment  The monetary authority increased the average reserve
requirement for sol and dollar deposits by 0.75 percentage point
on Oct. 30, the largest of the four increases this year.  The annual pace of bank lending slowed to 16.4 percent in
October after reaching a six-month high in September on surging
demand for  car loans  and mortgages, the central bank said Nov.
26.  The banking regulator last month told lenders to set aside
more funds against potential losses on mortgages and car loans
after delinquency rates rose to a two-year high of 1.79 percent
in October.  The sol’s appreciation has increased the appeal of dollar-
denominated credit, which accounts for 43.6 percent of all
lending in Peru.  Private investment in roads, plant expansions, industry,
infrastructure and house purchases will fuel bank lending growth
of as much as 18 percent next year, said Walter Bayly, chief
executive officer at  Banco de Credito del Peru (CREDITC1) , the country’s
biggest bank, in a Nov. 13 interview.  Growth  Gross domestic product expanded 6.5 percent in the  third
quarter  from a year earlier, the fastest pace among  Latin
America ’s seven biggest economies, as infrastructure and mining
projects spur construction activity.  Mining investment next year will increase to as much as $10
billion from about $7 billion this year, Mining Minister Jorge Merino told Congress Nov. 29.  Copper, Peru’s top export, has gained 6.1 percent this year
to $3.6385 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  Total exports dropped 3.9 percent in October from a year
earlier, and are down 3.6 percent in the first 10 months of
2012, the Trade Ministry said Dec. 3.  ‘Inflation Pressure’  The  annual inflation  rate fell to 2.66 percent in November
from 3.25 percent the previous month and was the lowest among
Latin America’s seven largest economies. Velarde yesterday said
inflation will slow to 2 percent in 2013 from 2.8 percent this
year.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 has fallen 1.83 percentage point to 3.92
percent this year.  The sol traded at 2.5749 per  U.S. dollar  today, its
strongest level since 1996. The currency has gained 4.3 percent
in 2012, the tenth-best performance against the dollar among 31
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide.  The central bank will likely raise its benchmark rate as
stronger global economy causes inflation to accelerate next
year, said Nader Nazmi, an economist at BNP Paribas.  “With the economy growing so rapidly, you may get some
inflation pressure building up,” Nazmi said in a phone
interview from New York. “All you really need is some
stabilization in the global economy and demand for Peru’s
exports, and that’s likely to happen next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  