-- Petrobras Asset Sales Fund Deep-Water Oil Discoveries
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-12-06T19:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/petrobras-asset-sales-fund-deep-water-oil-discoveries.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s
biggest producer of oil in deep waters, is accelerating asset
sales in Brazil as it seeks to fund development of the largest
crude finds in the past decade.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known,
said last week it agreed to sell its minority stake in two
heavy-oil fields to Billionaire  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo &
Gas Participacoes SA for $270 million. The deal followed the
company’s decision last month to transfer 30 percent stakes in
three offshore properties to  QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3)  to reduce its
share of the investments.  The state-run producer announced in June it’s seeking to
raise as much as $14.8 billion through asset sales and
restructuring to fund deep-water oil discoveries that may hold
more than 50 billion barrels of oil. In addition to assets
already sold in Brazil, Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster said in October the company is “close” to selling part
of its Gulf of Mexico properties for as much as $8 billion.  “They are gathering resources -- financial and human
resources -- to develop pre-salt production, which is
Petrobras’s main challenge in the coming years,” Bruno
Piagentini Caloni, an analyst at brokerage Coinvalores, said by
telephone from Sao Paulo. The company may be focusing more on
Brazilian sales right now because “the outlook abroad is more
complicated at the moment,” he said.  Worst Performance  Petrobras is spending $236.5 billion as part of its five-
year investment plan, which includes developing the so-called
pre-salt region. The company has faced delays in carrying out
exploration in the region and getting the rigs it needs to tap
oil trapped under as much as 3,000 meters (9,800 feet) of salt
and rocks below the Atlantic seabed.  The producer has lost 20 percent for investors this year in
U.S. dollar terms, giving it the worst performance of oil
companies with a market value of more than $50 billion. The
stock fell 1.3 percent to 18.70 reais in Sao Paulo trading.  The sale program includes assets from various business
units in  Brazil  and abroad, and it will mainly be completed
before the end of 2013, Petrobras said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. It has gained 5.8 billion reais ($2.78 billion) by
freeing resources under guarantee at the Petrobras workers
pension fund and 1.7 billion reais in debt from the electricity
sector.  “The issue of divestment includes two principal elements:
divestment in itself and the use of working capital,” Chief
Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said in an e-mailed reply to
questions.  ‘Marginal Fields’  It makes sense for Petrobras to sell some of its oil fields
on land to shift money and staff to fields off the coast where
production levels are higher, said Wagner Freire, an independent
energy consultant and former exploration and production manager
at Petrobras.  “They lose a lot of time with marginal fields on shore,”
Freire said in a telephone interview from Rio.  Ninety percent of Brazil’s oil and 76 percent of its
natural gas were produced at offshore fields in September,
according to the National Petroleum Agency, Brazil’s oil
regulator. Fields operated by Petrobras pumped 94 percent of
total output.  Petrobras is heading for its first yearly output drop since
2004 as fields in the Campos basin off the coast of Rio de
Janeiro state decline faster than the company expected. The
company posted an unexpected 1.35 billion-real loss in the
second quarter, followed by a drop in profit in the third
quarter that surprised analysts.  Government-Run  The oil producer has lost a record $8 billion at its
refining unit this year as Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff’s
battle with inflation means the state-run company must sell
imported gasoline below cost.  “You have a company that’s run for the government and not
for shareholders,” Johan Van Geeteruyen, who helps manage about
13 billion euros ($17 billion) at Petercam SA in Brussels, said
in a telephone interview. “They’ve over-promised and under-
delivered, that’s the main issue.”  Petercam sold its Petrobras shares more than a year ago, he
said. The company needs to improve output and profitability
before the fund considers buying the stock again, said Van
Geeteruyen.  Until the discovery of pre-salt oil, Petrobras was
expanding in foreign countries to produce and refine enough
crude to compete on a global scale, said Michael Wang, an
analyst at IHS Herold in Norwalk,  Connecticut . Petrobras shifted
its focus to domestic output after discovering the offshore Tupi
field in 2007.  Barbassa said in October that talks are also being held to
sell “some” African assets, either fully or to form joint
ventures.  “Before, they aspired to be an integrated international
oil company like  Exxon Mobil , but now I think it’s more
appropriate for them to be a domestic company,” Wang said in a
telephone interview. “There’s a shift in strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  