-- Philippine Peso Falls on Speculation Fund Inflows Will Be Curbed
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-12-06T08:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/philippine-peso-falls-on-speculation-fund-inflows-will-be-curbed.html
The Philippine peso fell the most in
three weeks and bets for wider swings increased after the
central bank said it was considering measures to deal with
rising capital inflows. Bonds due in 2037 snapped a six-day gain.  Governor Amando Tetangco said in  Manila  yesterday that
policy makers were discussing non-deliverable forwards with
members of the Bankers Association of the  Philippines .  South
Korea  tightened limits on the amount of currency forward
positions banks are allowed to hold last week. The peso has
advanced 7 percent this year, the second-best performance among
Asian currencies, as investors bought the nation’s assets to
benefit from its improving economy.  “The possibility of further measures to limit flows is
prompting the market to pare some of their long-peso
positions,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist in  Singapore 
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. A long position is a bet
that the value of an asset will rise.  The peso dropped 0.3 percent to 40.963 per dollar in Manila,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. That’s the biggest decline
since Nov. 15. The currency reached 40.840 on Nov. 29, the
strongest level since March 2008. One-month implied volatility,
a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, climbed as much as 29 basis points, or 0.29 percentage
point, before erasing gains to 4.4 percent, unchanged from
yesterday.  The nation’s gross domestic product rose 7.1 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, the most in two years,
official data showed last week.  Risk Cover  The central bank ordered banks to set aside more funds to
cover risks on currency forwards this year. In July, it banned
foreign funds from its special-deposit accounts that pay more
than government Treasury bills. It cut the overnight borrowing
rate four times in 2012 to a record 3.5 percent to help reduce
the appeal of the nation’s higher-yielding assets. Policy makers
next meet on Dec. 13.  Forwards are agreements in which assets are bought and sold
at current prices for settlement at a later specified time and
date. Non-deliverable forwards are settled in dollars rather
than the underlying asset.  The yield on the 6.125 percent notes due October 2037 rose
four basis points to 5.59 percent in Manila, according to prices
from Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  