-- Philippine Stock Index Rises to Record on Demand, Rates Outlook
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-12-06T08:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/philippine-stock-index-rises-to-record-on-demand-rates-outlook.html
Philippine  stocks  rose to a record
after overseas investors made the biggest purchases of the
nation’s equities in two weeks amid speculation the central bank
will keep borrowing costs low.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  climbed 1.3 percent,
the most since Sept. 14, to 5,763.64 as of the close in  Manila .
The largest contributor to the gain was  Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Co. (TEL) , the nation’s biggest company by value, which
climbed 2.8 percent.  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO)  and  Megaworld Corp. (MEG)  rose
at least 4 percent, leading banks and builders higher.  Overseas investors bought a net $81.9 million of shares
yesterday, the most since $146 million on Nov. 21, stock
exchange data show. The purchases came after government data
showed Philippine inflation slowed to a five-month low in
November and Central Bank Governor Amando Tetangco said his
bank’s monetary stance “remains appropriate.”  “There is growing confidence that more investors will
raise their Philippine exposure,” Allan Yu, who helps manage
about $10.3 billion at  Metropolitan Bank & Trust (MBT)  Co., said by
phone from Manila today. “While there might not be further rate
cuts, the central bank will most likely keep borrowing costs
low.”  Philippine economic growth accelerated to 7.1 percent in
the third quarter, the fastest pace since 2010, as the central
bank cut overnight borrowing rates four times this year to a
record low of 3.5 percent. The bank will hold its next policy
meeting on Dec. 13.  Consumer prices  grew 2.8 percent last month,
the statistics office reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  