-- Picasso, Matisse Shows Dazzle on NYC Holiday Art Walk
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/picasso-matisse-shows-dazzle-on-nyc-holiday-art-walk.html
To see great art in  New York  City
this holiday season, take a festive walk along the Upper East
Side’s museum mile. The neighborhood currently hosts a number of
must-see exhibitions.  Begin at the Guggenheim Museum, at Fifth Avenue and 89th
Street, with the tour-de-force “Picasso: Black and White”
(through Jan. 23).  Like fellow Spaniards Velazquez and Goya before him,
Picasso had a lifelong love affair with black, white and gray,
pushing tones to metaphoric extremes to create form.  An odalisque, like a gathering storm, is bruised greenish-
plum while two lovers are incised in burnished smoke. One
portrait glints like gilded silver. Marie-Therese Walter seems
churned out of butter.  Next, travel down Fifth to the Metropolitan Museum of Art
for “Bernini: Sculpting in Clay” (through Jan. 6) and “Matisse:
In Search of True Painting” (through Mar. 17).  These are monumental shows, one of works by a Modernist
master and the other of small terracotta studies -- preparatory
drawings in clay -- by a Baroque tempest. The exhibitions
complement one another, and seeing them together puts the focus
on each artist’s unique creative process.  Avoid the gift shops: Museum catalogs and coffee table
books weigh you down.  Calder Acrobats  Then head to L&M Arts for “Calder: The Complete Bronzes”
(through Feb. 9). Just off Madison Avenue on 78th Street, this
beautiful townhouse offers an intimate, two-floor show of
Calder’s small bronze sculptures and many of the original
plasters.  Ring the bell for admittance. Inside, primitive and playful
elephants, acrobats, abstract snakes, vines, fingers and flowers
enliven the galleries with their erotic balancing acts and
menacing tendrils.  A bit further down Madison, on the second floor of the
Carlyle Hotel, is Blain/Di Donna’s “Jean Arp: A Collection of Wood
Reliefs and Collages” (through Dec. 11).  Not everything here is a masterwork, but Arp shows are
rare. Grab this last-chance opportunity to see a range of the
abstract sculptor’s artworks, as well as his creative process,
from paper cutout to finished wood relief.  One marble sculpture conflates hand, bone, hammer and
cloud. Another is like a keyhole into an alternate universe.  Sinister Pop  Overstimulated? Then go downstairs to the Carlyle’s
Bemelmans Bar, a classic New York institution where you can
enjoy the Madeline murals, live piano, great bar snacks and a
stiff drink.  But if you still have energy, save Bemelmans for later: Mix
things up just one block south at the Whitney Museum of American
Art.  Check out the “Richard Artschwager!” retrospective. His paintings
are frivolous photorealism, while his sculptures -- highly
crafted useless furniture in wood and Formica -- conjure 1970
kitchens yet touch on Kafkaesque conundrums.  Don’t miss “Sinister Pop” and “Dark and Deadpan: Pop in TV
and the Movies” (both through Mar. 31).  Their wildly diverse subjects and objects are jazzy, raw,
psychedelic, humorous, documentary and political.  They include Lee Bontecou’s sculpted, threatening orifices,
Warhol’s “Marilyn,” Nancy Grossman’s S&M “Head 1968,” Claes Oldenburg’s
giant, floppy cigarette butts and wonderful contextual
photographs by William Eggleston, Lee Friedlander, Bill Owens and Weegee.  Working in dialogue, the artworks here create a sense of
the zeitgeist that brought civil rights to the South, man to the
moon and Nixon to  China .  Together, these two strong exhibitions make for the most
cohesive grouping of Pop Art I’ve ever seen.  “Picasso: Black and White” runs through Jan. 23 at the
Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-423-
3500;  http://www.guggenheim.org .  “Bernini: Sculpting in Clay” continues through Jan. 6 and
“Matisse: In Search of True Painting” runs through Mar. 17 at
the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1000 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-
212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  “Calder: The Complete Bronzes” runs through Feb. 9 at L&M
Arts, 45 E. 78th St. Information: +1-212-861-0020;
 http://www.lmgallery.com .  “Jean Arp: A Collection of Wood Reliefs and Collages” runs
through Dec. 11 at Blain/Di Donna, 981 Madison Ave. Information:
+1-212-259-0444;  http://www.blaindidonna.com .  “Richard Artschwager!” continues through Feb. 3 and
“Sinister Pop” and “Dark and Deadpan: Pop in TV and the Movies”
run through Mar. 31 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 945
Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-570-3600;
 http://www.whitney.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and Jason
Harper on  cars .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 