-- Poland Will ‘Radically’ Cut Foreign Bond Sales After Record 2012
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2012-12-06T14:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/poland-will-radically-cut-foreign-bond-sales-after-record-2012.html
Poland plans to “radically” reduce
its sale of bonds denominated in foreign currencies next year
after a record 2012, as the country enjoys strong demand for
domestic debt among international investors.  The government has already obtained about 75 percent of its
2013 foreign currency financing needs amounting to 6.5 billion
euros ($8.5 billion), Deputy Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk
said in an interview today. Poland will also borrow more than 2
billion euros from the  European Investment Bank  and the  World
Bank  in 2013 because of “better” conditions than on the
market, he said.  The European Union’s largest eastern member sold $12.1
billion of bonds in euros, dollars, Swiss francs and yen this
year, the second-biggest amount among emerging-market
governments after  China , to take advantage of record-low yields,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. International
investors’ holdings of zloty-denominated sovereign bonds rose to
a record this year as the government pledged to narrow the
 budget deficit  and on prospects for interest-rate cuts.  “Just a few years ago, most international investors were
interested in our foreign-currency bonds,” Kowalczyk, in charge
of public debt management, said from his Warsaw office. “This
has now changed and we see tremendous interest in zloty bonds.”  Lowest Yield  The additional yield on  Poland ’s dollar bonds over U.S.
Treasuries tumbled 186 basis points this year to 124 at 2:54
p.m. in Warsaw, according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase
& Co. The yield on Poland’s 2020 euro-denominated note fell to a
record low of 2.19 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Because of the accumulated amount of foreign currencies
we hold, we expect foreign bond issues in 2013 to be radically
lower than this year,” said Kowalczyk, who joined the ministry
in August after working for lenders including Citigroup Inc.’s
Polish unit and at Merrill Lynch & Co. in  London .  Foreign investors held 186 billion zloty ($58.9 billion) of
zloty-denominated notes at the end of October, or 35 percent of
the total, and up from 152.5 billion zloty at the end of last
year, according to the Finance Ministry’s  website .  U.S. investors account for about half of foreign-held
domestic bonds and there is a “strong” interest from German
pension funds, Kowalczyk said. The ministry also sees rising
interest in bonds from foreign central banks and is trying to
lure investors from  Asia  and the  Middle East , he said.  Growth Performance  Foreign investors view Poland as a “regional safe haven”
because of its “prudent” debt management and “credible”
fiscal policy, Jaime Reusche and Bart Oosterveld, analysts at
Moody’s Investors Service in  New York , said in a report on Nov.
27. The government plans to cut the  budget deficit  to 3.5
percent of economic output this year from 7.9 percent in 2010.
The economy was the EU’s only one to avoid recession since 2008
debt crisis.  “Poland’s growth compared with other countries is key for
foreign investors,” Kowalczyk said.  While Poland’s $514.5 billion economy continues to expand,
it’s also feeling the impact of the recession in the euro
region, the country’s biggest export market. Growth slowed to an
annual rate of 1.4 percent in the third quarter, the weakest
pace in more than three years. The central bank yesterday cut
 interest rates  for a second month and said it can’t “afford a
pause” in easing monetary policy.  Kowalczyk said economic growth of around 2 percent isn’t
“ruled out” next year, compared with 2.2 percent projected in
the budget draft. It was “too early” to talk about changes in
the budget assumptions for 2013, he said.  German ‘Bounce’  “We are betting on a scenario that German economy will
bounce back in the second half of next year,” Kowalczyk said.  The  Finance Ministry  has obtained around a fifth of next
year’s borrowing needs and its cash reserves exceeded 58 billion
zloty at Nov. 30, as the country seeks to insure again the risk
of deterioration in the euro region’s debt crisis.  The government currently earns more by depositing that cash
than it would cost to raise those funds on the market as “a lot
of” rate cuts have already been discounted, Kowalczyk said.  The expectations for monetary easing don’t have to
translate into a weaker zloty as the currency is supported by a
narrowing current account deficit and foreign inflows into the
 debt market , he said.  Poland’s government has sent to parliament new rules
curbing the impact of “speculative” currency swings on its
year-end public debt calculations, Kowalczyk said.  Calculating Debt  The Finance Ministry will continue to use the exchange rate
from the last working day of the year to determine the country’s
public debt level in zloty terms for the year. At the same time,
it plans to apply average annual exchange rates and subtract
funds gathered for the following year’s budget from its debt
stock to work out whether the country has stayed below public
debt levels that would trigger austerity under Polish law.  Thirty-one percent of Poland’s debt is in foreign
currencies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Debt topping 55
percent of economic output would force the government to raise
taxes, according to public finance law. It stood at 53.5 percent
of economic output at the end of 2011 and will be “well below”
the threshold this year, Kowalczyk said.  “We want to avoid a situation in which a significant move
in the currency on the last day of the month will force us to
drastically cut spending,” Kowalczyk said. “The debt itself
will continue to be calculated and reported as before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  