-- U.K. Gilts Gain on Italy Concern, Pound Advances Against Euro
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-06T16:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/pound-is-little-changed-before-bank-of-england-policy-decision.html
U.K. government bonds advanced, with
shorter-maturities leading gains, as signs that the
parliamentary coalition in Italy is losing support boosted
demand for the relative safety of British debt.  Sterling rose for a second day against the euro after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers
had a “wide discussion” on  interest rates  before a policy
decision today. The ECB and the  Bank of England  held their
borrowing costs at record lows today.  Fitch Ratings  said the
“credibility” of the U.K.’s fiscal policy was weakened by
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s admission he is
missing his debt-reduction targets.  “Gilts are still a safe haven,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an
analyst at Investec Bank Plc in  London . “The market is
obviously not too concerned about any rating implications of
yesterday’s statement. Italy could become quite nasty.”  The yield on two-year gilts fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 0.25 percent at 4:10 p.m. London time. The
5 percent gilt due September 2014 rose 0.09, or 90 pence per
1,000-pound ($1,607) face amount, to 108.29. The rate on 10-year
gilts dropped four basis points to 1.74 percent.  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti today survived a
confidence vote after former premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
political party threatened to stop supporting the government,
risking the disintegration of the parliamentary coalition.  The  yield difference  between 10- and 30-year gilts widened
to the most in seven weeks after the government announced
pension-plan revisions that may sap demand for longer-dated
debt.  BOE Policy  “There is a risk of a downgrade but the pension news we
had yesterday is a bigger driver for gilts,” said  Alan Clarke ,
an economist at Scotiabank Europe Plc in London. “Companies are
currently having to buy longer-term bonds to plug their
deficits. If they don’t have to value their future liabilities
so harshly, they aren’t going to buy so many, so the price is
falling.”  The yield on 30-year gilts fell four basis points to 3.09
percent, leaving the  spread  over 10-year yields at 135 basis
points. It earlier climbed to 137 basis points, the most since
Oct. 17.  The pound rose to a one-week high against the euro after
Draghi said weakness in the region’s economy will persist into
next year, leaving the door ajar for interest-rate cuts.  Speaking at a press conference in  Frankfurt  after policy
makers left the ECB’s key rate unchanged at 0.75 percent, he
said the central bank had cut its growth forecasts for the euro
area and said it saw “downside risks” for the economy.  Fitch Warning  Sterling gained 0.6 percent to 80.73 pence per euro, and
was 0.2 percent weaker at $1.6063.  Osborne told lawmakers yesterday that his fiscal watchdog,
the  Office for Budget Responsibility , believes he will miss his
target to begin cutting the burden of government debt in
2015-16. Instead, debt as a share of gross domestic product will
peak at 79.9 percent in that year, and then start to decline in
following years, he said.  Fitch said yesterday that missing the targets “weakens the
credibility of the U.K.’s fiscal framework, which is one of the
factors supporting” the country’s AAA rating.  France ’s 10-year
yield dropped to a record low for a second day even after
Moody’s Investors Service cut its Aaa rating last month.  Agencies ‘Lagging’  “I’m firmly in the camp that the market is way ahead of
the rating agencies,” the U.K. Debt Management Office Chief
Executive Officer Robert Stheeman said in an interview
yesterday. “Rating agencies are lagging, not leading,
indicators and it’s most likely that the market has already
anticipated any move. For example, France has been downgraded
and their yields touched an all-time low.”  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by
Governor  Mervyn King , today maintained its so-called
quantitative-easing  target  at 375 billion pounds, as predicted
by all 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The central
bank’s key interest  rate  was also held, at a record-low 0.5
percent.  Gilts returned 2.8 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. U.S. Treasuries also
gained 2.8 percent and French debt earned 9.6 percent.  Sterling has appreciated 1.2 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro declined 2.4 percent and
the dollar fell 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  