-- Pregnant Duchess of Cambridge Discharged From London Hospital
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-12-06T11:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/pregnant-duchess-of-cambridge-discharged-from-london-hospital.html
The Duchess of Cambridge left
hospital today after she was admitted for acute morning sickness
earlier in the week.  The former  Kate Middleton , 30, was discharged this morning
and went to Kensington Palace with her husband  Prince William .
The couple announced the duchess was in the early stages of
pregnancy on Dec. 3 after she was taken to King Edward VII
hospital in central London with hyperemesis gravidarum, or acute
morning sickness.  The condition, triggered by pregnancy, causes such severe
nausea in as many as 2 percent of women that it prevents food
and liquids from being kept down, threatening  weight loss  and
dehydration.  “The Duchess of Cambridge has been discharged from King
Edward VII hospital and will now head to Kensington Palace for a
period of rest,” the couple’s office at Clarence House in
 London  said in a statement. “Their royal highnesses would like
to thank the staff at the hospital for the care and treatment
the duchess has received.”  The child will follow Queen Elizabeth II’s son, Prince Charles, and William in the line of succession. The British
government said a day after the pregnancy was announced that it
will propose giving princesses the same rights to succeed to the
throne as their brothers.  Current laws, including the 1700 Act of Settlement, give
male heirs precedence over their older sisters. The act also
excludes Roman Catholics or anyone married to a Roman Catholic
from becoming king or queen. Spurred on by the wedding of Prince
William last year, Prime Minister  David Cameron  agreed the law
needed to be changed and lobbied his counterparts from the other
members of the British Commonwealth.  Royal Changes  The process of getting agreement among the 15 countries
that share the monarch to a limited change, which would also
remove the bar on those married to Catholics, was completed this
week. A Succession to the Crown Bill, which would also remove
the bar on those married to Catholics, will be introduced to
Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said Dec. 4.  The duke and duchess, who started dating when they were
students at St. Andrews University in  Scotland , married in
London’s Westminster Abbey on April 29 last year, with 1 million
people lining the streets of London and millions around the
world watching on television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  