-- Private Equity Flips Rise as KKR to Carlyle See Fundraising Slog
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/private-equity-flips-rise-as-kkr-to-carlyle-see-fundraising-slog.html
Private-equity firms are finding that
their best friends these days are other private-equity firms.  Buyout shops struggling with slumping demand for initial
public offerings are instead selling their portfolio companies
to rivals at a pace not seen since 2006. The trend reflects
rough times for the industry -- and risks upsetting their
investors.  These private-to-private deals don’t bring the payoffs from
IPOs or sales to corporate buyers that investors expect when
they pledge their money to buyout funds. They are also
increasing at a time when private-equity returns are falling,
potentially making it harder for firms such as New York-based
 KKR & Co. (KKR)  to attract more money from pensions and endowments
uncomfortable with the strategy.  “It does seem like a confluence of sellers looking for
points on the board and buyers looking to put dry powder to work
before an investment period expires,” said Robert Durden,
managing director of private assets at  Chapel Hill , North
Carolina-based Morgan Creek Capital Management LLC, which
manages $7.5 billion of assets for institutions and wealthy
families.  Some of the biggest institutions, like the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , invest in many private-
equity funds. That had made them both seller and buyer in effect
in some deals, which can drag down their payouts. It happened at
least twice this year to Calpers when private-equity funds
holding the pension’s money sold Party City Holdings Inc. and
TransUnion Corp. to other funds in which Calpers had also
invested, scrapping proposed IPOs, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Deal Flow  “Secondary buyouts are not necessarily troubling, but
limited partners may wonder what deal flow a buyout firm has if
it is only able to find investments in another private-equity
firm’s portfolio,” said Mike Kelly, a managing director at
Hamilton Lane Advisors LLC in Philadelphia, which advises
institutional investors including pension plans. “Limited
partners begin to worry whether certain funds are pursuing these
deals just to put money to work.”  The private-equity industry is turning to so-called
secondary sales as a sluggish economic recovery saps demand for
IPOs. Global initial offerings dropped last quarter to the
second-lowest level since the financial crisis.  In the first nine months the flips have totaled more than
$33 billion -- accounting for one-third of private equity’s
total exits, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Preqin
Ltd., a London-based research firm. That portion is up from 13
percent in the year-earlier period and the biggest share since
at least 2006.  IPO Data  At the same time, IPOs and other public-market sales
account for the lowest proportion of cash generated by U.S.
private-equity exits since 2008, the data show.  In the first three quarters of this year, firms exited 54
investments through public sales, while flipping 115 to other
buyout firms, the data show.  Private-equity sellers are increasingly under pressure to
recoup cash from purchases made during the buyout boom of 2005
to 2007, when firms completed deals worth a record $1.6
trillion. Firms typically have five to six years to invest money
pledged before starting to return it to backers.  “There were a lot of deals held through the downturn that
have gotten to the point where funds want to exit,” said Donn
Cox, the founder of Sacramento-based LP Capital Advisors and an
adviser to Calpers. “Firms are recognizing getting cost back is
better than holding an investment for another five years.”  Less Upside  The risk for buyers of flips is that target companies may
have already yielded significant returns under their first
private-equity owner, leaving less potential upside for the next
firm that buys it, according to Durden. Private-equity firms
frequently buy distressed companies, aiming to reverse their
fortunes and make them profitable before reselling them or
taking them public.  “They’re not necessarily turning up diamonds,” he said.
“They’re buying other private equity-owned businesses.”  In addition, costs related to buying and selling a company
amount to 1 percent to 5 percent of the purchase price, a charge
ultimately paid by investors, according to Cox. To placate these
investors, private-equity firms have been giving them a greater
cut of fees levied on portfolio companies.  Limited partners such as Calpers, invested in both sides of
a secondary buyout, are typically asked to contribute their
proceeds from the sale to the buyer’s firm to fund capital
commitments, delaying a payout.  Joe DeAnda, a spokesman for Calpers, declined to comment.  Party City  In the Party City deal, Calpers had invested in both the
seller, Advent International Corp., and the buyer, Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Party City was
headed for an IPO this year before it was sold in July in a $2.7
billion buyout.  TransUnion, which also planned an IPO, was sold this year
by Madison Dearborn Partners LLC to buyers including Advent in a
deal that valued the company at more than $3 billion. Calpers is
a Madison Dearborn investor, too.  “Advent takes a highly selective view when analyzing a
potential secondary transaction, ensuring that the same rigorous
criteria are met as for a primary transaction,” the firm said
in a marketing document sent to investors in March.  The shift to secondary buyouts comes as more than 1,900
firms were seeking to raise $796.5 billion as of Sept. 30,
making it the most crowded fundraising market since the
financial crisis, according to Preqin.  Enthusiasm Wanes  Yet investors’ enthusiasm for investing in new private-
equity funds has cooled. KKR had raised $6.2 billion from early
2011 through October for its latest North America fund, the New
York-based firm said in an earnings statement at the time.
That’s less than the expected size of as much as $8 billion that
 Global Head  of Capital and Asset Management  Scott Nuttall  gave
on an Oct. 26 conference call with analysts. The firm is raising
money for the fund through early next year, Nuttall said then.
Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for KKR, declined to comment.  Permira Advisers LLP, a London-based firm, has yet to lock
in money from investors on a fund it has been marketing for more
than a year, people familiar with the matter said last month.
Noemie de Andia, a spokeswoman for Permira, declined to comment.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  is one of several firms that
has lowered fees or offered special deals to entice larger
clients.  Leon Black ’s firm, in the midst of raising a new fund
of $12 billion, is sweetening the deal for investors by
allotting them more of the fees it charges portfolio companies
than in its prior fund, according to a marketing document.  Carlyle Moves  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  cut management fees for big investors in a
$10 billion fund it’s seeking to raise, marketing documents
showed in February. It took  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  about four years
to raise a $16 billion fund, completing it in January. Melissa Mandel Kvitko, a spokeswoman for Apollo at Rubenstein Associates
Inc., declined to comment, as did  Christine Anderson , a
Blackstone spokeswoman.  Executives in buyout firms including Carlyle and Blackstone
have forecast lower returns in the industry amid slower economic
growth. Carlyle, which has produced returns averaging about 30
percent over the past 25 years, is targeting gains of about 20
percent when doing deals now,  David Rubenstein , co-chief
executive officer of Carlyle, said in a Nov. 12 interview on
Bloomberg Television.  Firms that increasingly rely on secondary buyouts are
“trying to perpetuate an asset class that’s become very
overcrowded and where the returns are going to be much less,”
said  Hugh Johnson , chairman of  Albany , New York-based Hugh
Johnson Advisors LLC and a member of the investment advisory
committee for the  New York  State and Local Retirement System.  “It’s more a sign of weakness than strength,” he added.
“It’s not as easy to be in that business anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  