-- Quantitative Models Require More Discipline, SEC’s Kurtas Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-12-06T16:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/quantitative-models-require-more-discipline-sec-s-kurtas-says.html
Investment and trading firms must
impose more discipline developing quantitative models to avoid
mishaps that can harm investors, according to a Securities and
Exchange Commission official.  Reliance on mathematical models to make trading decisions
requires firms to ensure that automated systems operate as
planned and are properly tested, Erozan Kurtas, an assistant
director in the quantitative analytics unit within the SEC’s
Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, said at a
conference about high-frequency trading yesterday.  The SEC is emphasizing the responsibilities of firms using
automated strategies to invest or trade in the wake of events
such as  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s technology mistake that cost
the firm more than $450 million in August, and a coding flaw
that led to $217 million in client losses at a unit of Axa SA a
few years earlier. The Axa case was the first targeting an error
in a quantitative investment model, according to the commission.  “If we don’t sort this out, we’re going to have lots of
Axas or Knights,” Kurtas said.  The OCIE unit, formed earlier this year, uses quantitative
analytics to understand how companies manage risks posed by
technology and mathematical models, Kurtas said.  OCIE 
administers the SEC’s national examination program of companies
such as investment advisers, brokers and exchanges.  Simulation, Back-Testing  Some firms don’t do enough to test and manage their
software, Kurtas said. Individuals at some investment companies
don’t know the difference between the simulation of potential
events and back-testing to see how a model would have worked
under past market conditions, he said. There’s also insufficient
testing for incorrect data.  “There are so many companies out there who are not
properly testing for stale data,” which can affect how models
function, he said. “Sometimes people tested for certain periods
and ignored certain other periods,” Kurtas said. “You can’t do
that,” particularly if the firm’s marketing materials say the
strategy works in all market conditions, he added. “You have to
make sure the model works the way you are representing,
otherwise it’s fraud.”  Testing should also be conducted by individuals who didn’t
write the computer code, said Kurtas, who has a masters of
business administration degree from Carnegie Mellon University
and a doctorate in electrical and computer engineering from
Northeastern University. He  previously  was a senior analyst at
Standard & Poor’s who evaluated collateralized debt obligations
and funds of hedge funds and earlier was a research director at
Seagate Technology Plc, where he led a group designing
algorithms to identify anomalies in data sequences.  Hidden Malfunction  Knight dodged bankruptcy in August after losing more than
$450 million in a trading error that resulted from the
installation of new software. The glitch caused the Jersey City,
New Jersey-based market maker to unintentionally spew orders
into the market. Knight was bailed out by six financial firms a
week later and is now considering takeover bids by two rivals.  Axa Rosenberg Group LLC, a unit of the French insurance
company, lost $217 million because of a malfunction that was
kept from the unit’s CEO and investors, the SEC  said  in February
2011. The error, introduced in 2007, was discovered in June
2009. The firm was censured and agreed to a $25 million penalty
in addition to a payment of $217 million to cover client losses.  The units “failed to disclose the error and its impact on
client performance, attributed the model’s underperformance to
market volatility rather than the error, and misrepresented the
model’s ability to control risks,” the SEC said. Barr M. Rosenberg, the division’s co-founder, separately agreed to pay
$2.5 million to settle claims of securities fraud.  ’Proper Documentation’  Companies need “proper documentation of all models” and
some compliance personnel should be able to read the source code
to understand how the systems work, Kurtas said. Changes to
models should be tracked, there should be a process to escalate
emerging problems to executives, and the risks of quantitative
systems should be disclosed to investors, he said.  Firms that don’t document how their models work will get
longer visits by SEC officials, Kurtas said. If the source code
for the model is the only documentation, “we have to look at
the source code,” he said.  The SEC’s OCIE program had net costs of $236 million in the
year ending Sept. 30, the highest outlay of funds after the
enforcement division’s $401 million, according to a  report  by
the Government Accountability Office last month.  The Managed Funds Association, which represents hedge funds
and managed futures firms, urged the SEC to consider requiring
every broker to form a technology advisory group “to review or
perform its pre-technology release reviews or to develop
technology risk assessments,” according to an August  letter 
that followed Knight’s blunder.  Appropriate Testing  The commission could require every firm to have a technical
manager certifying to senior executives that the broker
conducted appropriate testing and market simulations of software
releases and complied with its policies for installing programs,
Stuart Kaswell, general counsel at the Washington-based MFA,
wrote. The group urged the SEC to consider updating the market-
access rule implemented last year mandating that brokers to
conduct credit and risk checks on orders before they’re
submitted to exchanges or other venues.  It said the obligations should be imposed on individual
rather than aggregated orders to flush out technical glitches.  The traditional separation within brokers of the revenue-
generating equities-trading business and technology-support
division is “outdated and dangerous” in a faster, automated
market and these groups should become more integrated, David Weisberger, a former equities executive at Citigroup Inc., told
the SEC in an October  letter .  Big Losses  Since technology errors can cause big losses within a firm
and harm investors in the broader market, risk controls should
be incorporated into business decisions, said Weisberger, who
previously was managing director and head of global electronic
market access at Citigroup and is now executive principal at
market-maker Two Sigma Securities, an affiliate of Two Sigma
Investments LLC, which manages about $10 billion.  Automated monitoring systems of algorithms or computerized
trading strategies should be overseen by human beings and
operate independently of a firm’s trading software, Weisberger
wrote. Risk managers and technology experts should get real-time
alerts that flag potentially aberrant activity so they can take
immediate action, he said.  Risk Threshold  “Whether a risk threshold is breached by software
malfunction or mistakes made by a human trader, the system
should alert these individuals so that predetermined escalation
procedures may be followed,” Two Sigma told the SEC in the
letter. “The lack of such a clear command-and-control process
could allow errors to compound and, ultimately, threaten the
integrity of the market as a whole.”  Technology’s role in trading should drive brokers to
improve the way they write computer code and deploy software,
including how strategies are simulated before they’re used and
what happens when activity looks abnormal, Weisberger said. What
once was seen as the traditional back office, which includes
technology, operations and accounting, should occupy a more
central role in business decision-making, he said.  Computer Science  Compliance employees at investment advisers and brokers may
need to acquire new skills in financial engineering and computer
science, Kurtas said. If some compliance staff can’t read source
code, “we don’t believe they can put together a robust
compliance system,” he said. Programmers often design systems
without sufficient knowledge of regulations, he added.  The SEC is building up its market-analysis and oversight
staff by adding trading specialists and individuals with
doctorates in mathematics, financial engineering, statistics and
computer science, he said. The commission is also implementing a
system that collects order and transaction data from the real-
time feeds exchanges sell to high-frequency traders and brokers
to gain access to tools it’s never had, he said.  “We don’t have the budgets that the private sector has,”
Kurtas said. “We’re not going to be able to hire armies.”
Still, smarter inspections and oversight of regulated companies
is possible. “We are just looking for a few good Jedis,” he
added, referring to a group of guardians that fought for justice
in the 1977 “Star Wars” movie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 