-- Rand Gains to Three-Week High as Current Account Gap Unchanged
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-12-06T14:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/rand-falls-before-data-forecast-to-show-current-account-widened.html
The rand advanced to the strongest
level in more than three weeks, erasing an earlier decline,
after  South Africa ’s current account deficit stayed unchanged in
the third quarter.  The currency climbed 0.5 percent to 8.7292 a dollar, the
strongest since Nov. 12, as of 3:59 p.m. in Johannesburg. The
rand gained for a fourth day, rebounding from a 0.2 percent
retreat in earlier trading. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent
bonds due December 2026 dropped eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 7.44 percent, the lowest since Sept. 28.  The gap in the current account, the broadest measure of
trade in goods and services, was unchanged at 6.4 percent of
gross domestic product, the  Reserve Bank  said in its Quarterly
Bulletin released in  Pretoria  today. The median estimate of 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for the deficit to reach
6.7 percent of GDP. The central bank cited concern about the
shortfall among the reasons for keeping its benchmark repo rate
at 5 percent at the past two monetary policy meetings.  “The market expected a significant extension of the
current account deficit, so this took most people a bit by
surprise,” Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic research at
Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by phone. “That’s why
the rand is a few cents stronger” though risks for the currency
remain biased toward weakness, he said.  South Africa’s trade gap has widened this year as mining
strikes halted production at shafts owned by AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. and Lonmin Plc and imports climbed. An increase in farming
and vehicle exports cushioned the impact of the mining strikes
last quarter, easing pressure on the current-account shortfall,
the central bank said.  The rand held its gains after the  European Central Bank 
kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low to encourage
growth. ECB President  Mario Draghi  maintained the main interest
rate at 0.75 percent, as forecast by 56 of 61 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  