-- Rangers to Raise 27 Million Pounds in Initial Public Offering
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-12-06T13:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/rangers-to-raise-27-million-pounds-in-initial-public-offering.html
Rangers International Football Club 
Plc, the new owners of the 54-time Scottish soccer champion,
plans to raise 27 million pounds ($43.5 million) by selling
shares .  The shares, which have been priced at 70 pence each, will
become publicly traded on Dec. 19 following the initial public
offering, according to  a filing  with the London Stock Exchange
Plc’s Alternative Investment Market.  Mike Ashley, owner of Newcastle United in the English
Premier League and founder of  Sports Direct International Plc (SPD) ,
is Rangers’ third-largest shareholder with a 9 percent stake.
Chief Executive Officer Charles Green is the largest investor
with 15 percent. The eight largest shareholders own almost 66 of
the company, the filing showed.  Ashley’s holding would fall to 5.2 percent if no one buys
shares in the public offering, while Green would remain the
largest investor with 8.7 percent, the filing showed.  Their decreases come as the current investors bring in
Hargreave Hale Ltd., a London-based stockbroker, and Artemis
Investment Management LLP, an Edinburgh-based fund manager,
which would be the largest institutional shareholders. Hargreave
would own 8.6 percent and Artemis 7.4 percent respectively if
there is no take-up of the offering.  The club anticipates a market capitalization of 50 million
pounds if the public offering is fully taken up.  A group headed by Green bought the assets of Rangers
Football Club Plc for 5.5 million pounds earlier this year after
the company went into administration over disputed unpaid taxes.
The old club later went into liquidation.  Rangers have won a record 54 Scottish soccer championships
and more than 60 other trophies, including the European Cup-
Winners Cup in 1972.  As part of Ashley’s investment in the club, Sports Direct,
the largest U.K. sports-goods retailer, has an agreement to sell
the club’s replica kit in its stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 