-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Drop to 2-Week Low on Jobs Concern
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-12-06T22:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/treasuries-extend-gain-as-surprise-index-falls.html
Treasury 10-year note yields dropped
to a more than two-week low amid speculation the U.S. employment
market is floundering as politicians debate the so-called fiscal
cliff, sustaining demand for safer assets.  Benchmark  10-year notes  rose for a third day a two-day
before a Labor Department report tomorrow that economists said
will show U.S. non-farm payrolls rose by 86,000 in November, the
smallest gain since June. Treasuries were supported as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said economic weakness in
the region will continue. The Treasury Department will auction
$66 billion in notes and bonds next week.  “The fiscal cliff uncertainties continue, people are
bracing themselves for the possibility for a weaker report
tomorrow and it’s tough to sell bonds ahead of the Fed meeting
next week,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in
New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of 21 primary dealers that trade
with the  Federal Reserve . “It’s tough to make any argument to
be short Treasuries.”  Ten-year  yields  was little changed at 1.59 percent at 5
p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The
yield dropped to 1.56 percent, the lowest since Nov. 16. The
price of the 1.625 percent note due in November 2022 was steady
at 100 11/32.  The difference between the yields on the two-year note and
the 10-year security dropped to 1.32 percentage points, the
narrowest since Nov. 16.  ‘Rich Levels’  The so-called yield curve typically narrows when investors
anticipate a slow recovery because they demand less compensation
for the risk that growth will spark inflation.  “We are at rich levels, but the market continues its slow
grind higher,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in  New York  at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “No one
wants to make any big bets before something changes.”  The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation expectations, the
five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , widened to 2.7
percent as of Dec. 3, the most recent figure available from data
compiled by Bloomberg. The figure is the widest since Nov. 14
and is down from a 2012 high of 2.89 percent on Nov. 1.  The forecast jobs data for tomorrow is fueling speculation
the Fed is preparing to announce a new round of bond purchases
for 2013 at its next meeting on Dec. 11-12 to spur the economy.
Policy makers said on Sept. 13 they will buy bonds until the job
market improves “substantially.”  Debt Exchange  Fewer Americans than projected filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week as disruptions caused by
 hurricane Sandy  waned, Labor Department figures showed today.
 Initial claims  decreased by 25,000 to 370,000 in the week ended
Dec. 1. The median forecast of 52 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a drop to 380,000.  Treasuries gained yesterday after President  Barack Obama 
told business executives the global economy remains “soft” and
the deadlock in  Washington  over taxes and spending is holding
the U.S. back from leading a strong recovery. The fiscal cliff
of $607 billion in tax increases and government spending cuts
will start taking effect in early 2013 unless lawmakers act to
avert it.  “The fiscal cliff is still driving the bus,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government-debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co.  “There is a realization that
both sides have marked lines and there have been no real
negotiations, and this continues to have the market on edge.”  Treasury Auctions  The Fed is exchanging about $45 billion of short-term
Treasuries from its holdings for longer-term debt each month
under a program scheduled to end by Dec. 31.  The U.S. will sell $32 billion of three-year notes, $21
billion of 10-year securities and $13 billion of 30-year bonds
over three days starting Dec. 11.  Treasuries have returned 0.7 percent since the end of
October, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes,
compared with a 0.8 percent return for German bunds.  ECB’s Draghi said economic weakness in the euro area will
persist into next year before a gradual recovery begins.  “Weak activity is expected to extend into next year,”
Draghi said today at a press conference in  Frankfurt  after
policy makers left the benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75
percent. “Later in 2013 economic activity should gradually
strengthen,” supported by the central bank’s accommodative
monetary policy, Draghi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  