-- Reliance Said to Resume Gas Drilling After Year: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-12-06T11:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/reliance-said-to-resume-gas-drilling-after-year-corporate-india.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  is drilling
its first well in India’s biggest natural gas deposit in more
than a year as it struggles to reverse a slump in output,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Reliance, along with partners  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Canada ’s  Niko
Resources Ltd. (NKO) , started a well in a smaller gas discovery area,
called a satellite field, within the KG-D6 block earlier this
week and plans to complete the work in about a month, the person
said, asking not to be identified citing rules. The area may
produce as much as 10 million cubic meters of gas a day starting
2015, equivalent to about 43 percent of current output from the
block, the person said.  Production from the site off India’s east coast has slumped
more than 60 percent since 2010 as reserves proved more
difficult to recover than initially estimated, hurting supplies
to power stations and fertilizer makers, and prompting companies
to import gas at higher costs. Reliance, India’s biggest company
by market value, will need to price the fuel at least 67 percent
more than the current rate to break even on sales from the new
area, the person said.  “Gas price is one of the key determinants for capital
expenditure,” said  Niraj Mansingka , a Mumbai-based analyst with
Edelweiss Securities Ltd. “It remains to be seen how much the
government will raise prices by, but Reliance would require
between $6.5 to $8 per million British thermal units to get a
reasonable return on their investments.”  Reliance was waiting for government approvals and the
return of a deep-water rig leased to  Malaysia ’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. to resume drilling. The company won permission to
tap eight wells in the satellite field earlier this year.  Irreversible Decline  BP,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company, bought a 30
percent stake from Reliance in 21 Indian blocks, including KG-
D6, last year for $7.2 billion. Reliance owns 60 percent stake
in KG-D6, BP 30 percent and the rest is with Niko.  Reliance is also seeking to drill a deeper exploration well
in the current reservoir to check for newer reserves. It applied
for government permission earlier this year and is waiting for
an answer, the person said.  The drop in current gas production is irreversible and
Reliance and its partners would require output from the
satellite area and another field called the R-Series to help
stem the decline, the person said.  Tushar Pania, a spokesman for Reliance, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail seeking comment on the start of drilling and
the price of gas required to make a profit. The company gets a
government-approved price of $4.2 per million Btu.  Profit Falls  The KG-D6 block in the  Bay of Bengal  now produces about 23
million cubic meters a day (812 million cubic feet per day) of
gas from three fields, called the D1, D3 and MA, the person
said. The satellite and R-Series discoveries can add as much as
30 million cubic meters of gas a day, according to the person.  Reliance  rose  1.4 percent to 843.90 rupees, the highest
since Oct. 5, at the close in Mumbai. The shares have gained 22
percent this year, lagging behind the 26 percent increase in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The explorer, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ,
India’s richest man, needs to raise gas production and get a
higher price for the fuel to help reverse four straight declines
in quarterly profit. Net income declined 5.7 percent to 53.8
billion rupees in the three months ended Sept. 30, compared with
a year earlier.  Gas production from the KG-D6 block in the Bay of Bengal
declined 35 percent to 5.6 billion cubic meters in the six
months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, according to an Oct.
15 statement. The drop was because of reservoir complexity and a
natural decline in output, according to the statement.  Bearish Analysts  The continuous decline in gas production has made  analysts 
the most bearish on the company’s stock in at least 15 years.
The consensus rating, or the average of recommendations updated
by analysts in the past year, dropped to 3.12 on Oct. 25. Five
denotes a buy and one a sell, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Reliance reduced its estimate of reserves at all its gas
fields by 6.7 percent to 104 billion cubic meters as of March
31, according to its  annual report . Niko Resources cut the
estimate for its 10 percent share of proved and probable gas
reserves in the KG-D6 block to 5.5 billion cubic meters as of
March 31, according to a June 20 statement, which didn’t provide
year-earlier figures.  Output from the three producing areas in the KG-D6 block is
expected to decline to 20 million cubic meters a day in the year
starting April 1, 2014, then Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said
in parliament on May 8.  ‘Thin Line’  “Gas production will remain a very important trigger for
future earnings and so increasing production will be crucial,”
said Neelabh Sharma, a Mumbai-based analyst with BOB Capital
Markets Ltd., a unit of state-run  Bank of Baroda. (BOB)  “As far as
raising prices go, the government will have to walk a very thin
line, balancing interests of both the producer and the
consumer.”  India’s government-approved price for KG-D6 gas comes up
for renewal in April 2014. A majority of the gas is sold to
producers of power and fertilizer, prices of which are
controlled by the government.  BP is confident “economic realities would force the Indian
government to agree to a price closer to” liquefied natural gas
rates, Iain Reid, Brendan Warn, Laura Loppacher and Daniela
Almeida, London-based analysts at Jefferies & Co. Inc., said in
a Dec. 4 report.  ‘Every Molecule’  BP may be forced to write off part of its investments in
 India  if gas prices aren’t increased, according to the report.  “Our planning on the satellite developments in India is
good,” BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said Dec. 3 while
hosting an investor day at the company’s Sunbury, U.K. campus.
India is “going to need every molecule it can produce of almost
any form of energy to be able to meet the prosperity growth that
is likely to be desired there.”  India’s energy consumption is projected to rise 14 percent
to 27.8 quadrillion Btu by 2015 from 2011, according to U.S.
Energy Information Administration  data . Gas use will grow 35
percent to 3.5 quadrillion Btu, according to the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  