-- Rochdale’s Dick Bove Says He’s Considering Three Firms
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-12-06T20:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/rochdale-s-dick-bove-says-he-s-considering-three-firms.html
Dick Bove, the bank analyst whose
brokerage, Rochdale Securities LLC, is struggling to survive
after an unauthorized $1 billion Apple Inc. trade, said he’s
been interviewing for a new job.  Bove said he has narrowed his choice to three firms, which
he declined to name, and will make a decision by about Dec. 15.
The 71-year-old analyst said he’s giving Daniel Crowley,
Rochdale’s chief executive officer, time to seek rescue
financing after a loss on the Apple trade decimated the firm’s
capital.  “I indicated to them that my loyalty is with Dan Crowley
and so I couldn’t make a decision until Dan threw in the
towel,” Bove said today in a telephone interview. “The
decision I make is really based on whether I want to stay with a
small firm and write what I’m going to call provocative research
or whether I want to go back in the general Wall Street milieu,
dealing with corporate finance issues.”  Rochdale, a trading and research firm based in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , has been struggling to keep staff since the loss.
 David Miller , 40, a former trader, was charged this week with
 wire fraud  in connection with the unauthorized trade, which lost
$5 million for the company. Kenneth “Casey” Murphy, Miller’s
lawyer at Simon & Partners LLP, declined to comment on the
charges in an e-mail yesterday.  Rochdale lost five traders to  Rafferty Capital Markets LLC 
last month, including Kristen Talgo and Hal Tunick, who led
institutional equities trading. In addition, Richard Bennett and
Keith Arnott, who work as equity sales traders, left for MKM
Partners LLC.  Barry Kaplan  joined Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New
York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net 
Zeke Faux in  New York  at   zfaux@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  