-- Rolls Faces Corruption Probe After Uncovering Malpractice
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-06T08:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/rolls-royce-activity-in-china-under-serious-fraud-office-review.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , Europe’s
largest maker of commercial aircraft and ship engines, said it
unearthed possible wrongdoing in overseas business dealings and
is under scrutiny by the U.K. Serious Fraud Office.  A company review, spurred by an SFO inquiry, began early
this year and “identified matters of concern” in China and
 Indonesia , as well as other markets, the London-based company
said in a statement today. Shares of Rolls fell the most in 10
months.  Rolls said it will appoint an outsider to review anti-
corruption procedures and has submitted information to the SFO.
The aerospace industry has been hit by numerous scandals over
alleged corruption in the past decade, with  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/)  and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  affected. A unit of  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  currently is under investigation
by the U.K. over dealings in Saudi Arabia.  “The consequence of these disclosures will be decided by
the regulatory authorities,” Rolls-Royce said. “It is too
early to predict the outcomes, but these could include the
prosecution of individuals and of the company. We will cooperate
fully.”  Rolls achieved a “B” grading in Transparency
International U.K.’s recent ranking of anti-corruption
standards.  “Neither I nor the board will tolerate improper business
conduct of any sort and will take all necessary action to ensure
compliance,” Rolls Chief Executive Officer John Rishton said.
The outside review will report to the board of directors’s
ethics committee.  Shares of the British manufacturer dropped as much as 3.5
percent to 881.5 pence, the most since Feb. 9. They traded at
884.5 pence at the open of trading in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  