-- Romania GDP Falls in 3rd Quarter on Drought, Consumption
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-12-06T10:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/romania-gdp-falls-in-3rd-quarter-on-drought-consumption.html
Romania’s economy shrank in the third
quarter, the first contraction since the January-March period,
according to revised data, as consumption fell and a drought
hurt farm output.  Gross domestic product  fell a seasonally adjusted 0.5
percent from the previous three months, matching a Nov. 15
preliminary report, compared with 0.1 percent growth in the
second quarter, the  National Statistics Institute  in Bucharest
said on its website today. GDP declined 0.6 percent from the
same period a year ago.  Romania’s economy went through its worst recession on
record from 2008 until 2010 and a second one in the last quarter
of 2011 through the first quarter of this year, according to the
revised data. It will probably see growth slow to about 1
percent this year from 2.5 percent last year, because of
sluggish industrial-output growth and a poor harvest amid
 Europe ’s debt crisis, according to forecasts from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the government.  “Falling external demand for Romanian industry and a harsh
summer drought in agriculture took a severe toll on third-
quarter economic growth and real GDP fell at the steepest pace
since the introduction of austerity measures in the summer of
2010,” Banca Comerciala Romana SA economist Eugen Sinca said in
a note today. “Economic growth will gain speed to 1.1 percent
in 2013, from an estimated zero percent in 2012.”  Final consumption contracted 1.6 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, compared with 1.3 percent growth in
the second quarter, according to the statement.  Construction output shrank 0.7 percent, compared with 3.6
percent growth in the second quarter. Agriculture, one of the
main drivers of the economy last year, declined 30 percent in
the third quarter, while industry fell 0.3 percent, according to
the institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  