-- Roskam Says Public to Turn On Obama if Spending Not Cut
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-12-06T18:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/roskam-says-public-to-turn-on-obama-if-spending-not-cut.html
A top House Republican predicted that
President  Barack Obama  will lose public support for increasing
tax rates for the highest earners if he doesn’t also propose
spending cuts to achieve a budget deal with Congress.  Illinois Representative Peter Roskam, his party’s chief
deputy whip in the House, reiterated that the chamber’s
Republicans aren’t willing to back higher tax rates because that
would hurt small businesses and job growth. They also are still
awaiting a “substantive” proposal from Obama to cut spending,
he said.  Speaking at a Bloomberg Government breakfast, Roskam said
polls showing voter support for Obama’s position in bargaining
with Congress will “quickly turn” if “we don’t deal
substantively with the spending side” of the equation.  Frustrated with the pace of negotiations, “House
Republicans are feeling like no matter what you put on the
table, it’s never enough,” Roskam said.  “There is a Lucy and Charlie Brown feeling here with the
football, and House Republicans are not willing to let Lucy pull
the ball back,” he said, referring to characters in the
“Peanuts” comic strip by Charles M. Schulz.  ‘Bandwidth’  Obama “has a lot of bandwidth,” Roskam said. “If he were
to choose to go back to the themes of 2008” when he first
campaigned for president, Obama can be “a transformational
figure” by making a deal with Republicans, Roskam said.  “Or he can continue to play what I would characterize as
small ball” and “litigate” tax increases “over and over
again,” he said.  Republicans are receptive to the idea of “putting new
revenues on the table,” Roskam said.  Yet “the president is
having a hard time hearing ‘yes.’”  Polls released this week show the public sides with Obama
in the negotiations with Congress.  By 65 percent to 31 percent, voters support Obama’s push in
deficit-reduction talks to allow tax rates paid by families with
annual incomes exceeding $250,000 to rise as scheduled at year’s
end, said a Quinnipiac University poll released today.  Voters, by 56 percent to 38 percent, also said Obama and
Democrats would make good-faith efforts to cooperate with
Republicans on important issues. Fifty-one percent said
Republicans won’t make a similar effort, while 43 percent said
the party would, according to the survey by the Hamden,
Connecticut-based school.  Blaming Republicans  A Pew Research Center/Washington Post survey taken Nov. 29
-Dec. 3 found that 53 percent of respondents were prepared to
blame Republicans instead of Obama and Democrats if a budget
deal isn’t reached in time to avert the more than $600 billion
combination of tax increases and spending cuts.  “There’s an expectation that the president has created”
that “simply letting the top two tax rates go up is going to
make the problems go away,” Roskam said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for “Capitol Gains,” which
airs Dec. 9. Obama has “been insisting on new spending” as
well, the Illinois lawmaker said.  “Polling changes very, very quickly” if voters
“recognize this revenue side alone” won’t “make our fiscal
problems go away,” he said in the Bloomberg Television
interview.  Illinois Senate  Roskam, 51, who served with Obama in the Illinois Senate,
said the president, also 51, showed an ability then to
compromise when the two worked “together on some very
controversial things.”  Since Republicans took control of the U.S. House in 2011,
Obama “has not risen to the task of being able to put a large
deal together,” Roskam said.  “Now he’s got another opportunity” to strike an agreement
with House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, to cut
spending and raise revenue through elimination of tax loopholes
for wealthy Americans, Roskam said. “All the president has do
at this point is say ‘yes’” to that Republican proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  