-- India Rupee Approaches 1-Month High on Retail Plan Vote Optimism
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-12-06T12:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/rupee-approaches-1-month-high-after-lawmakers-clear-retail-plan.html
India’s rupee approached a one-month
high after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  secured the support of
a key regional party before tomorrow’s vote in parliament’s
upper house on allowing foreign-owned supermarkets.  The currency has rallied 3.2 percent from an almost three-
month low of 55.8825 per dollar on Nov. 26, when Moody’s
Investors Service maintained its stable outlook on the nation’s
credit rating. A vote yesterday in the lower house backing
Singh’s plan to allow the entry of overseas retail chains paved
the way for companies including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Tesco
Plc (TSCO)  to open stores in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  “This shows policy reforms are moving in the right
direction and is a source of encouragement,” said Anjali Verma,
an economist in Mumbai at PhillipCapital  India  Pvt. “It’s a
short-term boost for markets. We’ll need to see more of such
measures to sustain rupee appreciation.”  The rupee strengthened 0.8 percent to 54.1375 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
54.0450 earlier, which was the strongest since Nov. 7.  Mayawati, the leader of the Bahujan Samaj Party, said she
would support the government at tomorrow’s vote as it had given
state administrations the power to block the proposals if they
wished. With 15 members in the chamber, her party’s votes should
push Singh past the number he needs to win the ballot, said
political analyst Satish Misra.  Ending Protests  The September move to enable overseas companies to open
stores in India didn’t require parliamentary approval to become
law. Singh’s government agreed to a vote to end protests that
had stalled legislative business.  The ballot isn’t a trust vote or referendum and a loss
would have embarrassed the government.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange-rates used to price options, rose to 10.20 percent
from 10 percent yesterday.  While 253 members of the 545-member lower house supported
the government’s retail plan, 218 voted against it. Singh’s
Congress Party-led coalition prevailed after two regional
parties that oppose the arrival of foreign supermarkets walked
out rather than vote with ideological rivals.  India’s economy   expanded  5.3 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier, matching the slowest pace
since 2009. Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut in
October the growth forecast for the fiscal year ending March 31
to 5.8 percent, the least in a decade, from 6.5 percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards weakened 0.1 percent to
55.07 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts fell 0.2 percent to 54.99.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  