-- Rural Law Firm Shields $262 Million in Secret Donations
-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 2012-12-06T02:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/rural-law-firm-shields-262-million-in-secret-donations.html
About 50 miles west of  Washington , in
a newly developed zone between the roadside farm stands and the
shops that line the Victorian Main Street of tiny Warrenton,
 Virginia , sits a brick office building that’s emerged as a nexus
of Republican secret money and power.  The building houses the  law firm  of  Holtzman Vogel Josefiak
PLLC , a boutique outfit that specializes in advising
organizations that want to participate in the electoral process
without disclosing who’s paying their bills.  The firm is tied to non-party groups, including super-
political action committees, that spent more than $250 million
in an effort to influence the 2012 election. That’s more than a
quarter of the total by independent organizations, according to
an estimate by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan
Washington-based group that tracks political spending.  Lawyers at Holtzman Vogel have signed off on corporate
filings, legal briefs and Internal Revenue Service documents for
some of the prominent players, including  American Crossroads ,
and the stealthiest ones, such as the Center to Protect Patient
Rights, which  California  election officials accused last month
of being part of a “campaign money laundering” scheme.  “They push the envelope and take aggressive positions in
court and on advice,” said David Vance, a spokesman for the
Washington-based Campaign Legal Center which advocates for
transparency in elections and has squared off with Holtzman
Vogel in court.  The firm is “involved in the assault on
disclosure and every other campaign finance law left on the
books.”  Rules Changing  Jason Torchinsky, a Holtzman Vogel partner who defended
several nonprofits against California’s effort to force
disclosure by the firm’s clients, disputes that
characterization.  “The rules keep changing, which is part of the reason that
people need law firms to figure out how to speak,” he said.
“The rules are in a constant state of flux.”  Torchinsky said the firm only does what the clients want
and he and his partners don’t try to be activists when it comes
to campaign finance.  “Do I believe strongly in the  First Amendment ? Yes. But we
do not push the envelope,” said Torchinsky, who worked in the
 Justice Department  under President  George W. Bush  and was
counsel to the 2004 re-election campaign. “Do we have clients
who once in a while want to step out and do something more
activist? Yes.”  Brisk Business  Business has been especially brisk in recent years after a
series of court decisions overturned campaign finance laws and
left the rules defining political activity and disclosure up to
interpretation by the  Federal Election Commission  and the
lawyers. Although a full accounting of their payments isn’t
public, clients who do report to the FEC, including the
 Republican National Committee  and Florida Senator Marco Rubio’s
campaign, spent $1.7 million for the firm’s services in the
2011-2012 election cycle.  Managing Partner Jill Holtzman Vogel, now a Virginia state
senator, was chief counsel to the Republican National Committee
in 2004. Her husband, Alex Vogel, is a partner in the firm and
also a prominent Washington lobbyist who was counsel to former
Senate Majority Leader  Bill Frist , a Tennessee Republican. The
firm also includes Tom Josefiak, a former FEC chairman, as a
named partner.  From their office in a city with a population of 9,735,
they are advising and defending a shadow Republican power
structure that includes such prominent players as  Karl Rove , a
former adviser to President George W. Bush, who wield influence
that rival that of the Republican National Committee.  Lucrative Operation  The work has been lucrative. Jill Holtzman Vogel and Alex
Vogel own millions of dollars’ worth of real estate in
Washington and Virginia’s Fauquier County, in which Warrenton is
situated. The couple, who have five children, paid $2.4 million
in 2006 for their  Upperville home , which sits on 50 acres and
boasts a pool and tennis court, according to real estate
records. They also own a two-bedroom penthouse condominium at
the Ritz-Carlton in Washington and an office building in
Warrenton.  “They are one of a couple of law firms that have an active
campaign-finance litigations practice,” said Tara Malloy, an
attorney at the Campaign Legal Center who has gone up against
Holtzman Vogel lawyers. “They show up at the FEC and ask for
advisory opinions. Then they go to the courts.”  American Crossroads, the super-PAC tied to Rove, lists
Holtzman Vogel’s Warrenton address as its own on some IRS
filings. Its nonprofit sister group, Crossroads Grassroots
Policy Strategies, lists Torchinsky as the administrator of its
website.  Crossroads Spending  The Crossroads groups spent at least $175.8 million on
election ads in 2012, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics. Crossroads leaders have said the group spent as much
as $300 million, much of it not subject to FEC disclosure.  Crossroads spokesman Jonathan Collegio said the group chose
the firm because Tom Josefiak is a former FEC chairman and “one
of the leading conservative legal minds in campaign law.”
Josefiak also has been chief counsel at the Republican National
Committee.  The Warrenton law firm also advises the American Future
Fund, a nonprofit “social welfare” group that raised and spent
at least $25.6 million to help elect Republicans in 2012. Jill
Holtzman Vogel defended the group against an effort by Citizens
for Responsibility and Ethics, a Washington-based group that
advocates for disclosure, to declare it a political committee
and force it to make public its donors.  Koch Group  Americans for Prosperity, the political nonprofit founded
and partially funded by billionaires Charles and  David Koch ,
fought off similar complaints with the help of Torchinsky. AFP
spent $38.5 million on advertising in support of Republican
candidates in 2012, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics. The group also deployed a ground operation that sought
to register Republican voters and get out the vote on Election
Day.  Nonprofits such as Crossroads GPS, the American Future Fund
and Americans for Prosperity spent unprecedented amounts of
money trying to influence the 2012 election while hiding the
source of their funds. They were able to do so because of a new
legal landscape created in part by Holtzman Vogel’s lawyers, who
argued in state and federal regulatory filings and in the courts
that such groups have a constitutional right to participate in
elections without revealing the names of the donors who finance
their political messages.  “As a law firm we do what our clients need to be done,”
Torchinsky said. He declined to speak about individual clients.  Byzantine Network  Still, some Holtzman Vogel clients created byzantine layers
of non-profits to protect the identity of their donors from the
public eye even with legal challenges.  One such group is Americans for Responsible Leadership, an
Arizona-based nonprofit that was incorporated in July 2011 by
Holtzman Vogel attorney Cathleen West, according to state
filings. Americans for Responsible Leadership contributed $11
million to the California-based Small Business Action Committee
PAC to help defeat a ballot measure that would raise the  sales
tax  and pass another that would make it harder for unions to
raise money.  California regulators sued Americans for Responsible
Leadership, seeking the names of its donors. Holtzman Vogel
unsuccessfully fought the disclosure. When Americans for
Responsible Leadership revealed its contributors’ identities the
day before the election, it showed money moving through a string
of nonprofit entities tied to Holtzman Vogel in what the
 California Fair Political Practices Commission  called “campaign
money laundering.”  Ann Ravel, chairwoman of the commission, said she has
opened a formal investigation into the contributions.  California Case  Americans for Responsible Leadership received the $11
million from Phoenix-based Center to Protect Patient Rights,
another group that lists West of Holtzman Vogel as its
incorporator in IRS documents. The Center to Protect Patient
Rights is led by Sean Noble, a former Republican aide on  Capitol
Hill  whose consulting firm,  DC-London Inc. , was also
incorporated by West.  Both groups sent almost identical letters stating that
their donations were “intermediary contributions.” California
 law  requires people or groups making contributions on behalf of
others to disclose the identity of the original donor. The
source of the California money, after it passed through three
nonprofits, was a fourth group called Americans for  Job
Security , which doesn’t reveal its contributors either.  Noble and Americans for Responsible Leadership President
Kirk Adams didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Running money through a chain of nonprofit organizations,
known as 501c4s for the section of the IRS code where they are
defined, may help the groups hide their donors because they are
relying on interpretations of elections and tax law that require
that less than half their money goes to political activity and
the rest be of benefit to the public.  “When c4s report payments to other c4s, that at least
facially is arguably a social-welfare expenditure,” said Marcus Owens, a partner at the law firm Caplin & Drysdale and former
head of the IRS exempt organizations section. “That would
contribute towards justifying tax exempt status.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgeraldk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  