-- Russia to Hold Rates as Slump Sets Stage for 2013 Easing
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-12-07T09:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/russia-to-hold-rates-as-slowdown-sets-stage-for-easing-next-year.html
Russia , the biggest emerging economy
to raise  interest rates  in 2012, will probably leave borrowing
costs unchanged and begin laying the groundwork for the first
round of monetary easing in a year.  Bank Rossii will keep the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent
at a Dec. 10 meeting in Moscow, according to 19 of 20 economists
in a Bloomberg  survey . One predicts a quarter-point increase.
Policy makers will hold their main short-term lending and
deposit rates at 5.5 percent and 4.25 percent, two separate
surveys showed.  Economists are downgrading their growth projections for the
world’s biggest energy exporter as economic expansion slows to
the weakest since a recovery began at the start of 2010. The
effects of a poor harvest are wearing off, keeping inflation
steady during the past two months and underscoring the case for
a reduction in borrowing costs in the first half of 2013.  “I don’t rule out seeing a statement that the central bank
may be preparing to lower rates next year,”  Alexander Morozov ,
chief economist for Russia at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Moscow, said
by phone yesterday. “I expect them to hit a neutral note,
saying that the level of rates is completely appropriate to the
economic situation and inflation risks.”  Investors switched to betting on lower interest rates in
November for the first time in six months. Three-month borrowing
costs may fall 27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, in the
next three months, according to forward-rate agreements tracked
by Bloomberg. That compares with a jump of as much as 54 basis
points forecast on May 17.  Unexpected Increase  Russia unexpectedly raised its main rates in September as
inflation breached the 6 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s target range after the poor crop fanned prices. Policy
makers now want to hold inflation to less than 7 percent this
year, according to central bank Chairman  Sergei Ignatiev , whose
third and last term ends next year.  Bank Rossii will deliver a rate decrease by the end of the
second quarter next year after holding borrowing costs in the
first three months of 2013, a separate Bloomberg poll showed.
The refinancing rate will fall to 8 percent by the end of June
2013, a quarter-point above the record low, according to the
median estimate of nine economists in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Proactive’ Stance?  “The main factors include a lack of inflation pressure and
slowing economic growth,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist
at  Bank of America   Merrill Lynch in  Moscow, said by phone
yesterday. “Our official forecast is for a reduction in the
second quarter, when inflation will begin to slow in annual
terms, but we don’t rule out that rates may be cut earlier if
the central bank decides to be proactive.”  Consumer-price growth  unexpectedly held steady at 6.5
percent from a year earlier in November after slowing the
previous month.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy, eased to 0.5 percent in the month from 0.6
percent in October.  Even so, more Russians are concerned with inflation than
with corruption and bureaucracy, listing it among the country’s
biggest problems behind housing and utilities, low  living
standards  and drug and alcohol abuse, according to a  poll 
published by the state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of
 Public Opinion  on Nov. 16.  ‘One-Off Effects’  “The one-off effects of a poor harvest and utilities
tariff hikes do not require any further responses from the
central bank,” Jacob Nell and Alina Slyusarchuk, economists at
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , said in a research note yesterday.  The cost to fix floating interest payments in rubles for a
year using rate swaps was 7.34 percent today, compared with 7.53
percent before last month’s rate meeting, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Russia’s short-term ruble-denominated bonds fell, sending
yields on bills due in six months up by as much as 19 basis
points to 6.1494 percent as of 1:10 p.m., according to an  index 
compiled by the Moscow Exchange. A close at that level would be
the highest since Nov. 14, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A faltering economic outlook supports the case for monetary
tightening to end. Gross domestic product grew 2.3 percent from
a year earlier in October, decelerating for a fifth month. GDP
 expanded  2.9 percent last quarter compared with the same period
a year earlier, slowing from 4 percent in the previous three
months.  The economy will expand 3.5 percent next year after
advancing 3.6 percent in 2012, according to the median estimates
of 35 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “There’s no reason to expect substantial monetary risks at
the end of the year,” Natalia Orlova, chief economist at  Alfa
Bank , said by phone yesterday. “Inflation dynamics in November
undoubtedly show that the central bank was right when it didn’t
increase rates last month.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  