-- Russia Says Human Rights Clause Makes U.S. Trade Bill ‘Absurd’
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-12-06T20:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/russia-says-human-rights-clause-makes-u-s-trade-bill-absurd-.html
Russia  said the U.S. Senate’s passage
of a bill giving the country most-favored nation trading status
was a “performance in the theater of the absurd” because the
measure needlessly punishes alleged human-rights violators.  The bill repealing Cold War-era trade restrictions passed
by a 92-4 vote and now goes to President Barack Obama for
signing. The measure, approved by the House last month, includes
provisions that impose travel and financial sanctions on
Russians the U.S. deems responsible for crimes including murder
and torture.  The legislation “will affect perspectives of bilateral
ties quite negatively,” according to a translated version of a
 statement  posted on the website of Russia’s Foreign Ministry.  Companies including  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  say the measure will ensure that American
businesses will be able to secure lower tariffs and have
stronger legal rights when dealing with Russia, which joined the
World Trade Organization in August.  U.S. lawmakers including Senator John McCain, an Arizona
Republican, and Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, supported the bill on the condition that it contain
the human-rights provision, long opposed by Russian officials.  “It is either that people in Washington forgot which year
it is now and think that the ’Cold War’ has not ended, or the
senators are carried away by self-PR and ignore the obvious
thing,” the Foreign Ministry said in the statement. Nations
already have the authority to block certain individuals from
entering their territory, without the need for special
legislation, it said.  The Obama administration supports the bill.  “As American companies have greater access to the Russian
market, U.S. exports are expected to increase, and more U.S.
exports mean more American jobs,” Acting Commerce Secretary
 Rebecca Blank  said today in a statement.  The bill is H.R. 6156.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  