-- Russian Wheat Facing Coldest Winter in Two Decades: Commodities
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-12-06T11:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/russian-wheat-facing-coldest-winter-in-two-decades-commodities.html
Russia , last year’s third-biggest
wheat exporter, is bracing for its coldest winter in 20 years,
threatening a crop planted into parched soil at a time when
drought is already diminishing yields from Australia to the U.S.  The icy blasts predicted by the state weather forecaster
through February are a greater threat this season because record
heat in southern areas means some crops have yet to enter
dormancy and don’t have a protective snow covering. Russia will
already have the lowest stockpiles relative to demand in five
years when it starts harvesting in July and a damaged crop would
further curb supplies available for shipping.  Futures surged 32 percent this year as drought and heat
waves buffeted  Australia , southern  Europe  and the U.S. Farmers
planted next year’s wheat into dry fields, leaving the U.S. crop
in the worst condition in at least 27 years and prompting
Australia’s state forecaster to cut its domestic output estimate
Dec. 4. Prices will average $9 a bushel in the first quarter,
4.4 percent more than now and the most in five years, according
to the median of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “I can’t even remember when we last had temperatures this
high,” said Alexander Rodin, a 62-year-old who farms about 500
acres in Russia’s southern Rostov region. “Farmers planted a
lot into dry soil, so the emerging shoots are weak and thin and
some seeds failed to sprout. The winter hasn’t started yet, and
the crop outlook doesn’t look great already.”  Warmest Fall  Wheat averaged $7.543 on the Chicago Board of Trade this
year, headed for the second-highest annual average on record.
The advances since the start of January make it the biggest
gainer among the 24 commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge, which fell 0.2 percent. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities added 11 percent, and Treasuries returned 2.8
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Russia had the fourth-warmest fall in data going back to
1891 and there were record temperatures in at least 10 central
and southern cities in the past week, data from the Federal
Hydrometeorological Center show. That’s been compounded by a
lack of rain, with southern areas getting about 50 percent of
the normal amount since September, according to Commodity
Weather Group LLC, a researcher in Bethesda,  Maryland . The south
accounts for about 40 percent of the winter-wheat crop, it says.  Delaying Dormancy  The heat is delaying dormancy, which helps protect plants
from freezes, and snowfall, with at least 10 centimeters (4.5
inches) needed to guard against damage, said David Streit, the
senior forecaster for Commodity Weather Group. About 8 percent
of plantings are already in a poor condition, about 2 points
more than average, the state weather forecaster said Dec. 4 as
it predicted the coldest winter in 20 years.  The supply crunch may be averted if the weather improves
and as surging prices spur farmers to plant more crops, with
Rabobank International forecasting a 9.3 percent gain in global
output in the 2013-14 season. The bank expects a 37 percent
expansion in output in the  Black Sea region  that includes
Russia, while warning that “production risk remains high.”  Growth delayed during the Northern Hemisphere’s winter may
be offset in the spring. There is a higher correlation between
crop conditions in the spring and yields at harvest than there
is with winter ratings, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  “The crop is lost or made in the spring,” said Chris Gadd, an analyst at Macquarie in  London . “There is no way the
winter crop is perfect this year, and it’s a concern. But if you
get establishment of the crop and it goes into dormancy without
an absolute disaster then it’s all about spring.”  Global Costs  World food prices  tracked by the  United Nations  dropped 11
percent from a record in February 2011 as lower costs for oils,
fats and sugar offset the surge in grains. The Rome-based Food &
Agriculture Organization says the global cost of food imports
probably fell 10 percent to $1.136 trillion this year.  While winter wheat usually accounts for about two-thirds of
Russia’s annual production, farmers can replant in the spring
should crops wither during the colder months. Plantings in the
south may also benefit from the rainfall in the first two weeks
of December, according to Commodity Weather.  A “poor start” to the wheat crop in Northern Hemisphere
means a rebound in production next season may be limited,
depleting stockpiles further as demand is inelastic, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said yesterday. It forecast Chicago wheat will
rise to $9.50 a bushel in three months.  Southern District  As much as 12 percent of wheat in Russia’s Southern Federal
district was weaker-than-average or failed to germinate and in
the Northern Caucasus the rate was 17 percent, the state weather
forecaster estimated as of Nov. 25. The areas accounted for 40
percent of national production last year, government data show.  As much as 15 percent of the combined grain crop may be
destroyed this winter, implying production of 75 million to 80
million tons, from this year’s 71 million tons, IKAR estimates.
Favorable weather may increase that to 85 million to 90 million
tons, the Moscow-based research company predicts.  Russia banned grain exports in 2010 after drought decimated
its crop and there is mounting concern that its neighbor Ukraine
may stop shipping wheat as supplies dwindle.  Kazakhstan , which
also ships grains through the  Black Sea , will probably ship 39
percent less this season, the USDA estimates.  “If we do see a shortfall in the Black Sea region and we
also get a failure in the U.S. that leaves very few other
avenues for wheat importers,” said  Abah Ofon , an agricultural
analyst at Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore  who expects
prices to average $9.20 in the first quarter.  U.S. Drought  Crop growth is also falling behind in the U.S., the biggest
wheat shipper, with 26 percent of the crop in poor or very poor
 condition  by Nov. 25, from 13 percent a year earlier, USDA data
show. Farmers endured the worst drought in a half century this
year, with about 56 percent of the six High Plains states from
 Kansas  to  North Dakota  still in that condition by Nov. 20.  Australia, the second-biggest exporter, will produce 2.2
percent less than forecast in September, and 26 percent below
last season’s record crop, the state-backed Abares forecasting
agency said Dec. 4. Western Australia, the biggest producing
region, had below-average rainfall throughout the Southern
Hemisphere’s winter, data from the Bureau of Meteorology show.  Global production will drop 7.9 percent to 639.5 million
metric tons this season, Rabobank predicts. That will leave
 stockpiles  at 23.8 percent of consumption by June 30, from 29.4
percent a year earlier, the bank says. Russia will have 4.9
million tons left in inventory, or about 14 percent of demand,
the lowest ratio since 2007-08, according to USDA estimates.  “By the end of the 2012-13 marketing year there will be
precious little stocks anywhere in any major exporting
country,” said Nick Higgins, an analyst at Rabobank in London.
“It’s a further reduction in buffer stocks that are available
if we have more supply shocks next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Claudia
Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  