-- Safeway Gains Most in 4 Years After Moving up Payout
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-12-06T21:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/safeway-gains-most-in-4-years-after-moving-up-payout.html
Safeway Inc. (SWY)  rose to almost a five-
month high after the second-largest U.S. grocery store chain
said it will pay its regular quarterly dividend this month
instead of in January.  The shares advanced 2.4 percent to $17.88 at the close in
New York, the highest closing price since July 11, after the
grocer said it will pay the dividend of 17.5 cents a share on
Dec. 31. The stock has lost 15 percent this year.  Safeway joins companies from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  to  Sirius XM
Radio Inc. (SIRI)  that have announced plans to accelerate payouts or
offer special dividends ahead of a potential U.S. tax increase
next year. Safeway’s  move shows the company’s cash flow is in
good shape, even after selling debt to finance share buybacks in
the past year, said Chuck Cerankosky, an analyst with Northcoast
Research Holdings LLC in  Cleveland .  “By indicating they could easily pay the dividend ahead of
time, it throws some water on the theory their cash flow is
weak,” Cerankosky, who rates the stock a buy, said in a
telephone interview today.  The Pleasanton, California-based company’s statement may
give pause to the high number of stock investors betting on a
drop in Safeway’s shares, he said.  Short interest as a  percentage  of Safeway shares available
for trading was 33 percent as of Dec. 4 from 12 percent about a
year ago, according to data compiled by Markit and Bloomberg.
Short-sellers bet that a stock will decline in value, usually by
selling shares they borrow, then buying them back at a lower
price.  Kroger Co. (KR) , based in Cincinnati, is the largest U.S.
grocery chain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  