-- Saipem Sinks Most in 4 Years After CEO Tali Resigns: Milan Mover
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-12-06T09:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/saipem-sinks-most-in-4-years-after-ceo-tali-resigns-milan-mover.html
Saipem SpA (SPM)  shares tumbled in Milan
after Chief Executive Officer Pietro Franco Tali and Alessandro Bernini, chief financial officer at the company’s biggest
shareholder,  Eni SpA (ENI) , resigned yesterday.  The shares, suspended by the Italian exchange after
dropping 4.3 percent to 32.68 euros yesterday, resumed trading
today along with the savings category. Saipem, which initially
failed to set an opening price, dropped as much as 14.3 percent,
the steepest decline since November 2008, and was down 9.9
percent as of 9:39 a.m. in Milan, with more than 6 million
shares traded, more than four times the average daily volume in
the last six months.  Europe ’s largest oil contractor by market value appointed
Umberto Vergine to replace Tali, the company said in a statement
yesterday. Massimo Mondazzi will replace Bernini, Eni said
separately. Tali, 62, had been CEO since 2000; Bernini served as
Saipem’s CFO until 2008.  Morgan Stanley and Exane BNP Paribas, which were among
brokerages reducing valuations on the news, cut their price
targets by 21 percent to 45 euros from 57 euros, and 7 percent
to 38 euros respectively, with an overweight recommendation and
an outperform rating unchanged. Both highlighted unexpected
changes in management as a negative for the shares.  “Short-term trading is sentiment driven and there is near-
term downside, but the fundamentals of Saipem remain intact,”
Mick Pickup and Tom Ackermans, London-based analysts at  Barclays
Capital , wrote in a note. Barclays reiterated an overweight
rating with a price projection lowered by 9 percent to 42 euros.  CA Cheuvreux downgraded the shares to outperform from
selected list, while Mediobanca Securities cut its
recommendation to neutral from outperform.  CEO Tali’s resignation “is not coming at the right time as
Saipem has to face some headwinds in both Offshore and Onshore
E&C,” Cheuvreux analyst Geoffroy Stern said in a note.
“Consensus still has to come down for both 2013 and 2014.”  Company business was always conducted properly under his
tenure as CEO, Tali said in yesterday’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  