-- Sandy Reminds Tribeca What Life Is Like in Asia
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-12-06T22:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/sandy-reminds-tribeca-what-life-is-like-in-asia-william-pesek.html
New York’s brush with developing-
nation status is an even bigger warning for  Asia (MXAP)  than it is for
the U.S.  The city could be excused for wondering if it had suddenly
been transported to Bangladesh in October. The deadly floods and
crippling power outages following  Hurricane Sandy  made for more
than graphic television. They made a mockery of the climate-
change deniers. Just ask residents of lower  Manhattan  as they
referred to neighborhoods such as pricey Tribeca as “Little
North Korea.”  The  Asia  reference is fitting, because that region is where
the real wake-up call should be.  Asia’s rising importance is well known. Asia-Pacific
nations generated roughly 25 percent of the world’s gross
domestic product between 1980 and 2009, and that share is rising
fast. Less well known is that it endured almost 40 percent of
the world’s losses from natural disasters during that period.
Violent weather is sure to increase, compromising Asia’s
economic outlook.  Asia-Pacific residents are four times more likely to be
victims of natural disasters than Africans, and 25 times more
likely than North Americans, according to a new  Asian
Development Bank  report. Asia is home to most of the megacities
facing extreme vulnerability to  climate change . The increasing
frequency and severity of disasters will reduce growth and set
back anti-poverty efforts.  Development Threat  We need to stop thinking that such events just come and go
-- that stuff happens. Asia must embrace the idea that natural
phenomena are a rising threat to development. Steps must be
taken to brace for their impact and reduce their incidence. Both
challenges require far more energy, planning and resources than
Asian leaders have mustered to date.  The first is complicated by demography. The largest
urbanization history has ever known is unfolding chaotically and
faster than cities can keep up with. Asia’s mix of rising  ocean
levels , surging populations, poor urban planning and
deforestation dwarfs  New York ’s challenges.  Swarms of people are fleeing environmentally stable but
impoverished rural areas for coastal cities that lie in harm’s
way. In the 1980s, roughly 24 million people in the region were
directly at risk from natural disasters; today it’s 152 million
and increasing. That means  Vietnam , Bangladesh, the Philippines,
 Thailand ,  Indonesia , China,  India ,  Pakistan  and  Cambodia  -- all
of which are on  ADB’s list  of the 14 most vulnerable developing
nations -- need to spend untold billions of dollars making
infrastructure less susceptible to disaster.  China, India, Indonesia and Thailand are among Asia’s
biggest and most-watched economies. How vibrant will they be if
their top cities are constantly being swamped? How alluring will
 Ho Chi Minh City , Vietnam, Karachi, Pakistan, or Manila markets
be as Mother Nature encroaches? Longer-term, add Shanghai and
 Tokyo  to the vulnerable list as water levels rise.  Complacency complicates the second challenge. The  World
Bank  foresees “cataclysmic changes” caused by extreme heat
waves (ask Australia), rising seas (check the Maldives) and
depleted food stocks (query the Philippines) as the climate
heads toward warming of 4 degrees Celsius (7.2 degrees
Fahrenheit) this century.  Yet all the latest round of United Nations climate talks
(this time in Doha) has managed to achieve is raising the carbon
footprint of government ministers and activists jetting in,
hiring motorcades, dining at swanky eateries and staying at
five-star hotels. All the while, evidence mounts that this
generation’s environmental legacy will be one of gross
negligence.  Going Green  It’s hard to persuade poorer nations to take the lead in
reducing emissions. Not with the U.S. shirking its
responsibilities, and the rising carbon emissions of Japan, home
of the  Kyoto Protocol . Going green, Asia says, is too costly for
nations struggling with poverty. The region should be free to
generate greenhouse gasses the way developed nations did when
they were industrializing in the 19th and 20th centuries.  Our planet can’t handle more than 7 billion people
polluting that way, so Asia must change its thinking. Economies
that go green fastest will be the most prosperous 20 years from
now. Nations with the fewest energy imports, lowest subsidies,
most innovative renewable-energy sources and foreign policies
that aren’t beholden to oil suppliers will be the most
attractive and have the highest credit ratings.  Asia should announce the energy equivalent of the  Manhattan
Project . With developed economies in tatters, a pledge by rich
nations to provide $100 billion in annual global-warming aid by
2020 looks unrealistic. Asia should take matters into its own
hands and deploy its $6.6 trillion of currency reserves for
research and development. If an institution is needed, create
one. Call it the Asian Green Growth Project and empower it to
find alternatives to the coal and other fossil fuels blackening
the skies and imperiling the future.  Sure, that’s easier said than done. But Asia’s biggest
challenges include continuing growth without choking on it,
finding ample water supplies and feeding swelling populations.
Status-quo policies won’t get the region where it needs to be 20
years from now. Nor will squabbling with  North America  and
 Europe , which isn’t on the front lines the way Asia is. Only a
big, coordinated and creatively financed effort will do that.  Hurricane Sandy showed New Yorkers they are vulnerable and
must begin planning for a more chaotic future. Asians don’t have
that luxury. They are already living in it.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 