-- SC Global Advances on CEO Offer to Go Private: Singapore Mover
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-12-06T09:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/sc-global-advances-on-ceo-offer-to-go-private-singapore-mover.html
SC Global Developments Ltd. (SCGD)  jumped to
the highest in more than 2 1/2 years in Singapore trading after
Chief Executive Officer Simon Cheong offered S$745 million ($611
million) to take the luxury property developer private.  The stock  surged  50 percent to close at S$1.805 in
Singapore trading, the highest price since April 2010. That
exceeds the $1.80 Cheong said he will pay. The CEO plans to
delist the company and gain greater flexibility to manage and
plan its residential property business without having to  report 
its performance on a quarterly basis, SC Global said in a
statement to the Singapore stock exchange yesterday.  Cheong, who already owns 55 percent of the company, is
taking SC Global private as he’s planning new projects in the
city’s downtown with  home prices  at a record in the third
quarter. The developer hasn’t accessed the  capital markets  for
funds for at least six years and low liquidity of shares
“limits the usefulness of a public listing,” Cheong said.  “SC Global has been able to establish benchmark pricing
for its luxury residential projects and is known to be reluctant
to cut prices to move sales,” Goh Han Peng, an analyst at DMG &
Partners Securities Pte in Singapore, said in a report today,
adding that the offer “represents a decent premium given the
sluggish sales for the high-end residential segment and the
company’s deliberate low turnover strategy.”  The stock was halted from trading on Dec. 3 for the
announcement. Today’s increase pushed gains this year to 82
percent, making it the best performer on the  Singapore property
index  this year after  Wing Tai Holdings Ltd. (WINGT)  Still, the stock is
about half of its peak in June 2007.  Falling Sales  Singapore home sales may fall as much as 27 percent in 2013
after climbing to a record this year as six rounds of housing
curbs by the government crimps demand, according to Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. Private home sales next year may drop to 16,000
units from 22,000 units this year, the property consulting
company said last month.  “Considering the very low likelihood of potential
counterbids, we advocate that shareholders take up the offer and
realize the value on their SC Global investment,” Sarah Wong,
an analyst at AmFraser Securities Pte. said in a report today.
“SC Global lacks catalysts to unlock share value otherwise.”  The city’s home prices climbed to a record in the third
quarter, prompting Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  to
say in October that the real estate market may get “bubbly.”
The government won’t allow home prices to outstrip gains in
incomes, he said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore or the central bank
told banks on Oct. 5 to restrict home-loan maturities “to curb
continued upward pressure on residential property prices,” in
its latest attempt to avert a housing bubble. The government
said in September it plans to cap the number of homes that can
be developed in suburban projects as it seeks to curb the
increasing trend of so-called shoebox apartments.  In December last year, the government imposed an additional
stamp duty on foreigners and corporations buying property, and
additional levies on permanent residents buying a second home
and citizens purchasing a third residential property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  