-- SEC Lifts Restriction on Active ETFs’ Derivativates Use
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-12-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/sec-to-lift-ban-on-actively-run-etfs-using-derivatives.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission cleared one obstacle for exchange-traded funds that
try to beat benchmarks by lifting a ban on the funds’ use of
derivatives.  Proposed funds will have to meet requirements on  managing
risk  and disclosure, Norm Champ, director of the division of
investment management, said yesterday in a  speech  at a New York
conference for investment advisers. The agency still won’t
approve new ETFs that use derivatives to amplify returns or
provide the inverse performance of an index.  Active ETFs seek to combine the skill of a manager
selecting investments with the trading flexibility, lower fees
and tax advantages of ETFs, which typically track an index. An
 ETF version  of  Bill Gross ’s Pimco Total Return Bond Fund, the
world’s largest mutual fund, has grown to $3.8 billion since its
introduction in February, making it one of the 15 biggest bond
ETFs in the U.S.  “It is a step forward,” said Christine Hudacko, a
spokeswoman for  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the largest ETF provider.  BlackRock, based in New York, and Atlanta-based  Invesco
Ltd. (IVZ)  are among companies with pending requests to introduce
actively managed ETFs.  ETFs hold baskets of securities, commodities or other
assets while trading throughout the day like individual stocks.
Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to specific
events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  ‘Deliberate Approach’  The SEC froze approval for new ETFs that make significant
use of derivatives in March 2010, seven months after warning
that some products could confuse individual investors. Champ
said the SEC will continue to review the use of derivatives by
funds.  “Given the complexity and significance of the issues
relating to funds’ use of derivatives, both for the fund
industry and for the protection of investors, we are taking a
deliberate approach in our continuing review,” he said.  Gross, co-chief investment officer at Pacific  Investment
Management  Co. in  Newport Beach , California, uses a combination
of options, futures and swap agreements, for his flagship mutual
fund. The tools have been prohibited for the ETF. Pimco said in
a filing last year it would use derivatives in the ETF if the
SEC should lift the ban.  Pimco Total Return ETF (BOND)  has returned 12 percent since
inception, compared with 7.4 percent for Gross’s mutual fund.  Almost all ETFs track indexes tied to benchmarks, appealing
to investors because of their trading flexibility and lower
costs. Actively managed ETFs in the U.S. oversee about $10.3
billion, or about 0.8 percent of the industry total, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  