-- Senators Question Air Force's $1 Billion Failed Software
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-06T15:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/senators-question-air-force-s-1-billion-failed-software.html
Leaders of the Senate Armed Services
Committee have asked U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  to
explain why the Air Force scrapped a software system to manage
its supply chain after spending more than $1 billion on it.  The Air Force last month canceled the Expeditionary Combat
Support System after determining that the program was “no
longer a viable option” to help the service meet a goal to have
its financial books ready for a federal audit by 2017.  “From what we know to date, this case appears to be one of
the most egregious examples of mismanagement in recent memory,”
Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and the committee’s
chairman, and Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , its senior
Republican, wrote yesterday in a  letter  to Panetta.  The program was canceled after being reorganized three
times in three years, making it “apparent the  Air Force  will be
better served by developing an entirely new strategy versus
revamping” it, the service said in canceling it.  The action came after the Air Force in March terminated a
fixed-price contract for the system with  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) 
The company had been paid $527 million, according to the Air
Force.  Of nine software systems that the Pentagon is installing to
improve longstanding financial management deficiencies, the Air
Force program was one of at least six that were running as much
as 12 years late and $6.9 billion over their original cost
estimates, the Government Accountability Office reported in
September 2010.  ‘Clear Explanation’  “We believe that the public and the taxpayers deserve a
clear explanation of how the Air Force came to spend more than
$1 billion without receiving any significant military
capability, who will held accountable and what steps the
department is taking to ensure that this will not happen
again,” Levin and McCain said in their letter.  Among 10 questions the lawmakers posed for the Defense
Department are what benefits the service gained for the dollars
spent and “what capabilities, if any, will be salvaged.”  The lawmakers said service officials told them that the Air
Force has received software and hardware valued at less than
$150 million.  A Pentagon spokeswoman, Army Lieutenant Colonel Elizabeth Robbins, referred requests for comment to the Air Force.  “When the Air Force receives a request for information, we
will respond appropriately,” service spokeswoman Ann Stefanek
said in an e-mail.  Contractor’s Comment  The lawmakers also asked Panetta what steps the department
will take “to ensure the prime contractor’s failure to perform
as required is appropriately considered as past performance in
connection with future” contracts.  Heather Williams, a spokeswoman for  Falls Church , Virginia-
based Computer Sciences, said in an e-mail yesterday that the
company “has a long-standing and ongoing relationship with the
Air Force and is not in a position to answer these questions
independently from the Air Force.”  Williams said in an earlier e-mail that the company
“worked closely and cooperatively with the Air Force’s senior
leadership to close out” the contract.  “We stand behind the work accomplished to date which can
provide a solid foundation for the program’s future,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  