-- FHA’s Fund Shortfall Response Inadequate, Senators Say
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-12-06T17:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/senate-republicans-to-seek-more-fha-financial-disclosures.html
The  Federal Housing Administration 
isn’t going far enough with plans to shore up its finances as it
faces a projected $16.3 billion shortfall in its insurance fund,
 Senate Democrats  and Republicans said today.  The government mortgage insurer announced last month it
would raise premiums and sell off delinquent loans after
disclosing it might need Treasury funds to balance its books for
the first time in its 78-year history. Those and other actions
the agency is taking might not be enough, senators including
South Dakota Democrat  Tim Johnson  and Alabama Republican  Richard Shelby  said at a hearing of the Senate Banking Committee.  “If the administration’s actions and proposals will not be
sufficient to restore FHA’s fiscal health, then I plan to work
with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on the Banking
Committee to find a bipartisan way to make that happen,” said
Johnson, chairman of the committee.  Shaun Donovan, secretary of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, said the agency’s actions might not cover the
shortfall in testimony before the Senate panel.  “I cannot guarantee that FHA will not need a draw before
the end of this fiscal year,” Donovan said. “I’m highly
concerned about that possibility.”  The poor financial outlook in the actuarial report
“reflects an expectation that FHA’s current pool of insured
loans still has significant foreclosure and claim activity yet
to occur,” he said.  ‘Blunt Changes’  The FHA is prepared to take some additional steps including
making “blunt changes” to its reverse mortgage program on an
interim basis to protect its finances, Donovan said. The agency
is seeking legislative changes allowing new limits on the terms
of such mortgages, which permit senior citizens to borrow
against the equity in their homes.  Republicans called for the agency to inform Congress at the
moment it needs financial aid and said they would introduce a
bill requiring real-time disclosure of FHA finances if HUD
officials don’t comply.  The FHA currently backs 15 percent of U.S. mortgages issued
for home purchases. The agency provides liquidity to the housing
market by insuring lenders against losses on loans with down
payments as low as 3.5 percent. Lenders are made whole if the
mortgages default.  News that the FHA doesn’t have enough money in its reserve
account to cover all projected losses, as is legally required,
has renewed calls from Republicans on  Capitol Hill  to shrink the
government’s footprint in the mortgage market. Together, the FHA
and U.S.-owned  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  guarantee more than 90
percent of U.S. home loans.  Bubble’s Legacy  The FHA fund’s shortfall stems largely from loans in its
$1.1 trillion portfolio that it insured as the housing bubble
collapsed.  Lawmakers will be limited in what they can do in the near
term to impose new requirements on the FHA. Before the end of
the year, the Senate could vote on a bill approved
overwhelmingly by the House in September, known as the FHA
Emergency Solvency Act. The measure would establish a minimum
premium, enable the FHA to suspend poorly performing lenders and
increase its monitoring of delinquent loans, among other
provisions.  House Republicans  sent a letter to the Senate Banking
Committee today calling for an immediate vote on the bill. HUD
supports the bill, and Donovan urged the Senate to act on it.  ‘Poison Pills’  Broader measures -- such reducing the maximum size of loans
the FHA will insure, raising the minimum down payment for FHA-
insured mortgages, or imposing new restrictions on buyers --
probably couldn’t be added to pending legislation by the end of
the year, said lender consultant Brian Chappelle of Washington-
based Potomac Partners.  “Those would be poison pills at this stage,” Chappelle
said in an interview. Still, he said, “we’re going to have that
debate next year, obviously.”  Whether the agency will need taxpayer aid will be
determined in February after the White House completes a
separate financial assessment for President  Barack Obama ’s
budget proposal.  More than 17 percent of all FHA loans were delinquent in
September, according to data on the agency’s website. The agency
has lost $70 billion on loans it insured from fiscal years 2007
through 2009.  The House FHA bill is H.R. 4264.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  