-- Shell Says Europe Needs $120-a-Ton CO2 to Rival Coal, Wind
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-12-06T17:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/shell-says-europe-needs-120-a-ton-co2-to-rival-coal-wind-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, said Europe needs a price of $120 per ton
of carbon dioxide for natural gas to compete with imported U.S.
coal and subsidized renewable energy in power generation.  European electricity generators reduced purchases of gas by
about 2.3 billion cubic feet a day this year, or about 3.8
percent of Europe’s total consumption, because of cheaper U.S.
coal shipments, according to  Andy Brown , upstream director at
Shell. Demand for renewable energy is forecast to expand 2.9
percent a year through 2035 in Europe partly because of
subsidies, according to the  International Energy Agency .  European Union emission permits yesterday fell to an all-
time low of 5.61 euros ($7.28) a ton on oversupply. Power
generators prefer to burn cheaper coal, which emits  twice  as
much C02 as gas, and offset pollution by buying permits.  Shell, based in  The Hague , is budgeting $40 a ton costs of
carbon dioxide emissions in its projects. The company said that
even that price isn’t enough to stimulate competition between
gas-to-power and cheaper U.S. coal or subsidized renewable
sources of electricity such as offshore wind.  “Costs that we are looking at” are “significantly higher
than $40 a ton, at least two to three times of that,” Ben van Beurden, executive vice president for Shell Chemicals, said
yesterday in  London . “That’s the sort of challenge that we are
facing at the moment, not so much to develop essentially new
technologies, because they are there.”  Insufficient Price  The Anglo-Dutch explorer, which is involved in carbon
sequestration projects from  Australia  to  Canada , estimated that
U.S. coal exports to Europe increased fivefold since 2000.  “Renewables get incentives well over $100 a ton in
Europe,” Brown said. “With the  European trading scheme  the CO2
price is insufficient to stimulate the kind of transitions we
will all need to move to a lower CO2 footprint.”  The U.S. became the largest gas producer after companies
ramped up production from shale deposits using rock fracturing
to stimulate output. Gas prices in the country plunged to a
decade low this year on increased supplies.  “What you see in America is coal being displaced by cheap
gas, which is actually reducing the CO2 footprint of the power
generation systems in America,” Brown said. “Because of the
cheap gas in America, coal has been displaced out of America
actually into Europe,” reducing demand for gas.  Shale Boom  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, Europe’s largest utility by market value,
plunged the most in four years in Paris trading today after it
forecast lower earnings next year because of slowing economic
growth and the boom in U.S. gas extraction.  “We can only provide competitively priced gas to the power
generators,” Brown said. “We could just make sure that the
regulators, policy makers understand that gas has to play a
significant role.”  The U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change yesterday
disclosed a gas-generation  strategy  designed to decarbonize the
nation’s electricity mix. It announced a plan to build new gas-
fired power stations with 26 gigawatts of capacity.  The U.K. in July granted permission for a Shell and SSE
Plc-led venture to store carbon dioxide under the  North Sea . The
companies plan to add a carbon capture and storage facility to
an existing power plant north of Aberdeen in  Scotland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  