-- Short Sales of Homes Surge as Tax Break to Expire: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2012-12-06T14:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/short-sales-of-homes-surge-as-tax-break-to-expire-mortgages.html
Homeowners and banks are accelerating
sales of properties for less than the amount owed as a U.S. law
that gives them a tax break expires at the end of the year.  The transactions, known as short sales, increased by 35
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, while sales of
 bank-owned  homes dropped 20 percent, according to a  report  today
by mortgage data seller Renwood RealtyTrac LLC. Together, they
accounted for 41.5 percent of home purchases in the quarter.  Short sales have accounted for as many as 1.1 million
transactions since 2009, helping to reduce the inventory of
homes owned by banks that can blight neighborhoods and flood the
market. Barring a last-minute extension of the 2007 Mortgage
Forgiveness Debt Relief Act, homeowners will be taxed on the
forgiven principal. With Congress focused on the so-called
fiscal cliff, federal spending cuts and tax-rate hikes set to
kick in on Jan. 1, the law may not be extended, leading to a
drop in short sales and a rise in foreclosures.  “If you’re struggling to pay your mortgage, it’s not
likely you can afford an extra $25,000 or $35,000 tax bill to
avoid foreclosure,” said Edward Mills, a financial policy
analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia.
“Mortgage forgiveness has become part of fiscal cliff
politics.”  The  Internal Revenue Service  typically taxes forgiven debt
as income to the debtor. For short sales, the average price tag
was $94,896 below the mortgage on the property, according to the
RealtyTrac report. Tacking that onto borrowers’ income would not
only raise the amount of taxes due -- it could push them into a
more expensive tax bracket.  Better Outcome  Short sales are better for the real estate market than
sales of bank-owned properties, said  Daren Blomquist , vice
president at RealtyTrac. The average price for a short sale was
$186,000 in the third quarter, compared with an average bank-
sale price of $161,954, which was down 7 percent from the second
quarter as empty homes lost value, Blomquist said. Bank-owned
properties often are unoccupied for six months or more, while
short sales result in new owners moving in directly after the
purchase, he said.  “The tax break going away could really stifle the upward
trend in short sales we’ve seen this year, and by extension some
of the rebound we’ve seen in the  housing market ,” Blomquist
said. “People will shy away from agreeing to a principal
reduction because they won’t be able to come up with additional
funds to pay a new bill.”  Home Sales  Sales of homes in some stage of foreclosure accounted for
20 percent of all U.S.  homes sales , the report said. The share
was highest in  Georgia , at 38 percent, followed by  California ,
at 36 percent;  Arizona , at 34 percent; and  Nevada , at 31
percent.  Short sales of homes that weren’t in foreclosure rose 17
percent in the third quarter, the data company said, without
providing a number because the figure is based on a sampling of
the market. Those sales accounted for 22 percent of all U.S.
sales, and were the highest in  Rhode Island , at 58 percent;
 Connecticut , at 47 percent; and  Massachusetts , at 44 percent,
according to the report.  The expiration of the tax break comes at the same time that
federal policies are making debt forgiveness more common.
Advocates for homeowners and mortgage industry participants say
the law’s expiration could jeopardize progress made this year
working through the backlog of troubled loans resulting from the
six-year housing decline.  Tripled Incentives  The Treasury Department in January tripled the incentives
it pays lenders for mortgage modifications to as much as 63
cents for each dollar of debt written off. In addition, the five
biggest U.S. lenders agreed to reduce the principal on troubled
loans by about $10 billion as part of a $25 billion settlement
in February of federal and state charges of abusive foreclosure
practices.  Forty state attorneys general sent a letter to Congress
last month urging an extension of the tax break.  “Requiring a homeowner to pay income tax on forgiven or
canceled mortgage debt would make the National Mortgage
Settlement much less effective,” the letter said.  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the government-owned companies
that back about two-thirds of all mortgages, also streamlined
their short-sale processes this year.  Fiscal Cliff  The fate of the mortgage-forgiveness tax break is bound up
in the negotiations over the so-called fiscal cliff, said
 Douglas Holtz-Eakin , chief economist to Bush’s  Council of
Economic Advisers  in 2001 and 2002. President  Barack Obama  and
Republican lawmakers are trading proposals on ways to avoid the
more than $600 billion in U.S. spending cuts and tax-rate
increases that will automatically take effect in January if
Congress doesn’t act.  The mortgage debt forgiveness measure may be tacked onto
the back of a broader bill that addresses the fiscal cliff, said
Holtz-Eakin.  “There’s bipartisan support for extending the mortgage-
forgiveness bill,” Holtz-Eakin said. “Not doing it is a recipe
for bad politics.”  The Senate Finance Committee approved a one-year extension
in August. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated at the time
that the cost to taxpayers would be $1.3 billion. The matter
hasn’t come up for a vote of the full Senate, nor has it come to
a vote in the  House of Representatives .  Homeowner Surprise  If the tax break isn’t extended, it’s going to come as a
surprise to many homeowners currently negotiating a principal
reduction with their lenders, said Elyse Cherry, CEO of Boston
Community Capital, which provides foreclosure prevention aid in
Boston.  “If you ask 10 people in foreclosure, most of them
wouldn’t know they may have a deadline,” Cherry said. “They
know about the fiscal cliff, but they don’t know they might be
facing their own cliff.”  Creating roadblocks for mortgage modifications and short
sales will undo much of the government’s efforts to revive the
housing market by avoiding foreclosures, she said. The federal
Making Home Affordable program has resulted in about 835,000
permanent modifications, according to the Treasury Department.  “We can’t afford a reversal,” she said. “It’s at cross-
purposes to all the initiatives that have been put in place to
combat foreclosures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 