-- Siemens Pushes Industrial Software With Purchases to Lift Profit
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-12-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/siemens-pushes-industrial-software-with-purchases-to-lift-profit.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, said it will continue to buy industrial
software companies in its pursuit of a larger share of a market
that’s growing at twice the pace of factory equipment.  Acquisitions will be mainly smaller after Siemens announced
the purchase last month of LMS International, a closely held
Belgian software maker, for about 680 million euros, said
Siegfried Russwurm, the Siemens executive leading the industrial
division.  Industrial software is slated to become a 28-billion-euro
($37 billion) market by 2018 from 17 billion euros today Siemens
and competitors  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  and Schneider Electric Co.  add
software to let industrial tools perform complex tasks from
developing race cars to space probes. Siemens generates a third
of total operating profit from its industrial automation and
drives units, and marrying hard- and software supports its
margin as the Munich-based company seeks to boost profitability.  “Virtual product design and testing is all about being
faster and reducing development costs,” Russwurm said in an
interview in Munich last week. “Our software investments
safeguard our industrial automation and drives businesses.´´  The industrial-software industry will grow by 8 percent
each year through 2018, and Siemens aims outpace that expansion,
supported by potential acquisitions, Russwurm said. Siemens does
not disclose sales or profit generated with software. The
company has 17,000 software engineers, out of a total workforce
of about 370,000.  Chasing Profitability  The promises of higher profitability from software is
illustrated by the success of  SAP AG (SAP) , the market leader for
programs that help companies manage tasks such as procurement
and inventory. The German company leapfrogged Siemens as the
country’s largest company by market value, with revenue that are
but a fifth of Siemens’s own, yet profitability twice as high.  Siemens, ABB and Schneider spent at least a combined $8
billion in the past six years to add software allowing clients
to simulating product development and manage power grids or
transportation systems more efficiently. Daimler AG uses Siemens
software for its global vehicle development, switching over from
 Dassault Systemes SA (DSY)  in 2010.  ‘‘It is a hard-fought market, Russwurm said. ‘‘If we
perform, customers stay with us. It’s a very sticky business.´´  Russwurm said the company will seek to expand its customer
base to include industries including food, beverages and
pharmaceuticals to complement its existing stock of automotive
and aerospace companies.  Synergies  ABB claims the leading position in software for process
automation, serving petrochemical and pharmaceutical companies.
The Zurich-based company spent $1.5 billion on industrial
software companies since 2010, and Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan said he aims to grow services and software revenue to make
up a combined 25 percent of total by 2015.  Schneider bought Telvent GTI SA last year for about 1.4
billion euros, adding software to its offering in infrastructure
and doubling the number of employees in software businesses to
about 10,000.  Siemens’s software, built on more than 4 billion euros of
acquisitions, creates ‘‘a tremendous amount of synergies,’’ said
David Humphrey, an analyst at ACR Advisors specializing in
industrial software. ‘‘For some, acquiring software makers would
make a lot of sense. There is a still window of opportunity
open.´´  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  