-- Sirius Radio Plans 5 Cent Special Dividend, Stock Buyback
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-12-06T21:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/sirius-radio-plans-5-cent-special-dividend-stock-buyback.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , the satellite-
radio broadcaster, said it will issue a special dividend of 5
cents a share and repurchase as much as $2 billion in stock.   The special cash payout is payable Dec. 28 to stockholders
of record as of Dec. 18, the company said today in a statement.  Sirius joins a growing number of companies paying special
dividends or accelerating payments ahead of a potential U.S. tax
increase next year. The total amount of the Sirius cash dividend
is expected to be about $325 million, according to the New York-
based company’s statement.  “The size of the capital return and the mix in favor of
buybacks is roughly in line with our expectations, although the
timing is slightly in advance of our forecasts,” James Ratcliffe, an analyst at Barclays Plc., said in a note to
clients. Ratcliffe, who rates the shares the equivalent of hold,
said he expected buybacks to be announced in January 2013.  “The desire to get the dividend in before a rise in
dividend tax rates in 2013 drove the earlier announcement,” he
said.  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) , which owns about 49.8 percent of the
company’s stock, will participate in the Sirius buyback program,
the radio broadcaster said. Liberty will probably gain majority
control of Sirius, pending Federal Communications Commission
approval, in mid-January, Ratcliffe said.  The buybacks will be funded by cash on hand, future cash
flow from operations, and borrowings under an existing revolving
credit facility, according to the statement. Sirius plans to
purchase stock “from time to time on the open market and in
privately negotiated transactions,” the company said.    Sirius rose less than 1 percent to $2.79 at the close in
New York. The shares have gained 53 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  