-- Slovaks Must Promote Growth as Prospects Uncertain: OECD
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-12-06T08:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/slovaks-must-promote-growth-as-prospects-uncertain-oecd.html
 Slovakia’s efforts to cut its fiscal
deficit should be accompanied by measures to promote growth as
the euro-region's second-poorest economy is facing “uncertain” 
prospects, the OECD said.   “The main priorities are now are to restore public
finances while fostering domestic drivers of growth and ensuring
the funding of items to promote growth, such as education and
active labor market policies,” the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and  Development said in a survey released today.  Even as the short-term outlook for the  economy  has
worsened, it is set to advance 2.6 percent this year and 2
percent in 2013, one of the fastest expansions in the euro area
which Slovakia joined in 2009, the OECD estimates. This matches
the European Commission’s projection from November. Still,
Slovakia’s medium- and long-term growth prospects are uncertain
as the country must improve its labor market and education
efficiency to remain competitive, the Paris-based group said.  The administration of  Robert Fico , in power since April, is
striving to cut the  budget deficit  to distance itself from the
euro region’s sovereign debt crisis. The government is relying
on raising taxes for high earners and the corporate sector,
including special levies for selected industries, in line with
Fico’s pre-election pledges to limit the impact of austerity on
less well-off citizens.  The government’s plan to squeeze the fiscal gap below the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of output as early as next
year is credible, the OECD said. Still, long-term fiscal issues
such as sustainability of the pension system remain unresolved,
it said.  The tax system should be made less harmful to growth, the
OECD said, recommending to focus more on property and
environment taxes, while at the same time to reduce payroll
taxes on low-paid jobs to lower unemployment, which, at 13.7
percent in October, remains one of the highest in the EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  