-- SodaStream Counts on Super Bowl Ads for Sales: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-12-06T22:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/sodastream-counts-on-super-bowl-ads-for-sales-israel-overnight.html
SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the
Israeli maker of home soda machines that is set for the longest
stretch of weekly gains since July, is counting on advertising
during the Super Bowl and on YouTube to boost revenue.  “We are the anti-establishment brand,” Ilan Nacasch, the
chief marketing officer at SodaStream, said in a telephone
interview on Dec. 5. “We are challenging the status quo,
conscious that moving to SodaStream is a big behavioral change
for the consumer. We want to be seen as a rebel, and raise
awareness of bottle and can pollution.”  The former marketing executive at  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  has
overseen the production of commercials and advertising events
aimed at portraying the Airport City, Israel based company’s
products as environmentally-conscious alternatives to the cans
and plastic bottled beverages made by companies from  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO)  to PepsiCo Inc. SodaStream will probably report that 2012
sales rose 37 percent to $424.4 million, according to the mean
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shares of SodaStream have gained 0.3 percent this week,
poised for a third weekly advance, the longest rally in five
months. The stock fell 1.1 percent yesterday to $40. The
 Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest New-York traded
Israeli companies was little changed yesterday at 87.39.
 Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  rebounded from a five-month low as
 UBS AG (UBS)  rated the shares neutral in an initial coverage.  Banned Commercial  The U.K. regulator Clearcast  banned  a SodaStream television
 commercial  last month showing crates of bottled beverages
exploding, sending viewers to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube where the
video has gotten more than 1.4 million hits. The publicity
generated by the banning, led the company to announce on Dec. 4
that it had bought a commercial to run during the fourth quarter
of the Super Bowl on Feb. 3.  “Some would say that any publicity is good publicity but
that wasn’t what we were looking for,” Nacasch said in an
interview from Auckland, New Zealand, where he had traveled as
part of a marketing trip that included  Australia . “We would
like our message to be heard.”  SodaStream has aired the same commercial in the U.S. and in
 Europe , he said.  In addition to environmental themes, SodaStream plans to
focus on health and wellness in a new U.S. marketing campaign
scheduled to begin later this month, Nacasch said, declining to
reveal the subject of the company’s Super Bowl spot.  ‘Connecting Emotionally’  “Sustainability is the message that really sets SodaStream
apart,” Nacasch says. “We’ll look to rotate that with messages
about health and convenience as we move toward connecting more
emotionally with consumers.”  Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  slipped 0.2 percent yesterday to
1,228.53 as the Tel Aviv gauge fell for the first time in three
weeks.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , the developer of technology that
helps wireless carriers including  AT&T Inc. (T)  manage traffic, lost
7.6 percent to $18.96 to extend the decline this week to 13
percent. Allot shares traded in Tel Aviv sank 7.5 percent on the
week to 77.26 shekels, or the equivalent of $20.2.  Allot is vulnerable to a reduction in wireless-related
capital spending next year by AT&T Inc., Verizon Wireless and
Sprint Nextel Corp,  Jay Srivatsa , the managing director of
equity research at Chardan Capital Markets LLC, said. AT&T Chief
Executive Officer Randall Stephenson warned last week that a
failure to strike a U.S. budget deal will lead to “businesses
pulling in investment.”  Mellanox Advances  “The service provider market is clearly weak,” Srivatsa,
who has a neutral rating on the shares, said by e-mail from New
York yesterday. “Any cut in capex would be a huge setback for
Allot.”  Mellanox Technologies Ltd., the maker of technology used to
transfer and store data, gained for the first time in eight
days, adding 1.6 percent to $68.73 after the stock traded in Tel
Aviv increased 0.4 percent to 257.80 shekels, or the equivalent
of $67.29.  Steven Milunovich, an analyst at UBS in New York, said in
an investor note that while Mellanox remains the leading
provider of InfiniBand products, the likelihood that  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
will produce similar products in 2014 and 2015 serves as a
“dark cloud” on the shares.  Mellanox shares have plunged 19 percent since Nov. 26 on
concern that Intel Corp. will take market share from the Israeli
comapny’s InfiniBand products.  “We are better at execution” compared with Intel,
Mellanox Chief Executive Officer Eyal Waldman said in a phone
interview yesterday from Sunnyvale,  California . “It will be a
challenge for Intel to take some of the design wins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  