-- South African Current Account Gap Stays at 6.4% in Third Quarter
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-12-06T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/south-african-current-account-gap-stays-at-6-4-in-third-quarter.html
South Africa’s  current-account 
deficit was unchanged at 6.4 percent of gross domestic product
in the third quarter, less than economists forecast, as lower
dividend payments to foreigners helped to offset a deteriorating
trade account.  The gap on the current account, the broadest measure of
trade in goods and services, reached an annualized 202.5 billion
rand ($23 billion), the  Reserve Bank  said in its Quarterly
Bulletin released in  Pretoria  today. The median  estimate  of 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for the deficit to reach
6.7 percent of GDP.  South Africa’s trade gap has widened this year as mining
strikes halted production at shafts owned by  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (AU)  and  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  and imports climbed. An increase in farming
and vehicle exports cushioned the impact of the mining strikes
last quarter, easing pressure on the current-account shortfall,
the central bank said.  “The volume of merchandise exports also inched higher,
reflecting higher agricultural and manufacturing exports despite
a tough international trade environment,” the bank said. The
current-account deficit also improved because of “lower
dividend payments to non-resident investors.”  South Africa ’s trade gap in the first 10 months of the year
was 104.6 billion rand, 10 times larger than a year earlier,
according to data from the South African Revenue Service.  Portfolio Investment  The labor turmoil may still affect the current account data
in the fourth quarter, the central bank said.  “The impact of the industrial strife on platinum exports
appeared not to be significant in the third quarter as the
strike occurred more towards the second half of the quarter,”
it said.  South Africa relies mainly on foreign portfolio investment
to fund the deficit, inflows that have fluctuated this year as
global growth slowed and investors’ risk perceptions increased.
That’s undermined the rand, which has dropped 7.9 percent
against the dollar this year, the second-worst performer of 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The current-account deficit was adequately financed by
foreign inflows last quarter. Investment in stocks and bonds by
non-residents increased by 27.5 billion rand, compared with 22.7
billion rand in the second quarter, the central bank said.
Foreign direct investment grew by 22.2 billion rand, up from 6.6
billion rand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  