-- South African Consumer Spending Growth Slows to Three-Year Low
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-12-06T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/south-african-consumer-spending-growth-slows-to-three-year-low.html
South African consumer spending
increased at the slowest pace in three years in the third
quarter, undermining growth in  Africa ’s largest economy.  Household expenditure rose an annualized 2.6 percent after
gaining 3.1 percent in the previous three months, the  Reserve
Bank  said in its Quarterly Bulletin released in  Pretoria  today.
Growth in gross domestic spending eased to 3 percent from 4.9
percent.  Consumers, who account for almost two-thirds of demand in
 South Africa , have come under pressure this year as the economy
shed jobs while food and fuel prices climbed. The central bank
cut the  benchmark interest rate  in July and has left it
unchanged since then at 5 percent, the lowest level in more than
30 years, to help support spending.  The slowdown in gross expenditure last quarter was mainly
due to a drop in inventories following strikes in the  mining
industry , the central bank said. That offset higher spending by
the government, which rose 8.4 percent compared with 3.7 percent
in the second quarter. Investment increased 7.2 percent, up from
7 percent, the bank said.  Even as households spent more, their debt levels remained
unchanged at 76 percent of disposable income in the third
quarter as lower  interest rates  drove down debt-service costs,
the bank said.  Rising wage settlements following strikes in the mining,
transport and farming industries may add to pressure on
inflation. Unit labor costs rose 6.1 percent in the second
quarter compared with 5.8 percent in the previous three months,
the bank said.  Still, the short-term impact “could be fairly muted as it
would take some time for most of the affected workers to recoup
the wages they had foregone,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  