-- Standard Chartered Sees $330 Million Iranian Settlement
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-12-06T08:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/standard-chartered-sees-330-million-settlement-on-iran-case.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Britain’s
second-largest bank by market value, said it expects to pay
about $330 million to settle regulators’ claims that
transactions with Iranian clients violated U.S. sanctions.  Talks with U.S. authorities may conclude before the end of
the year, Finance Director Richard Meddings said today on a call
with journalists. After agreeing to pay $340 million to the  New
York  Department of Financial Services on Aug. 14, the bank is
still negotiating with the U.S. Justice Department, the Treasury
Department, the Federal Reserve and the Manhattan District
Attorney’s office, the lender said in a statement.  “Although this charge is clearly large, it needs to be put
into the context of a company that is expected to generate about
$7.5 billion of pretax profit in the current year,” said Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital Ltd. in Liverpool.
“It should now draw a line under the issue, while there appears
to have been no material damage to the franchise.”  Standard Chartered in August was accused by  Benjamin Lawsky , head of the DFS, of helping Iran launder about $250
billion in violation of federal laws, keeping false records and
handling lucrative wire transfers for Iranian clients. The
settlement was the largest ever paid to an individual regulator
as part of a money-laundering accord.  Shares (2888)  in the bank rose 0.5 percent to 1,495.5 pence by
8:05 a.m. in London. The stock has gained 6.3 percent this year.  Revenue Growth  Standard Chartered, which gets most of its profit in Asia,
is expected to report full-year revenue growth in the “high
single digits,” according to the statement. Meddings said Oct.
30 that the bank might miss its earlier growth target of at
least 10 percent.  Pretax income may grow at a “mid single digit” rate, not
including the effect of future settlements with U.S. regulators,
according to the statement.  The “headwind” from currency moves is decreasing,
Standard Chartered, which is seeking a ninth consecutive year of
record net income, said in the statement. The bank in October
said revenue growth in the first nine months had been “impacted
by the strength of the U.S. dollar against Asian currencies.”  Full-year revenue in markets including  Africa ,  Malaysia ,
 China  and  Indonesia  may grow 10 percent or more, the bank said.
The lender continues to see “significant opportunities” in
Asia, Africa and the Middle East, Chief Executive Officer Peter Sands said in the statement.  Increase Headcount  Standard Chartered said it continues to expand branch
networks and hire in China and Africa, and may increase
headcount by 1,800 by the end of 2012 from a year earlier. The
bank had 86,865 employees at the end of last year, according to
its annual report.  “Standard Chartered is beautifully positioned in  emerging
markets  and will benefit from the relatively better growth in
those markets,” Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., said in an e-mail today. “The bank is
hiring rather than firing. Few global banks can say the same.”  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank by market value,
said on Nov. 5 it’s likely to face criminal charges from U.S.
anti-money-laundering probes and that the cost of a settlement
may “significantly” exceed the $1.5 billion the bank has
already set aside. The bank has been in talks with U.S.
regulators over allegations it laundered funds of sanctioned
nations including Iran and  Sudan .  The settlement may reach $1.8 billion, Reuters reported
today, citing people familiar with the matter.  ING Bank NV agreed in June to pay $619 million to settle
allegations similar to those against Standard Chartered, a sum
that was split evenly between the federal government and the
Manhattan District Attorney’s office.  Standard Chartered “is getting away cheap compared to
HSBC,” Antos said. “The fact that the bank mentions an exact
figure suggests that this has been wrapped up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  