-- Standard Chartered Leads Fall in Bank Bond Risk to 19-Month Low
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-12-06T12:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/standard-chartered-leads-fall-in-bank-bond-risk-to-19-month-low.html
Standard Chartered  Plc led a decline
in European bank bond risk to a 19-month-low as it settles
claims it violated U.S. sanctions by dealing with Iranian
clients.  Credit-default swaps on Britain’s second-largest bank by
market value dropped three basis points to 88 at 11:15 a.m. in
 London , the lowest since May 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Air France-KLM,  Europe ’s biggest airline, is selling its
first benchmark bonds since 2009.  London-based Standard Chartered said talks with U.S.
authorities may conclude by yearend after it was accused in
August of helping Iran launder about $250 billion. Credit risk
fell as corporate borrowers continued to take advantage of near
record-low yields to sell bonds before the traditional holiday
season slowdown.  “There’s not much sign of the holiday lull yet and the
market is pretty buoyant,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at
Investec Bank Plc in London. “The Iran settlement gets rid of
the uncertainty hanging over Standard Chartered.”  Investor appetite for corporate debt has pushed yields on
investment-grade bonds down to 2.15 percent on average from 4.4
percent at the start of the year, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Euro Corporate Index shows.  Corporate borrowers are raising at least 7.4 billion euros
($9.7 billion) from bond sales this week, compared with 12.1
billion euros for all of last week, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg that tracks issuance in euros and pounds by non-
financial companies. Sales reached 34.5 billion euros in
November, a record for that month.  Air-France, Heathrow  Air France-KLM (AF)  is raising 500 million euros from bonds due
January 2018 that will be priced to yield 6.375 percent,
according to people familiar with the transaction.  Heathrow Finance Plc, a unit of the London airport
operator, is meeting investors today on a 250 million-pound
($403 million) of senior secured bonds maturing in September
2019.  Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG is selling benchmark
tier 2 bonds in euros guaranteed by the Austrian government.  GDF Suez SA’s (GSZ)  bonds fell more than any other company after
Europe’s largest utility by market value said earnings will drop
next year because of the weak economy. The Paris-based company’s
2.625 percent bonds due 2022 fell 0.3 percent to 102.8 cents on
the euro, the biggest faller in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
EMU Corporates Non-Financial  index .  Risk Falls  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of contracts on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings fell one basis
point to 477. A decline signals improvement in perceptions of
 credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of senior debt issued by
banks and insurers was 152 basis points after earlier dropping
to a 19-month low of 145. The financial subordinated index was
little changed at 259.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings declined one basis points to 118.  Contracts insuring  Wendel SA (MF) ,  France ’s largest publicly
traded investment firm, rose after Chief Executive Officer
Frederic Lemoine said today the company will continue to buy
back shares if the 36.2 percent discount on the net asset value
remains near a historical high.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  -- Editors: Andrew Reierson, Michael Shanahan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  