-- Starbucks to Pay ’Significant’ U.K. Taxes Next Two Years
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-12-06T13:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/starbucks-to-pay-significant-u-k-taxes-next-two-years.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  said it will pay “a
significant amount” of  corporation tax  in the U.K. in 2013 and
2014 after the world’s largest coffee-shop operator came under
fire by lawmakers for not paying any corporation tax there.  “We are making a commitment that we will propose to pay a
significant amount of corporation tax during 2013 and 2014
regardless of whether our company is profitable during these
years,” according to the text of a speech to be given today at
the London Chamber of Commerce by Kris Engskov, managing
director of Starbucks U.K. “We are still working through some
of the calculations, but we believe we could pay or prepay”
about 10 million pounds ($16.1 million), he said.  Starbucks, which has been closing under-performing stores
in the U.K. this year, has pledged to build trust in the nation
after being criticized by British lawmakers for not paying any
tax for the past three years. There has been no suggestion that
Seattle-based Starbucks has broken the law. The company has
about 760 stores in the U.K.  Starbucks will not claim any  tax deductions  for royalties
in the U.K. in 2013 and 2014 and will pay more than is required
by law, according to the speech. In the past three years, the
company has paid more than 160 million pounds in employee,
national insurance and business rates tax, Engskov said in a
statement in October.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have also been admonished
by British lawmakers for using complex accounting methods to
minimize tax liabilities in the U.K. while running large
operations in the country.  Starbucks has more than 18,000 stores worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  