-- Sternlicht Considers Starwood Stake Sale for New Funding
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 2012-12-06T05:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/sternlicht-considers-starwood-stake-sale-for-new-funding.html
Barry Sternlicht , chairman and chief
executive officer of Starwood Capital Group LLC, said he is
exploring the sale of a stake in his property-investment firm to
raise cash and finance new businesses.  “It is something that we’re considering,” Sternlicht said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television that will air today.
“There is only so much capital that we can invest because our
funds are long-lived,” he said. Having a partner to contribute
capital in future investments and seed new business lines
“makes some sense to me.”  Sternlicht, 52, is increasing hiring at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Starwood to pursue investments ranging from
distressed debt in Europe to U.S. residential property. The
investor, who created the W boutique hotel chain while leading
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc., also is looking to
expand in consumer brands, he said in the interview.  Private-equity firms including Blackstone Group LP,  Carlyle (CG) 
Group LP and  Apollo (APO)  Global Management LLC have sold minority
stakes to pensions and foreign governments before going public.
While Carlyle is trading above its initial public offering price
in May, Apollo is selling for 16 percent less and Blackstone,
which went public close to the stock market’s peak in 2007, is
down 52 percent from its IPO price.  “It works out pretty good for the selling people,”
Sternlicht said. “It hasn’t so far worked out that great for
any of the shareholders.”  Tom Johnson , a Starwood Capital spokesman with Abernathy
MacGregor Group Inc., declined to comment on whether the company
has any plans to eventually go public.  Fund Returns  Returns for real estate funds are poised to fall as
 interest rates  sit at record lows, Sternlicht said. While he
isn’t getting out of property investments, he’s seeking other
asset classes, he said.  “If the world interest-rate climate stays at 1-2 percent,
we’re not going to be able to get the 20 percent returns” that
funds like his used to target, he said. “A 12 and 14 should be
fantastic. I’m not sure investors agree.”  Sternlicht founded Starwood Capital in 1991 after working
for Chicago-based JMB Realty Corp. He started  Starwood Hotels (HOT)  &
Resorts in 1995, and ran the company until 2004 when he stepped
down as CEO to become executive chairman. He resigned in 2005
amid a dispute with the board. Starwood Hotels, based in
Stamford,  Connecticut , is no longer affiliated with Starwood
Capital.  ‘Branding Guy’  “I’m a branding guy -- I did that,” Sternlicht said in
the interview. “I’m doing that again. I think we could have
gravitas, a real clout, in consumer areas.”  Sternlicht is on the boards of cosmetics maker  Estee Lauder
Cos. (EL)  and furnishings retailer Restoration Hardware Holdings Inc.
“Those are interesting businesses to me in design,
distribution,” he said.  Sternlicht has resuscitated his hotel-condominium idea,
called 1 Hotels, in  New York  after halting construction in
 Seattle  in late 2007 as the U.S. credit crisis deepened. He’s
building a Baccarat hotel in Manhattan to be decorated with
crystal chandeliers by the French glassware maker his firm
bought in 2005, and also plans Baccarat hotels in  Morocco ,
China, Dubai and  Tunisia .  He also is investing in malls.  Starwood Capital  in June
bought a 90 percent stake in seven U.S. shopping centers from
Australia’s Westfield Group and formed a new unit called
Starwood Retail Partners to oversee the assets and form
partnerships “to enhance the shopping and entertainment
experience of each location.” The properties are “doing
well,” Sternlicht said in the interview.  Retail Space  “Tenants are looking for space,” he said. “The death of
the middle class is probably a little exaggerated.”  Starwood in 2010 invested $150 million with  San Ramon ,
California-based  homebuilder  TRI Pointe Homes LLC. The business
will probably sell 300 or 400 homes this year, which “for a
startup is good,” he said last week at a New York conference
sponsored by the  University of Wisconsin  and Toll Brothers Inc.  The housing recovery has been driven partly by private-
equity investors buying foreclosed homes for rent, a strategy
about which Sternlicht has voiced skepticism. His Starwood
Property Trust Inc., which makes and buys commercial mortgages,
acquired 252 foreclosed houses for $27.3 million in May and
June, according to a regulatory filing.  Blackstone (BX)  has spent
about $1.5 billion buying foreclosed houses this year and  Colony
Capital LLC  has spent more than $500 million as of last month.  “The great debate is, is it an asset class that can be
rolled up?” Sternlicht said during the TV interview. “Can
there be an institutional owner of single-family homes, or is it
like the laundry room, laundromats,” which tend to be local
businesses owned by individuals, he said.  New Fund  Starwood Capital has raised almost $16 billion of equity
since inception. It’s gathering about $3 billion for its ninth
real estate opportunity fund.  The new fund has made about 18 investments using about $1.1
billion of equity, Sternlicht said Nov. 30.  His other businesses include Starwood Energy Group, a fund
that invests in power transmission, natural gas and wind and
solar-power-generation facilities throughout  North America ;
hedge fund Starwood Real Estate Securities; and SH Group, the
hotel-management company that owns the 1 Hotels & Resorts brand
and the Baccarat hotel license.  “We’re going to do a couple of more things in the public
markets,” Sternlicht said at the Nov. 30 conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Massar in New York at 
 cmassar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  