-- Chelsea Handler, Will Ferrell Join Miami Basel VIPs
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-12-06T16:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/steve-wynn-eli-broad-will-ferrell-join-miami-basel-vips.html
Steve Wynn  bought a  Roy Lichtenstein 
and Eli Broad picked up a Jeff Koons sculpture on the opening
day of  Art Basel Miami Beach .  “We are drawn to this place like moths,” said Wynn, the
billionaire casino executive, as he left the Gagosian booth
where the 1980s Lichtenstein painting he acquired had an asking
price of $900,000. “I’ve bumped into everyone here:  Wilbur Ross , Tommy Lee, Diane von Furstenberg.”  The largest contemporary-art fair in the U.S., which runs
through Dec. 9, opened yesterday to invited VIPs and offered
works assigned a total value of as much as $2.5 billion by AXA
Art insurance company.  The fair’s 11th edition includes more than 260 galleries
featuring about 2,000 artists and pieces as costly as a $30
million  Mark Rothko  at the Helly Nahmad booth.  “There are directors of museums here from all over the
world, there are collectors from all over the world,” said
billionaire Miami auto dealer Norman Braman, chairman of the
festival’s host committee. “The young collectors who want to
buy works for $1,000, $2,000 or $3,000 are here -- the young
artists who have come here to work in this community as well.”  Soon after the doors opened at 11 a.m., newsprint mogul
 Peter Brant  gave a tour to  Owen Wilson , talk-show host  Chelsea
Handler  showed up with hotelier Andre Balazs, and actress Marcia
Cross talked with art consultant Barbara Guggenheim.  Actor Will Ferrell accompanied his wife, Viveca Paulin-
Ferrell, a board member of the  Los Angeles County Museum  of Art.  “I am just a trophy husband,” said Ferrell, sporting
aviator shades and a baseball hat. “I love art and it’s a fun
thing to come to.”  Steady Stream  Galleries reported a steady stream of sales throughout the
day. Early on, Broad bought a 1988 Koons sculpture of an almost-
life-size Buster Keaton. The asking price was between $5 million
and $5.5 million.  Barbara Gladstone sold pieces by Rosemarie Trockel,  Anish Kapoor  and Mike Kelley ranging from $125,000 to $1 million for
Kapoor.  Pace gallery quickly sold out the entire edition of a 2012
Michal Rovner video titled “Crossing,” with each of three
units priced at $150,000. Nearby, Paul Kasmin sold all but two
of its 15 Ivan Navarro light sculptures at $65,000 each.  Sean John Combs and his entourage stopped at the Fredric
Snitzer booth to admire sculptures of cigarette butts by Jon Pylypchuk, inspired by the artist’s attempt to quit smoking.  “He hasn’t been successful,” said gallery co-director
Richard Arregui. “But the works have been loved by the
public.”  Each cigarette was priced at $5,000 and about 20 percent
sold, with Combs putting one on reserve, Arregui said.  Sewing Mom  Emerging art galleries were doing well too. At the booth of
Dublin’s Mother’s Tankstation gallery, fans of 34-year-old
Japanese artist Atsushi Kaga snapped up about 20 drawings of
naughty bunnies and bears, with prices starting at $1,500.  The artist’s mother, Kazuko Kaga, was also there, working
away on a sewing machine as she stitched together bags featuring
an image made by the artist and priced at $50.  “When I was a child, my mother made bags for me to take
lunch to school,” said Kaga. “Now we collaborate and I can
bring this childhood memory into my practice.”  The worries about the fiscal cliff and changes in the U.S.
tax policy didn’t seem to weigh on fair goers.  “I don’t see the fiscal cliff having anything to do with
the art world,” said Broad.  Love Art  “Anyone who collects art for an investment is crazy,”
Braman said. “You buy art, you collect art because you love
art. That’s the way my wife and I look at it.”  “The fiscal cliff hasn’t affected the stock market,” said
 James Chanos , founder and president of Kynikos Associates Ltd.,
as he gestured to the busy booths around him, “and it doesn’t
look like it’s affecting the contemporary art market.”  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology ,
Lance Esplund on  art   To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 