-- Rising Philippine Storm Death Toll Taunts Disaster Response
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-12-06T07:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/storm-death-toll-rising-in-philippines-taunts-disaster-response.html
Storm Bopha killed at least 327
people and left 380 missing in the  Philippines  in the most
devastating cyclone to hit the nation this year even after the
government said it was better prepared for disasters.  Bopha , known locally as Pablo, left a trail of death and
destruction in some coastal and mining towns in Mindanao, the
region that was also battered a year ago by the most deadly
cyclone since 2008. The death toll has climbed to 475,  Agence
France-Presse  reported, citing the military. As the storm heads
to Oriental Mindoro, its wind speed slowed to 115 kilometers (71
miles) per hour and gusts weakened to 145 kilometers per hour as
of 1 p.m. today, according to the state disaster agency.  “The government’s disaster response has improved
dramatically, but preparations for calamities require a lot more
effort,” Segundo Romero, a program director at the Ateneo de
Manila University’s School of Government, said by telephone
today. “While resettlement may be a longer-term solution, you
can only relocate people if they understand and accept the
risks. It requires an effective communication campaign.”  The Southeast Asian nation is regularly hit by cyclones
that form over the  Pacific Ocean , causing devastation that often
prompts criticism of the government’s disaster-response efforts.
Storm  Washi  killed more than 1,200 people, mostly in Mindanao,
in December 2011. In September 2009, Storm Ketsana flooded
Manila and parts of Luzon, killing more than 400 people. Monsoon
rains flooded half of the Manila region in August.  The storm may hit Vietnam or  Cambodia  after exiting the
Philippines early tomorrow, Aldczar Aurelio, a state weather
forecaster, said by phone.  ‘We Did Everything’  Coastal towns of Cateel, Baganga and  Boston  in Davao
Oriental with a combined population of about 150,000 are
isolated, without electricity and mobile-phone coverage after
bridges were destroyed by the typhoon, Interior Secretary Mar Roxas told local radio DZMM. Bodies caked in mud line the road,
Roxas said, appealing for assistance with coffins and body bags.  “We won’t stop building systems and mechanisms so that we
can minimize the number of victims of tragedies” as soon as
possible, President  Benigno Aquino  said today. “Our target is
not to lose one life,” he said. “I want to be able to tell any
Filipino that we did everything we could to save our
countrymen.”  ‘Very Prepared’  Aquino, who’s scheduled to visit some of the affected
areas, asked mayors and governors yesterday if there was
something the government could have done to prevent casualties.
His civil defense head Benito Ramos said on Dec. 2, before Bopha
hit, that the nation is “very prepared,” having warned
residents on the storm’s path five days before it was due to
enter the Philippines.  Bopha packed winds of 175 kilometers per hour and gusts of
210 kilometers per hour when it landed in the morning of Dec. 4.  More than 250,000 people are in evacuation centers as 4,700
homes were damaged, the National Disaster Risk Reduction and
Management Council said in its latest bulletin. Some parts of
Mindanao are without electricity, the report said. About 180.5
million pesos ($4.4 million) of infrastructure, agriculture and
property was destroyed, the agency said.  Crop damage was estimated at 250 million pesos to 300
million pesos, with banana plantations the hardest hit,
Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala told ABS-CBN News. Damage
to rice and corn farmlands was minimal because the planting
season had just started, he said.  Crop Damage  Fatalities from Washi in 2011 surpassed the combined death
toll of 929 from the  Ketsana and Parma  storms in 2009, which
caused more than 38 billion pesos of damage. Typhoon Fengshen
killed about 1,300 people in June 2008 and caused about 7
billion pesos of damage to crops and irrigation. The death toll
from Fengshen included more than 900 people aboard a ship that
capsized.  Total damage caused by typhoons and other natural disasters
in 2011 reached 59.2 billion pesos, Economic Planning Secretary
Arsenio Balisacan said in August. That month,  inflation 
accelerated to 3.8 percent, the fastest pace in seven months, on
supply disruptions that followed flooding caused by torrential
rains. Consumer price gains slowed to a five-month low in
November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  