-- Strife on the Waterfront a Reaction to 1950s Technology
-- B y   M a r c   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-06T17:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/strife-on-the-waterfront-a-reaction-to-1950s-technology.html
Striking clerks at the nation’s
largest port complex, in Southern  California , agreed to return
to work on Dec. 5, leaving Americans puzzled why a dispute
involving a few hundred office workers could threaten the timely
arrival of holiday gifts across the country and affect about $1
billion in trade a day.  The answer, of course, can be found in history -- in this
case, the history of labor relations at the dawn of the
container era.  In the 1950s, when most international cargo was transported
aboard break bulk vessels that had to be loaded with individual
barrels of chemicals, bales of cotton and wooden crates of
machinery, thousands of men earned at least part of their
livelihoods working on the docks. It was clear to leaders of the
separate dockworkers’ unions on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts
that increasing automation and the arrival of container
shipping, which began in 1956, would have dire consequences for
their members.  Two Approaches  The two unions approached the problem differently. The
International Longshoremen’s Association, whose members worked
the docks from  Maine  to  Texas , strongly resisted automation. The
union eventually won a contract providing a guaranteed annual
income for members whose working hours were reduced by
containerization. As late as 2005, decades after the guarantee
was put in place, a tax on containers was still financing
payments to  New York  longshoremen ostensibly displaced by the
technology.  The International Longshoremen’s and Warehousemen’s Union,
which controlled the docks on the Pacific, was more sympathetic
to employers’ complaints about low productivity. In 1960, the
ILWU and the employers’ association completed a landmark pact,
the  Mechanization and Modernization Agreement . The union
accepted the unlimited introduction of new machinery and working
methods, even if those would eliminate jobs. The employers, in
return, agreed to offer generous retirement benefits to
encourage unneeded dockworkers to leave and better pay and
benefits for those who remained.  This Mechanization and Modernization Agreement turned Los
Angeles and Long Beach, California, into the country’s largest
container ports. But containerization introduced an issue that
the agreement hadn’t dealt with. Before containers, longshoremen
had responsibilities beyond the physical loading of cargo.
Dockworkers kept track of cargo, moved goods between ships and
dockside warehouses, repaired the equipment used on the docks,
and figured out the best way to load each vessel so it would
remain stable at sea and could be easily unloaded at its
destination.  After containerization, loading plans and cargo-checking
would be done by workers using computers, and the warehouses and
equipment-repair facilities would move miles inland. The ILWU
faced the possibility that much of the work once performed by
highly paid longshoremen would be done by other workers,
weakening the union’s bargaining power and reducing employment
of union members.  These developments were impossible to foresee when the
Mechanization and Modernization Agreement was adopted. But they
have led to an endless series of disputes as the ILWU has tried
to maintain control over work that used to be done by
longshoremen and that is still integral to the process of
handling maritime freight. Each new technological development,
each change in methods of cargo-handling or recordkeeping, each
attempt to move work to another location poses a challenge to
the union’s ability to protect its members’ working conditions
and the six-figure annual wages earned by many longshoremen.  That’s why thousands of workers performing physical tasks
on the docks honored picket lines to protect the jobs of
colleagues who process information about containers and their
contents in air-conditioned offices.  Computers Everywhere  The West Coast longshore strike of 2012 is unlikely to be
the last, even with the best of goodwill on both sides. In
cargo-handling, as in many manufacturing and service industries,
much work once performed by production workers and clerks is now
done by computers. New technology means that even tasks such as
collecting a container from a storage area and moving it
alongside a ship can be handled without a worker at the
controls. More than 50 years ago, the ILWU and the employers in
West Coast ports agreed to accept containerization. They will be
grappling with its consequences for many years to come.  (Marc Levinson’s books include “The Box: How the Shipping
Container Made the World Smaller and the World Economy Bigger.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Marc Levinson at
 marclevinson1@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 