-- Structured Note Rate-Tied Sales Slow to Lowest in Three Years
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-12-06T18:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/structured-note-rate-tied-sales-slow-to-lowest-in-three-years.html
Investors bought $2.75 billion of
structured notes in the U.S. last month, a 17 percent decline
from October, led by the slowest month for sales of notes linked
to  interest rates  in three years.  Rate-tied issuance dropped to $232.3 million, less than
half of the $491.9 million monthly average this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. November was the second-lowest
month for total sales of structured notes in 2012.  Historically low interest rates have made selling corporate
debt more attractive, while limiting the returns that structured
notes can offer because the zero coupon bonds that make up the
securities become more expensive. Corporations sold a record
$386.7 billion of bonds in November, looking to refinance and
take advantage of the low cost of borrowing last month,
Bloomberg data show.  Financial advisers to individual investors “aren’t looking
toward us right now,” said John Tessar, senior vice president
at JVB Financial Group LLC in  Boca Raton ,  Florida . He said
they’re focusing on their clients’ stock portfolios because of
potential tax increases related to the so-called fiscal cliff
rather than buying debt instruments such as rate-linked notes.  Outside the U.S., banks had the lowest monthly sales of the
year. DZ Bank AG,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  led
with issuance of $4.77 billion, 30 percent lower than last
month, Bloomberg data show. Standard Chartered Plc had the
largest offering, $210 million of credit-linked notes on Nov.
27.  ‘Gigantic Anchor’  The  Federal Reserve ’s asset purchasing programs have kept
shorter- and longer-term interest rates historically low, said
Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “The Fed is basically a gigantic anchor on the entire
yield curve,” he said in a telephone interview.  The Federal Open Markets Committee in October voted to
continue buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds each month, to
fuel economic growth and reduce 7.9 percent unemployment.  After a two-day meeting on Oct. 24, the FOMC said it
expects to keep the federal funds rate exceptionally low through
at least mid-2015, repeating a pledge from Sept. 13.  Bank of America Corp.  sold $123.9 million of two-year notes
tied to the value of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the
largest offering last month. The securities, sold Nov. 29, yield
three times the gains of the index with a 19.25 percent cap
while investors risk losses in lockstep with the gauge,
according to a  prospectus  filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The bank distributed the notes for a 2
percent fee.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  