-- Subbarao Says India Inflation Still High Two Weeks Before Review
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-12-06T13:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/subbarao-says-india-inflation-still-high-two-weeks-before-review.html
Inflation in  India  still remains high
while growth has moderated,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said today, about two weeks before reviewing
 interest rates  that he has refrained from cutting since April.  “Growth has moderated certainly; at the same time
inflation is still high,” Subbarao told reporters after the
central bank’s board meeting in the eastern Indian city of
Kolkata. “We are expecting that inflation will trend down” in
the January-March quarter, he said.  The central bank held interest rates for a fourth time at
its last meeting on Oct. 30, citing price pressures and
resisting calls from Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram to
reduce borrowing costs. Gross domestic product rose 5.3 percent
in the quarter ended Sept. 30, matching a three-year low
recorded six months earlier. Moderating economic  expansion 
prompted the government to start a policy overhaul in September,
including curbing fuel subsidies and allowing foreign investment
in retail and aviation.  “The RBI has given a fair degree of guidance that the next
set of easing could come next quarter,” Shubhada Rao, Mumbai-
based chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd., said in a telephone
interview. The central bank may cut the repurchase rate by 50
basis points in the three months ending March 31, she said.  Calibrating Policy  The yield on the benchmark 8.15 percent bonds due June 2022
was little changed at 8.17 percent at the 5 p.m. close of
trading in Mumbai. The rupee strengthened 0.8 percent to 54.1375
per dollar, while the benchmark BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of
stocks gained 0.5 percent.  “As we go into our mid-quarter policy on Dec. 18 and our
quarterly policy on Jan. 29, we will take into account the
growth, inflation trajectory and calibrate our monetary policy
accordingly,” Subbarao said.  Chidambaram, who is counting on faster economic growth for
higher revenue and plugging a budget shortfall, told reporters
on Oct. 30 that “if the government has to walk alone to face
the challenge of growth, we’ll walk alone” after Subbarao
resisted his calls for lower borrowing costs.  Food costs and supply bottlenecks have stoked prices,
limiting India’s room to join nations such as  Brazil  and the
Philippines in further cutting borrowing costs as global growth
falters. The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts India’s GDP
will rise 4.9 percent in 2012, the least in a decade, following
a moderation in investment.  Retail Decision  India has the fastest inflation and the widest fiscal gap
in the BRIC group of largest  emerging markets  that also includes
Brazil, Russia and  China . Inflation as measured by the
wholesale-price index was 7.45 percent in October while consumer
prices climbed 9.75 percent.  “We in the Reserve Bank are always trying to manage the
balance between growth and inflation,” Subbarao told reporters
today.  The central bank hasn’t yet studied the impact the
government’s decision to allow foreign retailers including Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. and Carrefour SA will have on economic growth
and inflation, he said.  Indian lawmakers endorsed in parliament’s lower house
yesterday the government’s decision to allow foreign investment
in retail, bolstering Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s efforts to
boost growth. A key regional party today said it will vote in
the government’s favor on the measure in the upper house
tomorrow, taking Singh a step closer to victory after earlier
attempts stalled due to opposition from his then biggest ally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net 
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 