-- Suicide Bombing Attack Wounds Afghan Intelligence Chief
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-12-06T16:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/suicide-bombing-attack-wounds-afghan-intelligence-chief.html
Afghan Intelligence Chief Asadullah Khalid was wounded today in a suicide attack at a guesthouse run
by the intelligence agency.  The attacker posed as a Taliban peace messenger who then
detonated his suicide vest, Shafiqullah Tahiri, a spokesman for
the country’s intelligence agency said in a phone interview
today.  President  Hamid Karzai  condemned the “terrorist attack”
while visiting his wounded spy chief at a hospital run by the
intelligence agency in Kabul, an e-mailed statement from
Karzai’s office said today.  Doctors at the hospital said he was wounded in his abdomen
and chest and didn’t give further information. Karzai said in
the statement the condition of his spy chief was improving and
he might be moved to another hospital for further treatment,
according to the statement.  “I was walking from the road when I heard a heavy
explosion,” Jawid Danishi, 32, a Kabul resident, said in an
interview. “Later, I saw Asadullah Khalid, who had been
wounded, was being taken by his guards to an armored vehicle.”  A Taliban spokesman,  Zabihullah Mujahed , claimed
responsibility for the attack. He said in an e-mailed statement
that one of the group’s suicide bombers, Hafez Mohammad, had
carried it out, “killing and wounding a number of Afghan spies
including the chief of Intelligence Agency.”  Khalid was hired three months ago as the chief of the
Afghan intelligence agency by Karzai. Previously, he worked as
the minister of tribal affairs and as governor of southern
Kandahar province.  Burhanuddin Rabbani , a former Afghan president and ex-
chairman of  Afghanistan ’s high peace council, was assassinated
in September 2011 at his home in Kabul by a suicide bomber who
also posed as a peace messenger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  