-- U.K. Trade Deficit Widens More Than Forecast as Exports Drop
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-12-06T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/u-k-trade-deficit-widens-more-than-forecast-as-exports-drop.html
Britain’s  trade deficit  widened more
than economists forecast in October as exports dropped, led by a
decline in capital goods.  The goods  trade gap  increased to 9.54 billion pounds ($15.4
billion) from 8.44 billion pounds in September, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. The median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists was 8.65 billion
pounds. Exports fell 1 percent, while imports rose 2.5 percent.  Britain’s  Office for Budget Responsibility  cut its growth
forecasts yesterday and said  the economy  has performed less
strongly than it expected in March, “primarily reflecting the
weakness of net exports.” The  Bank of England  will leave its
bond-buying program on hold today as it assesses the need for
more stimulus a day after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  extended his austerity program.  “Net exports are expected to suffer from continued
weakness in the euro-zone economy,” said  Vicky Redwood , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “Looking ahead,
even the OBR’s new downgraded forecasts are probably still too
optimistic. We think that the economy will recover even more
slowly than it now expects.”  Exports to the U.S. dropped 15 percent in October,
reversing a surge the previous month, the statistics office
said. By category, the biggest drop in exports was in capital
goods, followed by chemicals.  In the three months through October, the trade gap widened
to a record 28 billion pounds from 24.9 billion pounds in the
quarter through July. Exports fell 2.5 percent in that period.  The services trade surplus was at 5.9 billion pounds in
October. That left the total trade gap at 3.64 billion pounds,
up from a deficit of 2.49 billion pounds in September.  The goods deficit with the European Union, which buys about
half of British exports, widened to 5 billion pounds in October
from 4.5 billion pounds in September. Exports to the 27-nation
bloc rose 1 percent on the month, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  