-- U.S., Google Press to Keep Internet Out of UN Treaty
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-12-06T17:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/u-s-google-press-to-keep-internet-out-of-un-treaty.html
The U.S. is pressing to exclude the
Internet sector from an international telecommunications treaty
even as a “big gap” remains between countries on the issue, a
U.S. official said.  “Anything that gets into the content of the Internet, we
do not feel should be part of this treaty,” Terry Kramer,
leader of the U.S. delegation to a United Nations conference in
Dubai, said today in a call with reporters. “What are seemingly
harmless proposals can open the door to censorship.”  U.S. officials and technology companies led by  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
have said the UN’s telecommunications agency could take steps
toward regulating the Internet at the Dubai conference, which
runs through Dec. 14. The agency, the International
Telecommunication Union, is considering revisions to a 1988
treaty setting international telecommunications regulations.  The U.S. opposes a Russian proposal that would move the
process of managing the Internet away from technical groups,
such as the U.S.-based nonprofit Internet Corporation for
Assigned Names and Numbers, into the hands of national
governments or organizations like the UN’s ITU, Kramer said.  In an opening  speech  to the Dubai gathering on Dec. 3,
Hamadoun Toure, the secretary-general of the Geneva-based ITU,
said the event, called the World Conference on International
Telecommunications, has been the subject of “misinformation”
and “myths.”  “WCIT is not about taking over the Internet, and WCIT is
not about Internet governance,” Toure said. “WCIT is about
making sure that we connect the billion people without access to
mobile telephony.”  Google Petition  Google, owner of the world’s largest search engine, has
said some proposals at the conference threaten online free
expression and innovation and urged users to sign a  petition 
supporting an open Internet.  “Some proposals could allow governments to justify the
censorship of legitimate speech, or even cut off  Internet access 
in their countries,” Vint Cerf, whose title is Google’s chief
Internet evangelist, said in a Dec. 2 blog  post .  Other proposals could require services such as Google’s
YouTube,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Skype to pay tolls
to reach people across borders, according to Google.  Google has four members on the U.S.  delegation  to the
conference, which also includes representatives of Microsoft,
 AT&T Inc. (T) , and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  Kramer, who’s leading
the delegation, is a former Vodafone Group Plc executive.  The U.S. House of Representatives yesterday joined the
Senate in passing a non-binding resolution that calls on U.S.
officials to continue promoting an Internet free from government
control and advancing the current, decentralized model of
Internet governance.  That model is based on groups such as Icann, based in
 Marina del Rey ,  California , which manages domain names under
contract to the U.S. Commerce Department.  The congressional resolution is S. Con. Res. 50.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  