-- U.S. Bancorp Lowered by Moody’s as Low Rates Damp Profit
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-12-06T22:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/u-s-bancorp-downgraded-by-moody-s-on-interest-rate-pressures.html
U.S. Bancorp (USB) , the nation’s fifth-
largest lender by deposits, was downgraded by Moody’s Investors
Service as record-low  interest rates  pressure earnings.  The senior debt rating was lowered to A1 from Aa3,
reflecting “the inescapable challenges that even a well-managed
and diverse banking franchise currently faces,” the ratings
firm said today in a statement on the Minneapolis-based lender.
“Among these challenges are protracted low interest rates that
will place pressure on U.S. Bancorp’s net interest margin.”  The lender has been focusing on taking market share in
mortgage banking, a business that’s been a “real positive” for
the company, Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis , 54, told
investors in September. That could expose the bank to
“incremental volatility” and “weaker earnings over time,”
Moody’s said in today’s statement. U.S. Bancorp is also
grappling with regulation and “heightened lending competition”
that could pressure revenue, Moody’s said.  “U.S. Bancorp continues to be one of Moody’s highest-rated
banks, both domestically and globally,” according to the
statement. “This positioning recognizes the strength of its
diverse business model, which results in limited concentration
risk, superior operating efficiency and above average and more
stable earnings than other banks.”  Moody’s has downgraded more than a dozen of the world’s
biggest banks this year, including Citigroup Inc. and  Bank of
America Corp. , amid an industrywide review of firms with
significant capital-markets operations.  Excluding the first quarter of this year, U.S. Bancorp has
boosted profit every quarter since the last three months of
2009. Davis, who has run the lender since 2006, never posted a
loss while at the helm and calls his banking strategy of taking
deposits and making loans “boring.”  Tom Joyce, a spokesman for U.S. Bancorp, declined to
comment on the downgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  