-- Human Rights, Security Spark U.S.-Russia Clash at OSCE Summit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-06T14:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/human-rights-security-spark-u-s-russia-clash-at-osce-summit.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  sparred over
human rights and European security before meeting with UN
Special Envoy Lakhdar Brahimi to discuss cooperation in Syria.  The Organization for Security and Cooperation in  Europe ,
entrusted with overseeing border agreements during the  Cold War ,
convened its annual summit today in Dublin. Clinton and Lavrov
joined other ministers and officials from the OSCE’s 58 members
in the Irish capital.  The OSCE stands between diverging Russian and U.S. visions
of Europe. Russia has proposed replacing the Helsinki Accords,
the 1975 treaty guaranteeing national sovereignty upon which the
OSCE is based, with a new European security arrangement. The
U.S. wants to use the OSCE to promote  human rights  in former
Soviet territories in eastern Europe and central  Asia .  “I am here today to express a growing concern for the
future of this organization and the values it has always
championed,” Clinton said in a speech. “More than 20 years
after the end of the Cold War, the work of creating a Europe
that is whole, free and at peace remains unfinished.”  She criticized “democratic backsliding” in  Hungary ,
human-rights “oppression” in Belarus and pending Russian
legislation that would require journalists to register as
foreign agents.  Lavrov attacked “unilateralist” efforts to control the
Vienna-base OSCE. Plans to build an anti-missile shield and
looser control over conventional weapons stockpiles threaten the
region, he said.  ‘Re-Sovietizing’ Region  In 2007,  Russia  suspended the Conventional Forces in Europe
Treaty, an agreement to balance its military power with that of
Western Europe. Russia has also objected to North Atlantic
Treaty Organization expansion and the U.S. use of bases in
former Soviet republics for military operations.  Clinton met privately with a group of human-rights
activists from seven OSCE member countries, mainly in eastern
Europe and central Asia. She told them Russia is leading an
effort to “re-Sovietize” the region.  “It’s going to be called a customs union,” she said. “It
will be called the Eurasian Union and all of that, but let’s
make no mistake about it. We know what the goal is and we are
trying to figure out effective ways to slow down or prevent
it.”  Clinton and Lavrov will meet Brahimi later today to discuss
options for ending the Syrian conflict, said a State Department
official who spoke on condition of anonymity. While the two have
discussed  Syria  several times in recent months, Brahimi’s
involvement suggests today’s meeting may offer an opportunity
for a breakthrough.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Dublin at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  