-- Mumford & Sons, Jay-Z, Kanye Collect 6 Grammy Nominations
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-12-06T05:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/mumford-sons-jay-z-kanye-collect-6-grammy-nominations.html
Mumford & Sons, rappers Jay-Z and
 Kanye West , and The Black Keys’ Dan Auerbach each received six
Grammy nominations, as the  music industry  prepares to hand out
its top honors.  Auerbach, 33, is a finalist for producer of the year, and
with bandmate Patrick Carney, nominated for album and record of
the year. The indie band Fun and R&B singer Frank Ocean also
received six nominations during a one-hour broadcast on  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s television network yesterday from Bridgestone Arena in
Nashville,  Tennessee .  The event was hosted by rapper LL Cool J and country singer
 Taylor Swift , and featured performances by Maroon 5, Ne-Yo and
The Who. With album sales down 4 percent this year, the event
provided  record companies  an opportunity to showcase their
talent during the holiday period that accounts for a quarter of
music purchases, according to data from Nielsen SoundScan. The
winners will be announced on Feb. 10 at the 55th annual Grammy
Awards on CBS.  “People watching at home aren’t necessarily aware of all
the new music out there,” David Bakula, an analyst at Nielsen
SoundScan in Los Angeles, said in a phone interview. “If
history repeats, once they hear it, they’ll go out and buy.”  The Band Perry and Dierks Bentley paid tribute to  Johnny Cash  during the show, which also featured performances by
Janelle Monáe and Fun, Luke Bryan and Hunter Hayes.  The artists also paused to remember Dave Brubeck, who died
yesterday at age 91 of heart failure.  “Tonight we remember one of the greatest that jazz music
ever had, a Grammy lifetime achievement award winner,” said LL
Cool J.  Best Sellers  Two of the biggest selling albums this year, Adele Adkins’s
“21” and Swift’s “Red,” were released outside the
eligibility period, Bakula said. Adele, who won six Grammy
awards in February, released her album Jan. 19, 2011. It has
sold more than 10 million copies in the U.S., while Swift’s
album, released Oct. 22, has sold 2.22 million copies, according
to SoundScan data.  Fun, which records for  Warner Music  Group, and Ocean,
distributed by  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group , are in the
running for album and record of the year, and best new artist.
Record of the year recognizes a track’s artists, engineers and
producers, while song of the year credits songwriters.  Others in the running for best new artist include Alabama
Shakes, Hunter Hayes and The Lumineers.  Mumford & Sons’ nominations include best rock performance
and album of the year for “Babel,” which has sold 1.2 million
copies, while nominations for Jay-Z and Kanye West include best
rap-sung collaboration for “No Church in the Wild.” Adkins is
nominated for best pop solo performance for “Set Fire to the
Rain” from “Live at The  Royal Albert Hall .”  ‘El Camino’  “El Camino,” the Black Keys album released in December by
Warner Music, received strong reviews from critics, including
Bloomberg’s Mark Beech who called it “outstanding” and said
the band is “the inheritor” of the White Stripes’ crown. The
album has sold 1.04 million copies in the U.S., according to
SoundScan data.  Auerbach will contend with Jeff Bhasker, Diplo, Markus
Dravs and Salaam Remi for producer of the year.  Jack White , one-half of White Stripes, received three
nominations including album of the year for “Blunderbuss,”
which is also a contender for best rock album.  The industry is down to three major record companies.
Universal received regulatory approval in September to acquire
EMI’s recorded music business. An investor group led by  Sony
Corp. (6758) , owner of  Sony Music Entertainment , acquired EMI’s
publishing business in March. In 2011, billionaire Len Blavatnik
acquired Warner Music Group.  Artists who released albums between Oct. 1, 2011, and Sept.
30, 2012 are eligible for the 55th annual Grammys. Ballots are
due Jan. 16, when they will be tabulated ahead of the awards
show, according to the  Recording Academy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  