-- UN 2013 Emission Credits Stable After Biggest Advance in Year
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-12-06T10:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/un-2013-emission-credits-stable-after-biggest-advance-in-year.html
United Nations emission credits for
December next year were little changed after yesterday rising at
the fastest pace in almost a year.  CERs for December 2013 were unchanged at 74 euro cents
($0.97) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London  at 9:23 a.m. They jumped 16 percent yesterday, the
biggest gain since Dec. 20. European Union carbon dioxide
allowances for December fell 1.6 percent to 6.05 euros a ton.  The EU said yesterday it was considering pressing for
shorter crediting periods for greenhouse-gas reduction projects
that create CERs, curbing oversupply and improving the UN-
overseen Clean Development Mechanism, according to an EU
official, who declined to be identified because of policy.  The shorter periods are among measures being considered to
improve the environmental integrity of the CDM, the official
said. Envoys would probably not decide to limit crediting at
Doha talks this week, though perhaps in a year, he said.  CDM projects currently attract credits for 10 years or as
many as 21 years.  “Current proposals being discussed in Doha to limit the
duration of the crediting period for CDM projects may boost
acceptance of offset credits,”  Gareth Phillips , chief climate
change officer at Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Ltd., said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.  Limiting the crediting period will have an impact upon
future supply of CERs, he said.  Fossil-Fuel Portion  There is a proposal to change how to calculate the average
fossil-fuel portion in a regional  power grid , he said. That
measure may include more renewable energy attached to the grid,
potentially cutting supply of CDM credits again, Phillips said.  “These issues can be aired here in Doha and further
discussed during the forthcoming review” of the greenhouse gas
market’s rules, Phillips said.  The International Emissions Trading Association, a Geneva-
based lobby group, is exploring options to help create a fund or
funds that may be willing to buy credits and support the market,
Dirk Forrister, president of the group, said Dec. 3 at the
talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  