-- UN Envoy Says Clinton, Lavrov to Work Together on Syria
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-06T20:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/un-envoy-says-clinton-lavrov-to-work-together-on-syria.html
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov met with
United Nations Special Envoy Lakhdar Brahimi today, renewing a
diplomatic push to end  Syria ’s civil war.  The two sides failed to break their impasse over how to
address the crisis, though a State Department official said on
condition of anonymity that other U.S. and Russian officials
will follow up in the coming days. Brahimi, speaking after the
meeting in Dublin tonight, said the three hadn’t “taken any
sensational decisions” while agreeing to “work together to see
how we can find creative ways” to end the fighting.  Clinton and Lavrov have discussed Syria several times in
recent months without coming to agreement and word of the
hastily arranged meeting organized by Brahimi raised hopes that
the U.S. and Russia might be closer to compromising over the
best path to halt 21 months of violence in the Middle Eastern
country. Clinton and Lavrov were both in Dublin for a gathering
of the Organization of Security and Cooperation in  Europe .  The meeting came on the heels of warnings to the government
of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad from the U.S., NATO and
Russia this week against unleashing its stockpile of chemical
weapons. There were also signs this week that the U.S. is
bolstering its support for the Syrian opposition and that
Russia, a stalwart ally of Syria’s and longtime backer of Assad
and his late father, may be moderating its support.  The U.S. and Russia have been at an impasse over how much
pressure to exert to end the fighting between Assad’s government
and rebels. The U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights
says more than 41,000 people have died since an uprising
inspired by other Arab Spring movements began in March 2011.  Sanctions Call  The U.S. has pushed for a UN Security Council resolution
that would impose consequences, such as economic sanctions, for
a failure to end the conflict and begin a planned transition to
a unity government. Russia has blocked UN sanctions and thwarted
efforts to pressure Assad under Chapter 7 of the UN Charter,
which could theoretically authorize the use of force. Russia
also has blocked U.S., European and Arab League efforts to
disqualify Assad and his inner circle from any transitional
government.  U.S. Ambassador to Syria Robert Ford, speaking today in
 Washington  at a conference sponsored by the Foundation for
Defense of Democracies, warned that the longer the “violence
continues, the more extremists benefit.” Ford cautioned,
however, that the conflict is “a Syrian revolution, not an
American war.”  Chemical Weapons  Clinton told journalists today in Dublin before her meeting
with Lavrov and Brahimi that the U.S. has “made it very clear
what our position is with regard to chemical weapons.” She said
she would discuss that issue “and many other aspects of what
needs to be done in order to end the violence and begin that
transition.”  At the same time, the State Department is moving to
designate one Syrian rebel group as a foreign terrorist
organization because of evidence it has ties to al-Qaeda, said
two U.S. officials who described the move on the condition of
anonymity because it hasn’t happened yet. Members of the group,
Jabhat al-Nusra, or the Support Front, have participated in some
recent successful attacks on government forces.  The officials said that while the blacklisting may hamper
some rebel operations and underline the split between secular
and Muslim extremist rebel factions, it’s necessary to prevent
aid from going to allies of al-Qaeda.  Missile Shield  Meanwhile, foreign ministers attending a two-day meeting of
the 28-member NATO alliance this week approved the deployment of
a missile shield along  Turkey ’s 900-kilometer (560-mile) border
with Syria. Satellite images have shown Syria may be readying
chemical-weapons stockpiles for deployment.  UN Security Council members and Arab states on June 30
backed a plan for a Syrian transition government that, under
pressure from Russia and  China , didn’t directly address Assad’s
fate. The document, signed in Geneva, also added a Russia-backed
provision opposing “further militarization of the conflict,” a
criticism of Arab nations’ arms shipments to the opposition.  Russia, along with China, has vetoed three Security Council
resolutions intended to pressure Assad’s government to halt the
violence.  Yesterday, Clinton said the newly constituted Syrian
opposition coalition is moving closer to winning U.S. support,
hinting at possible recognition for the group. The National
Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, which
is trying to raise $60 billion for reconstruction of the war-
damaged nation if Assad is deposed, will attend a Dec. 12
meeting of the Friends of Syria in Marrakesh,  Morocco . The
coalition already has won recognition from the European Union
and Gulf Arab countries.  Aiding Opposition  “Now that there is a new opposition formed, we are going
to be doing what we can to support that opposition,” Clinton
told reporters in Brussels yesterday. At next week’s meeting,
“we will explore with like-minded countries what we can do to
try to bring this conflict to an end.”  International efforts to mediate a peace agreement have
stumbled over whether Assad must leave power before a transition
can begin. The June communique from foreign ministers in Geneva
declared a “firm timetable” for actions without setting any
dates or deadlines.  Brahimi told the Security Council last week that Syria will
become a “failed state” without a political solution to the
crisis. A peace plan based on the Geneva agreement can succeed,
he said.  “The building blocks for a political process to end the
crisis in Syria already exist” in the roadmap outlined by the
Action Group for Syria in Geneva, Brahimi said on Nov. 30.  Lavrov told Clinton in September at the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Summit in Vladivostok that  Russia  still
sees the Geneva plan as the best chance for a peace deal that’s
not imposed on the Syrian people by outside powers. The U.S.
says the proposal is meaningless without penalties attached if
the parties don’t comply.  The Geneva accord won’t work “if it doesn’t have teeth,”
Clinton said on Sept. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Dublin at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  