-- Hunger Seen by FAO Linked to Decades of Falling Farm Investment
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-06T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/hunger-seen-by-fao-linked-to-decades-of-falling-farm-investment.html
South Asia  and sub-Saharan Africa,
the world’s regions where hunger and extreme poverty are most
widespread, have faced stagnant or falling farm spending in the
past three decades, the  United Nations  said.  Ridding the regions of hunger will require a substantial
rise in farm investment and a “dramatic” improvement in the
level and quality of  government spending  on agriculture, the
UN’s Food & Agriculture Organization wrote in a report today.  The world had about 868 million hungry people in the
2010-12 period, the Rome-based UN agency wrote in October, a
figure FAO Director-General Jose Graziano da Silva said is
“unacceptable.” High food costs last year contributed to civil
unrest across the  Middle East  and North  Africa .  “Investing in agriculture is one of the most effective
strategies for reducing poverty and hunger,” the FAO wrote.
“The regions where agricultural capital per worker and public
agricultural spending per worker have stagnated or fallen during
the past three decades are also the epicenters of poverty and
hunger in the world.”  Farmers in low- and middle-income countries on average
invest more than four times as much in capital on their own
farms than what their governments invest in agriculture,
according to the FAO. Expenditure by farmers ‘dwarfs’’ that of
international donors and private foreign investors, it said.  Investment Incentives  If governments don’t create a favorable climate, farmers
will not adequately invest, the UN agency said. High levels of
corruption, insecure property rights, arbitrary trade rules and
taxation of farming relative to other industries all
“drastically” reduce investment incentives for farmers.  Governments and donors should focus their limited funds on
providing essential public good with high economic and social
returns, the FAO wrote.  “Some types of spending are clearly better than others,”
the FAO said. “Productivity-enhancing agricultural research,
rural roads and education have consistently higher payoffs for
society than spending on fertilizer subsidies, for example.”  Fertilizer subsidies often go to rural elites and can
undermine private input suppliers, according to the FAO. While
they may be politically popular, such measures are usually not
the best use of public funds, the agency said.  Agricultural Research  The return on agricultural research and development
spending in China and  India  as measured by increased farm output
has outstripped that of roads, education, irrigation and
electricity, according to the report.  The working population employed in agriculture was 1.31
billion people in 2010, up from 1.24 billion a decade earlier
and 1.15 billion in 1990, FAO statistics show. As a share of the
economically active population, agriculture dropped to 40
percent in 2010 from 44 percent in 2000 and 48 percent in 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  