-- Mursi and His Opponents Must Both Back Down to Save Egypt
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-06T23:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/mursi-and-his-opponents-must-both-back-down-to-save-egypt-view.html
The ability to lose gracefully is an
element of a healthy political system so far lacking in Egypt’s
nascent democracy.  The non-Islamist opposition doesn’t like the draft
constitution put forward by an Islamist-dominated assembly, and
it knows the document, which is supported by President Mohamed Mursi, is likely to win approval in a Dec. 15 referendum. So
it’s determined to stop the vote -- protesting and threatening a
general strike.  This kind of brinkmanship is fraught with risks. Supporters
and opponents of Mursi came to blows Dec. 5 in  Cairo . Five
people were killed, and more than 600 injured. The more Egypt’s
political forces battle each other, the greater the chances the
military will reassert power, reversing democratic gains of the
past six months.  Is there any way out of the cycle of recklessness? One
possibility would be for Mursi and the opposition to each back
down in a significant way.  Mursi went far too far last month when he acted to prevent
the judiciary from dissolving the constitutional assembly,
 granting himself  authority “to take any measures he sees fit” to
safeguard the country. He has promised to revoke the decree once
a constitution has been approved. Yet that amounts to
blackmailing  Egypt ’s voters. Essentially he’s saying: Approve
the draft constitution or you’re stuck with me as dictator.  Now that the constitutional assembly has finished its work,
his putative reason for the decree is gone, so he should repeal
it. That would encourage Egyptians to vote on the merits of the
document, and dilute the stain that has attached to Mursi since
his power grab, even  among his supporters .  For its part, the opposition should consider limiting its
demands to the lifting of Mursi’s decree. Opponents have raised
objections to the entire constitutional process. Although
Islamists made up only half the 100 members of the drafting
committee, they are said to have dominated it.  Yet the outcome is  hardly the disaster  some opponents have
described. The draft  improves  on the suspended 1971 constitution
in a number of ways. It protects against arbitrary arrest,
inhumane treatment and torture; enshrines freedom of assembly
and association; and limits the president to two, four-year
terms. It promises women’s and minority rights by guaranteeing
citizens equality before the law and freedom from
discrimination.  Certainly, the draft is imperfect. The old constitution
guaranteed religious freedom period, while this one promises it
only to practitioners of monotheistic faiths. Freedom of
expression is guaranteed, but insulting prophets or individuals
is forbidden. Rights and freedoms are limited by the need for
the state and society to preserve the “true nature of the
Egyptian family,” a worrying provision for  women’s rights .  Given the mandate that voters bestowed on Islamist parties
in parliamentary elections a year ago, however, it’s hard to
imagine that a constitutional draft would read the way non-
Islamist groups would write it.  The document can be amended by a Parliament to be elected
once a constitution is in place. To exploit that possibility,
the opposition should be able to point to a significant “no”
vote in the referendum, as a sign Egyptians want changes. Non-
Islamists also need to do well in the parliamentary balloting.  Accordingly, opponents would be wise to ditch their tactics
of disruption and seriously contest the referendum. They can
continue to call for Mursi to rescind his extraordinary powers
while also carrying out a funded, staffed, coordinated campaign
to get out the “no” vote.  A “no” campaign would also battle test the opposition in
advance of parliamentary elections, which the Islamists won last
time largely because they were better organized. In this way,
the opposition will be more likely to turn a probable loss in
the referendum into a win down the road.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 