-- Mursi Branded Pharaoh as New Egypt Gives Way to Protests
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-12-06T07:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/mursi-branded-pharaoh-as-new-egypt-gives-way-to-protests.html
On the day before he was sworn in on
June 30 as  Egypt ’s first democratically elected civilian
president, Mohamed Mursi walked onto a stage in Cairo’s  Tahrir
Square  and threw open his blazer.  There was no bulletproof vest under his shirt. To deafening
chants of “We love you, Mursi,” from tens of thousands of
people, he yelled back he feared “no one but God,” promising a
new Egypt, born of last year’s uprising against  Hosni Mubarak ,
with dignity and justice for all.  Five months later and Mursi is hearing the same chants of
“Leave, leave” that drove Mubarak out. Five people were killed
last night as his supporters clashed with protesters. To his
critics, the domestic pride and acclaim he secured on trips and,
most recently, with a cease-fire accord between Hamas and  Israel 
have been spent. Protesters oppose a Mursi edict putting his
decisions above court review and his approval of a draft charter
that an Islamist-dominated panel rushed to finish.  “Mursi thinks he is our god or pharaoh,” Shaima Ali, 26,
said over the din of chants outside the palace. “Mursi has
managed in five months to become hated by everyone but the
Islamists. It took Mubarak 30 years and even then he still had
some supporters.”  More than 400 people were also injured during the overnight
violence near the presidential palace, the state-run Middle East
 News Agency  reported, citing the country’s health ministry.  Egypt’s benchmark  stock index  slumped 12 percent in the
week after Mursi’s decrees. The Egyptian pound, subject to a
managed float, has fallen 1.4 percent this year to 6.1170 a
dollar yesterday, near the lowest level in eight years.  ‘Under-Delivered’  “He over-promised and under-delivered, he has no real
successes,” said Ibrahim el-Hodeiby, a researcher at Egyptian
research institute House of Wisdom. Mursi “came with very high
hopes.”  Mursi, 61, was a compromise choice to lead Egypt. Helped to
power by the organizational skill of the Muslim Brotherhood, an
opposition movement under Mubarak that distributed food and
medical services in the poorest districts, he spent time in
prison in 2006 for his political activities and was arrested
again during the anti-Mubarak uprising.  The Brotherhood had first named its chief strategist,
Khairat el-Shater, for the job before he was excluded by
election officials. Mursi defeated Mubarak’s last premier, Ahmed Shafik, for the presidency with 51.7 percent of votes after a
boost by youth activist groups who hated the former premier more
than they feared the Brotherhood. About half of Egypt’s eligible
voters didn’t cast a ballot.  King Farouk  As president, Mursi pledged to be the voice of all
Egyptians. He took over a nation mired in its worst economic
crisis in decades brought about by the 2011 uprising. The  budget
deficit  for the fiscal year that ends in June will be 10.4
percent of GDP, above the government’s 7.6 percent target.  Successive Egyptian rulers have cracked down on the Muslim
Brotherhood to varying degrees since a group of officers
overthrew King Farouk in 1952. While Mursi came to power
promising to end the restrictions associated with Mubarak and
ensure press freedoms -- so long as journalists are unbiased in
their reporting -- his critics say he hasn’t done anything of
the sort.  Shroud Protest  A female news anchor this month appeared on state
television carrying a shroud, a traditional symbol of a
willingness to die for a cause, as she blasted state media
coverage under Mursi. Her show aired days after Tahrir Square,
the epicenter of the uprising that toppled Mubarak, was packed
again, this time with demonstrations against Mursi. Protesters
took their opposition to his doorstep on Dec. 4 as they
descended on his palace, yelling: “dictator, dictator.” Last
night, clashes broke out between his supporters and opponents
outside the palace.  “To demand the departure of a president who has been
elected in a fair vote is to exclude and challenge the will of
at least 12 million citizens,” Vice President Mahmoud Mekki
told reporters in Cairo last night. “This cannot be.”  Mursi’s approach to governance reflects his background as
an engineer, said  Jon Alterman , director of the Middle East
program at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and
International Studies.  “He’s focused, he’s disciplined, he’s been consistently
underestimated,” Alterman said. “He’s very task oriented and
does not invest a lot in the qualitative aspects of
governance.”  Slowing Growth  The economy he inherited is struggling to rebound as
ubiquitous protests and strikes undercut productivity while
curbing tourism and foreign investment, two key revenue sources.
International reserves remain more than 50 percent below their
levels before the start of the uprising.  Economic growth slowed to 2.2 percent in the fiscal year
that ended in June from about 5 percent in the 2009-2010 fiscal
year. Egypt last month reached a preliminary accord with the
 International Monetary Fund  for a $4.8 billion loan. Officials
have said the agreement, which is due to be reviewed by the IMF
board this month, is necessary to boost investor confidence and
unlock more funds.  International Crisis Group Middle East analyst Yasser El-
Shimy said Mursi’s decrees were “providing the wrong answer for
a real problem, or using a chainsaw when a scalpel was needed.”  ‘Complete Chaos’  “The legitimacy of the Egyptian president and how people
view him depend on domestic, not foreign, policy,” said Ashraf
el-Sherif, a political scientist at the American University in
Cairo. “The constitutional declaration has opened the door for
complete chaos.”  A taste of success, though, came when Mursi earned
international plaudits for his role in brokering a cease-fire
between Israel and Hamas, helping bolster his status as a
regional player.  Mursi’s mediation showed that “on foreign policy
questions, he has been as pragmatic as you could possibly expect
from a Muslim Brotherhood president,” El-Shimy said.  The president was still basking in praise over Gaza when
his decrees were announced, sending tens of thousands to the
streets to protest his new powers. Several dailies also decided
not to publish on Dec. 4 to oppose what they say are limitations
on freedoms in the charter that Mursi sent to a referendum.  “The erosion of legitimacy of the political system took
place under Mubarak while he had the fist of the police and the
military,” said el-Hodeiby. “Mursi doesn’t have that, so he’s
taking us in the direction of fascism, but he doesn’t have the
tools required for fascism.”  ‘Unjust’ Comparison  “The only tool he has is his political support from the
Muslim Brotherhood and, if he used that, this means civil war,”
he said.  Ahmed Sobea, a media adviser for the Muslim Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party, said there was no comparison between
Mubarak and Mursi.  “It would be unjust to compare tyranny with democracy,”
he said. When some tried to storm the presidential palace during
protests, Mursi ordered the police to withdraw, he said. “This
underlines the difference between the democratically elected
civilian president and between the dictator, Hosni Mubarak.”  Critics of the charter say it infringes on freedoms and
fails to protect the rights of women and minorities, boosting
fears that many secular groups and Christians voiced amid the
Islamists’ political ascent. Hala Fahmy, the television anchor,
said on her program that the proposed constitution was “for
slaves.” Fahmy was suspended from work after the show pending
investigations, the state-run news agency reported.  Mango Defiance  Belly dancer Sama el-Masri, with a wiggle of her hips while
lip-synching on a homemade video on YouTube uploaded last month,
sent a message of defiance.  In alternating images, she clutched mangoes and then
knives, mouthing a song facetiously thanking Mursi for lowering
the price of mangoes while taunting Islamists that their
“thuggery” won’t “scare me away.” Mursi had commented on the
mango prices during a speech marking his accomplishments in his
first 100 days in office. He prefaced that address in a Cairo
stadium with a victory lap in an open-top sport utility vehicle
with faux wood paneling.  “What has he done since he took over?” Mohamed Abdel-
Tawab, a 59-year-old retired army officer now working as a  taxi
driver , said during a rally last month that drew over 200,000
Mursi critics back to Tahrir. He said his two sons, both in
their 30s, can’t afford to get married.  “I have bent over backward to educate my children and then
what? They don’t find proper jobs,” he said. “We are
suffocating.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  