-- Vale to Keep Boosting Output After 2017 to Recover Market
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-12-06T20:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/vale-to-surpass-400-million-tons-of-iron-ore-after-2017-1-.html
Vale SA (VALE) , the worst performer of the
top three mining companies this year, plans to accelerate growth
in iron-ore output to recover market share it has lost to
competitors including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group.  The company, based in Rio de Janeiro, expects to boost
output by 20 million to 25 million tons a year after it reaches
400 million metric tons in 2017, Jose Carlos Martins, head of
ferrous and strategy, said at an investors conference in  London 
today. Vale, the world’s biggest iron-ore producer, will bring
new projects online and expand its share of the iron-ore market
after output is forecasted to slip in 2013 for the third
consecutive year.  Vale aims to “get back 6 percent of market share that we
have lost in the last six years,” Martins told investors during
the presentation. “We have plenty of space to recover our
market share in a very profitable way.”  Vale is cutting investments, suspending projects and
selling assets as demand wanes in China and  Europe , the
company’s two biggest markets. The company’s share of the global
seaborne iron-ore market declined to about 26 percent in the
first half from almost 28 percent a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Vale has struggled with
declining resources at older mines and production delays caused
by heavy rains earlier this year.  Asset Sales  Vale  fell  0.3 percent to 36.59 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo  today. The stock is down 3.3 percent this year, compared
with a 3.6 percent gain at  Rio Tinto (RIO) , the second-largest mining
company. BHP Billiton, the biggest mining company, is flat for
the year.  Vale is targeting 306 million metric tons of iron ore
output next year, down 1.9 percent from an expected 312 million
tons this year, it said Dec. 3. The company produced 322.6
million metric tons last year.  Separately, Vale expects to announce the sale of some of
its oil and gas assets in the coming weeks, Chief Executive
Officer Murilo Ferreira told reporters during a press conference
after today’s investors presentation. The company will likely
announce the sale of a stake in its general cargo VLI unit in
the first two months of 2013, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  