-- Venezuelan Bonds Rally as Chavez Silence Grows: Caracas Mover
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-12-06T20:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/venezuela-bonds-rally-on-speculation-chavez-sick-caracas-mover.html
Venezuelan bonds surged the most in
two years, sending yields to the lowest level since February
2008, on speculation President  Hugo Chavez ’s health is too
fragile for him to complete his third term.  Chavez, a self-proclaimed socialist who has seized
companies and imposed currency and price controls during his 14
years in office, has been in Cuba for a week to help recover
from an unspecified form of cancer and hasn’t been seen in
public for 21 days. The government hasn’t released images of
Chavez since a live appearance on state television Nov. 15.  “In times past, when he’s gone to Cuba for treatment,
there’s always been video of him getting on or off the plane or
he would make a phone call to Venezuela’s state TV or pose with
a picture of the Granma newspaper with Fidel for a sort of proof
of life,” Russ Dallen, the head bond trader at Caracas Capital
Markets, said today in a telephone interview from Miami. “But
we haven’t had any of that for going on 21 days now. We’re
getting closer to the end.”  The yield on  Venezuela ’s benchmark 9.25 percent securities
due in 2027 fell 33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, to
9.18 percent at 3:12 p.m. in Caracas, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Yields have plunged 1.74 percentage points since
mid-November. The bond’s price rose 2.62 cents today to 100.50
cents on the dollar, the biggest one-day rally since June 2010.  Chavez said Nov. 1 that he planned to attend a Mercosur
trade summit in Brasilia. Failure to appear would heighten
speculation that the president’s health is worse than he has let
on and increase the possibility he won’t complete a third six-
year term set to begin in January, said Emilio Garcia, a bond
trader at BancTrust & Co. in Caracas.  ‘True State’  “We know very little about his true state of health,”
Garcia said today in an e-mailed response to questions. “This
increases the uncertainty over his future as president.”  Venezuelan Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  is due to arrive
today in  Brazil  to attend the South American trade bloc summit,
Brazil’s Foreign Minister Antonio Patriota told reporters in
Brasilia. Press officials in Venezuela’s Information and Foreign
ministries declined to comment on whether Chavez would attend
the summit.  The government hasn’t said how long Chavez would be away or
provide an indication of health except to say he is doing well
and will return to Venezuela in time for his Jan. 10
inauguration. Chavez was re-elected in October after telling
voters he was “totally free” of cancer. He returned to  Havana 
early Nov. 28 for hyperbaric oxygen therapy.  Chavez told supporters at an October campaign rally that
Cuba’s  Fidel Castro  had sent him a letter to say that he had no
doubt that Chavez would win re-election. Granma is the newspaper
of Cuba’s Communist Party.  Venezuelan dollar debt has returned 43 percent this year
through yesterday, the most in  Latin America , according to the
JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBIG Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  