-- Vinci Said to Offer Highest Price for Portugal’s Airports
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-12-06T16:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/vinci-said-to-offer-highest-price-for-portugal-airports.html
Vinci SA (DG) ,  Europe ’s No. 1 construction
company, made the highest offer for  Portugal ’s airport operator
last month while Colombian builder  Grupo Odinsa SA (ODINSA)  has dropped
out of the auction, two people familiar with the situation said.  Vinci made a non-binding bid of 2.5 billion euros ($3.2
billion) for ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA, one of the people
said, asking not to be identified as the process is confidential.
Odinsa has told the Portuguese government it no longer plans to
make an offer, both people said.  Portugal is trying to sell ANA and state airline TAP SA to
raise money after seeking a bailout last year from the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund. A Vinci official
confirmed that the French company is interested in ANA as it
seeks to expand the airport business. The government deadline
for final bids is Dec. 14, the two people said.  “This acquisition makes total sense for Vinci as it tries
to diversify its portfolio and expand into the airport
management business,” said Filipe Martins Leite, an analyst at
Banco BPI in Oporto, Portugal.  Vinci rose as much as 1.2 percent in Paris before closing
0.2 percent higher at 34.51 euros. The stock has gained 2.2
percent this year, valuing the company at 19.9 billion euros.  Auction Rivals  The other three bidders shortlisted on Nov. 15 were Fraport
AG, owner of  Germany ’s Frankfurt hub,  Argentina ’s Corporacion
America and  Flughafen Zuerich AG (FHZN)  of Switzerland. The Zurich
airport operator has since linked with Brazilian highway company
CCR SA and Global Infrastructure Partners to pursue the deal.  Only Synergy Group of  Brazil , which controls Latin
America’s Avianca airline brands, came forward with a non-
binding offer for TAP, the government said Oct. 18.  Final bids are due tomorrow for the carrier, which is worth
no more than 500 million euros, according to estimates from
analyst Donal O’Neill at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin.  The winning bidders for ANA and TAP won’t be able to sell
their stock for five years and 10 respectively, the government
said today following a weekly cabinet meeting.  While initial bids for the companies were non-binding, the
Portuguese government expects final offers to be similar to or
higher, according to one of the people familiar with the matter.  Portugal has hired Barclays Plc,  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,
Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG as advisers on the
disposals of TAP and ANA. It expects to find buyers for both by
the year’s end and conclude deals early in 2013, Maria Luis  Albuquerque , secretary of state for treasury, said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  