-- Virgin Trains to Run U.K. West Coast Line Until Late 2014
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-12-06T15:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/virgin-trains-to-run-u-k-west-coast-line-until-late-2014.html
Richard Branson ’s Virgin Trains was
handed a deal to run Britain’s premier rail route for two more
years on the day a government-backed probe found that a decision
to strip it of the contract was based on faulty calculations.  Virgin will operate the West Coast main line from London to
 Scotland  until November 2014 under a simple  management contract 
while the government reworks terms for a long-term franchise,
the U.K. Department for Transport said in a statement.  Branson failed to keep the route in the first place after
the DfT used flawed methodology in guiding bidders on the amount
of risk capital required and then varied the resulting figures
in contravention of competition rules, the inquiry into the
franchise failure found. No evidence of bias in favor of winning
bidder  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  was detected, the report compiled by
Centrica Plc Chief Executive Officer Sam Laidlaw said.  “The final report from the Laidlaw Inquiry makes extremely
uncomfortable reading,” Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin
said in the statement. “The department is determined to ensure
future franchise competitions are conducted on the basis of
sound planning, the rigorous identification and oversight of
risk, and the right quality assurance.”  The West Coast contract was halted on Oct. 3 following the
discovery of what the government called “serious flaws” in the
choice of FirstGroup’s 5.5 billion-pound ($8.9 billion) bid.  Government Risk  Virgin was initially told it could retain the route for
nine to 13 months after the DfT decided against handing it to
state-backed  Directly Operated Railways Ltd.   Under the arrangements for Virgin to keep West Coast the
U.K. government will take on revenue and cost risk, with
Branson’s venture, which is 49 percent owned by  Stagecoach Group
Plc (SGC) , taking 1 percent of revenue as a flat fee.  Under a franchise arrangement the operator takes on more of
the risk and potential reward, and the contract announced today
can be revised to allow Virgin to do so, the DfT said. The two-
year deal was sealed with the company’s existing franchise deal
that had run since 1997 due to expire at 2 p.m. on Dec. 9.  Terms include timetable modifications to include an hourly
service from London to Glasgow, Scotland’s largest city,
together with other service enhancements, according to the DfT.  “We are determined to ensure not only that passengers
continue to experience the same levels of service they have in
the past, but that services improve,” McLoughlin said.  Today’s contract will also make it easier for passengers to
claim compensation for train delays under a new program starting
April 1, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Jasper in  London  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  