-- Wachtell, White & Case, Ashurst: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-06T21:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/wachtell-white-case-ashurst-business-of-law.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,
the world’s largest publicly traded copper producer, agreed to
acquire  Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP)  and  McMoRan
Exploration Co. (MMR)  for about $9 billion as the company returns to
its roots in energy.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz acted as legal adviser to
Freeport’s special committee of board of directors. Weil,
Gotshal & Manges LLP served as legal counsel to McMoRan’s board.
Latham & Watkins LLP was Plains’s legal adviser.  Wachtell’s team is led by corporate partner David E. Shapiro and consists of Shapiro, corporate; Nelson O. Fitts,
antitrust; Jeannemarie O’Brien, executive compensation and
benefits; Joshua A. Feltman, restructuring and finance; and
Joshua M. Holmes, tax.  Michael Aiello led Weil’s team on behalf of McMoRan.
Additional partners included: Rodney Moore, energy; Matt Bloch,
capital markets; Richard Ginsburg, banking; Jared Rusman, tax;
Charan Sandhu, IP; John Neuwirth and Greg Danilow, litigation;
Annemargaret Connolly, environmental; Amy Rubin, employee
benefits; Steven Newborn, antitrust; and Samuel Zylberberg, real
estate.  Latham & Watkins advised Plains with a corporate deal team
led by Houston partners Michael Dillard and Sean Wheeler with
 Chicago /New York partner Mark Gerstein. Advice was also provided
by Los Angeles partners Laurence Stein and John Clair on tax;
Los Angeles partners James D.C. Barrall and Laurence Seymour on
employee benefits;  Washington  partner E. Marcellus Williamson on
antitrust; Washington partner Patrick Shannon on finance; New
York partner Blair Connelly on litigation; Houston partner Joel
Mack, Washington partner Claudia O’Brien and Los Angeles partner
Michael Romey on environmental matters; and London partner
Christopher Langdon on mining-related matters.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP is advising Barclays
Capital, a financial adviser to Plains. The team was led by
partner Victor Lewkow, who is based in New York.  Freeport will pay about $50 a share in cash and stock for
Plains, representing a takeover premium of about 39 percent
based on the companies’ closing share prices Nov. 4, Phoenix-
based Freeport said yesterday in a statement. Holders of each
McMoRan share will get $14.75 in cash and 1.15 units of a
royalty trust.  The deal would give Freeport oil fields in the Gulf of
Mexico, after Houston-based Plains bought assets from  BP Plc (BP/)  and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  for $6.1 billion in September. McMoRan, a
company that was spun out of Freeport-McMoRan Inc. 18 years ago,
slumped 28 percent last month on concern that its Davy Jones
well in the Gulf of Mexico is a dud.  For more, click here.  News  White & Case Moving Toward Lease at 3 World Trade Center  Larry Silverstein has formal proposals from two potential
tenants for 3 World Trade Center, including law firm White &
Case LLP, which if accepted would allow the developer to build
the skyscraper to its full 80 stories, two people with knowledge
of the negotiations said.  Group M, a division of  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest
advertising company, and White & Case have sent statements
saying they are interested in taking as much as 1.1 million
square feet (102,000 square meters) combined at the tower, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. No terms have been agreed upon, they said.  Silverstein, founder of Silverstein Properties Inc., has
discussed capping the building at seven stories if anchor
tenants aren’t found quickly enough, two people with knowledge
of his position said in January. He must fill at least 400,000
square feet at the tower, which is slated to have 2.8 million
square feet, before the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey will help him finance the project.  White & Case has expressed interest in taking about 500,000
square feet, while Group M is looking at 550,000 to 600,000
square feet, according to the people familiar with the plans.  Francine Minadeo, a spokeswoman for White & Case, said,
“We don’t comment on this kind of speculation.”  Bud Perrone , a
Silverstein spokesman, declined to comment.  Silverstein has rights to develop three of the four towers
planned for the 16-acre (6.5-hectare) site where the original
World Trade Center stood before its 2001 destruction by
terrorists. Four World Trade Center, the smallest of the
buildings, is scheduled to be completed late next year. He also
is constructing the base of 2 World Trade Center, the second-
tallest, which won’t be developed to its full height until
market conditions permit.  For more, click here.  Murky Laws Complicate Insider Cases, Rajaratnam Prosecutor Says  Insider-trading laws are “a little bit murky” and
confusing to investment professionals, the lead prosecutor on
the Raj Rajaratnam case said during a panel discussion in New
York.  “There’s incredible confusion on what is or is not
illegal, and it’s a real problem,” Jonathan Streeter, a former
Manhattan assistant U.S. attorney now with Dechert LLP, said
yesterday at the Bloomberg Hedge Funds Summit. “The law is very
complicated and the lines are a little bit murky.”  He said the cases he worked on seemed sufficiently “over
the line.”  New York defense lawyers Gerald Shargel and  Ira Sorkin , a
partner at Lowenstein Sandler PC, joined Streeter on the panel
to discuss the government’s insider-trading investigations,
which have centered largely on hedge funds since Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Rajaratnam was arrested in 2009.  Sorkin, who represented Ponzi scheme leader  Bernard Madoff ,
said prosecutors and civil enforcement agencies are working more
closely than in the past on insider-trading cases, creating a
more complicated legal landscape for defendants.  “Today, parallel investigations take place all of the
time,” Sorkin said, with each agency “looking for a pound of
flesh.”  More than 80 people have been sued by regulators or charged
by prosecutors since 2008 for passing or getting inside tips
about pharmaceutical, biotechnology or other health-care stocks.  For more, click here.  Compromise Needed to Avert Chinese Delisting, Paul Hastings Says  U.S. and Chinese regulators will have to come to a
compromise in their conflict over auditor oversight to prevent
Chinese companies traded in the U.S. from being delisted,
according to law firm Paul Hastings LLP.  The Securities & Exchange Commission accused units of the
Big Four accounting firms of not cooperating with an
investigation into fraud by China-based companies in a Dec. 3
 administrative order . The U.S. and  China  disagree over whether
auditors can share financial documents with regulators, and the
firms -- which include Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP and KPMG
Huazhen -- say Chinese law prevents them from complying with the
SEC’s demands.  Should the auditors be barred from reviewing the financial
statements of Chinese stocks listed in the U.S. the companies
would have to withdraw from the market, Steven Winegar, a Hong
Kong-based partner at Paul Hastings, which has represented
companies including Nasdaq-listed  Jiayuan.com International
Ltd. (DATE) , said on a conference call hosted by Jefferies Group Inc.
yesterday.  “That of course has a catastrophic effect on the market
value and on the companies themselves,” he said. “It’s almost
unthinkable that it will get to that stage.”  The key issue is whether U.S. or Chinese regulators should
have primary supervising responsibility for the accused auditing
firms, according to Winegar. The SEC order “gives a fair amount
of time for continuing negotiations and continuing settlements”
between the Chinese and U.S. authorities, while “there’s no
assurance this will be resolved any time soon,” he said.  SEC General Counsel Mark Cahn to Return to Private Sector  SEC General Counsel Mark D. Cahn will leave the Securities
and Exchange Counsel at the end of the year, the agency said in
a statement. Cahn has served as SEC’s general counsel since
February 2011.  “Mark has always provided the Commission clear and
thoughtful legal advice as we set out to better protect
investors,” said SEC Chairman Mary L. Schapiro. “The
commission has benefited greatly from his careful guidance and
his good judgment.”  Cahn was involved in developing the commission’s rules to
establish a whistle-blower program. He also provided advice on
every rulemaking release that came before the commission, the
agency said.  Prior to joining the SEC in 2009, Cahn was a partner at the
law firm of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP.
WilmerHale didn’t respond to an e-mail asking whether Cahn will
be returning.  Division of trading and markets Director Robert Cook is
also leaving, according to the SEC. Before joining the
commission in January 2010, Cook was a partner at Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP.  Moves  King & Spalding, Ashurst, Norton Rose Hire in Asia  Recent lateral law firm partner moves have included several
in Asia, notably in  Singapore .  King & Spalding LLP hired Kelly Malone, a specialist in
cross-border development and financing of major energy projects,
as a partner in its energy practice in Singapore. He joins from
the Singapore office of Norwegian firm Wikborg Rein & Co., where
he was a partner and head of that firm’s global projects team,
the firm said. Malone is bringing with him a team of two senior
lawyers and an associate.  Dispute resolution partners Rob Palmer and Chris Bailey
join Ashurst LLP’s Singapore office, from Herbert Smith
Freehills. Bailey will relocate to  Tokyo  after he has re-
registered as a foreign registered lawyer. Palmer has experience
in construction and infrastructure matters. Bailey will become
Ashurst’s first disputes partner in Tokyo. His practice will be
mainly focused on assisting Japanese clients in disputes arising
outside of  Japan  as well as supporting international clients in
relation to contentious matters in Japan, the firm said.  Norton Rose LLP appointed Li Jinnan, previously of King &
Wood Mallesons, as a banking partner in Beijing. Jinnan has
experience in banking and finance and primarily advises on
secured and unsecured lending, project financing, ship
financing, sovereign loans/ inter-bank loans both inbound and
outbound and commodity financing, the firm said.  Firm News  New Managing Partner to Steer Levenfeld Pearlstein  Trusts and estates partner Rob Romanoff will become
managing partner of Chicago-based Levenfeld Pearlstein LLC on
Jan. 1. Romanoff succeeds co-founding partner Bryan Schwartz.  The transition is the result of a multiyear succession
planning effort that included a formal training program to
cultivate firm leaders. Schwartz will remain chairman of LP, and
will return to active practice in the firm’s corporate and
restructuring practices.  “Bryan has guided LP through the first 14 years of its
existence, and his foresight is largely responsible for the
uncommon position LP enjoys today as a thriving firm with a
clear set of values that favor innovation, creativity, and a
dedication to giving back to our communities,” said Romanoff.  The firm has 56 lawyers at two Illinois offices.  Litigation  Republican Lawmakers Tell Court Obama Appointments Unlawful  Republican lawmakers who failed to block President  Barack Obama  from installing administration officials without Senate
approval in January asked a federal appeals court to rule the
appointments unconstitutional.  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP partner Miguel Estrada, who is
representing Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and 41 other
Republican senators, told a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court
of Appeals in Washington yesterday that the president usurped
the Senate’s powers with his appointment of three National Labor
Relations Board members. Senate Republicans were allowed to
argue the case along with the canning company that challenged
the appointments.  Upholding the appointments would take a “break-glass-in-
case-of-emergency” power and turn into “a background rule that
allows our president to evade the role of the Senate,” Estrada
told the judges during a one-hour argument while McConnell
looked on from the audience.  Yesterday’s argument was the second heard by a federal
appeals court over objections to the president’s naming the NLRB
members on Jan. 4 while the Senate was holding so-called pro-
forma sessions that sometimes involved a single senator
appearing in the chamber every third day. A three-judge panel of
the U.S. Court of Appeals in Chicago heard argument on Nov. 30
in two cases brought by union members who are seeking to reverse
board rulings made by the Obama appointees.  Obama cited his constitutional power to make so-called
recess appointments while the Senate is out of session when he
put the officials in their posts.  Beth Brinkmann, a Justice Department lawyer, argued that
the Senate wasn’t in session or acting as a legislative body
between Jan. 3 and Jan. 23 because no legislation was passed, no
votes were held and no nominations were considered.  “Under the petitioners’ view, they create an appointment
vacuum,” Brinkmann said.  The case is Noel Canning v. National Labor Relations Board,
12-1115, 12-1153, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 