-- Wes Swank of Kyle Bass’s Hayman Capital Dies at 31 in Car Crash
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-12-06T00:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/wes-swank-of-kyle-bass-s-hayman-capital-dies-at-31-in-car-crash.html
Wes Swank, managing director for
energy and natural resources at Hayman Capital Management LP,
the hedge fund run by Kyle Bass, died on Dec. 4 in a car
accident. He was 31.  Police in  Dallas  found Swank dead inside a Mercedes that
had run off the road and struck a tree, the Dallas Morning News  
said  on its website. Public records showed he was less than a
mile from his condominium, the newspaper reported.  Swank joined Dallas-based Hayman in March 2008, after
working in the mergers and acquisitions group of  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s investment banking unit. He began working at New York-
based Citigroup in 2005, according to a Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority filing.  “It is amazing how we have so much and so little control
over our lives at the same time,” Bass, who earned attention by
making $500 million betting against subprime mortgages during
the 2007 crash, said yesterday in an e-mail to friends and
colleagues. “Wes was one of the most intelligent, thoughtful,
caring and vibrant individuals I have ever known. We are
suffering a profound and deep sense of loss throughout the
entire Hayman family, and our world has been forever changed by
the loss of this great man.”  Bass -- who isn’t related to Fort Worth’s billionaire Bass
family -- said he noticed a quote taped to Swank’s computer
monitor that says:  “I go to work every day with people smarter than me, who
are better at what they do than me. I go to the gym every day
and work out with people stronger and faster than me. I spend my
spare time with friends and family whose values and quality of
character I aspire to reflect. For all of these reasons, I get a
little better, every day.”  Good Pick  In November 2011, Swank spoke at the AR Symposium, an
annual hedge-fund event in  New York , and  recommended  buying
shares of  McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR) , an oil and gas producer,
HedgeFund Intelligence Ltd., a London-based data provider, said
on its website.  Within five weeks the stock rose  27 percent , then declined.
Yesterday, it jumped 87 percent after the New Orleans-based
company agreed to be acquired by Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc., for a gain of 22 percent since Swank’s recommendation. The
Russell 2000 Energy Index declined 11 percent over the same
period.  Class Valedictorian  Galen Weston Swank was born on July 21, 1981, in Houston to
Mark and Libby Swank. He earned his undergraduate degree in
mechanical engineering from the  Virginia Military Institute  in
2003, achieving class valedictorian. He received a master’s in
business administration from  Stanford University  in 2005,
according to a biography supplied by Hayman.  In a 2010 Wall Street Journal  article , Swank was quoted as
saying he was pleased he had decided to go directly from college
to business school.  “I’m glad I didn’t have to leave a job and put my life on
hold for two years,” he said, according to the article.  Swank and his wife, the former Allison Gerard, were married
in 2010. The two met through a mutual friend when they were 19,
according to a  story  about their engagement in D Magazine.  In addition to his wife, he is survived by their 3-month-
old daughter,  Charlotte .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  