-- WestJet Weighs Wide-Body Jets for International Flights
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-06T21:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/westjet-in-talks-with-boeing-airbus-on-wide-body-planes.html
WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)  is evaluating
adding long-haul international routes and has begun talks with
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and rival Airbus SAS about wide-body jets that could
fly farther than its single-aisle fleet.  Discussions are preliminary and focused on availability,
capability and pricing, WestJet Chief Executive Officer Gregg Saretsky said at an investor presentation today. The airline has
no definitive plans to purchase wide-body aircraft, and any
decisions will probably be delayed until it’s satisfied with new
Encore regional unit.  “There’s an opportunity for us to start exploring this
notion of a possible wide-body long-haul international
operations,” Saretsky said. The airline is just starting to
review “what that might look like,” he said, and has no
immediate plans to order aircraft  Buying bigger planes and adding longer routes would give
WestJet more ammunition as it seeks to win market share from
larger competitor  Air Canada. (AC/A)  The discounter resumed flights to
New York’s LaGuardia airport in June and plans to open its new
regional unit by 2013 to serve locations now only reached by
 Canada ’s largest airline.  “WestJet has been all about a game changer recently,”
 Walter Spracklin , a Toronto-based analyst at Royal Bank of
Canada, said in a telephone interview. “2013 is going to see a
significant departure from the textbook low-cost carrier
strategy. You’re seeing them now tap growth areas that go beyond
that strategy.”  ‘Huge Interest’  Spracklin has an  outperform rating  on Calgary-based
WestJet’s stock.  The new Encore unit’s first group of communities will be
announced in early 2013, the company said. WestJet has placed an
order for Q400 turboprops from  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  to supply that
business.  “We’ve had a huge amount of interest expressed by Canadian
communities from coast to coast looking for WestJet to liberate
them from the high cost of air travel,” Saretsky said. “Many
of these communities are provided service by a single carrier
with airfares for one-hour segments that are well above what we
charge for a transcontinental flight.”  Total seating capacity will increase 7 percent to 8 percent
next year as WestJet rolls out more flights with its regional
unit, the company said.  WestJet is modifying its  fleet  of single-class 737s, which
have an average age of 5.8 years, to offer premium economy
seating with extra legroom.  Fare Packages  That will give the airline flexibility to offer fare
bundles targeting customers from business travelers who want
extra legroom and to have amenities included in the total cost
to economy passengers who want only basic service and are
willing to pay separately for extra items, if needed.  The “seating strategy has opened the company up into a new
way of maximizing revenue,” Spracklin said. “Now you have
premium economy that you can bundle a fare structure around.”  Premium seating and fare bundles will allow Saretsky “to
capture pricing in areas where one fare structure didn’t,” he
said.  At the same time,  Air Canada (AC/B)  is moving to open its own low-
cost carrier with service to holiday destinations in  Europe  and
the Caribbean. Air Canada is also considering purchases of mid-
sized jets amid growing confidence it will return to
profitability next year after an anticipated  fifth straight
loss .  The Montreal-based airline is in talks with Boeing, Airbus
and Bombardier Inc. for more than 100 aircraft, Chief Commercial
Officer Ben Smith said in a telephone interview.  Air Canada  rose  0.6 percent to C$1.79 at the close in
Toronto, while WestJet added 0.4 percent to C$19.94.  WestJet said  costs  for each seat flown a mile, excluding
fuel and profit sharing, will climb as much as 3 percent in
2013, compared with gains of as much as 3.5 percent this year.
Capital expenses will rise to $320 million to $340 million from
$270 million to $280 million this year, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  