-- Wheat May Take Over From Corn as Grain Market Driver, FAO Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-06T16:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/wheat-may-take-over-from-corn-as-grain-market-driver-fao-says.html
Wheat may take over from corn as the
driver of grain prices next year because of potential production
setbacks, said  Abdolreza Abbassian , an economist at the United
Nation’s Food & Agriculture Organization.  “People are perhaps a little bit underestimating the
problems we could have with wheat,” Abbassian said by phone
today from  Rome . “We could end up in a situation where we see
wheat leading and others follow if we see a problem in the Black
Sea putting pressure on U.S. supplies.”  Corn and soybeans set records this year and wheat is 37
percent below its all-time high in 2008. Wheat is the biggest
gainer of the 24 commodities in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge
as drought is diminishing yields from Australia to the U.S. and
Russia braces for its coldest winter in 20 years.  “If this year was marked by corn leading, 2013-14 could be
wheat,” Abbassian said.  Wheat has climbed 31 percent this year to $8.555 a bushel
this year on the Chicago Board of Trade as corn added 16 percent
and soybeans jumped 23 percent. Wheat’s record is $13.495 a
bushel in February 2008.  Abbassian said there are concerns about wheat conditions
ahead of winter dormancy in  Russia , the U.S. and  Europe ,
particularly the U.K., as well as worries about  Argentina ’s
wheat and corn harvests this season.  Crop Conditions  Farmers in southern Russia planted winter wheat into
parched soils, while drought left the U.S. crop for harvesting
next year in the worst condition in at least 27 years.
Excessively wet soils slowed seeding in the U.K., the European
Union’s third-biggest grower.  “For the U.S., the news is not good anyway, with the dry
conditions continuing,” Abbassian said. “There are
uncertainties about the wheat next year. We’re talking February
or March before we get a firmer idea. Spring is going to be a
crossroads of prices going either sharply up or down.”  World wheat production is predicted to fall 5.9 percent in
the season through June to 654.4 million metric tons on smaller
crops in exporters including Ukraine, Russia and  Australia ,
according to the International Grains Council. The output drop
of 40.8 million tons of wheat equals 30 percent of expected
world imports of the grain in 2012-13, IGC data show.  Abbassian said he’s concerned about Argentina, where rain
is damaging wheat and delaying corn  planting .  Ukraine Outlook  Wheat price swings in reaction to reports that Ukraine will
restrict wheat exports illustrate the lack of supply, the FAO
economist said.  “That rumors can have such an impact tells you something
about the tightness in the export markets,” he said. “The
market is not foolish, it reacts because it knows availabilities
are tight. We’ll probably see more of these short-term ups and
downs in the first quarter.”  Wheat prices may enter “bumpy territory” as  Black Sea 
producers Ukraine and Russia exhaust their export supplies,
before certainty about  South America ’s grain harvests leads to
more stable prices, Abbassian said. Ukraine will probably run
out of wheat to export by the end of December, he said.  “That’s what the story is going to be in the first quarter
of next year, people sitting in an uncomfortable situation and
watching the weather,” Abbassian said. “The last few years
have taught us we just don’t know before we get to the
harvest.”  Favorable weather conditions for the wheat crop next year
and good yields may cause a “big correction” downward for
grain prices, according to the economist.  Rice inventories are climbing after multiple record crops,
keeping a lid on food prices in some countries in  Asia  even as
the cost of wheat and corn climbs, the economist said.  Rice Buffer  “Rice really saved us,” Abbassian said. “If it wasn’t
for rice this year, there would have been far more outcry about
the corn shortage.”  World rice ending stocks are forecast to climb 6.6 percent
to an all-time high of 169.8 million tons in 2012-13, after
three consecutive record harvests outpacing demand, according to
the FAO. Rising incomes in some Asian countries mean consumers
there are using less rice in diets, Abbassian said.  “We could end up in a situation where rice keeps piling up
and real demand is not increasing,” Abbassian said. “If
 population growth  is slowing and per capita consumption is under
pressure, and we continue to produce more rice year after year,
that could bring its own problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  