-- Why Are Our Politics So Scary? Blame Hollywood
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-12-06T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/why-are-our-politics-so-scary-blame-hollywood.html
I’ve finally figured out why we spend
so much time treating our political opponents as implacably
evil. It’s because Hollywood, which used to offer us villains we
could love reviling, seems to have forgotten how to make its bad
guys bad.  The other night on “Homeland,”  the uber-terrorist  the good
guys have been chasing for a season and a half finally got to
tell his side of the story. As it turns out, he’s not evil. It’s
just that his family was blown to bits at the dinner table by a
U.S. drone strike.  Oh. All right, then.  Or consider the new James Bond flick, “Skyfall,” where the
bad guy, a renegade intelligence agent called Silva, is played
by the superbly talented  Javier Bardem . Just a few years ago,
Bardem portrayed one of the few truly great villains in recent
film, the unstoppable killer with the strange weapon in “No
Country for Old Men.” His character, Anton Chigurh, is a
throwback to the days of the traditional cinema bad guy --
remorseless, inexplicable, diabolical.  What makes the traditional villain so terrifying is
precisely that he is beyond our comprehension. “Nothing happened
to me,” Hannibal Lecter tells Clarice Starling in the novel “The
Silence of the Lambs,” when she asks what made him this way. “I
happened.”  Cheesy Motives  But so long to all that. In “Skyfall,” Bardem’s not-quite-
wicked hacker merely wants revenge for the sad and shameful way
he was treated in the past by MI-6. This is a far cry from the
classic Bond villains -- Dr. No and Ernst Stavro Blofeld and
their ilk -- who possessed simple, cheesy motives, like taking
over the world.  It’s as though the folks who make films don’t think we’ll
appreciate an old-fashioned bad guy, the implacable face of
evil. They seem to be forgetting what makes a cinematic bad guy
so deliciously wicked to watch. The scary movie should be
cathartic. The catharsis, as John Kenneth Muir notes in  his
study  of the director Wes Craven, comes from staring absolute
evil in the face -- and surviving the experience.  Nowadays, even when filmmakers do come up with a brilliant
bad guy, they ruin him by giving him a humanizing back story.
Lecter was a lot more interesting when he was merely evil rather
than the product of an agonizing childhood. Darth Vader was more
fun before his wickedness turned out to be the result of
adolescent anger and love lost.  Yes, there are still implacable monsters out there, but
they tend to be evil corporate honchos -- almost always from the
banking or petrochemical industries -- who lack back stories
entirely but know how to hire legions of hit men to protect
their profits. People who work for U.S. intelligence can also be
evil and remorseless -- look at the “Bourne” franchise, where a
series of novels about a hero trained to hunt down terrorists
becomes a series of films about wicked Central Intelligence
Agency officials. (And, as the most casual follower of the “Law
and Order” franchise knows, the most dangerous psychopaths are
often found in the hallways of exclusive private high schools.)  As to the rest, they’re mostly misunderstood. Even the
machines in the “Terminator” films turn out to have a point of
view.  What happened to the bad guy who was bad just to be bad? I
have in mind the one W.H. Auden described back in the 1940s in
his brilliant lectures on Shakespeare: “There is a difference
between a villain and one who simply commits a crime. The
villain is an extremely conscious person and commits a crime
consciously, for its own sake.”  Hungry Zombies  A villain, to be memorable, should have dignity balanced by
remorselessness, an implacable integrity in pursuit of his goal.
Think the early Vader and Lecter; think Dracula as originally
envisioned by Bram Stoker and then by Hollywood, before vampires
turned out to be unhappy teenagers; think Auric Goldfinger, who
in the book just wants the gold in Fort Knox and will kill
whomever he must in order to get it. Think of the killers who
drove the “Halloween,” “Nightmare on Elm Street” and “Friday the
13th” franchises in their heyday.  There are still vicious, unreasoning creatures out there.
But they tend to be invaders from other planets, or our own
former friends and families transformed into hordes of zombies,
who exist for the sole purpose of shuffling after us in search
of a meal. They are not bad people.  In fairness, Hollywood managed a bit of the old magic with
Heath Ledger’s portrayal of the Joker in “The  Dark Knight ,”
although one had the sense that, but for Ledger’s untimely
death, a sequel was in the offing that would have explained what
happened to the poor fellow when he was younger. Performances
like Ledger’s or Bardem’s Chigurh are memorable in part because
they are increasingly rare.  Feminist film theory long ago developed the “ final girl ”
theory of the horror film, in which the audience begins the
story from the villain’s point of view, but, by the end, has
switched allegiance to the lone heroine, the sole survivor who
finally defeats him. Her triumph over evil buoys us.  It’s a lot harder to be buoyed when the bad guy is just
another misunderstood everyman. His defeat becomes an occasion
not for cheers but for pathos. The cathartic point of the horror
is lost amid this moral confusion. We’ve exorcized none of the
demons that plague our waking hours.  (On the other hand, maybe Hollywood has learned that there
are limits. Even in “Skyfall,” I have a hunch that the
filmmakers blinked, leaving on the cutting-room floor even more
evidence of Silva’s humanity. Want evidence? Try solving the
rather obvious anagram that sits at the center of the story but
is mysteriously never mentioned by any of the characters.)  I’m not saying that real-life bad guys don’t have back
stories. I’m just saying that escapist movies are more fun when
they don’t tell them.  Simple Villains  Umberto Eco, in the title essay of his newly published
 collection , “Inventing the Enemy,” argues “that morality
intervenes not when we pretend we have no enemies but when we
try to understand them, to put ourselves in their situation.”
Perhaps that is true in the real world of international
relations. But in the movies, this approach swiftly drains
villainy of its fun. If the bad guy is just everybody else,
what’s the point of making a movie about him? Onscreen heroes
are larger than life, radically different from the rest of us.
The villains should be the same way.  Jane Smiley, in “Thirteen Ways of Looking at the Novel,”
 points out  that before the 20th century, evil was portrayed in
literature “as randomly distributed, causeless, and
incorrigible.” It was just there. You could neither evade it nor
explain it.  This was the film villain of the 20th century, too, and it’s
exactly what made him so thrillingly scary. Once you explain
him, you wind up putting everybody (as Lecter notes in the novel
but not the film version of “Silence of the Lambs”) in “moral
dignity pants.”  So Hollywood, please. Get your villains off the
psychiatrist’s couch. Don’t waste screen time telling us where
they came from. Be content with letting them scare us half to
death. Then maybe we won’t be so obsessed with finding evil
elsewhere in our lives.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 