-- Worst Performer Salfacorp Says Debt Concern Is Groundless
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-12-06T21:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/worst-performer-salfacorp-s-ceo-says-debt-concern-is-groundless.html
Salfacorp SA (SALFACOR) , the worst-performing
Chilean construction stock this year, will generate enough cash
to make all debt payments without selling assets or refinancing,
Chief Executive Officer Francisco Garces said.  “Investors and analysts don’t seem to understand our real-
estate business,” Garces said today in an interview in
Santiago. “Our short-term debt payments are covered entirely by
an inventory of homes of exactly the same amount.”  Salfacorp’s shares have tumbled 24 percent this year amid
concern about short-term debt levels that surged to a record in
the third quarter. Competitor  Besalco SA (BESALCO)  gained 15 percent while
real-estate developer  Paz Corp SA (PAZ)  increased 44 percent as data
from  Chile ’s construction chamber showed construction expanded
at an average 10 percent per month since January 2011.  The cyclical nature of Salfacorp’s real-estate unit,
Inmobiliaria Aconcagua, requires frequent short-term borrowing
to finance  home construction , Garces said. The company repays
the debt when projects are completed and final ownership
contracts are signed, which will lead to “better” debt ratios
starting next year, he said.  “Our Ebitda from real-estate sales will be huge in the
fourth quarter,” Garces said, referring to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Profit Outlook  Profit from Salfacorp’s real-estate business will improve
the company’s ratio of Ebitda over interest expense to more than
four times in the fourth quarter, Garces said. The company ended
the third quarter with a ratio of 3.1 times, according to a Nov.
21 regulatory filing. The company has agreed with bondholders to
maintain a ratio above three times, Garces said.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  cut its recommendation for Salfacorp
yesterday to the equivalent of sell, citing debt level concern.  The company’s current liabilities --including debt,
accounts payable and other items that must be met within 12
months-- reached a record 437 billion pesos ($916 million) in
the third quarter, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Of
that amount, 219 billion pesos correspond to short-term debt.  Salfacorp’s engineering unit, ICSA, and Aconcagua will
transfer cash and secure new bank loans to cover a $96 million
bond payment due in May by the parent unit, Garces said.
Salfacorp will also consider restructuring its remaining long-
term debt after that, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  