-- XL Hires Deutsche Bank’s Wenzel in Capital Markets Push
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-06T20:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/xl-hires-deutsche-bank-s-wenzel-in-catastrophe-bond-push.html
XL Group Plc (XL) , the insurer led by
Chief Executive Officer Mike McGavick, hired Craig Wenzel to
help a push into securities linked to natural disasters.  Wenzel joins from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s largest
lender, and will report to  Charles Cooper , president and chief
underwriting officer of XL Re Ltd., the Dublin-based insurer and
reinsurer said today in a statement. Wenzel will work in
Stamford, Connecticut, and have the new position of senior vice
president, capital markets, the company said.  Investors are seeking opportunities in insurance-linked
wagers to get higher yields with rates on U.S. Treasuries and
corporate bonds near record lows. Catastrophe bonds, one type of
issue, pay higher-than-benchmark yields to investors who risk
losing their principal in the event of disasters that meet
predefined conditions. The Swiss Re Cat Bond Total Return Index
has advanced 8.8 percent this year.  “Investors continue to show interest in the insurance-
linked  securities market  and are searching for innovative ways
to access attractive non-correlated yields,” Cooper said in the
statement.  About $5.95 billion of dollar-denominated catastrophe bonds
have been issued this year, compared with $4.4 billion in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At Deutsche Bank, where he was a director in the  capital
markets  and treasury solutions division in New York, Wenzel
helped originate catastrophe bonds, sidecars and other risk
transfers. Sidecars are pools of funds that have a limited life
span and give investors the chance to bet on reinsurance risks.  Among his projects at the bank was Cyrus Re, a sidecar
sponsored by XL that was one of the first to follow  Hurricane
Katrina , which struck the U.S. in 2005. Before joining Deutsche
Bank in 2005, Wenzel worked in debt capital markets at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  