-- Yuan Halts Three-Day Advance as PBOC Fixing Forces a Retreat
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-12-06T09:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/yuan-halts-three-day-advance-as-pboc-fixing-forces-a-retreat.html
China ’s  yuan  snapped a three-day gain
as the central bank cut the fixing to a level that forced to
currency to weaken to remain within its permitted trading range.  The People’s Bank of China lowered the reference rate by
0.06 percent to 6.2911 per dollar, 1.05 percent less than
yesterday’s closing level. The yuan is allowed to trade a
maximum of 1 percent on either side of the daily fixing. The
 Dollar Index  climbed 0.2 percent in the last two days. China’s
efforts to stabilize growth, including proactive fiscal and
prudent monetary policies, are “effective” and “ample,”
according to a front-page commentary today in the Financial News.  “The fixing is an adjustment to a stronger dollar
overnight,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist and
regional economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “There
aren’t any major political or external reasons for yuan
appreciation. We’ll have some consolidation or a minor
correction before appreciation resumes next year.”  The yuan fell 0.05 percent to close at 6.2282 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
That’s 1 percent more than today’s  reference rate . One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange
rates used to price options, was steady at 1.53 percent.  China should steadily push toward interest-rate
liberalization and a market-oriented exchange-rate mechanism,
the unsigned Financial News commentary said. An open yuan
capital account should be promoted, it said.  Current Account  The yuan will rise to 6.15 per dollar by the end of 2013,
Haibin Zhu, the Hong Kong-based chief China economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., told reporters in the city today.  “The most important fundamental factor is the current-
account surplus,” he said. “We expect, in the next few years,
the current-account surplus will remain at around 3 percent of
gross domestic product.” The excess was 2.7 percent of GDP last
year and 3.9 percent in 2010, official data show.  The central bank is likely to widen the yuan’s trading band
to 2 percent in the next 18 months, Zhu said.  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan was steady at
6.2105 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.03 percent to
6.3155, a 1.4 percent discount to the onshore spot rate, figures
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The U.K. needs a yuan swap agreement with China to unleash
 London ’s potential as an offshore trading center for the
currency, Xia Bin, a former adviser to the People’s Bank of
China, said at a meeting of the London Advisory Council for
China yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  