-- ZTE Guns for Alcatel With Development Bank Funds: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-06T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/zte-guns-for-alcatel-with-development-bank-funds-china-credit.html
ZTE Corp. (763)  plans to use its biggest
funding yet from  China Development Bank  to become one of the
world’s top-three suppliers of wireless network equipment in the
next two years, surpassing  France ’s  Alcatel-Lucent SA. (ALU)   The $20 billion facility that the telecommunications
equipment maker received this week is more than double the
financing that kicked off the company’s “strategic
cooperation” with CDB in 2005. The  policy lender , which has
provided funds at cheaper rates than commercial banks, didn’t
announce the cost structure. The yield on ZTE’s 2015 bond has
risen 66 basis points to 4.86 percent since being sold in June.
The average yield on U.S. telecommunications debt is 3.02
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  ZTE’s  sales  have quadrupled since its first facility,
helping make it the fifth-largest vendor of wireless equipment
by revenue in the first half of this year. The credit
facilitates the manufacturer’s emerging-market expansion by
financing customers’ equipment purchases. The U.S. government
questioned ZTE’s loans from state-owned CDB and possible
security threats when seeking to block sales of its network gear
in October.  “Aggressive financing is a key part of ZTE’s strategy to
take market share,” said Tucker Grinnan, Hong Kong-based
analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. “In markets like India and  Africa 
where local borrowing costs are high, it’s a big advantage to be
able to offer long-term financing.”  Overseas Projects  The CDB line will help finance sales of equipment and
related services abroad, according to a Dec. 4 company
statement. The support comes after ZTE’s performance hit a bump
in the third quarter, with a net loss of 1.95 billion  yuan  ($313
million) compared with a profit of 299.3 million yuan a year
earlier, due to delays in closing overseas deals.  The international obstacles have further complicated ZTE’s
expansionary goals. Members of the U.S. House of Representatives
Intelligence Committee asked Chairman Hou Weigui how the company
was able to secure the $15 billion credit line from CDB in 2009,
an amount that exceeded its annual revenue. The European Union
began looking into credit facilities for ZTE and Huawei
Technologies Co. earlier this year.  The average rate on outstanding loans and advances extended
by CDB was 5.62 percent, according to its 2011 annual report.
That compares with the average 5.92 percent interest that the
People’s Bank of  China  charged on one-year loans over the past
decade.  ‘Comprehensive Strategy’  China’s biggest policy lender “fully complies with
international business practices and marketizes its operations
in terms of loan terms and conditions,” Jiang Tao, company
spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. “CDB determines the lending rate of project loans
mainly depending on the value of commercial loans to the
overseas borrowers and the limit of raised capital of the
bank.”  Two calls to CDB seeking comment on its funding weren’t
answered.  The yield on ZTE’s 0.8 percent bonds due January 2013 has
jumped 62 basis points this half to 4.31 percent as of Dec. 6,
according to exchange-traded pricing compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year notes increased 24
basis points in the same period to  3.57 percent  as of Dec. 5.
The premium on CDB’s April 2022 notes over similar-maturity
 government securities  was at 86 basis points as of Dec. 6, down
from a high of 88 in October.  ZTE’s  sales  rose to 86.3 billion yuan last year, from 21.6
billion yuan in 2005 when CDB extended the first  credit line  of
$8 billion. With the latest financing, ZTE has a “comprehensive
strategy to address markets globally,” Chairman Housaid in the
Dec. 4 company statement.  Nurturing Telecommunications  “ZTE will leverage the CDB’s financial support and grasp
the opportunities in the markets,” Hou said in the e-mailed
statement. “We aim to achieve a global top-three position
before 2015.”  CDB’s support for Chinese companies is a pillar of the
country’s “going out” policy, which aims to create global
leaders in telecommunications, alternative energy and oil as
export-driven growth slows. Gross domestic product expanded 7.4
percent last quarter, the weakest in more than three years.  “Our support for Huawei, ZTE and other high-technology
companies has opened up the overseas market,” CDB Chairman  Chen
Yuan  wrote in China Reform magazine last year.  Default Swaps  The yuan fell 0.05 percent to close at 6.2282 per dollar in
 Shanghai  yesterday, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency has climbed 19 percent over the past
five years.  The cost of insuring China’s sovereign bonds with five-year
credit-default swaps fell to the lowest since 2010 at 56.2 basis
points on Nov. 30, according to data provider CMA. The company
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent if an issuer fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  In the first half of this year, ZTE’s sales of  network
equipment  ranked behind Huawei,  Ericsson AB (ERICB) , Alcatel and Nokia
Siemens Networks, according to Geng Yang, a Hong Kong-based
analyst with BOCI Research Ltd.  Alcatel-Lucent spokesman Simon Poulter declined to comment
on Hou’s remarks. The Paris-based company, which is
restructuring to end a six-year streak of mounting losses, is
pursuing financing of at least 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion)
from banks led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse
Group AG, people familiar with the talks told Bloomberg.  Attainable Goal  Nokia Siemens has “strong momentum” after gaining share
in the “flat-to-declining” global wireless network equipment
market in the third quarter, spokesman Ben Roome said, without
supplying details.  “Two of the current top five vendors,  Nokia Siemens  and
Alcatel-Lucent, are in the process of downsizing to raise cash
and better focus their efforts,” said Matt Walker, an analyst
at telecommunications consultant Ovum. “This will almost
certainly lower their share, making ZTE’s goal more
attainable.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  