-- Zynga Applies in Nevada in Push for Real-Money Games
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-12-06T15:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/zynga-files-with-nevada-for-real-money-online-gaming-in-u-s-1-.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  gained the most in six
weeks after filing an application with the Nevada Gaming Control
Board, a step toward operating real-money gambling sites in the
state, a possible new revenue source for the struggling maker of
social games.  The shares advanced 5.6 percent to $2.45 at 10:41 a.m. in
New York, and earlier touched $2.54 for the biggest intraday
gain since Oct. 25. Through yesterday, the stock had plunged 77
percent since an initial public offering in December.  Zynga filed for a preliminary finding of suitability for
gaming in Nevada, Chief Revenue Officer Barry Cottle said
yesterday in a statement. It could take the  San Francisco  game
maker 12 to 18 months to become eligible for real-money wagering
in the state, he said.  Gambling is a possible new revenue opportunity for Zynga,
which has struggled to step up growth as gamers have shifted to
mobile devices. While the company said in October that it signed
a partnership with Gibraltar-based  Bwin.Party Digital
Entertainment Plc (BPTY)  to offer real-money gambling in the U.K., the
filing marks Zynga’s first step toward U.S. gambling.  “As we’ve said previously, the broader U.S. market is an
opportunity that’s further out on the horizon based on
legislative developments, but we are preparing for a regulated
market,” Cottle said in the statement.  Nevada has begun granting licenses for online poker, and
Delaware and  New Jersey  are on track to follow next year,
according to the American Gaming Association. It could take five
years before online wagering becomes legal nationwide, according
to  Doug Creutz , a Cowen & Co. analyst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  