-- Abe Retains Investor Confidence in Revival Plan, Aide Says
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-06-05T02:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/abe-seeks-to-lower-japan-corporate-taxes-aide-says-1-.html
The recent decline in Japanese stocks
and rise in the yen doesn’t reflect a loss of confidence in
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s steps to reverse two decades of
economic stagnation, a top aide said.  “I don’t think we have lost the trust of the markets,”
Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroshige Seko said yesterday in
an interview in  Tokyo . “The market is determined by corporate
results and those corporate results are healthy.”  Abe today in a speech will outline his growth strategy, the
“third arrow” of an economic revival plan that seeks to build
on his fiscal and monetary stimulus. While investors initially
welcomed the first two prongs of the policy, stocks have fallen
after the biggest rally in 25 years, and the yen has risen
against the dollar after hitting a four-and-a-half year low.  Seko said the growth strategy will take time to implement
and bring results, adding that Abe still seeks to cut corporate
taxes as part of that effort. The government is considering
Economy Minister Akira Amari’s suggestion of lower taxes in
special economic zones, which may be created in a bid to
encourage innovation.  Japan ’s corporate tax rate is about 37 percent, the second- highest   among  countries in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  “It’s true corporate taxes are high, so lowering them to
encourage domestic investment is one of the foundations of our
government’s economic policy,” Seko said. “The timing and
extent is still under negotiation.”  Fiscal Situation  His comments follow reports that Abe will delay
implementing corporate tax cuts. The government has put off
discussion of the move until fiscal 2015, the Nikkei newspaper
said on May 29, without saying where it obtained the
information. Amari told reporters on May 21 that lowering
corporate taxes may be difficult given the fiscal situation.  Japan is struggling to curb the world’s largest debt-to-gross domestic product ratio.  Seko sought to play down anticipation over today’s speech
at 12:30 p.m., Abe’s third on growth in the past two months. The
government is pushing its economic policies ahead of an upper-house election likely to be held on July 21 that media polls
indicate his Liberal Democratic Party will win.  “The prime minister will not reveal everything in his
speech,” Seko said. “It will be the overall framework and
direction.”  The growth strategy will be completed on June 12 and voted
on by the Cabinet on June 14, he said, adding that other
stimulus policies will be announced later.  ‘Expectations High’  “Expectations are high for Abe’s growth-strategy speech,
given the recent weak tone in the stock market,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist in Tokyo at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. “If his proposals are unimpressive, investors may be
disappointed, which will mean the markets remain volatile.”  Investors would take a positive view of corporate tax cuts,
she said by phone.  Since touching a five-year high on May 22, Japan’s  Topix (TPX) 
index has fallen about 12 percent, while the yen has risen 3.1
percent against the dollar. Japanese shares swung between gains
and losses amid low volume ahead of the speech, with the Topix
falling 0.2 percent at the 11:30 a.m. close of morning trading
in Tokyo. The yen was little changed at 100.11 per dollar.  Abe took office in December vowing a three-pronged strategy
of Bank of Japan policy easing, government spending and policies
to improve investment, wages and  consumer confidence . Central
bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda unveiled a plan in April to double
the amount of money in the economy over two years by increasing
bond purchases, sending the yen down and stocks soaring.  ‘Long Time’  “Japan has not grown for a long time,” Seko said. “It’s
difficult to put together a prescription in five months for
something that Japan hasn’t been able to do for 20 years.”  He denied the growth strategy would include a push on
restarting nuclear power stations shut in the aftermath of the
2011 Fukushima disaster, as reported by the Asahi newspaper on
May 31. Utilities have to meet the Nuclear Regulation
Authority’s new safety standards, to be drawn up by July, before
the idled facilities can re-open.  “The government’s basic policy has not changed at all,”
Seko said. “We will re-start those reactors that are declared
safe under the standards of the regulatory committee.”  The government must continue to focus on the economy for
about two years after the upper-house election, rather than
pursuing other LDP goals such as changing Japan’s pacifist
constitution, he said.  “However high our support levels may be, there are limits
to our political energy,” Seko said. “We have to focus that
energy and prioritize the economy. I think that’s the consensus
among the main members of the cabinet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  