-- Ahold Will Buy Back $2.6 Billion After Swedish Retailer Sale
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-06-04T09:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/ahold-will-buy-back-2-6-billion-after-swedish-retailer-sale.html
Royal Ahold NV, (AH)  the Dutch owner of
the Stop & Shop supermarket chain, quadrupled a share buyback to
2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) to redistribute excess cash
following the  sale  of a stake in Swedish retailer ICA.  Ahold will complete the repurchase program by the end of
2014, the Amsterdam-based retailer said in a statement today.
First-quarter net income rose almost sevenfold on the capital
gain from the divestment, the company also said.  The buyback’s size is the equivalent of about 15 percent of
Ahold’s stock. The owner of the Albert Heijn chain sold its 60
percent stake in ICA,  Sweden ’s largest food retailer, to
investment company Hakon Invest AB for $3.1 billion during the
quarter to focus on businesses that it controls. It will
continue to look at acquisitions to expand in neighboring
markets, Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer  said today.  “I was actually expecting less” in terms of the buyback,
said  Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities NV. “The
company continues to have enough funds to make a major
acquisition if it wants to and it definitely has the ambition.”  First-quarter net income rose to 1.95 billion euros from
285 million euros a year earlier, Ahold said. The retailer got
1.75 billion euros of the profit from ICA.  JPMorgan Downgrade  Ahold shares dropped 1.6 percent to 12.36 euros as of 10:38
a.m. in Amsterdam. The stock reversed an earlier gain of as much
as 1.8 percent after JPMorgan Cazenove cut its recommendation to
neutral from overweight.  JPMorgan analysts Jaime Vazquez and Borja Olcese said they
were expecting “a 2 billion-euro additional buyback program
executed through a stock consolidation.” The brokerage reduced
its earnings-per-share estimate for 2013 and 2014 because of a
“mismatch” between the immediate deconsolidation of ICA and
the gradual reduction in the number of shares.  The retailer will continue to focus both on returning cash
to shareholders and growth, CEO Boer said on a conference call.
“It’s certainly not one or the other,” he said. The economic
climate will remain “quite tough” in  Europe  this year.  Ahold will still have scope to make acquisitions after the
return of capital, according to analysts. The Dutch grocer is
interested in Harris Teeter, the Matthews, North Carolina-based
retailer that disclosed in February that it hired JPMorgan Chase
& Co. after receiving advances from two private-equity firms,
people familiar with the matter said in February. CEO Boer today
declined to say whether Ahold is looking at Harris Teeter.  ‘Never Dismiss’  “One can never entirely dismiss the possibility that Ahold
might submit an offer,” James Anstead, an analyst at Barclays
Plc, wrote in a report on May 22. “Good quality assets do not
come up for sale on a frequent basis,” he said, while adding he
is “highly skeptical” that Ahold would buy the U.S. chain.  SNS’s Withagen said it would be “ridiculous to think that
the company is not looking at  Harris Teeter. (HTSI) ”  Cash and cash equivalents increased to 4.17 billion euros
at the end of the quarter from 1.89 billion euros the same date
last year, Ahold said.  Ahold is pushing sales growth online, adding pick-up points
for commuters to grab ordered groceries in Europe and the U.S.
and expanding Internet retailer Bol.com. The company seeks to
triple online sales to 1.5 billion euros by 2016. In addition,
Ahold added stores in the Netherlands via the purchase of shops
from C1000 and Jumbo and acquiring Genuardi outlets in the U.S.  First-quarter sales  rose 4.4 percent to 10.1 billion euros
at constant exchange rates. U.S. revenue rose 3.4 percent amid
promotions, while sales in the Netherlands gained 7.5 percent as
the retailer included Bol.com, Ahold said today.  Underlying operating income was unchanged at 416 million
euros. The underlying operating margin narrowed to 4.1 percent
of sales from 4.3 percent in the year-earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  