-- AIG Chief Raises Doubt About Completing Plane-Unit Sale
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-06-05T02:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/aig-chief-raises-doubt-about-completing-plane-unit-sale.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  raised doubt about
whether the company will complete a sale of its plane-leasing
unit to a Chinese investor group by a deadline this month.  “June 14, we have to make a decision,” he said yesterday
at a conference in New York, where the insurer is based.
“Whether this deal will get done or not, we don’t know.”  AIG said last week that it hadn’t received a deposit
required in an agreement to sell International Lease Finance
Corp. to acquirers led by New China Trust Co. Chairman Weng Xianding. That would allow AIG to cancel the accord, reached in
December, to sell 80 percent of ILFC for about $4.2 billion.  The transaction is subject to approval from U.S. and
Chinese regulators, including the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S. Benmosche, 69, said yesterday that AIG
has the option of cutting its stake in Los Angeles-based ILFC
through a public offering if the deal falls apart.  “Common sense would tell you that we would continue our
dialogue” with the potential buyers, he said. There are “a lot
of hurdles to go through. It’s very complicated, and we’re doing
the best we can.”  Steven Lipin at Brunswick Group, a spokesman for the
Chinese buyers, declined to comment.  The Chinese consortium is actively pushing forward the
progress of the deal, China Business News reported on its
website yesterday, citing New China Trust’s Weng as saying. Weng
didn’t directly respond to questions about the issue of the
deposit payment, the newspaper reported.  Two phone calls to New China Trust’s office in the
southwestern Chinese city of Chongqing were not answered today.  Diverse Earnings  Investors have been counting on AIG to sell the unit so it
can speed buybacks and pay a dividend, according to analysts
including Sanford C. Bernstein Co.’s Josh Stirling and Keefe
Bruyette & Woods’s  Meyer Shields . Benmosche said that the
transaction is meant to reduce risk and narrow AIG’s focus.  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, who built AIG into the world’s
largest insurer in his four decades as CEO, bought ILFC in 1990
to diversify earnings. The company made money by capitalizing on
the spread between AIG’s borrowing costs and the rates paid by
airlines for leasing jets.  AIG has sold assets to repay a 2008 U.S. bailout that
swelled to $182.3 billion. The government exited its stake last
year at a profit.  “The ILFC transaction is not about raising cash to buy
back shares,” Benmosche said. “This is about simplifying AIG,
having a company that is manageable, in my opinion, and is
around insurance, and not how to begin to get extra yield on
some of the investments we could make as a company leveraging
what used to be the triple-A of AIG.”  ILFC Swaps  ILFC had about $24.1 billion in debt as of March 31 and
owned or operated a fleet of about 1,000 aircraft, according to
a regulatory filing.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to the plane lessor
climbed 5 basis points to a mid-price of 299.5 basis points at
5:02 p.m. in New York yesterday, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That means it would cost the equivalent of $299,500
annually to protect $10 million of obligations for five years.
The swaps typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates.  Same Arena  A federal oversight committee on June 3 identified AIG as a
potential risk to the financial system in a step toward putting
the insurer under tighter government scrutiny. Prudential
Financial Inc. and a unit of General Electric Co. were also
given the designation that day.  Benmosche, who took over as CEO in 2009, said he welcomes
the additional oversight of the holding company as a supplement
to supervision of units by regulators in U.S. states and around
the world.  “Somebody has to be looking at AIG in total,” he said.  The CEO said he had a “little bit of frustration” that
some rivals may face less oversight. He cited  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , which competes against AIG selling
insurance.  “It’d be nice if all big companies that have financial
services as part of it get to be in the same arena,” Benmosche
said. “I worry about some people who have been left out,
because that isn’t appropriate.”  Berkshire didn’t receive capital injections from the
government during the 2008 financial crisis. Instead, Buffett
invested $8 billion of his company’s funds in Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and GE as credit markets froze and stocks plunged.
Buffett, 82, didn’t respond to a message seeking comment sent to
an assistant.  AIG declined 1.5 percent to $44.10 yesterday in New York
and has  rallied  25 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  