-- Thailand’s Baht Snaps Five-Day Decline on Fed Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-06-04T01:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/thailand-s-baht-snaps-five-day-decline-on-fed-stimulus-outlook.html
Thailand’s baht rose, snapping a
five-day loss, as an unexpected contraction in U.S.
manufacturing eased concern the  Federal Reserve  will trim asset
purchases that have fueled demand for emerging-market assets.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six
major counterparts, dropped yesterday by the most in almost five
months after the Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
fell to 49, the lowest reading since June 2009. Thailand will
probably refrain from imposing  capital controls  because the baht
has stabilized, Chularat Suteethorn, director general of the
finance ministry’s Public Debt Management Office, said May 31.  The baht climbed 0.2 percent to 30.39 per dollar as of 8:25
a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency touched 30.50 yesterday, the weakest level since Jan. 4.
The currency has advanced 0.6 percent this year, a performance
second only to China’s  yuan  among Asia’s 11 most-used currencies.  “The outlook for U.S. monetary policy remains the major
factor moving the currencies and the dollar is broadly weaker on
that,” said  Yuji Kameoka , chief currency strategist at Daiwa
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “For Thailand, as the baht has
weakened quite a lot versus the dollar, concern eased a bit over
the potential capital controls.”  The baht touched 28.56 per dollar on April 22 and April 19,
the strongest level since July 1997, prompting policy makers to
consider steps to stem fund inflows. Bank of Thailand Assistant
Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said last week measures have
been prepared to combat baht volatility although they may not be
used if they aren’t necessary.  One-month implied volatility in the baht, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped five basis points to 6.58 percent.  The yield on the 3.125 percent government bonds due
December 2015 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
2.72 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  