-- Alcoa Junk Downgrade Is Rare Trauma for Dow Stocks: Commodities
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-06-05T20:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/alcoa-junk-downgrade-is-rare-trauma-for-dow-stocks-commodities.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) ’s speculative-grade credit
ranking at Moody’s Investors Service makes it only the second
junk-rated Dow Jones Industrial Average company in at least
three decades. It took four years for the first to be ejected.  The New York-based aluminum producer was lowered last week
by Moody’s, following General Motors Corp. as the only Dow
member below investment grade since at least 1980, according to
 Howard Silverblatt , an analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices. While
the guidelines don’t mention debt ratings, Dow companies become
vulnerable when their finances deteriorate, says Richard Moroney, editor of Dow Theory Forecasts newsletter.  Alcoa shares have declined 67 percent in the past decade
through yesterday, leaving the company with the  lowest  share
price and market value in the Dow, as surging aluminum
production in  China  led to a supply glut. While S&P Dow Jones
says inclusion in the average is not governed by quantitative
rules, the index provider prefers “sustained growth.” Alcoa’s
revenue has declined for four straight quarters and 2012  net
income  was less than a tenth what it was five years earlier.  The junk rating “is one more chink in the armor in terms
of Alcoa  fitting in  there,” Moroney, who manages $175 million
at Hammond, Indiana-based Horizon Investment Services, said in a
phone interview last week. In the case of GM, the index provider
“didn’t do anything for a long time. It seemed like GM was not
a blue chip, but it’s still a bellwether. It’s hard to say the
aluminum industry is truly a bellwether. I do think once they
make a move, Alcoa will be gone.”  Dow Decisions  The  Dow average ’s stocks are chosen by editors of the Wall
Street Journal, unlike most indexes maintained by S&P Dow Jones
that are picked through an objective, rules-based process. While
changes in membership are unusual, they often involve more than
one company at a time, according to Dow’s  guidelines .  Dave Guarino, a spokesman for S&P Dow Jones Indices,
declined to comment on potential changes. Monica Orbe, a
spokeswoman for Alcoa, declined to comment on the index.  “Alcoa is focused on the things we can control,” Orbe
said in an e-mail response to questions. “We will continue to
execute on our strategy and remain focused on our 2013 goal of
generating positive free  cash flow .”  Alcoa’s market value of about $9 billion makes it less than
one-third the size of Travelers Cos., the next-smallest company
in the Dow, and smaller than 376 stocks in the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About $28
billion in products such as exchanged-traded funds are linked to
the Dow and changes prompt money managers to buy or sell shares
to match the adjustments. Almost $5.6 trillion is benchmarked to
the S&P 500.  Shrinking Share  Alcoa, whose name was changed from Aluminum Company of
America in 1999, joined the Dow in 1959. The company, which was
the most valuable U.S. metal producer in 2002, has been
 overtaken in size  and market clout by diversified commodities
companies such as BHP Billiton Ltd. and Glencore Xstrata Plc.
Its share of global aluminum production shrank to 9.1 percent in
2012 from almost 15 percent a decade earlier as production in
China more than quadrupled to 19.7 million tons.  “China came on the scene 10 years ago and has really
driven down global aluminum prices,”  Jorge Beristain , a
Greenwich, Connecticut-based mining analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
said in an interview yesterday. “In a more mature economy,
commodities play less of an important role because you’re in
more of a replacement cycle than a net fixed-asset investment
cycle.”  Tumbling Prices  Alcoa has struggled to turn a profit as aluminum prices sag
amid over-production. Aluminum for delivery in three months, the
most active contract on the London Metal Exchange, rose 1.3
percent to $1,972 a metric ton today. It has dropped 4.9 percent
this year and is down 41 percent from a peak in 2008.  The lightweight metal used in beverage cans, car parts and
airplane wings was the third-worst performer in the UBS
Bloomberg CMCI Index of 27 commodities in the past five years
through yesterday, with a negative return of 45 percent.  Global production has exceeded demand for the past eight
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Worldwide output
rose 2.8 percent to 45.2 million tons in 2012, according to the
International Aluminium Institute.  Alcoa Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld 
has responded to falling prices by trimming production. Last
year the company idled 13 percent of its smelting capacity and
is now evaluating another 11 percent for curtailment or
permanent halt by the end of next year.  ‘Down Cyclically’  The company is boosting sales at its engineered- and
rolled-products divisions as Kleinfeld bets that record backlogs
at aircraft makers and growing aluminum use by car producers
will shift the sales mix to more-profitable products.  “Alcoa is still a major industrial company,” Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at Richmond, Virginia-based Davenport &
Co., said by telephone yesterday. “They are down cyclically,
but that’s not necessarily for the long-term. Aluminum will not
always be a negative.”  Moody’s lowered the long-term rating on Alcoa’s $8.6
billion of debt on May 29 by one step to Ba1 from Baa3, citing a
decline in aluminum prices and a lack of “significant”
recovery in the company’s profitability. The company is still
rated above investment grade at S&P and Fitch Ratings.  ‘Relative Health’  While GM’s lead in the  auto industry  helped the company
remain in the Dow despite a junk status until its bankruptcy in
2009, Alcoa’s membership may be more precarious after the
relative decline in aluminum as a share of the  U.S. economy  over
the last five decades.  The value of U.S. aluminum consumption was about $9.77
billion in 2012, equal to about 0.02 percent of gross domestic
product, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. usage
represented about 0.2 percent of GDP in 1959, the year Alcoa
joined the Dow, the data show.  GM was removed from the  S&P 500  in 2009 and will return
after the close of trading on June 6, S&P Dow Jones announced
this week.  “I don’t think the change in  credit rating  itself is
enough a reason to remove a company, but the fact its credit
rating has declined does provide an observation of the relative
health of Alcoa’s business,” Michael Sheldon, chief market
strategist at RDM Financial Group in Westport,  Connecticut ,
which oversees $600 million, said in a June 3 telephone
interview.  Commodity Stocks  Alcoa’s shrinking role in the Dow bucked a trend of growing
share by other commodity companies. At $8.38 a share, its
closing price yesterday, the aluminum producer made up 0.4
percent of the Dow, down from 2 percent 10 years ago. During the
same period, energy and raw-materials producers increased their
weighting to 14.1 percent from 11.2 percent.  The shares fell 2.15 percent to $8.20 at 4:15 a.m. in  New
York , the biggest decline since April 15.  Alcoa’s removal would leave Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron
Corp. and DuPont Co. as the only commodity stocks in the Dow.
The three companies represent 13.6 percent of the gauge, in line
with the industry’s 14 percent weighting in the S&P 500.  1896 Creation  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  was devised in 1896 by
Charles H. Dow, co-founder of Wall Street Journal publisher Dow
Jones & Co. It originally included General Electric Co.,
American Tobacco and 10 other companies before  expanding  to 20
companies in 1916 and 30 in 1928. Its value is determined by its
companies’ stock prices, unlike most benchmark gauges that rank
companies by their total market value.  The average was last reshuffled in September, when
UnitedHealth Group Inc. replaced Kraft Foods Inc., which spun
off its North American grocery business.  Two notable omissions from the Dow are  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , both of which would command outsized weightings in
the gauge because of high stock prices. Apple closed at $449.31
while Google traded at $859.10. That’s more than double the
price of International Business Machines Corp., the Dow’s
largest component with an 10.4 percent weighting.  A financial or technology company may be favored to replace
Alcoa because the industries are under-represented in the Dow,
according to Horizon’s Moroney. While banks and computer makers
are the  biggest groups  in the S&P 500, comprising a total of
34.8 percent, they make up only 27.5 percent of the Dow, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Alcoa isn’t really a bellwether indicative of U.S.
industrial activity any more,” John Goltermann, who helps
oversee more than $900 million at Obermeyer Asset Management
Inc. in Aspen,  Colorado , said in an interview on June 3. “Its
share price can suffer from a global aluminum supply glut, even
at a time that U.S. industrial activity is picking up, so the
signal it sends can easily be counter to what the Dow Jones
Industrial Average is intended to reflect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  