-- Mali’s Army Prepares to Attack Remote Touareg-Held Town of Kidal
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-06-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/mali-s-army-prepares-to-attack-remote-touareg-held-town-of-kidal.html
Mali ’s army is preparing to take back
control of the town of Kidal after allegations of ethnic
cleansing by Touareg insurgents holding the area.  Troops will attack Kidal, 1,542 kilometers (958 miles)
northeast of the capital Bamako, “within days” to restore
government authority after at least two dark-skinned Malians
were killed and an unknown number of people expelled, according
to a statement placed on the website of the prime minister’s 
office, citing Communications Minister Manga Dembele, yesterday.  Negotiations over Kidal, a Touareg stronghold, have so far
failed to resolve differences between Mali’s government and
Touareg separatists, who last year collaborated with Islamist
extremists to seize most of northern Mali before  France 
intervened to quash the rebellion. Mali says it can’t organize
elections next month if Kidal remains under the control of
insurgents.  The allegations of ethnic cleansing aren’t true, the
Touareg-led Movement for the Liberation of Azawad, known by its
French acronym MNLA, said in a response on its website today.
The armed group said it had arrested 180 people in Kidal after
noticing “unusual movements of groups of people”. Twenty men
suspected of working for Mali’s secret service will be held
while the remaining 160, “not being Touareg,” will be be sent
out of town, the group added.  The Touareg are a light-skinned nomadic people inhabiting
the arid Sahel region extending across Mali, Niger, Algeria and
 Mauritania . French President  Francois Hollande , who ordered the
armed intervention in January, has pushed Mali’s interim
government to grant the Touareg a degree of self-rule.  As many as 11,200 United Nations peacekeepers and a special
counterterrorist unit are being deployed to Mali to take over
the fight against Islamic insurgents from France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Amsterdam at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  