-- Alltel Forges Deal With Startup Check for Mobile Bill Payments
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/alltel-forges-deal-with-startup-check-for-mobile-bill-payments.html
Alltel Corp. (ATNI) , the wireless carrier
that will soon be owned by  AT&T Inc. (T) , signed a deal with Silicon
Valley startup Check Inc. to let its 600,000 customers pay their
bills with a smartphone.  Check, formerly Pageonce, lets users of Apple Inc. iPhones
and Google Inc. Android devices pay bills with a few taps. The
Alltel deal is the first business partnership for Check, and
others are in the pipeline with gas, electric, garbage and water
utilities, said Steve Schultz, chief operating officer at the
 Palo Alto , California-based company.  “Businesses are looking for a way to mobilize, and they’re
a bit behind,” said Schultz, the former head of  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s
finance site, in an interview. “We’re doing a lot of the heavy
lifting.”  Check is part of a crowded field of startups seeking to
help companies simplify the payment process. Square Inc. has
gained the most traction through its combination of hardware and
software, while WePay Inc. and Stripe Inc. make it easy for
businesses to accept payments online. BillFloat Inc. works with
billers to provide short-term loans for customers who need more
time to pay.  Check  has more than 8 million registered members, who use
the free application to upload bank account information and
track recurring bills and investments. In some cases, businesses
are asking to form partnerships with Check because they already
have thousands of customers using the app, Schultz said.  App Promotion  Alltel, which currently is owned by Atlantic Tele-Network
Inc., will promote Check’s program as a download option for
customers. In January, AT&T agreed to buy spectrum and
subscribers from Atlantic Tele-Network for $780 million and said
it expects the deal to close in the second half of 2013.  While Check has swiftly added users since introducing the
app in 2008, the company has experimented with multiple business
models. In 2011, it began charging users $5 a month for the
bill-payment function, before abandoning that in favor of a
model that charged 30 cents per bill. The company then dropped
the fee altogether.  “Payments require scale and we felt that Check needed a
free option to grow rapidly,” Schultz said.  Pageonce changed its name to Check last month and said it’s
processing more than $1.5 million in bill payments per day.  Mary Meeker , the former Morgan Stanley analyst who’s now a partner at
venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,
highlighted Check as an emerging financial-services company in
her 2013 Internet Trends report last week.  By working with other billers, Check will receive a
commission whenever customers pay with the app, Schultz said.
The company also makes money by providing targeted offers to
consumers for credit cards, mortgages and  savings accounts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  