-- AMR Allowed to Have Creditors Vote on Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-06-04T16:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/amr-allowed-to-have-creditors-vote-on-bankruptcy-plan.html
AMR Corp., the parent of American
Airlines, won court approval to have creditors vote on its plan
to exit bankruptcy by merging with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  to
create the world’s largest airline.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  today approved
the disclosure statement that described AMR’s Chapter 11 plan.
American, based in Fort Worth,  Texas , won approval last month to
proceed with the combination, which would be completed when the
airline leaves court protection.  “I’m going to overrule the objections as to the disclosure
statement because I disagree with the U.S. Trustee that these
issues make it patently unconfirmable,” Lane said.  The U.S. Trustee, an arm of the government that oversees
bankruptcies, had objected to a provision of the plan that will
grant a $20 million severance package to Chief Executive Officer
Tom Horton. Lane said there is adequate disclosure in the plan
about the severance package and enough information to allow
creditors to vote.  American filed for bankruptcy in New York in November 2011
and announced the deal with US Airways in February. US Airways
CEO Doug Parker began pursuing American shortly after it entered
bankruptcy, wooing creditors and unions for support.  The deal with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways would cap a
wave of consolidation in the industry and push American past
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and Delta Air Lines Inc. to be
the world’s largest carrier.  American Name  The combined company will operate under the American
Airlines name. Parker will become CEO while Horton will be
chairman.  Creditors holding $1.6 billion in unsecured claims agreed
to back the plan and merger, American said. US Airways
shareholders will receive 28 percent of the combined company,
while the remaining 72 percent will go to AMR’s unsecured
creditors, labor unions, shareholders and certain employees.  AMR unsecured creditors holding $2.6 billion in claims and
creditors with $6.8 billion in claims backed by aircraft will
receive a full recovery, according to court papers. AMR
shareholders will get a 3.5 percent stake in the combined
company with the potential for additional shares.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-bk-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  