-- MAN SE Plans 146 Million-Euro Cost on Power-Plant Orders
-- B y   T o m   L a v e l l
-- 2013-06-04T10:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/man-se-plans-146-million-euro-cost-at-power-plant-unit.html
MAN SE (MAN) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest
truckmaker, will take charges of 146 million euros ($191
million) in the second quarter as extra costs for projects at
the power-plant construction division hurt group earnings.  The diesel and turbo unit, which makes ship engines and
industrial turbines in addition to developing electricity
plants, is also experiencing a “significant downturn” at its
servicing business in an economic environment will “remain
tense in the next years,” MAN said today in a statement.  MAN cut its earnings  forecast  for 2013 in April after a
drop in the European truck market and charges on the power-plant
projects led to a first-quarter loss. The Munich-based
manufacturer predicted at the time that provisions for the
projects would amount to about 140 million euros. MAN hasn’t
identified which contracts are involved.  The power-plant unit’s performance and potential tax costs
from a disposal following an audit of accounts from 2004 through
2006 will lead to the group’s return on sales falling
“significantly” this year, MAN said today. The company
forecast in April a “significant” drop in 2013 operating
profit and a return on sales “well below” the 2012 figure.  MAN  dropped  as much as 2.1 percent to 83.73 euros, the
lowest intraday price since April 22, and was trading down 0.8
percent at 12:32 p.m. in  Frankfurt . That pared the stock’s gain
this year to 5.1 percent, valuing MAN at 12.5 billion euros.  MAN Vote  The truckmaker, controlled by car producer  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
is holding its  annual shareholders meeting  on June 6, when
investors will be voting on a domination agreement that will
define earnings-distribution and industrial-strategy ties
between the manufacturers.  The power-plant unit’s provision and reduced earnings
forecast, combined with the tax risk uncovered in the audit,
have reduced MAN’s enterprise value by about 50 million euros,
the truckmaker said today. That won’t change the terms of the
proposed offer from VW to the remaining shareholders to buy the
rest of the company, MAN said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Lavell in Frankfurt at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  