-- Man Says Commodities Divergence Increasing Supply-Demand Role
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-06-04T05:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/man-says-commodities-divergence-increasing-supply-demand-role.html
Diverging prices for raw materials
and other “risk assets” is a sign that traders will once more
focus on supply and demand, said Scott Kerson, the head of a
commodities unit at  Man Group Plc (EMG)  in London.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities fell 3.9
percent this year, while the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities rose 8.3 percent. The 30-week correlation coefficient
between the two measures is at 0.56, down from as much as 0.88
in 2010. A figure of 1 means the two move together.  “What’s going on in commodity markets right now, and in
particular the de-linkage between commodities and other risk
assets, is actually a positive thing for trend followers
generally and specifically for systematic commodities traders,”
said Kerson, who heads commodities at Man Systematic Strategies
and AHL. Assets under management at the two funds were $16.3
billion at the end of March 2013. About 25 percent of the funds’
assets are allocated to commodities.  The S&P GSCI gauge declined this year after an almost
fourfold gain since the end of 2001 spurred new mines,  oil wells 
and crop acreage. This year will probably signal “death bells”
for the  raw materials  supercycle as  China ’s economic growth
slows and the nation focuses less on infrastructure and
urbanization, Citigroup Inc. said May 20. Deutsche Bank AG also
called an end to the longer-than-average time of rising prices.  Man’s Assets  The divergence between raw materials and other assets means
commodities should “start to trade on their own fundamentals
and markets should evolve according to the underlying supply and
demand characteristics of each individual market as opposed to a
more general reflection of the overall macro economy,” said
Kerson, who joined the company in November 2011.  Man Systematic Strategies and AHL, which were merged in
February, have more than 100 employees, with eight in the
commodity team in London and  Switzerland , he said. Man’s total
assets under management are $54.8 billion, making it the world’s
largest publicly traded hedge-fund manager.  Natural gas and cotton are the best performers in the S&P
GSCI index this year, with silver and gold dropping the most.
Commodities are down about 30 percent since July 2008, when the
worst recession since World War II curbed demand. While economic
growth in China, the biggest user of everything from copper to
cotton to coal, accelerated in 2009 through the start of 2010,
it slowed in eight of the past nine quarters.  Commodities rose in 10 of the last 11 years. Raw materials
have been in a supercycle since 2001 and the average length of
each phase since the late 1700s has been almost 21 years, Chris
Watling, chief executive officer of London-based Longview
Economics Ltd., said in October at a conference in  London .  Commodities Cycle  “We’re less interested in calling the beginning or the end
or the middle of the cycle, and much more interested in how we
think price dynamics should play out for underlying markets,”
Kerson said. “Crude oil markets we’d characterize as being in a
transition phase and not particularly friendly for systematic
trading. Metals, and in particular gold and silver, have been a
much more interesting place for us to be.”  Oil is up 1.3 percent this year at $93.05 a barrel in  New
York  and traded in a $17 range since the beginning of July. Gold
slid 16 percent to $1,411.60 an ounce in London this year and
silver tumbled 25 percent to $22.6875 an ounce, with both metals
falling into a  bear market  in April.  Kerson was formerly the owner of Alpha Dog Commodities LLC,
a California-based consultancy which focused on quantitative
analysis of the global commodity markets, from 2009 to 2011. He
also previously worked as a trader at Ospraie Management LLC,
Amaranth Advisors LLC, and Standard Bank Group Ltd. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  