-- Lane Says Monetary Easing Benefit Outweighs Currency Risk
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-04T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/lane-says-monetary-easing-benefit-outweighs-currency-risk.html
Bank of Canada  Deputy Governor
Timothy Lane said the easy monetary policy of central banks in
the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  is boosting global demand and more
than offsets the impact of currency swings in other countries.  “Expansionary monetary policy to support domestic
objectives in post-crisis economies can put upward pressure on
other countries’ currencies,” Lane said in the text of a slide
show presentation he’s giving today at the  Bank of Korea  in
 Seoul . “On balance, however, exceptional easing in post-crisis
economies is likely to be beneficial to other countries that
were not at the center of the crisis, since the favorable
effects of stronger growth in the major post-crisis economies
outweigh the adverse effects of currency appreciation.”  The currencies of the U.S. and Japan, the world’s largest
and third-largest economies, are being weakened by central bank
policies of purchasing assets to boost growth. The U.S. Federal
Reserve is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage bonds
each month and the  Bank of Japan  has doubled monthly bond
purchases this year.  Lane’s remarks echo past Bank of  Canada  comments that the
actions of the Bank of Japan and the Fed should boost Canadian
exports growth even as they support the country’s dollar.  The Bank of Canada has kept its  benchmark  rate at 1 percent
since September 2010 in part because of a sluggish export
recovery, and Lane today didn’t comment when borrowing costs may
change.  Canada and other “non-crisis countries” have relied on
domestic spending instead of exports as monetary policy has
eased, Lane said. Canada is showing “a constructive evolution”
in household finances after “imbalances” built up, he said, a
reference to consumer debt that’s reached a record 165 percent
of disposable income.  The global economy is at risk if there isn’t a shift where
countries with large savings boost domestic demand and indebted
nations cut back, Lane said. Without a quick adjustment that
also includes exchange rates, the global economy may lose $6
trillion in output, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  