-- Apple Ready to ‘Take or Leave’ E-Books, Penguin CEO Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/apple-was-indifferent-to-amazon-pricing-lawyer-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  executives were prepared
to abandon plans to enter the e-book business on the eve of the
company’s 2010 debut of the iPad, Penguin Group USA Inc. Chief
Executive Officer David Shanks testified in the U.S.
government’s civil antitrust trial against Apple.  Shanks, called on the second day of the trial in  Manhattan 
federal court, yesterday described his company’s decision to
sign a deal known as an agency agreement for Apple to sell
Penguin’s electronic books. He said Penguin signed on after
initially resisting Apple’s pricing model.  “It was fairly clear that they could take or leave being
in the book business,” Shanks said. “If they couldn’t get it
on their terms, they weren’t going to take the jump into being
in books.”  The Justice Department claims Apple orchestrated a
conspiracy among five of the six biggest U.S. publishers to put
pressure on  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the No. 1 e-book retailer, and
raise prices across the e-book market.  Apple claims it did nothing wrong and says it helped
consumers by bringing innovation and competition to an e-books
market that was dominated by Amazon. Apple Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  has called the case “bizarre,” vowing to
fight rather than settle.  Last Defendant  Apple is the last defendant remaining in the case after the
government reached settlements with the five publishers:
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit,  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group,
 Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins. A
sixth publisher, Random House Inc., isn’t involved in the U.S.
suit.  Shanks, under questioning by Apple’s lawyer,  Orin Snyder ,
testified that the talks with Apple were a “typical
negotiation” and that Penguin originally proposed that Apple
sign an e-book contract similar to its existing deal with
Amazon.  The Penguin CEO said his company considered maintaining
different pricing models, with Apple on the agency model and
Amazon continuing to buy books at a fixed wholesale price. He
said he pressed Seattle-based Amazon to switch to agency after
signing an agency agreement with  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)   Under the agency model, publishers set the prices for their
e-books, subject to price caps and to an agreement that lets
Apple match lower retail prices set by Amazon and other
retailers. Under the contract, Apple gets 30 percent of the sale
price. The government claims Cupertino, California-based Apple
used the provisions to establish an illegal price-fixing
agreement among the publishers.  Apple Talks  At the time of the Apple talks, Penguin had a wholesale
agreement with Amazon, under which it sold e-books for a fixed
price and Amazon sold them for $9.99, at a loss. After it signed
the deal with Apple, Penguin signed agency agreements with No. 2
e-book retailer Barnes & Noble and with Amazon.  Justice
Department  lawyers claim e-book prices rose as a result.  An Apple lawyer who negotiated e-book contracts with the
publishers testified yesterday that the company was
“indifferent” to whether the publishers used an agency pricing
model with other retailers.  Kevin Saul, an associate general counsel for Apple,
testified that the purpose of a key provision in the contracts
was to allow Apple to charge the lowest price on books, not to
force Amazon and other competitors to raise prices. The
provision, called a “Most Favored Nation” clause, permits
Apple to match competitors’ low prices.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 