-- Apple, Chanel, Avantha, Finnair: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-04T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/apple-chanel-avantha-finnair-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPad and
iPod, filed an application to patent the use of a three-dimensional model for a cursor, according to the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  Cupertino, California-based Apple said that users sometimes
are confused when a cursor’s appearance changes depending on the
context in which it is used, for example an arrow when used on
icons and a pointing hand when used with text.  The changes envisioned by application  2013135288  would give
a three-dimensional model that could be manipulated by the user,
depending on the context. The cursor could be “rotated, scaled
and even morphed or deformed into different shapes,” according
to the application. Apple says this would feel much more like a
unified object.  Apple filed the application in November 2011, and it was
published in the patent office database May 30.  Nintendo Must Face Patent Case Over Memory, Appeals Court Says  Nintendo Co., the Japanese maker of video games and
consoles, must face a patent infringement case brought by
 California  patent holder, a federal appeals court has ruled.  Creative Integrated Systems Inc. of Santa Ana, California,
sued Nintendo in federal court in Los Angeles in April, 2010,
claiming patents related to read-only memory were infringed.  In July 2012, U.S. District Judge A. Howard Matz delivered
what is known as a Markman ruling, based on his interpretation
of what technology the patent covers.  The parties then stipulated to a non-infringement verdict.
After this, Creative Integrated filed an appeal with the U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the
Washington-based court that hears appeals of patent disputes.  In its June 3 ruling, the appeals court said that Judge
Matz didn’t interpret patent 5,241,497 correctly, and vacated
the non-infringement finding. The case now goes back to the
trail court for further proceedings.  The appeal is Creative Integrated Systems Inc. v. Nintendo
of America Inc., 2012-1579, -1626, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit. The lower-court case is Creative Integrated
Systems Inc. v. Nintendo of America Inc., 2:10-cv-02735-AHM-VBK,
U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Chanel’s U.K. Application for ‘ Jersey ’ Fragrance Mark Rejected  Chanel SAS, the 104-year-old French fashion house, was told
it can’t register “Jersey” as a U.K. trademark for a
fragrance, the  BBC   reported .  The  fragrance  is named in honor of founder  Coco Chanel , who
introduced the knit fabric known as jersey as a fashion fabric,
according to the BBC.  The U.K.’s Intellectual Property Office said only items
made on the island of Jersey should be entitled to the
trademark, the BBC reported.  The island’s Economic Development Department had filed an
objection to Chanel’s application, according to the BBC.  Levi Files for ‘Field of Jeans,’ ‘Win One for the Zipper’ Marks  Levi Strauss & Co., the maker of blue jeans whose origins
date back to the days of the California Gold Rush, has filed two
trademark applications related to its $220 million agreement for
naming rights to a National Football League stadium presently
under construction in California.  The San Francisco-based company filed applications with the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office May 8 to register “Field of
Jeans” and “Win One for the Zipper” as trademarks to be used
with the provision of stadium facilities for sporting events.  “Field of Jeans” is a play on “ Field of Dreams ,” a 1989
 film  about a baseball field in a former cornfield that magically
attract players and fans.  “Win one for the Gipper” comes from a motivational speech
Notre Dame football coach Knute Rockne made to his team,
referring to the late George Gipp, who died two weeks after
being named Notre Dame’s All-American. The speech was also given
in a movie about Rockne, in which President Ronald Reagan  played
Gipp , and the slogan was later used by Regan in his presidential
campaigns.  The stadium, in Santa Clara, California, is set to open in
2014 and is the home of the San Francisco 49ers football team.
On May 21 the National Football League voted to play the 50th
anniversary Super Bowl game there in 2016.  Avantha Seeks Clarification of ‘Crompton’ Trademark Ownership  Avantha Group’s Crompton Greaves unit has asked the Gujarat
High Court to overturn a ruling by  India ’s Registrar of
Trademarks over the ‘Crompton’ Trademark, the  Times of India
reported .  Crompton Greaves is arguing its predecessor companies have
used the mark since the 19th century, and that the board erred
in 2012 by permitting its use by Hindustan Trading Corp.,
according to the newspaper.  Advocated for Crompton Greaves, a maker of electrical goods
and lighting products, argued in court that the board failed to
consider the company’s long history, according to the Times.  Crompton Greaves is seeking a court order for a second
hearing by the trademark registry’s Intellectual Property
Appellate Board and the removal of the mark from the registry of
trademarks, the Times reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Finnair to Paint Out Design Following Plagiarism Allegations  Finnair Oyj (FIA1S) ,  Finland ’s largest airline, said it is
stripping the livery from one of its Airbus planes after
learning the design was plagiarized,  according to  the Los
Angeles Times.  The design was created by Finland’s  Marimekko Oyj (MMO1V) , the
Helsinki-based textile and clothing company, the newspaper
reported.  A Finnish newspaper last week noted similarities between
the design and work by Ukrainian artist known as Primatshenko,
and Marimenkko designer  Kristina Isola  has acknowledged copying
the design and apologized, according to the Times.  The disputed design depicted a stylized grouping of trees,
the newspaper reported.  Taiwan Now Says It Won’t Block Foreign Websites That Infringe  Taiwan’s Intellectual Property Office said it will back
down from plans to block overseas websites that violate
copyright laws, the Focus Taiwan website  reported .  Wang Mei-hua, who heads the office, said free-speech
considerations prompted the policy change, according to Focus
Taiwan.  The office will continue to direct domestic Internet
service providers to remove Taiwan websites that infringe, Focus
Taiwan reported.  The Intellectual Property Office will consult with judicial
agencies about other possible ways of providing protection to
intellectual property owners, according to Focus Taiwan.  Haiti ’s President Registers With His Nation’s Copyright Bureau  As part of a strategy to encourage Haitian artists and
content creators to protect their work, the nation’s president
has registered his work with the Haitian Bureau of Copyright,
the Haiti Sentinel  reported .  President Michel Martelly, a singer who performed as
“ Sweet Micky ,” said he hopes his action will encourage others
in Haiti to protect their work and benefit from the protections
registration offers, according to the Sentinel.  He said that registration is supported by a state agency in
Haiti that will enforce artists’ rights, the Sentinel reported.  Apple Fights U.S. E-Books Pricing Claims in Antitrust Trial  Apple Inc., accused by the U.S. of being the ringmaster in
a conspiracy with publishers to fix prices of electronic books,
went to trial in a case that will feature evidence from the
company’s dead founder, Steve Jobs.  A lawyer for the U.S. Justice Department began his opening
statement in  Manhattan  federal court yesterday in a rare
antitrust trial to determine whether Apple orchestrated an
illegal price-fixing agreement when it entered the e-books
market in 2010 with the introduction of the iPad.  Apple and five of the six biggest U.S. publishers
“consciously committed to a scheme to raise e-book prices
throughout the industry” that cost consumers hundreds of
millions of dollars, Justice Department lawyer Lawrence Buterman
told U.S. District Judge Denise Cote.  Apple claims it did nothing wrong and says it benefited
consumers by bringing innovation and competition to an e-books
market that was dominated by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Apple’s lawyer,
 Orin Snyder , yesterday echoed Apple’s Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  in his opening statement yesterday, calling the
government’s case “bizarre.”  Apple is the last defendant remaining in the case after the
five publishers sued by the government avoided trial by
settling.  Part of Apple’s fight will be to win over Cote, who is
hearing the case without a jury. The judge said in a final
pretrial conference May 23 that the government has evidence to
show that Apple knowingly participated in a conspiracy to raise
e-book prices.  Apple’s trial team is led by Snyder, a partner in the New
York office of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Snyder, a former
federal prosecutor, has handled antitrust and other high-stakes
litigation for media and entertainment companies including
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , Warner Music Group Corp. and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal.  The government team is led by  Mark W. Ryan , the director of
litigation for the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division. Ryan
joined the division after a career in private practice.  Gabriel Gervey, a lawyer in the Texas attorney general’s
office, is the lead lawyer for the states.  Each side will have a total of 29 hours to present.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Hagel Blames China for Cyber-Attacks as He Seeks Closer Ties  U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel accused  China  of waging
cyber-attacks, in comments made before a gathering of senior
Asian officials that included members of the Chinese military.  “The United States has expressed our concerns about the
growing threat of cyber intrusions, some of which appear to be
tied to the Chinese government and military,” Hagel said in his
first major policy address on Asia June 1 at the Shangri-La
Dialogue, an annual security conference in  Singapore .  U.S. officials and the Defense Department have blamed China
previously for cyber-attacks. Hagel’s public comments today came
as Chinese officials looked on -- and one questioned the U.S.
commitment to improved relations.  While the U.S. claims its military pivot toward Asia isn’t
a move against China, “China is not convinced,” Major-General
Yao Yunzhu, director of the Center for China-America Defense
Relations at the Academy of Military Science within the People’s
Liberation Army, said at the conference.  China’s reported attempts to obtain sensitive U.S. military
data as well as commercial intellectual property through
electronic espionage have been highlighted repeatedly by Defense
Department and White House officials. National Security Adviser
Tom Donilon said in March that China is waging a “large scale”
computer campaign to steal trade secrets.  The Pentagon, in its latest annual report on China’s
military capabilities, said last month that China’s military has
targeted U.S. government computers with intrusions that seek
sensitive data.  Even as he singled out China for cyber-attacks, Hagel said
he welcomed China’s rise as a global power and sought closer
military-to-military relations. He said he plans to host China’s
defense minister at the Pentagon later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 