-- Argentina Seizes Railway From Brazil’s ALL Over Contract Breach
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2013-06-04T22:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/argentina-seizes-railway-from-brazil-s-all-over-contract-breach.html
Argentina expropriated a cargo
railway concession from  Brazil ’s  All America Latina Logistica SA (ALLL3) 
and a tourist train concession, citing noncompliance with
contractual agreements.  ALL, a freight company based in Curitiba, Brazil, incurred
“grave” contract violations by failing to invest and
accumulating fines worth 30 percent of the concession, Interior
and Transport Minister Florencio Randazzo said today in  Buenos
Aires . ALL operated the railways between Mendoza province and
the Rosario port as well as the railway between Misiones
province and the Buenos Aires port since 1999.  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has
nationalized the country’s largest oil company, an airline and
$24 billion of private pension funds during her six years in
power. Argentina won’t hesitate to nationalize other railway
concessions if companies don’t improve services, Randazzo said,
adding the government won’t pay for the rail concessions.  “If the government has to take over more railways we are
willing to do so,” Randazzo said. “We want to reduce our
freight costs.”  ALL said in a regulatory filing after the announcement that
it hasn’t been notified of the revoked licenses. Its Argentine
operations made up 6.5 percent of net revenue and didn’t
contribute to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization or Ebitda.  “ Argentina ’s ALL unit has lost representation in the
company’s consolidated earnings while demanding disproportionate
attention from its administration,” the Brazil company said in
a note to Sao Paulo’s stock exchange.  Amusement Park  The tourist train north of Buenos Aires known as “Tren de
la Costa” was also seized from Argentina’s Sociedad Comercial
del Plata SA along with an amusement park in Tigre, north of the
capital, Randazzo said.  Matias Brea, vice president for SCP in Buenos Aires,
operator of the train and amusement park, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail and a telephone call seeking comment. An ALL
press officer in Sao Paulo had no immediate comment.  Railways were first nationalized during the first Juan Domingo Peron administration in the late 1940s. President Carlos Saul Menem granted the concessions in the 1990s.  Once Crash  On Feb 22, 2012, 51 people were killed and more than 500
injured when a packed commuter train slammed into the buffers
and safety barriers at one of Buenos Aires’ busiest railway
stations in the Once neighborhood. The concession was owned by
closely held Trenes de Buenos Aires SA.  The Once crash was the second-worst in Argentina’s history
after the 1970 railway crash when two trains collided near
Benavidez, 48 kilometers (29 miles) from Buenos Aires, killing
more than 200 people.  In March, Brazil’s Vale SA terminated development of a
potash venture in Argentina after inflation, exchange rate
fluctuations and demands from provinces pushed up costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in  Sao Paulo  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  