-- Larrain Vial Sold ICA Stake as Mexican Builder’s Shares Plunged
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-06-04T18:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/larrain-vial-sold-ica-stake-as-mexican-builder-s-shares-plunged.html
Larrain Vial Administradora General
de Fondos SA, manager of  Latin America ’s best-performing small-cap stock fund, has sold most of its holdings of  Empresas ICA
SAB (ICA*)  this year after the Mexican construction company failed to
pare back debt, a fund official said.  The Larrain Vial Magallanes II fund has “practically
zero” shares of Mexico City-based ICA, co-portfolio manager
Martin Benitez said in a phone interview yesterday. At the end
of 2012, ICA was the Magallanes fund’s most heavily weighted
stock, at about 3 percent of overall holdings, according to
regulatory filings.  The shares of ICA, Mexico’s biggest construction company,
have tumbled 28 percent this year as earnings slumped amid
delays in public-works spending. A deal reached in 2012 to sell
most of the company’s homebuilding unit collapsed last week.
ICA’s net debt at the end of the first quarter was 10.7 times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or
Ebitda, up from 8.8 times a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “ICA’s most recent results really scared us,” Benitez,
who helps manage about $350 million in Latin American stocks at
Larrain Vial, said in a telephone interview from Santiago. “We
expected them to reduce debt and they actually increased it. At
this level it will become harder for ICA to grow.”  ICA’s debt ratio compares with an average of 2.8 times for
regional peers. The company’s first-quarter profit fell 80
percent from a year earlier to 164 million pesos ($13 million).  The $31.4 million  Magallanes (LVMAGII)  fund, of which Benitez is a
co-manager with Tomas Langlois, invests only in small- and
medium-size companies, according to the firm’s  website . That
includes stocks with equity capitalizations in the lowest 25
percent for each market, Benitez said.  Buying Pinfra  The fund has returned 33 percent in the past 12 months, the
best performance among 97 peers classified as small-, mid- and
multi-cap Latin American stock funds, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The search excluded Argentine-domiciled funds,
whose returns are distorted because of accounting differences
related to that country’s foreign exchange rate.  A Larrain Vial fund based in  Luxembourg  has about $320
million under management, Benitez said.  That fund  increased its
stake in ICA during the first quarter by 915,000 shares to 3.03
million as of March 28, worth about $10 million at the time.  Both funds have been liquidating their ICA stakes, Benitez
said, adding that Larrain Vial is now buying shares of Mexican
builder  Promotora y Operadora de Infraestructura SAB  or Pinfra.  Mexico  City-based Pinfra’s lower debt load will leave it
with more borrowing capacity to undertake new projects once the
government details its plans, Benitez said. Pinfra’s  net debt to
Ebitda  was about 2.3 times as of March 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  President Enrique Pena Nieto is expected in the coming
months to detail his priorities for building projects during his
six-year term. In his Dec. 1 inauguration speech, he pledged to
back projects including railroads, highways and port expansions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  