-- AstraZeneca Won’t Seek Approval for Rigel Arthritis Drug
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-06-04T07:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/astrazeneca-won-t-seek-approval-for-rigel-arthritis-drug.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  will take a $140
million charge after deciding not to seek approval of an
experimental rheumatoid arthritis treatment that showed mixed
results in late-stage studies.  The pretax impairment charge to research and development
expenses will occur in the second quarter, London-based
AstraZeneca said today in a statement. The U.K. drugmaker will
return the rights to the medicine, called fostamatinib, to U.S.
partner  Rigel Pharmaceuticals Inc. (RIGL)   Fostamatinib is the latest disappointment for AstraZeneca,
which has had setbacks in developing treatments for depression
and diabetes. The arthritis drug failed to show a benefit versus
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ Humira in a mid-stage trial, showed
benefits for patients in a late-stage study called Oskira-2 and
had mixed results in two late-stage trials dubbed Oskira-1 and
Oskira-3.  “The results of the late-stage trials did not measure up
to the promising results we saw earlier in development,” Briggs Morrison, executive vice president of AstraZeneca’s global
medicines development, said in the statement. “We remain
committed to the search for new treatments for patients with
rheumatic and inflammatory diseases.”  AstraZeneca  rose  as much as 0.2 percent to 3,361 pence and
was trading at 3,357 pence as of 8:19 a.m. in London. The stock
has gained 15 percent this year, valuing the company at 42
billion pounds ($64.4 billion).  The drugmaker has other experimental rheumatoid arthritis
medicines in the second of three stages of human testing usually
required for regulatory approval, Morrison said. The company
reiterated its forecast for core operating costs for the year to
show “a slight increase” from 2012 on a constant currency
basis.  Rigel fell 2 percent to $4.53 at the close in  New York 
yesterday, giving the South San Francisco, California-based
company a market value of about $395 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in  London  at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  