-- Aussie Dollar Holds Decline After RBA Says Currency Remains High
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-06-04T05:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/aussie-dollar-holds-decline-after-rba-says-currency-remains-high.html
Australia ’s dollar remained lower
after the  Reserve Bank  said the nation’s inflation outlook
provides some scope for further monetary easing and that the
currency is strong.  The Aussie weakened against all of its major peers as the
RBA today held its benchmark interest rate at a record-low 2.75
percent. The currencies of Australia and New Zealand climbed
yesterday by the most in at least a year as expectations eased
that the  Federal Reserve  will taper monetary stimulus in the
U.S., boosting the relative allure of higher-yielding assets.  “The RBA continues to reiterate that the bias is still
toward a lower cash rate, and they do not seem to be alarmed or
disturbed by the decline in the Aussie,” said Roy Teo, a
currency strategist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Singapore. “They
have always tried to indirectly maneuver a lower  exchange rate ,
so it’s natural” that investors took profit after the recent
gain in the Aussie, he said.  Australia’s dollar dropped 0.4 percent to 97.33 U.S. cents
as of 3:53 p.m. in Sydney after jumping 2.1 percent yesterday,
the biggest advance since November 2011.  New Zealand ’s currency
slid 0.3 percent to 80.62 U.S. cents following a 1.8 percent
advance, the most since June 6, 2012.  The exchange rate “remains high considering the decline in
export prices that has taken place over the past year and a
half,” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a  statement .  The central bank has lowered its benchmark rate by 2
percentage points in the past 20 months. Contained inflation has
let it stimulate the economy as mining investment crests, the
federal government reins in spending and commodity prices slump.  Australia’s Economy  The Reserve Bank is seeking to boost non-mining areas of
the economy, which have struggled amid an elevated currency,
underscored by Ford Motor Co.’s decision to shut down its local
plants, resulting in 1,200 job losses. The closure was a blow to
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , whose  Labor party  is trailing in
polls ahead of a Sept. 14 election.  The currency averaged about $1.03 in the past two years,
compared with about 73 cents in the prior two decades, spurred
by the resource investment boom and near-zero  interest rates  in
the U.S. and  Japan . The RBA has said some of its rate reductions
were aimed to help offset the drag on growth from the Aussie’s
strength.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said last week that a pronounced slowdown in  China , Australia’s
biggest trading partner, is also a risk to the economy.
Australian gross domestic product growth will decelerate to 2.6
percent in 2013, down from 3 percent projected in November, the
OECD said in a May 29 report.  RBA Outlook  The Aussie has fallen more than 4 percent since the RBA cut
its overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage point to
2.75 percent on May 7. Traders see an about 80 percent chance
that the RBA will lower borrowing costs by at least 25 basis
point by November, according to data on overnight-index swaps.  “Our economists actually still believe this easing cycle
is in play,”  Sally Auld , a Sydney-based interest-rate
strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview before the RBA decision. “We actually have
a further 50 basis points of rate cuts factored into our
forecast for the RBA over the next 6 to 12 months.”  While the median of analyst estimates shows the currency
will trade at 99 U.S. cents in the fourth quarter, traders see a
39 percent chance that Australia’s dollar finish this year below
95, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on option premiums.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  