-- Aveo Cuts 62% of Workforce After Kidney Cancer Drug Fails
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-06-04T21:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/aveo-cuts-62-of-workforce-after-kidney-cancer-drug-fails.html
Aveo Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AVEO) , which
failed to win the backing of U.S. regulatory advisers last month
for its experimental kidney cancer drug, said it will cut about
140 jobs in a restructuring to save $190 million in the next two
years.  The job reductions are about 62 percent of Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Aveo’s workforce, the company said today in
a statement. Elan Ezickson, the company’s chief operating
officer, will leave Aveo at the end of July, and Michael Bailey,
previously chief commercial officer, will become chief business
officer reporting to Chief Executive Tuan Ha-Ngoc.  Panelists advising the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
questioned whether Aveo’s drug, tivozanib, is as effective as
existing treatments for renal cell carcinoma, voting 13-1 on May
2 that Aveo hadn’t demonstrated that the medicine’s benefits
outweigh its risks. The company is developing the drug in a
partnership with Tokyo-based  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)   “We believe that it is likely that tivozanib will not
receive FDA approval for renal cell carcinoma,” William J. Slichenmyer, Aveo’s chief medical officer, said in the
statement. “With the decision of our partner, Astellas, not to
proceed with a European filing for tivozanib or financially
support future clinical trials in RCC, Aveo has no plans at this
time to pursue tivozanib development in RCC.”  Aveo finished the first quarter with $192 million in  cash 
and equivalents and said it has sufficient funds for at least
two years. It will focus on tivozanib in breast and  colon cancer 
as well as earlier-stage compounds.  Aveo gained 6 cents to $2.55 in extended trading at 4:50
p.m.  New York  time. Earlier, the shares fell 2.4 percent to
$2.49 at the close in New York and have declined 69 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  