-- Avoid Fixed-Income Relative Value, Marathon’s Richards Says
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-06-04T18:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/avoid-relative-value-credit-funds-as-rates-rise-richards-says.html
Investors should avoid relative-value
fixed-income funds for the next two years as the  Federal Reserve 
starts scaling back unprecedented stimulus efforts that helped
push borrowing costs to historic lows, according to Marathon
Asset Management LP’s  Bruce Richards .  “Don’t invest if you’re an investor in any relative value
fixed-income funds unless you want to lose money in the next
year or two,” Richards, Marathon’s co-founder and chief
executive officer, said today at the  Bloomberg Link  Hedge Funds
Summit in New York. “Eight out of 10 of those guys will lose
your money, and one out of those eight will blow up.”  Since 2008, the Fed’s policies have pushed investors to
seek riskier assets through stimulus efforts that added more
than $2.5 trillion to the financial system. Investor speculation
about when the central bank will reduce the pace of bond
purchases sent the  yield  on 10-year Treasury bonds, a benchmark
for the fixed-income market, to 2.165 percent on May 28, the
highest since it closed at 2.18 percent on April 5, 2012. The
yield was 2.14 percent today.  “Whatever duration risk you have in your portfolio, you
hedge out these next couple of years because of rate volatility
you’re likely to see,” Richards said, forecasting the yield on
the 10-year won’t exceed 2.5 percent this year. “You have to be
ginger in how you invest in these markets.”  Investors should “be careful with certain highly
leveraged, fixed-income relative-value strategies,” he said in
a telephone interview. “Interest-rate sensitive assets,” from
local currency carry trades, leveraged fixed-income exchange-traded funds, mutual funds, and financial real-estate investment
trusts “have been hit pretty hard with prices down 10 to 30
percent for certain segments and strategies in the past month
given the rate move and degree of leverage.”  These strategies are risky if Treasury yields move
“substantially higher and if they move abruptly,” he said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  