-- Bain’s Edcon Loss Widens as Changes Disrupt Clothes Sales
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-06-04T15:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/bain-s-edcon-posts-wider-loss-as-changes-disrupt-clothes-sales.html
Edcon Holdings Pty Ltd., a South
African clothing retailer owned by  Bain Capital  Partners LLC,
posted a wider annual loss as changes in stores and management
disrupted sales.  Same-store retail sales growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the
year through March, from 7.4 percent a year earlier, the
Johannesburg-based company said in a statement today. Edcon’s
net loss widened to 5.03 billion rand ($513 million), from 2
billion rand a year earlier.  “We have done extensive changes in more than 120 stores --
it’s been disruptive with some stores looking like construction
sites,” Chief Executive Officer Jurgen Schreiber said in a
telephone interview from Johannesburg today. “We are already
seeing the positive effects of these changes in the  discount
stores  and expect the Edgars stores trading results to show
improvement from September and October.”  The yield on Edcon’s euro-denominated bond due March 2018
rose for a fifth day, climbing 105 basis points, or 1.05
percentage point, to 10.47 percent by 5:10 p.m. in Johannesburg,
the biggest increase since Aug. 11, 2011.  The weaker rand will result in higher clothing selling
prices in the current fiscal year and may weigh on consumer
demand, Schreiber said. South African retailers have reported
weaker sales growth this year as rising unemployment and
inflation put the brakes on  consumer spending .  Retail Space  Bain Capital, based in  Boston , bought Edcon for 25 billion
rand in May 2007 to tap into rising economic growth in  Africa ’s
largest economy.  Edcon, which owns chains including Edgars, Jet, CNA,
Boardmans and Red Square, expects trading space to grow between
5 and 6 percent in the year through March 2014, Schreiber said.
The company had 1,233 outlets at the end of the reporting
period, with the average retail space rising 3.4 percent.  Edcon said revenue generated in Africa outside its domestic
market contributed 7.1 percent of retail sales in the quarter.
The company, which also has stores in Botswana, Namibia,
Swaziland, Lesotho, Mozambique and  Zambia , plans to open 60 new
stores in Africa outside its home market in the next three
years, Schreiber said.  The rand slid 11 percent against the dollar last month,
tumbling to a four-year low on May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  