-- BASF Plans to Invest EU10 Billion in Asia-Pacific Region
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-06-04T10:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/basf-plans-to-invest-eu10-billion-in-asia-pacific-region.html
BASF SE (BAS)  plans to invest 10 billion
euros ($13 billion) in the Asia-Pacific region as it shifts
research and procurement to the world’s fastest growing chemical
market to help double profitability there.  The Asia-Pacific division, which saw margins deteriorate to
10 percent last year, has a “good chance” to reach the average
profitability of the group,  Martin Brudermueller , deputy chief
executive officer and head of the region, said today at a press
conference in  Hong Kong . On a group level, BASF aims to lift
margins to 20 percent by the end of the decade from a current 14
percent.  The world’s largest chemical company will hire 9,000 people
and double sales to 25 billion euros in Asia-Pacific by 2020.
Competition in the region is intensifying and BASF is looking to
avoid developments in the agrochemical market, where it fell
behind peers expanding in  Asia .  “The competitive environment has become sharper and more
challenging than we had thought,” Brudermueller said today.
“We have to change and accelerate the change. We have to be
creative and take out costs.”  One-quarter of research and development will take place in
the region in an effort to shift the Ludwigshafen, Germany-based
company’s focus to a service provider from a chemical producer
and differentiate it more from local competitors, Brudermueller
said.  Chinese Pressure  Chinese chemical companies have become more competitive in
response to government pressure to raise standards and
innovation. That has led to an improvement in both the quality
and reliability of local competitors, the deputy CEO said.  BASF plans to raise the percentage of locally-made products
to about 75 percent from about 60 percent currently, it said.
About 1 billion euros in annual cost savings will come from
switching to local resources and technical know-how, the company
said. Transport costs will be reduced and plants will be built
more quickly, BASF said.  The maker of petrochemicals, plastics and pesticides aims
to grow 2 percentage points faster than chemical production in
the Asia-Pacific region, which is forecast to increase 6.2
percent a year, it said today.  BASF isn’t currently planning a third Asian Verbund site of
integrated production plants, Brudermueller said. The 10 billion
euros of investment, of which about 75 percent to 80 percent
will probably come from BASF and the rest from partners, will be
used to expand the current two existing complexes in Nanjing,
 China  and Kuantan,  Malaysia , as well as other projects.  While about half of the money earmarked for expansion will
be spent in China, the German company also plans to look at
investments in Mongolia, Laos, Myanmar and  Cambodia , markets
that have been untapped as yet, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  