-- Beheadings by Syrian Rebels Add to Atrocities, UN Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-06-04T17:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/beheadings-by-syrian-rebels-add-to-atrocities-un-says.html
Syrian opposition forces recruited a
14-year-old boy from Homs as a fighter and had a child take part
in beheading two government soldiers, according to a  United
Nations  report citing human-rights abuses by both sides in
 Syria ’s civil war.  A conflict that began with anti-government protests amid
widespread Arab revolts two years ago has mutated into a life-or-death battle pitting an Alawite-led minority, clinging to
power with help from the Shiite Hezbollah militia, against
Sunni-led rebels that count al-Qaeda fighters among their ranks.  While abuses by the opposition haven’t reached “the
intensity and scale” of those committed by President Bashar al-Assad’s forces and affiliated militias, they are becoming
increasingly common and brutal, according to the report
presented today in Geneva to the UN Human Rights Council.  Mass executions are publicly carried out in locations such
as Daraa and Aleppo, where the rebels have established judicial
and administrative authority, the 29-page report said. The
number of extra-judicial killings and kidnappings by the
opposition has risen, and about 86 child soldiers have been
killed during combat, it said.  ‘Reasonable Grounds’  The UN commission, led by Brazilian diplomat Paulo Pinheiro, said that while there were “reasonable grounds” to
believe chemical weapons had been used in Syria, the 20-person
team of investigators couldn’t confirm it.  France ’s Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said today that
tests had detected the presence of sarin in samples sent from
Syria and that his country was “certain” the gas had been used
in Syria on “several occasions and in a localized manner.”  With Assad barring access to Syria by outsiders, the UN
report was based on 430 interviews with victims and firsthand
witnesses to atrocities. It offers a glimpse into the country’s
descent into chaos. It was produced by a four-member commission
investigating  war crimes  in Syria.  The report drew attention to video footage, submitted by
the Russian mission to the UN in Geneva, showing the
decapitation of two regime soldiers, with a child responsible
for one beheading. “Following investigation, it is believed
that the video is authentic and the men were soldiers, killed as
depicted,” the UN panel said.  Mass Killings  The findings cover a four-month period ending May 15 and
say that 17 potential massacres took place during that time.
Government-affiliated militia, known as Shabiha, are linked in
the report to the mass killing of dozens of women and children
in the Sunni coastal village of al-Bayda. In the eastern
province of Deir al-Zor, the report says, armed anti-Assad
groups executed 11 men who were bound and blindfolded.  Pro-Assad forces are guilty of sexual violence during house
searches, at checkpoints and in detention centers, and torture
of detainees is endemic, the report found. Since late January,
more than 200 bodies have been found in Aleppo’s “river of
martyrs,” as the Queiq River has become known.  The opposition is comprised of multiple anti-government
factions, from exiled dissidents to armed militants, which have
struggled to form a  united front . As political leaders are
negotiating efforts to assemble a broad opposition coalition to
gain international support and legitimacy, factions fighting on
the front lines are increasingly focusing on battlefield gains
at any cost.  Radical Groups  The continuing violence has allowed radical groups,
particularly the al-Qaeda linked Islamist militia Jabhat al-Nusra, to become more influential in day-to-day combat, the
report said.  As reports alleging use of nerve gas multiply -- with at
least six possible incidents reported to the UN so far -- the
human-rights panel said it “is possible that anti-government
armed groups may access and use chemical weapons.” Each side in
the conflict has accused the other of chemical attacks and
denied its own involvement.  The report played down comments last month by Carla Del Ponte, a member of the independent UN panel, who said there were
signs that rebels, and not just government forces, had released
nerve agents in combat.  “There is no compelling evidence that these groups possess
such weapons or their requisite delivery systems,” the report
said.  A separate UN team of scientists has been set up to
investigate chemical warfare allegations. So far, the
inspectors, led by Swedish scientist Ake Sellstrom, haven’t been
allowed to enter Syria to get a first-hand look at evidence and
construct a chain of custody.  President  Barack Obama  has said Syrian government use of
chemical weapons would cross a “red line,” though the U.S.
lacks conclusive evidence that it has happened. Obama hasn’t
said what the U.S. will do if chemical weapons use is confirmed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  