-- Billabong Loses Half of Market Value as Takeover Talks End
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-06-04T07:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/billabong-takeover-talks-end-as-it-turns-to-refinancing-plans.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the 40-year-old Australian surfwear company that has breached debt-payment terms, lost about half of its stock market value after
takeover talks with two suitors ended.  Sycamore Partners Management and Altamont Capital Partners,
which had been in separate talks to buy Billabong, are now in
refinancing and asset-sale discussions with the  Gold Coast ,
Australia-based retailer, it said in a statement today.  Billabong, whose  market value  reached A$3.84 billion ($3.74
billion) in May 2007,  fell  49 percent in Sydney trading. After
raising capital, selling assets and rejecting at least two
takeover bids in less than two years, the retailer today cut its
earnings forecast again and said it may sell Canadian retail
chain West 49 to repay debt.  “Raising  capital  is going to be difficult,” Nick Berry,
an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by phone from Sydney.
“The fact that they are flagging asset sales shows the
difficulty they are under.”  Billabong fell to as low as 19 cents and  traded  down 49
percent at 23 cents at the close, cutting its capitalization to
A$110.2 million. Exclusive talks over a 60 cents-a-share offer
from a group including Sycamore and Paul Naude, the company’s
Americas director, ended May 8. The company had entered separate
takeover discussions with Altamont in January.  Michael Freitag , a New-York-based spokesman for Sycamore
who works for Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher, couldn’t
be reached by phone for comment after office hours. Aman
Battish, an external spokesman for Altamont in the U.S. at
Brunswick Group, didn’t immediately return a call and email
seeking comment.  Board Shorts  Billabong was founded by Gordon Merchant in 1973 when he
started cutting board shorts in his kitchen and selling them to
Gold Coast surf shops, according to the company’s website. As
the sport gained popularity, Billabong’s sales and earnings
soared. Its fortunes turned as major stores introduced their own
surf brands and the financial crisis cut  consumer spending .  Billabong and Merchant, still the largest shareholder,
rebuffed a takeover approach from TPG Capital worth almost A$842
million last year. TPG and another bidder later made lower
offers but walked away after viewing Billabong’s accounts.  There’s no guarantee the refinancing talks will succeed and
the company said it will “aggressively” cut costs across the
group while the discussions continue.  “The refinancing is intended to provide the company with a
comprehensive solution and an appropriate  capital structure ,”
said Billabong Chairman Ian Pollard. “It’s our intention to
conclude these discussions as soon as practically possible.”  Debt Terms  Billabong said in February the company will post 80 percent
of its assets and 85 percent of its earnings as security to its
lenders after writedowns put it in breach of terms on its debt.  A strong Australian dollar that cuts the value of overseas
sales and slowing consumer spending at home have combined to
depress Billabong revenue. The company has shut stores, fired
employees, and breached terms on its debt as local sales and a
weak European economy weighed on earnings.  “It was a great company that didn’t realize how fast it
had to diversify,” Evan Lucas, a markets strategist at IG
Markets Ltd., a provider of trading services in  Melbourne , said
by phone. “They are going to really have to shed off  assets 
irrespective of the price they are going to get.”  ‘Limb from Limb’  If Billabong’s “ debt  shifts well ahead of asset value, it
might not have the chance to reinvent itself,” Lucas said in an
e-mailed statement. “In this situation, the banks will have no
hesitation in ripping Billabong limb from limb as the banks
collect on its debt.”  The string of takeover approaches have been “very
disruptive,” Billabong Chief Executive Officer Launa Inman said
April 10. Even before today, the company had cut profit
forecasts at least 10 times since the year ended June 2008,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Billabong’s market capitalization today is less than half
the value of the goods left on the company’s shelves. The
retailer valued its inventory of clothes and accessories at
A$289 million on Dec. 31, according to the company’s most recent
balance sheet.  Competition  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization for the 12 months ending June 30 will now range
from A$67 million to A$74 million after Australian trading
missed expectations and  Europe  remained “weak,” the company
said today. That compared with a previous forecast of A$74
million to A$81 million.  As at the end of December 2012, net debt was A$152.2
million, down A$8.7 million from June 2012, the company said in
its half year results filed Feb. 22.  In the U.S., Billabong is facing competition from
 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) ’s Hollister. Abercrombie opened the
first Hollister store in  Ohio  in 2000, as a “West Coast
oriented lifestyle brand targeted at high school age guys and
girls,” according to a company press release.  Hollister’s rise over the past decade shows that the
authenticity touted by traditional surf-wear labels isn’t valued
as much by their customers, Phil Jarratt, author of Salts and
Suits, a history of the local surfwear industry, said in a phone
interview last October.  Abercrombie’s most recent annual sales of $4.51 billion are
more than three times the A$1.29 billion Billabong recorded
during 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  