-- Bill Gates Joins $35 Million Funding in Startup ResearchGate
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-06-04T19:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/bill-gates-joins-35-million-investment-in-startup-researchgate.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder Bill Gates, the world’s richest person, is helping lead a $35 million
investment in ResearchGate, a networking website for scientists.  Gates is joining Tenaya Capital in leading the round, which
also includes Dragoneer Investment Group LLC, Thrive Capital,
Benchmark and Founders Fund, ResearchGate said today in a
statement. The Berlin-based  startup , founded in 2008, has almost
3 million members.  ResearchGate Chief Executive Officer and co-founder Ijad
Madisch said he met Gates in  France  recently, after being
introduced to a representative by Benchmark’s Matt Cohler. Gates
has given away more than $28 billion of his fortune, mostly to
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which funds programs to
lift people out of poverty and invests in vaccines designed to
eliminate infectious diseases around the globe.  “I was always dreaming of a potential investment from him
because I admire what he has done, what he has built and
switching his attention to eradicating disease,” Madisch said
in an interview. “What he’s trying to do is perfectly aligned
with what we’re doing.”  Gates wasn’t available for comment, according to John Pinette, a spokesman.  While ResearchGate is a business that seeks to make money,
the site is bringing together scientists, including many focused
on the same issues as the Gates Foundation, Madisch said.  Researcher Network  Scientists and researchers use ResearchGate to publish
studies, work collaboratively and recruit talent. The new
funding will be used to spur development of the company’s
products for sharing and searching for scientific data,
according to the statement.  Madisch said the money also will go toward expanding the
 sales staff  and working on revenue-generating products, such as
recruiting tools and creating a marketplace for scientific
equipment. The company has about 105 employees, he said.  ResearchGate last  raised  money in February 2012, in a
financing round led by Peter Thiel’s Founders Fund. ResearchGate
hasn’t disclosed the total amount of money that it’s raised to
date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  