-- Billionaire Rinehart Builds Railways as Iron Ore Plunges
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-06-05T06:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/billionaire-rinehart-builds-rails-as-iron-ore-plunges-freight.html
Gina Rinehart , Asia’s richest woman,
built her fortune by heeding her own counsel. Now she’s testing
that acumen by building her own  iron ore  railroad in Australia’s
remote north -- just as prices enter a  bear market .  Samsung C&T Corp. (000830) , South Korea’s second-largest builder,
has started initial work after winning a A$5.6 billion ($5.4
billion) contract in March to build the railroad, plant and port
for Rinehart’s Roy Hill mine. The 340-kilometer (211-mile) line
to Port Hedland, the world’s biggest bulk terminal, will run
parallel to two other rail networks and one planned route.  While Rinehart could cut costs by sharing infrastructure
with competitors, according to UBS AG, she’s proceeding with her
own railroad after passing on a potential investment accord with
one of them: rival iron ore mining billionaire  Andrew Forrest .
The 59-year-old heiress, the world’s 35th-richest person, is
seeking funding for her project, including the line, as costs
peak and  prices drop  amid forecasts of a global supply glut.  “She’s taking on a lot of risk in terms of market outlook
and the amount of capital that she’d going to need to build
it,”  Tom Price , a Sydney-based commodity analyst at UBS, said
by phone. “It just seems like a very expensive path.”  Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting Pty, which owns 70 percent
of the A$10 billion Roy Hill project, plans to ship 55 million
metric tons annually starting in 2015. Her venture partners
include  Posco (005490) , Asia’s third-biggest steelmaker by output, and
Japan’s  Marubeni Corp. (8002)   Bear Plunge  Iron ore has plunged 27 percent since Feb. 20, when it
reached a 16-month high of $158.90, meeting the common
definition of a bear market. The world’s biggest iron-ore
producers are planning $250 billion of new mines, threatening to
deepen a price slump for the commodity already forecast to drop
for at least the next three years.  China, the biggest iron ore importer, won’t carry out a
significant stimulus policy under the new government, Baosteel
Group Corp.’s Chairman  Xu Lejiang  said yesterday in  Shanghai .
Global iron ore supply, driven by capacity expansions, will
outpace future steel demand in China, which has seen annual
steel output growth drop to less than 5 percent from 20 percent
mid last decade, said Xu, who heads the nation’s third-largest
steelmaker by output.  Self-Sufficient  “Posco’s investment is obviously based on its long-term
drive to improve its raw-material self-sufficiency,” Bang Min Jin, a metals analyst with Seoul-based HI Investment &
Securities Co., said by phone. “In the short term, the
project’s profitability appears to be uncertain because of
concerns about a supply glut.”  Shin Soo Cheol, managing director at Posco Australia Pty,
wasn’t available for a comment.  Hancock had studied a proposal by Forrest’s  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , whose Christmas Creek mine is about 50
kilometers from Roy Hill, to sell stakes in its rails and ports.
The company concluded it would rather seek to control its own
assets, Barry Fitzgerald, chief executive officer of Hancock
unit Roy Hill Holdings Pty, said in a March interview in Perth.
It was also open to selling more equity stakes, he said.  “When the opportunity presented itself to evaluate the new
Fortescue option, the conclusion soon firmly reinforced the
benefits of the original Roy Hill business model,” Perth-based
Roy Hill said June 4 in an e-mailed statement. “The integrated
handling and control of the rail infrastructure ensures maximum
operations efficiency is secured, costs minimized and risks
managed.”  Assets Stake  A 49 percent stake in the assets of Fortescue may be worth
as much as $4 billion, according to a December estimate by CIMB
Securities (Australia) Ltd. Talks are progressing with other
groups and may end by the end of June, Fortescue said in April.  An earlier proposal by Fortescue to extend its line,
including a spur to Roy Hill, could have saved Rinehart more
than A$1 billion, Western Australia Today reported in September,
citing a source familiar with the proposal. Fortescue declined
to comment on any talks with Hancock Prospecting or Roy Hill.  “Collaboration in any form would be good and will be value
enhancing,” Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about A$1 billion
at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney, said by phone.
“I’m not optimistic that it’ll happen this time around.”  There’s little history of co-operation among iron ore
developers and producers in Australia’s vast Pilbara region.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, and  Rio Tinto
Group (RIO)  have guarded their networks from other users, arguing that
other companies would disrupt their operations. Perth-based
Fortescue unsuccessfully battled for nearly a decade to gain
access to their rail lines.  Rail Squeeze  To be sure, it would be too much of a “squeeze” for
Rinehart to use Fortescue’s line, so it makes sense for her to
build her own rail and seek out customers from rival producers,
Deutsche Bank AG analyst  Paul Young  said in an interview.  “Ultimately it’s critically important that you have
certainty of your ability of getting your product to port and
ship it,” Nigel Lake, co-chief executive officer of Sydney-based corporate advisory firm Pottinger, said by phone. “Hence,
controlling that supply chain is very attractive. More than
anything these projects are about logistics.”  Rinehart’s Roy Hill rail may cost about A$2.7 billion,
according to Sydney-based Deutsche Bank analyst Cameron McDonald,
based on the bank’s estimate for a similar 340-kilometer line
being studied by a group led by haulage company  Aurizon Holdings
Ltd. (AZJ)  According to LIG Investment & Securities Co., the rail
component of the Samsung contract may be worth about A$1.8
billion.  Initial Winner  Fortescue is spending $2.4 billion, according to the
company, constructing new and duplicating 250 kilometers of rail,
four bridges and two rail loops at the port to help expand
annual output to 155 million tons by the end of the year.  One initial winner is Samsung C&T, which has risen 4.5
percent in Seoul trading from a five-month low on April 26. The
contract will help boost sales by about 1 trillion won ($890
million) this year and about 2.5 trillion won a year over the
next two years, according to LIG Investment.  “Samsung C&T has been seeking to enter the mining sector
as it’s one of the company’s three priorities in the long
term,” Chae Sang Wook, a construction analyst at LIG Investment
who has Samsung C&T as his top sector pick, said by phone on May
15. “The order will help increase the company’s sales and
operating profit.”  “The Roy Hill project offers Samsung C&T a big opportunity
for growth,” the Seoul-based builder said in an e-mail.  Fourth Railroad  Rinehart would also benefit from partnering with Aurizon
and  Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO) , which is studying the fourth railroad,
according to a Macquarie Bank Ltd. report last year. Iron ore
producer Atlas had held talks with Hancock for an infrastructure
accord, the Australian newspaper reported last June, citing
Atlas Chairman  David Flanagan .  “There are ongoing talks with current and potential future
infrastructure providers,”  Paul Armstrong , an outside spokesman
for Perth-based Atlas, said by phone, declining to specify
whether the talks included Hancock.  The Roy Hill project is being assessed by institutions
against the long-term price of iron ore, Fitzgerald said in
March.  BHP Billiton  forecasts that steel demand in China will
keep rising until at least 2025.  Hancock is in talks with commercial banks and  export credit
agencies  to raise A$7 billion in debt to fund Roy Hill and met
with export credit agencies in December. It plans to reach a
“debt milestone” by mid-2013 and then complete funding at the
end of the year, Fitzgerald said in March.  “Which risk is worse -- to be beholden to someone else or
to the market?”, said UBS’s Price.  “For big personalities in
this industry, they always seem to go for the market option.” 