-- BlackRock Group Chose BofA Accord Over Countrywide Risk
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-06-04T22:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/blackrock-group-chose-bofa-accord-over-countrywide-risk.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and other investors
agreed to an $8.5 billion settlement with  Bank of America Corp. 
over  mortgage loans  rather than risk litigation and the
bankruptcy of its Countrywide Financial unit, a lawyer for the
investors said.  The accord came after the investors were told by Bank of
America that it had clearance from a federal banking regulator
to put Countrywide, which was facing investor claims over
defective loans, into bankruptcy,  Kathy Patrick , an attorney for
the investor group, said in court today.  “This was the concrete choice: $8.5 billion in hand or a
coin flip,” on litigation against Bank of America, she said.
“It would have been imprudent, it would have been unreasonable
in the extreme, to subject certificate holders to that risk.”  The BlackRock group, which also includes Pacific Investment
Management Co. and  MetLife Inc. (MET) , is asking Justice Barbara Kapnick of  New York  State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  to approve
the settlement, which was reached in June 2011. The hearing on
approval started yesterday.  The agreement would resolve claims from mortgage-bond
investors over Countrywide loans that were packaged into
securities. It is opposed by an investor group led by  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)   ‘Pennies’ Deal  Daniel Reilly, an attorney for the insurer at Reilly Pozner
LLP, told Kapnick today that there was no investigation into the
strength of investor claims against Bank of America and
Countrywide. The settlement amount, which he called a “pennies
on the dollar” deal, doesn’t adequately compensate investor
losses.  “This number is unacceptable,” he said. “It is a number
Bank of America picked out of the air that it is willing to
pay.”  The BlackRock group and Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the
trustee seeking approval of the settlement, say the $8.5 billion
is more than what Countrywide alone could afford to pay. If
investors sued Bank of America, they would have to overcome the
bank’s defense that it isn’t liable for Countrywide’s conduct,
proponents say.  Patrick, of the law firm Gibbs & Bruns LLP, said that Bank
of America Chief Risk Officer Terrence Laughlin told investors
that the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender had clearance
from the federal Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to
put Countrywide into bankruptcy “if that’s what was necessary
to protect Bank of America.”  Investors faced litigation and “years of uncertainty, at
the end of which Bank of America could bankrupt Countrywide,”
she said.  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York State Supreme Court
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 