-- BlackRock Warning, Canadadian Wireless Fees: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-04T12:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/blackrock-warning-canadadian-wireless-fees-compliance.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, warned against over-regulation of market indexes
in the wake of the London interbank offered rate-rigging
scandal.  Most indexes are based on transaction data and would be
burdened by extra costs if they are subjected to regulation,
BlackRock managing directors Richard Prager and Stephen Fisher
said in a  response  to proposals from the  International
Organization of Securities Commissions  on reforming global
benchmarks.  Prager and Fisher made the statements in a letter dated May
16 and released yesterday by Iosco.  “The cost would ultimately be passed onto the end
investor, undermining the core benefits of low-cost passive
funds, whilst presenting barriers to entry for new market
participants,” they wrote.  Global regulators are working on alternatives to Libor
after U.S. and U.K. officials uncovered attempts by banks to
manipulate the benchmark rate.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have been fined a total of about $2.5
billion and at least a dozen firms remain under investigation.  Iosco received more than 40 responses to the  consultation ,
which was led by U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman Gary Gensler and U.K. Financial Conduct Authority Chief
Executive Officer Martin Wheatley. Madrid-based Iosco, which
brings together markets regulators for more than 100 nations to
coordinate their rule-making, will publish final standards later
this year.  Iosco responded to the interbank-rate scandal last year by
announcing the task force, which is reviewing benchmarks across
different financial sectors.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Short-Selling Curbs Made Markets More Stable, Regulator Says  European Union curbs on short selling and naked credit-default swaps made financial markets more stable without
increasing government borrowing costs, according to a report by
the bloc’s top securities regulator.  The rules, introduced last November, triggered “no
compelling impact” on the liquidity of EU government bond
markets, the European Securities and Markets Authority said in
an e-mailed statement. Still, the EU should make some technical
changes to the law to clarify the rules for trading credit-default swaps linked to sovereign debt, the Paris-based ESMA
said.  Lawmakers approved the curbs in 2011 in a bid to make
markets less volatile and tame speculation by traders who they
blamed for driving up governments’ borrowing costs. The rules
included a ban on investors’ buying and selling credit-default
swaps on sovereign debt unless they have a clear financial stake
in whether the government defaults. Nations can opt out if they
are concerned about raised borrowing costs.  The U.K. is seeking to overturn the law at the European
Court of Justice, claiming that powers handed to ESMA by the
legislation are in breach of the bloc’s treaties. The law gives
ESMA the power to introduce pan-EU short-selling bans.  Separately, banks in Europe will have to detail their
activity by country as part of new transparency measures  France 
wants, French Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici said in an
interview with France Info radio.  The scope of disclosure remains to be defined, Moscovici
said.  Canada Watchdog Limits Cancellation Fees to Protect Consumer  Canada’s wireless regulator issued a code of conduct for
the country’s carriers that will allow users to terminate
contracts after two years without cancellation fees and limit
extra data and roaming charges.  The  guidelines  released yesterday by the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission will go into effect
for new contracts on Dec. 2, the agency said in a statement.  Jean-Pierre Blais, chairman of the CRTC, who foresees “a
more dynamic marketplace,” is reacting to Canadian consumer
demands for more clarity on mobile-phone bills and relief from
three-year contracts the three largest providers typically
insist on. In the U.S., most contracts last two years and  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  recently introduced a plan that allows customers
to pay for smartphones over time but not be committed to two
years of monthly service fees.  In addition to the contract-length and other changes,
wireless operators won’t be able to charge cancellation fees
that exceed the “device subsidy” for users who end contracts
before two years.  EU Seeks Role in Bank Shutdowns That Goes Against German Plan  The European Commission is seeking to give itself the power
to shut down failing euro-area banks as part of a draft crisis
blueprint that defies German calls for a more decentralized
approach.  The Brussels-based authority is set to propose that
decisions to force losses on crisis-hit lenders’ creditors, as
well as other steps to prevent a disorderly collapse, should be
taken largely out of national hands, according to a document
obtained by Bloomberg News. While the system would include a
“newly-created central resolution body,” final decisions would
be taken by the commission itself.  The move puts the commission at odds with  Germany (GDBR10) , which
seeks a centralized approach to bank resolution in the euro
area. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has warned that
a strong single authority couldn’t be set up under the EU’s
current treaties, and that the euro area should opt in the first
instance for a networked approach that is reliant on national
regulators.  Both the European Central Bank and the commission have,
instead, urged rapid progress toward a centralized system in a
bid to bolster confidence in the bloc’s banks, and break the
financial link between lenders and sovereigns.  Under the commission’s  draft blueprint , to be discussed by
the institution’s 27-member college tomorrow, an executive board
at the central resolution agency would prepare draft decisions
for the commission. It would also be able to initiate some
measures itself, such as authorizing on-site inspections of
banks.  Courts  Rengan Rajaratnam Had Plea Talks With U.S. Over Charges  Rengan Rajaratnam, younger brother of imprisoned hedge-fund
founder  Raj Rajaratnam , has been in plea to resolve his criminal
insider-trading prosecution, the U.S. said.  Rajaratnam was indicted in March and accused of conspiring
with his brother to trade on material nonpublic information
about  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  The U.S.
charged him with one count of conspiracy to commit securities
fraud and six counts of securities fraud. Conspiracy carries a
maximum five-year prison sentence, fraud a 20-year maximum.  At his arraignment on March 25 in  Manhattan , Rajaratnam
pleaded not guilty.  In a May 30 letter, Assistant U.S. Attorney David Massey
asked the judge for a delay in the case, which was granted
yesterday. Massey said that after Rajaratnam was arraigned, the
U.S. Attorney’s Office provided evidence compiled by the
government, including wiretap transcripts, summaries and trading
records to his defense lawyers, “in order to facilitate plea
discussions with the defense.”  Vinoo Varghese, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, said last week
that a scheduled June 4 hearing probably will be delayed in
order for the defense to review the evidence. Varghese yesterday
declined in an e-mail to comment about plea negotiations.  Raj Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison sentence after
being convicted in 2011 on 14 counts of conspiracy and
securities fraud.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 13-cr-00211, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); the
civil case is SEC v. Rajaratnam, 13-cv-01894, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Porsche CFO Haerter Convicted Over Loan in Failed VW Bid  Former Porsche SE Chief Financial Officer Holger Haerter
was fined 630,000 euros ($824,000) by a German court for credit
fraud in a criminal case over the refinancing of a 10 billion-euro loan during a failed bid to buy  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in 2009.  Haerter downplayed Porsche’s liquidity needs and failed to
disclose the correct number of put options on VW shares Porsche
held during negotiations with  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  about the lender’s
500 million-euro share of the syndicated loan, Presiding Judge
Roderich Martis said as he delivered the verdict of the
Stuttgart Regional Court.  Today’s case is the first criminal verdict in a string of
proceedings related to the takeover bid in which Porsche was
using an options strategy. Stuttgart-based Porsche is also
facing civil suits seeking a total of about 5.5 billion euros in
 Germany , and prosecutors have extended their market-manipulation
probe to cover the 2008 members of Porsche’s supervisory board.  “Many things said were wrong -- we will appeal,” Haerter
said after his conviction. “We are sure we will win.”  In a separate indictment in December, prosecutors charged
Haerter and former Chief Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking
over the use of VW options in the bid. It’s not yet been decided
whether that case, in which both have denied wrongdoing, should
go to trial.  Porsche spokesman  Albrecht Bamler  declined to comment.  Total CEO Denies Bribes Were Paid on Iranian Gas Contracts  Total SA (FP)  Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie,
who may be put on trial in France for corruption related to
Iranian contracts, denied the company paid bribes for the gas
permits.  “What we did wasn’t illegal according to French law,” de
Margerie said on LCI television June 2. “We didn’t pay bribes,
we didn’t pay Iranian authorities. Our contracts weren’t
illegal.”  The Paris prosecutor recommended last week that the company
and its CEO, along with two other people, face trial on
corruption charges. An investigating magistrate will decide
whether a trial will be held.  Total agreed last week to pay $398 million to settle U.S.
allegations it made illegal payments to an Iranian official for
oil-and-gas contracts that date from the mid-1990s.  Total is barred from commenting on the U.S. settlement, de
Margerie said June 2 in his first public comments since last
week’s announcements. Total is “more free” to talk about the
French case, he said.  “What we did was legal,” he said. “There were no
commissions. There were no kickbacks.”  Total, Europe’s third-largest oil company, was charged in
federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia , last week with three
counts of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as part of
a deferred-prosecution agreement. The company also resolved
related allegations with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in an administrative case.  A trial on the Iran orders would be the second one for de
Margerie related to business in the Middle East. A ruling on the
other case, relating to the United Nations oil-for-food relief
program for  Iraq , has not yet been made.  Interviews  Davies Says U.S. Risks Dismantling Global Banking  Howard Davies, a former chairman of the Financial Services
Authority in the U.K., said a proposal that would require added
capital for foreign banks operating in the U.S. would slow bank
lending. Davies talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and Michael
McKee on Bloomberg Radio’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  For the audio, click here.  EU Weighing Crowd-Financing Rules to Protect Users, Barnier Says  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
chief, said that the bloc is considering proposing rules to spur
the development of crowd financing, while protecting
entrepreneurs and companies.  He made the remarks at a conference in Brussels yesterday.  Crowd-financings services manage Internet sites that allow
entrepreneurs to appeal for funding for specific projects, and
so to raise financing from a large number of individual
contributors.  Levitt Says Withdrawals from SAC Fund Understandable  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, said investigators’ focus on SAC Capital
Management “has got to impact performance as well as morale”
at the hedge fund. Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Tom Keene and
Michael McKee on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  Bank of  Israel  Proposes Tighter Rules on Bank Managers’ Salaries  The Bank of Israel proposed tighter rules on bank managers’
salaries, according to an e-mail released by the central bank
yesterday.  The draft rules propose that commercial bank executive
bonuses be linked to company performance. The rules would also
have banks’ salary committees set in advance a maximum ratio
between fixed and variable salary.  Israeli banks have high salaries and low efficiency
compared to banks worldwide, the supervisor of banks said the
statement.  SEC Chairman White Appoints Robert E. Rice as Chief Counsel  Robert E. Rice was appointed as chief counsel at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC Chairman Mary Jo White
said in an in e-mailed statement yesterday.  In the role of chief counsel, Rice, 57, will provide legal
and policy advice to White as well as counsel the agency “on a
wide variety of regulatory matters,” according to a statement
on the SEC’s website.  Rice, a former federal prosecutor, was head of governance,
litigation and regulation for the Americas at Deutsche Bank in
N.Y.  German Energy Watchdog Starts Staffing Insider Trading Unit  Germany’s power and natural-gas grid regulator has
appointed more than half the employees it’s seeking for a new
unit to combat potential market manipulation in the region’s
biggest energy market.  Bundesnetzagentur, based in Bonn, plans to have about 30
people enforcing the European Union’s regulation on wholesale
energy market integrity and transparency, known as Remit,
according to Jochen Homann, who heads the agency. The watchdog
already has 17 people working on the project to collect and
check information from power and gas traders active in Germany
starting in the middle of 2014.  Homann described the project as “huge,” in an interview
at his office in Bonn.  Remit , which came into force in December 2011, is part of
the EU’s campaign to clamp down on insider trading and
manipulation in the region’s 900 billion-euro ($1.2 trillion)
power and gas markets. Regulators say the low level of
transparency comes at the expense of private and industrial
consumers who pay more to heat their homes or keep factories
running if prices are artificially high.  The European Commission raided the offices of major oil
production and trading companies last month, seeking information
on potential price fixing. In Germany, the Hamburg tax office
said May 30 it was probing possible cases of fraud in the power
and gas market.  For more, click here.  Dozens of CFPB Staffers Left Agency in Recently, Politico Says  Chief of Staff Garry Reeder, left the Consumer Finance
Protection Bureau May 20 to join a consulting firm founded by
former Deputy Director Raj Date, who departed in January,
Politico reported.  Chris Haspel, senior adviser on servicing and
securitization, and Mitch Hochberg, senior counsel on the rule-writing team, will also join Date’s firm. Of 13 regulations
lawyers who moved to CFPB from the Federal Reserve, 10 have
left. At least three returned to the Fed.  The CFPB workforce is 1,200, including 300 hires in 2013.  “We have consistently met our deadlines,” a CFPB
spokeswoman said, adding that staffing issues haven’t slowed
down the bureau, according to Politico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 