-- BlackRock ETFs Gain as Fixed-Income Liquidity Slides, Fink Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-06-04T15:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/blackrock-etfs-gain-as-fixed-income-liquidity-slides-fink-says.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, stands to benefit as banks shrink their market-making role in over-the-counter fixed-income trading, Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Fink  said.  Higher bid-ask spreads raise the cost of trading and thus
increase the appeal of BlackRock’s exchange-traded funds, said
Fink, speaking with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s co-CEO Anshu Jain on
stage at a conference in  New York  hosted by the German company.
BlackRock is the biggest provider of ETFs.  “We are seeing more and more plans now coming to BlackRock
and saying we can’t live with the trading costs of our fixed-income portfolio, we can’t live with the lack of liquidity we
have in our fixed-income portfolios and we can’t live with the
operational task of managing thousands of securities,” Fink
said. New York-based BlackRock has responded by converting those
holdings into tailored ETFs, he said.  In the wake of the financial crisis, global regulators
required banks to back a greater portion of their fixed-income
assets with equity to absorb losses. That change, and a U.S. law
that restricts proprietary trading, made those firms less
willing to hold debt securities as some bond trades became
slower and more expensive.  “I’m actually pretty calm about it; I think  Wall Street 
will continue to be there when it’s profitable for them,” Fink
said. “You will be there when it’s profitable for you, and if
it’s not profitable you’re going to pull back.”  Automated Trading  Fink, 60, said he expects more trading to be done over
 computer networks  and exchanges. BlackRock last year announced
plans to start a bond-trading system called the Aladdin Trading
Network. The effort failed to attract enough customers, and
BlackRock said in April that it would route trades instead
through  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) ’s electronic system.  Bid-ask spreads, the gap between what Wall Street banks
will pay to buy a bond and what they’ll sell it for, widen when
bonds are perceived to be riskier or harder to trade. Wider
spreads increase trading costs for an actively managed bond fund
and reduce investment returns.  Higher trading expenses will mean “a change for
everyone,” including BlackRock, Fink said. “We’re in a better
position for that through ETFs.”  The ETF business is already reshaping Wall Street, Fink
said.  “There’s a whole cottage industry of investment firms, and
we see many of them, they were nowhere a few years ago, some of
them eight to 12 billion dollars in assets, and all they do is
trade ETFs,” he said. “That is probably the fastest-growing
component of the investment-management business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 