-- BOE’s Sharp Says London Whale Shows Some Banks Too Big to Manage
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-04T13:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/boe-s-sharp-says-london-whale-shows-some-banks-too-big-to-manage.html
Richard Sharp, a member of the Bank
of England’s Financial Policy Committee, said the so-called
London Whale losses at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  illustrate the
financial-stability risks posed by firms “too big to manage.”  JPMorgan’s report on the losses is “very chilling” in
revealing how information “can get distorted” as it passes
through management layers, Sharp said in a parliamentary
testimony today in London.  Money laundering  in places such as
 Mexico  at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and rogue trading at  UBS AG (UBSN)  are
among other examples, he said.  “Risks aren’t understood where they need to be understood
within the organization,” Sharp said. “That obviously begs a
question how even the regulator can be on top of that if even
the organization itself can’t be on top of that risk?”  Sharp discussed the banks as he explained to lawmakers his
concerns on operational risks to financial stability. He was one
of three newly appointed FPC officials appearing in pre-appointment hearings before they take up their role on the panel
charged with using macroprudential tools to address broad
threats to the financial system.  When asked about his concerns on governance at banks, he
said non-executive members of banks’ risk committees may lack
the ability to assess large pools of financial instruments. The
FPC’s next meeting is on June 18 and the semi-annual Financial
Stability Report will be published June 26.  “I worry that the auditors are ill-equipped,” Sharp said.
“The JPMorgan experience indicates that even the executives
were ill-equipped to see what was in a multi-trillion dollar
portfolio.”  Leverage Ratio  Sharp, who used to work at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said
risks posed by these large financial institutions support the
case for officials to be given a tool to adjust banks’ leverage
ratios, a measure of their debt to equity level.  “The simplicity of leverage is one of the most important
tools” when firms are conducting “highly complex”
transactions, Sharp said. “Simple leverage and capital
protection needs to be in place to protect the nations within
which they operate, the taxpayers of those nations, and the
interests of the shareholders.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said in March
that the biggest banks had an average leverage ratio of 3.8
percent versus a target of 3 percent ratio for banks’ equity to
debt. The measure is designed to be a backstop to  capital
requirements , helping to contain excessive indebtedness.  Nomination  Sharp’s remarks followed lawmakers’ questioning of Clara Furse, former chief executive officer of the  London Stock
Exchange. (LSE)  Sharp said the FPC’s toolkit should include leverage
ratios, though he agreed with Furse that it’s not “absolutely
required now.”  Furse argued that leverage wasn’t now an “urgent
requirement” for the FPC. She drew fire from lawmaker Jesse
Norman, who said her views meant he “will be thinking very
seriously about whether I can possibly support this
nomination.”  Martin Taylor , a member of the Independent Commission on
Banking and a former adviser at Goldman, said during his
testimony that the FPC’s “frighteningly wide field of focus”
gave it scope to make recommendations on leverage.  “We may be able to be influential on leverage without
possessing the formal tool,” he said. “I do agree that the
best thing is to have tools which one doesn’t need to use
because one has them.”  Taylor will “urge the Treasury to be sterner” about gross
leverage in the financial system, he said, adding that he agreed
with Sharp that a subdued banking industry may be more amenable
to the imposition of constraints.  “The time to do this is when balance sheets are relatively
restrained,” he said. “It’s easier to put a cap on when the
cap isn’t too tight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  