-- China Huaneng Markets Dollar Bonds as Yields Jump to July High
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-06-04T07:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/bond-risk-decreases-in-asia-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
China Huaneng Group Corp. is
marketing U.S. dollar-denominated bonds after borrowing costs
for companies in Asia outside of Japan climbed to the highest in
almost 11 months.  The state-owned power generator is offering five-year notes
at about 245 basis points more than Treasuries, a person
familiar with the matter said today.  China Longyuan Power Group
Corp. (916)  and  Hilong Holding Ltd. (1623)  may also sell dollar bonds. The
 average yield  on debt by issuers in the region rose to 5.08
percent yesterday, a level unseen since July 12, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data.  Bond costs for Asian borrowers have increased as  yields  on
U.S. Treasuries trade near the highest in more than a year amid
speculation there is enough improvement in the world’s biggest
economy to allow the Federal Reserve to consider tapering
stimulus. A report this week may show U.S. employers boosted
payrolls in May at the fastest pace in three months, according
to economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “The recent rise in U.S. Treasury yields has Asian credit
markets on edge, with most investors content to stay on the
sidelines until we get some clarity on U.S. nonfarm payrolls,”
said Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at Credit
Agricole CIB.  Bond Pipeline  Hilong hired Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc to help
manage a possible offering, according to a  statement  to the
stock exchange today. The Shanghai-based company plans to use
the proceeds to repay bank debt, expand capacity at its coating
materials and oilfield services operations, and for general
corporate purposes, it said.  The maker of oilfield equipment will meet investors in Hong
Kong,  Singapore  and  London  starting tomorrow, a person familiar
with the matter said, asking not to be identified because the
details are private. Fitch Ratings assigned an expected BB score
to the company’s proposed bonds, two steps below investment
grade, according to an e-mailed statement today.  China Longyuan, the nation’s biggest wind-farm developer,
is planning to meet investors in Hong Kong and Singapore from
tomorrow, according to a separate person familiar with the
matter. The company may sell three-year dollar securities
through its unit Hero Asia Investment Ltd. after the meetings,
the person said, asking not to be identified because the terms
aren’t set.  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds against
non-payment fell in Asia, according to credit-default swap
traders.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  decreased 2 basis points to 120 basis
points as of 8:28 a.m. in Singapore, Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. prices show. The measure is set for its first
drop since May 28 and its lowest close since May 31, according
to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan declined 8 basis point to 92 as of
4:08 p.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The gauge, which
advanced last month for the first time since September, is set
for its first drop in five business days, according to CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index climbed 0.5 of a basis
point to 116.5 basis points as of 10:05 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac
Banking Corp. prices show. The benchmark has ranged from 96.1 to
127.5 this year, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. An increase signals deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness, while a drop suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  