-- BP’s Oil Spill Deal Sours as Claims Add Billions to Cost
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k ,   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   L a u r e l   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-06-05T16:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/bp-s-oil-spill-settlement-sours-as-claims-add-billions.html
BP Plc’s  $8 billion settlement with
victims of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico spill may have hurt Europe’s
second-largest oil company more than it helped.  The company is relying on a U.S. appeals court to rein in
awards by the settlement’s claims administrator for what it
considers to be unreasonable demands, such as a $21 million
payout to a rice mill 40 miles from the coast whose revenue rose
the year of the spill.  BP has protested in court filings that administrator
Patrick Juneau’s interpretation of last year’s settlement may
add billions to the $42 billion bill for the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history. BP has appealed U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier ’s order agreeing with Juneau’s interpretation of the
settlement.  BP contends that interpretation is wrong. More to the
point, the London-based company may have agreed to a flawed deal
as it rushed to move on after the accident, said  David Berg , a
Houston trial lawyer who often sues polluters on behalf of
municipalities. The level of compensation was never capped and
the settlement didn’t require proof that losses were caused by
the spill, he said.  “BP cut itself a bad deal,” Berg said in an e-mail. “It
is a stupid agreement leading to huge exposure, but it is BP’s
agreement.”  Under the terms of BP’s settlement, economic losses
suffered by businesses in the affected region are presumed to
have been caused by the oil spill if they meet a certain
numerical formula, regardless of other factors, said Berg, who
has closely followed the litigation and isn’t involved in it.  BP ‘Panic’  “BP hoisted itself” when its attorneys didn’t negotiate a
requirement that businesses prove their losses were caused by
the spill in order to get paid, Berg said. This may have been
caused by “panic within BP to get the agreement done and keep
the Justice Department at bay by showing good faith,” he said.  BP slipped 1.2 percent in London trading to close at 464
pence. The shares, up 9 percent this year, are still down about
25 percent since the spill three years ago.  BP said last year when it reached the settlement of most
economic and medical-injury claims by private parties that the
agreement would cost $7.8 billion.  In a U.S. regulatory filing in February, BP increased its
estimate of the settlement cost to $8.5 billion, based in large
part on Juneau’s decisions regarding the disputed claims. In
subsequent filings, the company simply said it could no longer
publicly predict how much the settlement will cost.  Awarding Claims  “At the time they settled, BP believed the process would
be equitable to both sides,” said  Jason Gammel , an analyst at
Macquarie Capital Europe Ltd. in London. “It’s played out in a
way that’s clearly awarding claims they would not have viewed as
being equitable.”  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans, which is
scheduled to hear BP’s appeal on July 8, is unlikely to reverse
Barbier’s decision, said  Anthony Sabino , a law professor at St.
John’s University in New York who specializes in complex
litigation.  “The Fifth Circuit likely will give this short shrift,”
he said in a phone interview, referring to the appeals court.  “A deal is a deal,” especially in the oil patch of the
U.S., which includes Louisiana, where both the trial and appeals
courts are located, Sabino said. “It’s not the job of federal
judges to save you from yourself.”  The  company  was aware that the settlement could lead to
claims being paid to plaintiffs who didn’t sustain losses or
couldn’t prove losses were connected to the spill, he said.  ‘False Positives’  “They knew about these so-called false positives,” Sabino
said. “They agreed that they wouldn’t have absolute discretion
or the last word on final payments.”  The appeals court will probably tell BP, “You knew they
were there and you took the settlement with its benefits and its
burdens,” he said.  The blowout of BP’s deep-water Macondo well off the coast
of Louisiana in April 2010 killed 11 people and sent more than 4
million barrels of oil spewing into the Gulf of Mexico. The
accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against  BP ,  Transocean
Ltd. , owner of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that burned
and sank, and  Halliburton Co. , which provided cement services
for the well.  BP contends in court papers that Juneau’s interpretation of
the settlement accord has resulted in the company paying
“baseless awards” that weren’t contemplated in the agreement,
according to a May 3 appellate filing.  BP Protesting  BP is protesting Barbier’s decision that allows businesses
to submit claims for losses based on their own accounting,
without requiring matching of revenues with expenses. This has
led to claims for damages unrelated to injuries sustained, BP
contends.  Under the settlement, the payments for claims are based on
a numerical formula, primarily depending on distance from the
spill, using sample periods before and after the event.
Businesses that claim losses don’t have to prove direct impact
or a link to it. They are assumed to have suffered because of
the spill’s general economic impact across the region, according
to court filings.  The ruling upholding Juneau’s “flawed interpretation of
the settlement agreement has effectively rewritten parts of that
agreement related to business economic loss claims,”  Geoff Morrell , a BP spokesman, said in a statement.  ‘Arbitrary’ Methodology  “The methodology being used to evaluate these claims is
arbitrary and irrational: it is not based on the terms of the
settlement and  disregards  basic accounting and economic
principles,” Morrell said. He said Juneau’s interpretation
“undermines the very basis on which the settlement was
approved, effectively putting the entire class settlement at
risk.”  The company and the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, or PSC,
“agreed to a settlement intended to fairly compensate those
affected by the spill and BP remains committed to doing just
that,” Morrell said. “It is preposterous for the PSC to
suggest that the issues presented in the Fifth Circuit appeal
are the result of nothing more than a ‘bad deal’ negotiated by
BP.”  “BP -- in a settlement agreement it co-authored -- itself
defined which losses were caused by the spill in agreeing to an
objective, transparent claims process,”  Steve Herman , co-lead
counsel for the plaintiffs, said today by e-mail. “Simply put,
BP guessed wrong on the cost and is now trying to wrest control
of the settlement from the independent, neutral claims
administrator in an effort to save money for its shareholders.”  ‘Cottage Industry’  BP said in court filings that a “large cottage industry”
has been created by trial lawyers offering to file spill-loss
claims for businesses that experienced no losses.  “There is no reason for a defendant in BP’s position to
enter into a settlement agreement that would provide windfall
compensation to thousands of businesses that could never have
hoped to recover a penny in litigation,”  Ted Olson , a lawyer
for BP, said in one filing.  The company said in a May 31 filing that it wants the court
to force the settlement administrator’s “accountants to engage
in accounting, using well-accepted definitions of the
agreement’s terms” rather than “accept the garbage in, garbage
out approach” pushed by the plaintiffs, which has resulted in
payment of bogus claims.  Seeking clients for claims, the  Perry Draper Law  firm in
Tampa, Florida, said in an advertisement: “In our experience,
about 80 percent of all businesses qualify for BP oil
compensation. If the numbers work, there is no need to provide
proof that BP caused your loss.”  Wide Eligibility  “Most businesses, even if they are located hundreds of
miles inland, are eligible to participate,” Thomas L. Young, a
lawyer also based in Tampa, said on his firm’s  website  that BP
attached to a court filing. BP “intentionally” agreed to this
payment formula, Young said. He encouraged regional businesses
not to feel they are taking money “out of a more deserving
party’s hands” by claiming a share of the oil spill payout
because BP’s settlement fund is uncapped.  This isn’t unusual in mass-tort litigation in the U.S.,
Sabino said. “Welcome to America, the land of the free and the
home of the opportunistic,” he said.  BP complained that it has had to pay $9.7 million to a
construction company in northern Alabama that does no business
in the Gulf region and whose profit rose in 2010. A digital
printing business in Alabama also received $3.7 million even as
its profit increased.  ‘Fictitious’ Losses  BP said the company was initially unaware it was paying
what it calls “fictitious” losses until the last quarter of
2012, when business-loss awards approved by Juneau “accelerated
dramatically,” according to the May 3 filing.  The volume of disputed claims increased further after BP
appealed Barbier’s decision upholding Juneau’s interpretation,
the company claimed in court filings. Juneau’s flawed process,
“rather than actual losses, is driving new claims,” company
lawyers said in court papers.  While BP’s lawyers contend the company didn’t contemplate
that it would have to pay claims for economic losses unconnected
to injuries, Barbier said that negotiations did take that into
consideration. In his ruling, the judge cited a letter from a
company executive to Juneau in September.  Such results are an “inevitable concomitant of an
objective, quantitative, data-based test,” Mark Holstein, an
in-house lawyer for BP, said in the letter, according to
Barbier.  Judge’s Ruling  “BP’s interpretation injects a subjective notion of
alternative causation and a degree of complexity that are
contrary to the settlement’s terms,” Barbier said in his March
5 ruling supporting Juneau’s actions.  BP is protesting a loss-calculation formula that it knew
about and accepted, victims’ lawyers have said in court papers.
Claimants are using comparable months to determine losses, as
provided for in the settlement, and counting revenue when they
receive it, the lawyers contend. BP says claimants should have
to match revenue with expenses and use comparable months to
avoid inflating losses.  Claimants can participate in the settlement if they are
part of the covered groups or in the geographic locations
specified in the agreement, victims’ lawyers said in an April 17
filing with the appeals court. Under the settlement, all
economic losses are “presumed to be caused by the spill,” they
said, citing language from the agreement.  ‘Buyer’s Remorse’  BP is experiencing “buyer’s remorse,” the lawyers said in
the filing. The company didn’t mention the issue while seeking
final approval of the settlement and is now legally barred from
raising it, they said. “The compensation framework, as applied
by the claims administrator, was touted by BP’s own experts as a
basis for the district court’s approval,” according to the
lawyers.  Halliburton had warned before the settlement was approved
that some claimants with no losses might be paid under the terms
of the agreement.  Halliburton said the settlement was flawed and filed an
objection that included the opinion of  Marc Vellrath , a
financial economist from Orinda, California.  “The economic damages settlement agreement does not
require rigorous demonstration of injury or examination of
causation for members of the proposed class,” Vellrath said in
the Aug. 31 filing.  Economic losses that could have been attributed to the
general financial condition of the Gulf region or lingering
effects of Hurricane Katrina wouldn’t be taken into
consideration in determining or off-setting payments, he said.  ‘Mechanical Formulas’  The agreement “reduces the calculation of payment amounts
to mechanical formulas based on patterns that may or may not
correspond to actual damages,” Vellrath said. Barbier didn’t
consider  Halliburton ’s objection when approving the settlement
in December because the cementing contractor wasn’t a party to
the agreement between BP and victims’ lawyers.  There may be limited recourse for BP with these claims,
said Sabino, the law professor. “BP’s best chance” is for the
Fifth Circuit to bounce the matter back to Barbier to review
whether the claims administrator may be using flawed data, he
said.  That would lead to a “case by case analysis” and wouldn’t
strike down the settlement or change the interpretation of its
terms, Sabino said. Barbier has already upheld Juneau’s
interpretation three times and further objections may receive
the same reception, he said.  Sabino’s advice to BP is to “Shut up, write the check.”  “Anything else is a waste of time,” he said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London
at   bswint@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 