-- Brazilian Real Declines as Mendes Damps Intervention Speculation
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-06-04T15:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/brazilian-real-declines-as-mendes-damps-intervention-speculation.html
Brazil’s real dropped as central bank
director Aldo Mendes damped speculation that the monetary
authority will intervene to stem declines.  The currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 2.1322 per U.S.
dollar at 12:20 p.m. in Sao Paulo after rallying as much as 0.6
percent. Swap rates on the contract due in January 2016 dropped
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 9.44 percent.  “The central bank isn’t worried about the pass-through of
a weak real to inflation,”  Roberto Padovani , the chief
economist at Votorantim Ctvm, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  The real erased its gain as Mendes said at an event in
 London  that there is nothing the central bank can do as long as
the currency’s depreciation is linked with that of its peers.
The monetary authority would probably have an opportunity to
intervene if the real traded differently than other currencies,
according to Mendes.  The currency tumbled to a four-year low on May 31,
prompting the central bank to intervene by selling 17,600
currency swap contracts worth $877 million to stem the real’s
decline. The intervention was the first in the foreign-exchange
market since March 27.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said June 2 in an
interview at an Istanbul conference that the weak real’s impact
on inflation was probably limited.  The real tumbled 6.5 percent in May, the biggest monthly
decline since September 2011, on signs of sputtering growth in
Latin America’s largest economy and as speculation grew the
Federal Reserve may taper stimulus that has bolstered emerging-market assets.  Currency Range  The currency has traded in an intraday range of 1.94 to
2.15 per dollar this year as policy makers fluctuated between
selling currency swaps to prevent it from falling too much and
offering reverse currency swaps to rein in gains.  Brazil ’s industrial production grew 1.8 percent in April
from a month earlier after climbing 0.8 percent in the prior
month, the national statistics agency reported today. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 1 percent
increase.  Policy makers raised the target lending rate by 50 basis
points to 8 percent on May 29 to curb inflation. The decision
surprised 38 of 57 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, who had
expected a second consecutive 25 basis point increase.  Since Tombini took office in January 2011, the annual rate
of consumer price increases has remained above the 4.5 percent
midpoint of the central bank’s target range. Inflation
accelerated to 6.59 percent in March before easing to 6.49
percent in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  