-- Brazil Scraps Foreign Investment Tax as Real Hits Four-Year Low
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-06-04T23:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/brazil-scraps-foreign-investment-tax-as-real-hits-four-year-low.html
Brazil will eliminate its foreign
investment tax on fixed income after the real had the worst
performance in  Latin America  in the past three months, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said today.  “We were worried about excess liquidity and we have always
criticized that,” he said after meeting with President  Dilma Rousseff . “Now the market is more regular, more normal, which
allows us to remove this obstacle we had placed.”  The government starting tomorrow will scrap a 6 percent tax
rate on foreign investors who buy Brazilian bonds in the
domestic market, he said. The government is keeping the tax on
derivative operations.  Signs the U.S. may tighten monetary policy threaten to
exacerbate a drain in global liquidity that has caused the
dollar to gain in value against global currencies, Mantega said.
Still, Brazil isn’t facing a liquidity shortage and companies
are able to secure international financing, he said.  Brazil ’s real has lost 7.6 percent in the past three
months, the worst performance among the seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Mantega said Brazil
has cut back on currency interventions and won’t use the
 exchange rate  to contain inflation, which breached the upper
limit of the central bank target in March.  The real on May 31 touched a four-year low. It weakened
today as much as 1.2 percent after central bank director Aldo Mendes said policy makers wouldn’t’ intervene in the market if
the currency was falling in line with peers. It pared losses and
closed little changed at 2.1251.  Mantega’s tax measure comes as the government reduces a
series of capital controls it put in place over the years after
low  interest rates  in developed economies put pressure on the
real. President Rousseff in April eliminated a tax on loans for
the purchase, production and leasing of capital goods.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  