-- Burckhardt Adds to Swiss Workforce as Concern Over Franc Eases
-- B y   F i o n a   H o s t e t t l e r   a n d   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-06-04T12:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/burckhardt-adds-to-swiss-workforce-as-concern-over-franc-eases.html
Burckhardt Compression Holding AG (BCHN) , a
Swiss supplier to oil and gas companies, said it will keep
expanding in its home market while concern about the strength of
Switzerland’s franc is easing.  “We are not moving our manufacturing base away from
Switzerland,” Chief Executive Officer Marcel Pawlicek said.
“For us it’s important the franc stays where it is for a long
time because then it’s more predictable and we can plan around
it.”  Burckhardt has hired half of 100 new employees in the last
few months at its Winterthur headquarters and plans to add at
least 40 more in the next few months, Pawlicek said. Burckhardt
employs 472 people in Winterthur in activities including design,
manufacturing and sales, according to the company  website . The
company has 1,078 full time staff.  Pressure on the compressor-maker’s margins has abated since
2011, when the franc strengthened to near parity with the euro
and  Switzerland ’s central bank imposed a cap of 1.20 francs per
euro to defend exporters, he said. The franc has weakened 2.7
percent versus the euro this year.  Rieter Holding AG (RIEN) , a Swiss maker of textile machinery which
is also based in Winterthur, said March 21 it would cut employee
numbers by 5 percent over 24 months, mostly in Switzerland, to
save on fixed costs as it focuses on Asian clients.  Whole Package  “People compare the salary of people in  Germany  and people
in Switzerland but it’s a bit one-sided,” Pawlicek said. “You
have to compare tax issues, the level of education, the whole
package.”  Burckhardt shares rose 0.1 percent in Zurich to 374.50
francs, bringing the gain to 25 percent this year. The 215-member  Swiss Performance Index (SPI)  gained 1 percent today.  Burckhardt revenue of 366.7 million francs ($388 million)
for the year ended March 31 missed the 384.8 million-franc
average estimate of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg as the
seller of compressors to Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell
Plc and China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. had some sales projects
shifted forward from 2012 to 2013, Pawlicek said  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona Hostettler in Zurich at 
 fhostettler@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  