-- California Can Top New York as Nation’s Worst State
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2013-06-04T22:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/california-can-top-new-york-as-nation-s-worst-state.html
Whenever a free-market research or
business group  releases  a “best and worst” list of states, my
eye goes straight to the bottom: To see whether California is
last or was edged out for the lowest rank by one of the other
mismanaged liberal bastions.  Illinois  seems to exist to boost
the self-esteem of Californians.  I can raise a glass of zinfandel to California’s great
victory in the  Mercatus Center ’s recent “Freedom in the 50
States”  study . The state didn’t place last. That distinction
went to  New York , thanks to its highest-in-the-nation tax rates
and entrepreneur-crushing economic regulations. I owe an apology
to residents of the Land of Lincoln.  For all the study’s  detail  about tax rates and regulation,
this information jumps out as the most telling about New York:
“9.0 percent of the state’s 2000 population, on net, left the
state for another state between 2000 and 2011, the highest such
figure in the nation.” Moving is the surest sign of
dissatisfaction, especially when people relocate from a state
that has long been an economic and cultural magnet.  Californians talk incessantly about high-tailing it to
Texas or  Nevada , yet New Yorkers flee at about double our rate.
Migration numbers aside, I would still rank the Golden State as
the Most Hopeless State. There are other  studies  that bolster
that case, including Chief Executive magazine’s “2013 Best and
Worst States for Business” that places California dead last,
with New York in 49th place.  Regulatory Overload  The magazine  ranks  states based on three categories:
taxation and regulation, workforce quality, and living
environment. Even with its natural advantages in the last
category and high ranking in the second one, California still
flopped because its officials have adopted a punitive
environment in the first category. That takes some doing.  In terms of zaniness,  California  and its cities can
probably put New York to shame. San Franciscans ban McDonald’s
Happy Meals and plastic bags even as they debate bizarre
“freedoms,” such as the right to walk around in public naked.
After much bad publicity, a state assembly committee recently
rejected a “homeless bill of rights” that would have, until
amended, established a constitutional right to “engage in life
sustaining activities that must be carried out in public
spaces.” In other words, it would have  established  a right to
urinate in public.  On substantial regulatory, government and economic issues,
New York and California are in a dead heat. Both are union-dominated states where public services are overly costly, taxes
are too high, and government-imposed edicts and bureaucracies
meddle everywhere.  The Mercatus study  summed up  California’s regulatory
problems: “Government interference in the land market is rife,
as California’s zoning laws are among the toughest in the
country, and the state is one of just four to authorize rent
control, while eminent domain abuse has seen only token reform.
Labor laws impose many costs on employers, from the minimum wage
and a universal workers’ compensation mandate to short-term
disability insurance and paid family leave.”  The study noted the prevalence of health-care mandates that
substantially increase the cost of insurance coverage. As
California Health Line  notes , “The list of mandates is a long
one, including requirements to cover autism treatment, some
reconstructive surgery and prosthetic devices for a
laryngectomy.”  The Institute for Justice, another free-market research
group,  slams  California for its endless list of professions that
require licenses, including tree trimmers, funeral attendants
and dental assistants. California also imposes far costlier and
more burdensome licensing rules than other states.  Environmental Bureaucracy  New York is regulation-happy, also. But  New Yorkers  don’t
have to deal with the  cap-and-trade system  that requires
greenhouse-gas-producing industries to either substantially
lower carbon-dioxide emissions or bid for “pollution”
allowances in a convoluted government-created exchange.  New Yorkers don’t have to deal with a coastal commission
that  exerts  so much bureaucratic control over development
decisions that property owners are routinely denied their rights
and are subject to rulings over minuscule issues, such as the
color of house paint and the type of fencing that can be used.  And California’s debt levels, which crush public services
and lead to demands for higher taxes, are worse than New York’s,
by some accounts. A new California Public Policy Center  report 
found that “the outstanding debt owed by California’s state and
local governments, using responsible actuarial assumptions, is
almost certainly in excess of $1.0 trillion.”  Yes, choosing between New York and California as the best
or worst state in terms of market-oriented public policy is like
choosing between  Minnesota  and  North Dakota  when looking for the
warmest winter. What really matters is the hope for change. Both
states need significant reform, but New York is more likely to
achieve it because its Democratic leaders face more political
competition -- the  Republican Party  has at least some
legislative power -- and they are  less utopian  in their efforts
to boss everyone around.  Sadly, Democratic officials in California are energized by
their newfound power after last year’s election and think that
the state is a model for the rest of the nation. The budget
rebound has convinced Governor  Jerry Brown  and legislators that
California is on the right track and its only real problems --
notably an obstructionist Republican minority -- are history.  California has a more powerful initiative system, but
legislators are working to rein in this system to further
consolidate their power and keep pesky voters at bay.  I would never live in New York or any other place where
palm trees don’t grow outdoors. But that reinforces another
reason California deserves the “worst in the nation” moniker.
California officials know that most of us will put up with just
about  anything  rather than leave. New Yorkers have shown that
they aren’t so easily seduced.  (Steven Greenhut is vice president of the Franklin Center
for Government and Public Integrity. He is based in  Sacramento .)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Steven Greenhut  in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 