-- Republicans See IRS Bias as Democrats Cite Mistakes
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-05T14:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/camp-sees-irs-culture-of-intimidation-beyond-tea-party.html
The Internal Revenue Service’s
actions are a political Rorschach test, with Republicans seeing
an effort to intimidate their allies and Democrats citing a
mismanaged agency’s interpretation of flawed laws.  The bipartisan sense of outrage in the first days after the
IRS revealed May 10 that it gave tougher scrutiny to small-government groups applying for tax-exempt status is starting to
fray. Democrats -- while continuing to express anger at what the
tax agency has acknowledged -- at a hearing yesterday sought to
dispel the idea that the agency had a broader political motive.  Republicans, meanwhile, are drawing connections between the
IRS’s scrutiny of the groups and other issues. They cite gift-tax audits of donors to a group that supported the war in Iraq,
the release of confidential information from a group opposing
same-sex marriage and attempts to prevent anti-abortion
organizations from protesting.  “We still have a lot of questions that need to be
answered,” Representative  Charles Boustany , a Louisiana
Republican, said yesterday after the fifth congressional hearing
on the IRS in 19 days. “To what degree there was coordination,
how high up it goes, remains to be determined.”  Democrats said Republicans are trying to create a wide-ranging scandal.  ‘A Mistake’  “Republicans are looking for a conspiracy where there
isn’t one,” said Representative  Jim McDermott , a Washington
Democrat, said at the hearing to those representing Tea Party
groups. “What happened to you was unfair. It was unfair and
incredibly inconvenient. But it was a mistake.”  The U.S. tax agency acknowledged that it singled out groups
for extra scrutiny if their names included “Tea Party” or
“patriot,” or if they focused on certain issues, such as
government debt and spending.  Some groups had delays of up to three years in their
applications for tax-exempt status. Some received what the IRS
has acknowledged were inappropriate questions.  Six congressional committees have opened inquiries and the
Justice Department has begun a criminal probe. The Treasury
Inspector General for Tax Administration is investigating
further.  At the IRS, President  Barack Obama  forced out  Steven Miller , the acting commissioner, and replaced him with  Danny Werfel . One executive,  Joseph Grant , retired, and another,  Lois Lerner , has been placed on administrative leave.  Tea Party  Lawmakers and investigators haven’t been able to determine
who authorized the use of the name “Tea Party” as a screening
tool and what their motives were. The IRS has called that a
shortcut designed to collect similar applications so they could
receive consistent treatment.  Groups organized under section 501(c)(4) of the tax code
are required to operate exclusively for the benefit of social
welfare. The IRS interprets that language to prohibit such
groups -- which don’t have to disclose their donors -- from
having politics as their primary mission.  Many 501(c)(4) groups, including Republican-backed
Crossroads GPS and Democratic-backed Priorities USA Action,
finance campaign ads.  That leaves the IRS to determine a group’s primary purpose,
often with questions about political and campaign involvement
that the groups find intrusive.  “We’ve got to clear out the unclarity in the law,” said
Representative  Bill Pascrell , a New Jersey Democrat.  Bias Claim  Republicans look more broadly at the incidents as evidence
bolstering the claim that the IRS is biased against them.
They’re continuing to solicit information from the public and
vowed to press on with their investigations.  “This is not a mistake by the IRS,” said Representative
 Erik Paulsen , a Minnesota Republican. “This abuse was systemic
and it’s been going on for years.”  Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, cited a “culture of political intimidation and
discrimination” at the IRS and said he planned to interview
more IRS employees.  “This is not being chilling,” said Representative  Mike Kelly , a Pennsylvania Republican. “The American people are
frozen with fear.”  Among the witnesses at yesterday’s hearing was John
Eastman, chairman of the National Organization for Marriage. The
group’s political opponents at the Human Rights Campaign
received NOM’s confidential information, including a donor list.
The documents, Eastman said, contained markings that proved it
had come from inside the IRS.  That can’t be inadvertent and it has affected donors, he
said.  ‘Our Shock’  “You can imagine our shock and disgust over this,” he
said. He said he has been “stonewalled” in attempts to get
information from the IRS or its inspector general about the
document release. Eastman’s group opposes same-sex marriage.  The IRS said the inspector general’s investigation found
that the release of information was inadvertent.  As chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means committee,
Camp, a Michigan Republican, has the authority to examine
private taxpayer information that would help get to the facts of
the marriage group’s case. He said after the hearing that he
would do so at an appropriate time.  Separately, the inspector general yesterday released a
report that said the IRS spent $4 million on a 2010 conference
for employees in Anaheim, California, including $17,000 for a
speaker who painted pictures of former basketball star  Michael Jordan  and U2 singer  Bono  to motivate employees.  225 Conferences  The tax agency spent about $49 million on 225 conferences
from fiscal 2010 to 2012, according to the report. Most of that
was in 2010; in fiscal year 2012, IRS held 24 conferences at a
total cost of $5 million.  Two top IRS officials stayed in presidential suites that
typically cost between $1,499 and $3,500 a night in Anaheim, the
most expensive of the conferences, the report said. The IRS paid
the government rate of $135 per night for all the rooms.  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee plans a
hearing tomorrow on the agency’s spending.  Also testifying to the Ways and Means Committee yesterday
was Sue Martinek, president of the Coalition for Life of Iowa,
who she said was asked by IRS officials not to protest at
Planned Parenthood as a condition of receiving tax-exempt
status.  Dianne Belsom, president of the Laurens County Tea Party in
South Carolina, said she is still waiting to hear from the IRS
on her group’s application for tax-exempt status after answering
repeated and extensive questionnaires from the agency.  “Nearly three years of waiting for an answer is totally
unacceptable,” Belsom said. “The IRS needs to be fully
investigated and held accountable for its incompetence,
harassment and targeting of conservative groups.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  