-- Canada Disallows Telus’s Purchase of Mobilicity Spectrum
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-04T19:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/canada-to-disallow-transfer-of-mobilicity-spectrum.html
Canadian Industry Minister Christian Paradis blocked  Telus Corp. (T)  from acquiring the airwave licenses
of smaller competitor Mobilicity as part of his government’s
efforts to safeguard consumer choice.  Paradis’s  decision  throws Telus’s C$380 million ($368
million) takeover of Mobilicity into doubt. The deal, announced
May 16, would have allowed Vancouver-based Telus, Canada’s third
biggest wireless operator, to absorb the smaller company’s
wireless spectrum, prized by operators seeking more airwaves to
satisfy data-hungry subscribers.  Canada auctioned spectrum in 2008, setting aside for five
years some licenses for smaller players to boost competition in
a wireless industry dominated by  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Rogers Communications
Inc. (RCI/B)  and Telus, which still control about 90 percent of the
market. After the five-year moratorium ends, the government will
continue to block on a “case-by-case” basis any spectrum sales
it deems would undermine competition, Paradis said in the
statement today from Ottawa.  “Our government is clearly committed to encouraging
competition in the wireless market,” Paradis said, adding the
decision was based on Telus’ application to buy Mobilicity
before the spectrum moratorium ends next year, leaving the door
open for Telus to resubmit a bid.  ‘Disappointing’ Decision  Paradis has said he wants four major wireless providers in
every region of the nation. The minister said today he won’t
allow large operators to buy any spectrum reserved for smaller
players before the moratorium ends.  Ted Woodhead , senior vice-president, regulatory affairs at
Telus, said he’s “disappointed” with the decision.  “We’re going to take this back and look at it and consider
our options,” he said, adding that he didn’t think the door was
permanently closed on a Telus-Mobilicity deal.  New operators Mobilicity, Wind Mobile and Public Mobile
have struggled to make inroads against the three largest
carriers. Wind Mobile, the largest of the three new entrants,
paid C$442 million for airwaves in 2008. It’s now being
considered for a possible sale by its backers, a person with
direct knowledge of that process said, asking not to be named
because the information is private.  ‘Inevitable’ Bankruptcy  Tony Lacavera, Wind Mobile founder and CEO, said he
welcomed the decision because it supports the notion of a fourth
carrier. Wind now has over 600,000 subscribers and secured more
than half of the industry’s net new subscribers in the fourth
quarter of last year, Lacavera said.  Dvai Ghose, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp., is more
pessimistic, saying in a research note that it’s now
“inevitable” Mobilicity will go bankrupt and Wind Mobile and
Public Mobile, may not survive.  “While it looks like incumbents will not be allowed to buy
new entrants, it is not at all clear how independent new
entrants can survive, especially if potential investors are
being told that they will not be allowed to sell new entrants to
incumbents,” Ghose said, adding that Telus remains his
“favored” wireless company.  Rogers, Canada’s largest wireless operator, struck a deal
in January with  Shaw Communications Inc. (SJR/B)  that gives it an option
to buy unused spectrum from Shaw for about C$300 million.
Current rules prohibit the transfer of ownership of spectrum
purchased in the 2008 government auction before 2014.  Telus  stock  rose 21 cents, or 0.6 percent, to C$36.00 at
3:10 p.m. in Toronto. Rogers dropped 32 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to C$46.45.  Asked about the Rogers transaction, Paradis said the
company has yet to apply for a review of the spectrum transfer.  “We’re in the process of reviewing what Industry Canada
announced,” Stewart Lyons, president of Mobilicity, said in an
e-mailed statement. “We’ll be speaking with Telus and other
stakeholders and will have more to say in due course.”  Today’s decision means the start of  Canada ’s next spectrum
auction is delayed to Jan. 14, 2014, from an initial date of
Nov. 19, Paradis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  