-- Canada Conservatives Knock Phone Companies in Fundraising
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-06-04T20:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/canada-conservatives-knock-phone-companies-in-fundraising.html
Canada ’s governing  Conservative Party 
is using this week’s policy decisions about the wireless
telephone industry to  appeal  to supporters for money.  A statement posted on the party’s website cites Industry
Minister Christian Paradis’s decision today to limit spectrum
acquisition by the country’s largest telecommunications
operators in its appeal for support.  “We will not allow the big telecommunications companies to
shut down competition,” the party said in the statement. “More
competition means lower prices and more choices for you and your
family.”  The website also cited a decision yesterday by the Canadian
Radio-television Telecommunications Commission to allow users to
cancel contracts with carriers after two years without charge
and limit extra data and roaming charges.  Paradis said he is blocking  Telus Corp. (T)  from acquiring the
airwave licenses of smaller competitor Mobilicity as part of his
government’s efforts to safeguard consumer choice.  Ted Woodhead, senior vice-president, regulatory affairs at
Telus, said he’s “disappointed” with Paradis’s decision today,
adding the company would consider its options and that he didn’t
think the door was permanently closed on a Telus-Mobilicity
deal.  “It’s no secret that the Harper government puts Canadian
consumers first,” Conservative Party spokesman Fred DeLorey
said by e-mail. “Today’s announcement is yet another reminder
of why Canadians elected a stable, national, majority
Conservative government – one which will always put the
interests of Canadian consumers first.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  