-- Canadian Dollar Declines as Wider Trade Deficit Undercuts Growth
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-04T21:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/canadian-dollar-weakens-on-bets-rally-overdone-before-trade-data.html
Canada ’s dollar declined versus its
U.S. peer as the nation’s merchandise trade deficit widened in
April, boosting speculation economic growth will lag behind that
in its largest trading partner.  The currency dropped against the majority of its most-traded peers as Canada recorded its 16th straight trade deficit,
the longest run in at least a quarter century. The Canadian
dollar posted its biggest gain in almost a year yesterday as a
manufacturing slowdown in the U.S. damped speculation the
Federal Reserve will reduce stimulus that tends to devalue the
currency. A report June 7 is forecast to show Canada’s
unemployment rate held unchanged in May.  “We’ve got an emerging U.S. economic-strength story that’s
propelling the U.S. dollar higher across the board,” Mark Frey,
chief market strategist at Cambridge Mercantile Group, a global
foreign exchange and payments provider, said by phone from
Victoria. “Canada is being punished by some relative under-performance from a domestic standpoint.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.6 percent to
C$1.0342 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The currency
added as much as 1.1 percent yesterday, the most since June 29,
2012. One loonie buys 96.69 U.S. cents.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  fell, with
yields rising three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
2.09 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
lost 29 cents to C$94.78.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, added 0.4
percent percent to $93.83 per barrel in New York after gaining
as much as 1 percent and falling 1.1 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks lost 0.6 percent.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart traded at 7.85 percent, near
the 7.89 percent reached May 22, the highest point in almost a
year. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  “This is just a rebound,” Jane Foley, senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International, said by phone from  London .
“The market now is really on the cusp of trying to decide
whether the Fed is going to taper soon or whether it’s not. Our
view is that the Fed probably won’t taper until later in the
year, meaning the market probably is overexcited and probably
has gotten ahead of itself.”  ‘Contained’ Market  The Fed has been buying $85 billion a month in bonds to
bolster growth and cut unemployment, with policy makers pledging
to keep interest rates near zero as long as joblessness is above
6.5 percent and inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  U.S. data will show 168,000 new jobs created in May, up
from 165,000 the previous month, leaving the unemployment rate
at 7.5 percent, Bloomberg surveys show before the June 7 data.  “The market will be fairly contained until we get nonfarm
payrolls,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., referring to the U.S.
payroll numbers. “If you get some weak numbers this Friday,
Canada will underperform. But probably not as much in regards to
some of the cross currencies.”  Canada’s jobless rate remained at 7.2 percent in May while
the nation added 15,000 new jobs compared to 12,500 new
positions the month before, according to separate surveys.  The trade deficit of C$567 million ($550 million) followed
a C$3 million shortfall in March that Ottawa-based Statistics
Canada originally reported as a C$24 million surplus. The Bank
of Canada has said the export recovery is the slowest since
World War II and on May 29 kept its key interest rate at 1
percent, where it’s been for more than two years.  The loonie has lost 0.8 percent in the past month against
nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The Australian dollar lost 5.2
percent and New Zealand’s currency dropped 4.7 percent to lead
decliners. The U.S. dollar led gainers, adding 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  