-- Canadian Oils Gain on Expectation of Increased Refinery Demand
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-06-04T19:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/canadian-oils-gain-on-expectation-of-increased-refinery-demand.html
Canadian crude oils strengthened on
the  spot market  on the expectation that U.S. Midwest refineries
will return from maintenance and increase operating rates from
the lowest level in at least three years.  Refineries in PADD 2 operated at 78.8 percent of capacity
in the week ended May 24, the lowest in Energy Information
Administration data going back to June 4, 2010. Plants across
the U.S. probably boosted utilization last week for the first
time since May 10, increasing by 0.6 percentage point, according
to the median of nine estimates in a survey by Bloomberg.  Fuel production typically increases at the start of the
U.S. summer driving season on Memorial Day, which fell on May 27
this year. Gasoline  consumption  increased to 8.96 million
barrels a day the prior week, the most since August, the EIA,
the U.S. Energy Department’s statistical arm, said May 30.  Exxon Mobil Corp. is scheduled to wrap up planned work at
the 238,000-barrel-a-day Joliet,  Illinois , refinery early this
month. BP Plc’s Whiting,  Indiana , refinery plans to finish in
the second quarter the conversion of the largest crude unit to
process heavy Canadian oil.  Western  Canada  Select heavy oil for July delivery
strengthened by $1.25 a barrel to a $17.25 discount to U.S. West
Texas Intermediate oil, according to Calgary oil broker Net
Energy Inc. It was the narrowest discount for the grade since
May 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  August delivery of WCS oil also strengthened by $1.25 a
barrel, to a $20.25 discount to WTI, Net Energy said.  More Production  More heavy crude oil production from Canada is expected to
come online in the third quarter, potentially increasing exports
and depressing prices.  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) ’s Kearl oil sands
project began production in late April, but will take as many as
90 days to make first shipments sometime in the third quarter,
company spokesman Pius Rolheiser said. Kearl will increase to
its full 110,000-barrel-a-day capacity later this year, he said.  Syncrude, a light crude from oil-sands bitumen processed in
an upgrader, gained 70 cents to trade at a 50-cent premium to
WTI, Net Energy said, while conventional Alberta sweet oil
gained 75 cents to a $6.50 discount to WTI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  