-- Cancer No Longer Death Sentence Brings Care Gap: Health
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/cancer-no-longer-death-sentence-brings-care-gap-health.html
After Teresa Levitch underwent
successful chemotherapy and radiation for the cancer attacking
her immune system, she believed her health problems were over.  Now she knows better. For more than 10 years after her
treatment, she felt pain and muscle fatigue in her upper body,
and her range of motion was limited. She went to several
doctors, but none helped her. Then she found the  cancer 
survivor program  at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in 
New York, which identified her illness as radiation fibrosis 
syndrome and began treatments that have made her feel better.  The Sloan-Kettering program is one of seven in the U.S.
exclusively focused on long-term cancer survivors, a growing
group that is facing a treatment gap between the successful end
of cancer care by their oncologist and adequate follow-up by
other doctors, according to reports this weekend at the  American
Society for Clinical Oncology  annual meeting.  For Levitch, a 59-year-old former teacher from Verbank, New
York, the program at Sloan-Kettering was a “life saver,” she
said in a telephone interview. “It was a comfort to finally
hear I wasn’t crazy, to know that what I was feeling had a
reason and a name.”  Over the next 10 years, the number of Americans who live at
least five years with cancer  is projected  to jump 37 percent to
11.9 million, according to a U.S. National Cancer Institute
report. It’s a movement that’s relatively new, doctors say, and
the medical world is only now beginning to react to the physical
and emotional toll survivors live with after their cancer is
controlled.  Severe Effects  “In terms of understanding what the needs of survivors
are, we’re in a very elementary place,” said  Rebecca Kirch , the
director of  quality of life and survivorship  at the American
Cancer Society, in a telephone interview. “Until very recently,
cancer diagnosis didn’t end in survivorship. It’s a new and
wonderful problem to have, but now we need to deal with the
toxicity of treatment.”  Chemotherapy and radiation, the base weapons used to attack
cancer even when other, newer medications are used, can carry
severe side effects that last for years, including heart damage,
the death of peripheral nerves and the radiation syndrome
Levitch is being treated for, which is exhausting and painful.  Other physical problems are cancer-specific: lung cancer
patients who underwent surgery, for instance, experienced severe
chest pain afterwards; breast cancer patients have a higher risk
of carpal tunnel syndrome, due to fluid retention from having a
lymph node removed; laryngeal cancer patients may experience
shoulder pain from nerve palsy.  Cancer Fallout  Emotionally, the fallout of all of this “can be huge,”
said  Alyssa Rieber , the chief of medical oncology at the Lyndon
B. Johnson General Hospital in Houston. “We see sexual
dysfunction, body image disorders, and depression and anxiety.”  The medical response to these concerns has too often in the
past been slow and scattered, Rieber and other cancer
specialists said.  The  Livestrong Foundation,  an Austin, Texas-based cancer
charity, has designated just seven cancer centers nationwide as
Survivorship Centers of Excellence, including Memorial Sloan-Kettering. While awareness is growing, the centers are models
for what other hospitals should be striving to achieve, said
 Julia Rowland , director of the National Cancer Institute’s
 Office of Cancer Survivorship .  Void Created  “Patients want to know what’s next, what’s the plan,”
Rowland said in an interview at the oncology meeting in  Chicago .
“For a long time, it was the oncologist saying, ‘Your cancer is
treated, go home, and I hope I don’t see you again.’ That
creates a void. Some patients do remarkably well, but very few
get away without long-term effects. Our cancer therapies are
quite toxic.”  The centers of excellence offer care by oncologists,
primary care physicians and doctors with a wide range of
specialties as well as rehabilitation specialists, Rowland said.
That’s because survivors don’t have uniform needs, she said.  Until about 10 years ago, the main push in survivorship
involved simply making sure the people who had been treated
didn’t have a cancer recurrence, said  Mary McCabe , who is
director of the Sloan-Kettering’s survivor program.  That began to change with a  2005 report  from the U.S.
Institute of Medicine, which provides medical advice to policy
makers and the public. The report found that one in five people
who had been treated had work limitations stemming from cancer
as much as five years later. About 22 percent of the survivors
were women with breast cancer, and another 18 percent with
prostate cancer, the report found. The third-most common
survivors were those with colon and rectal cancer.  Care Plan  The IOM report urged that all cancer patients get a  care
plan  that summarizes their treatment and outlines a follow-up
strategy. That would tell patients what kind of screening they
need and how often to get it. The plan should be written by the
principal oncologist, the IOM said.  More recent research suggests survival centers, like the
one at Sloan-Kettering, have the potential to fill a big
treatment need. Only one in five oncologists said they provided
a treatment summary that included a follow-up plan to breast and
colon cancer patients after successful treatment,  according to a
survey  of over 1,100 oncologists and 1,000 primary-care doctors
presented at the clinical oncology society meeting.  The same survey shows that only a third of primary-care
doctors who work with cancer survivors said they routinely
received any type of treatment summaries from oncologists, and
just 13 percent said they received follow-up plans.  Receiving Summaries  In a separate report, only half of cancer patients reported
receiving a summary of their treatment, and just 17 percent said
they got a survivorship care plan, according to  a Livestrong
Foundation presentation  at the Chicago meeting. Those who
received a summary of care were more likely to have discussions
with their health-care providers about long-term side-effects,
and lifestyle recommendations to prevent recurrence and help
with emotional needs, according to the presentation.  “There’s clearly some disconnect” still, said Rowland,
who was an author of the physician survey. “We hear primary
care physicians saying that they can do long-term care, but
they’re anxious and want guidance. We can communicate that.”  Michael Stubblefield , who treats Levitch at Sloan-Kettering, suggests that follow-up plans sometimes aren’t being
disseminated simply because they can take hours to draw up
properly.  No Reimbursement  “There’s no reimbursement commensurate with the amount of
work,” he said in a telephone interview. Also, the push for
survivorship programs is so new most hospitals simply haven’t
gotten around to creating them yet.  “I get patients from all over the country,” Stubblefield
said in a telephone interview. “The majority are from community
hospitals, which are very good at taking care of the cancer, but
not very good at taking care of survivors.”  Understanding cases like Levitch’s can be hard for doctors
who aren’t familiar with the after-effects of radiation,
Stubblefield said.  Levitch has some movement disorders, migraines, limited
range of motion and fatigue. Without specialized knowledge,
doctors may not realize that they all  stemmed from her life-saving radiation therapy , Stubblefield said. What’s more, side-effects from radiation can arise more than 30 years after
treatment.  Rieber, at Houston’s Lyndon B. Johnson hospital, said she
is hopeful that a growing emphasis on survivors within the
medical community and new technology involving electronic
medical records, can help quicken the pace of care for this
group.  The Baby Boomers, those born from 1946 to 1964, are
reaching an age when they are likely to experience cancer and
other chronic conditions, said the cancer society’s Kirch. The
problems doctors are seeing in survivorship are likely to expand
due to the sheer volume of patients, she said.  “We have no choice but to now make sure we tend to these
problems,” Kirch said. “I don’t think Baby Boomers are going
to tolerate bad quality of life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  