-- Cash Outflows Turn World’s Best Stocks to Worst: Southeast Asia
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m ,   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-06-05T09:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/cash-outflows-turn-world-s-best-stocks-to-worst-southeast-asia.html
Stock markets in  Indonesia , the
 Philippines  and  Thailand  have gone from being the world’s best
to among the worst as the threat of reduced bond purchases by
the U.S. Federal Reserve sends foreign investors to the exit.  Equity indexes in the three markets have declined more than
3.5 percent since May 22, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
policy makers could consider reducing stimulus if the U.S. labor
market improves. International money managers pulled a combined
$1.6 billion from the Southeast Asian countries in that period,
the most since August 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand led a four-year
rally in global stocks as buoyant local economies sent corporate
profits to records and the Fed’s debt buying spurred investors
to seek higher-yielding assets. While Religare  Capital Markets 
and Samsung Asset Management say economic growth in the three
nations will remain strong, they anticipate more equity declines
as the Fed moves closer to paring back its bond purchases.  “It’s easier to take money off the table in  Southeast
Asia ,” Vincent Fernando, the head of Asean research at Religare
in  Singapore , said in a phone interview yesterday. “It’s too
soon to say there’s a big buying opportunity.” Asean refers to
the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  The  Philippine (PCOMP)  Stock Exchange Index dropped 9.6 percent
since May 22 through yesterday, Thailand’s SET Index sank 4.6
percent and the  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  lost 3.6 percent. That
compares with a 2.8 percent retreat in the MSCI All-Country
World Index and a 1.4 percent slide in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. The Philippine gauge is the fourth-worst performer among
94 primary indexes tracked by Bloomberg in that period.
Thailand’s is 13th worst.  Fed Tapering  The Philippine index fell 1.7 percent today to its lowest
close since March 22. The Jakarta index sank 0.4 percent, its
fourth decline in five days. Thailand’s SET lost 1.4 percent as
of 4:21 p.m. in Bangkok, poised for its lowest close since April
18.  The two-week outflows from Thailand, Indonesia and the
Philippines compare with $2.3 billion of combined net inflows
this year into the three markets. Thailand recorded the most
withdrawals among the countries from May 22 through June 3,
losing a net $769 million, according to stock exchange data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “If the Fed does taper off quantitative easing, you’re
likely to see continued weakness in the markets,” said  Alan Richardson , the Hong Kong-based money manager whose $149 million
Samsung ASEAN Equity Fund outperformed 97 percent of peers
tracked by Bloomberg during the past three years.  ‘Take Profit’  International investors poured $25 billion into the three
markets since Nov. 25, 2008, when the Fed announced its first
round of so-called quantitative easing to revive economic growth
amid the global financial crisis. The Jakarta index surged 356
percent through May 22 and the SET gauge advanced 322 percent.
The Philippine  measure  rose 310 percent, versus a 116 percent
gain in the MSCI emerging index.  “The Fed’s statement on QE is just an excuse by some
investors to take profit,” Adithep Vanabriksha, the Bangkok-based chief investment officer for Thailand at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc, which oversees about $322 billion worldwide,
said by phone yesterday.  The three economies expanded at an average annual rate of
4.6 percent since 2008 versus 2.9 percent for the global
economy, according to International Monetary Fund data, as
governments boosted infrastructure spending and rising incomes
led to increased consumer purchases. Earnings in the three
nations’ benchmark indexes climbed by an average 120 percent
since the end of 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Asian Crisis  The countries’ growth prospects haven’t deteriorated and
their financial systems are strong enough to weather capital
outflows, said Allan Yu, a  money manager  who helps oversee about
$11 billion at Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. in  Manila .  Thailand’s foreign exchange reserves have climbed to $169
billion as of April from $26 billion in 1997, when the
government’s devaluation of the baht sparked the Asian financial
crisis. Indonesia has $107 billion of reserves and the
Philippines has $83 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While the baht and the Philippine peso have weakened 2.4
percent and 1.7 percent respectively against the dollar since
May 22, the Thai currency is still within 7 percent of a 16-year
high in April and the peso is within 4 percent of an almost
five-year peak in January. Indonesia’s rupiah has dropped 0.4
percent since May 22.  “Governments in the region have fixed their finances,”
said Yu. “Banks and corporates also strengthened their balance
sheets. There are no real fundamental reasons why these markets
are being sold down this way.”  ‘Buying Opportunity’  The Fed is unlikely to announce an imminent reduction in
monetary stimulus as policy makers seek to ensure the U.S. is
recovering, Yu said. The MSCI All-Country World Index climbed as
much as 0.6 percent yesterday after Fed Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the economy isn’t strong enough
to justify a reduction in bond buying.  When bond purchases are eventually reduced, America’s
economy will be growing fast enough to boost Asian corporate
profits through increased trade, Alvin Pattisahusiwa, the
director of investment at PT Manulife Aset Manajement Indonesia,
said in a phone interview.  “This is a great buying opportunity right now,” Hozefa Topiwalla, the head of Asean research at Morgan Stanley, said by
phone from Singapore yesterday. “The fundamental story in Asean
is absolutely intact.”  Expensive Stocks  High valuations may drive equity investors out of Southeast
Asia and into cheaper markets such as  South Korea  and Taiwan
that will benefit more from a U.S. economic recovery, according
to Citigroup Inc.  The Philippine benchmark index trades for 19 times 12-month
estimated earnings, while the Jakarta gauge has a multiple of 15
and the SET index is valued at 13 times. That compares with 10
times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, 9 for South Korea’s
Kospi index and 7 for the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines are the most
vulnerable,”  Markus Rosgen , Citigroup’s Hong Kong-based chief
Asian strategist, wrote in an e-mail yesterday. “The
Philippines in particular had become very expensive versus the
rest of the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  