-- Central Bank Head Sees Niger Shrugging Off al-Qaeda Attacks
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2013-06-05T05:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/central-bank-sees-niger-s-economy-shrugging-off-al-qaeda-attacks.html
Niger’s economy may grow about 10
percent this year as the government overcomes the security
threat posed by Islamist militants, Central Bank of West African
States Governor Tiemoko Meyliet Kone said.  Fighters affiliated to al-Qaeda carried out the first
suicide attack in Niger last month, killing at least 23 people
in simultaneous car bombings at an army base and a uranium mine
owned by French nuclear company  Areva SA (AREVA)  in the north of the
country. Niger, like other nations in the region, has the
“capacity to respond” to the threat, Kone said in an interview
on June 3 in the Senegalese capital, Dakar.  “We have solidarity between the countries to fight this
type of risk,” Kone said of the eight nations the bank
represents. The authorities in Niger “will take the necessary
action to halt the impact which this kind of event could have on
the economy.”  Niger is the world’s fourth-biggest producer of uranium,
the fuel used in nuclear  power plants , according to the website
of the  World Nuclear Association . The West African nation shares
borders with Mali, where French military forces intervened
earlier this year to fight Islamist rebels, and Libya, where
conflict after the overthrow of  Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011 led to a
proliferation of weapons and armed groups.  The  African Development Bank  forecasts Niger’s economy may
grow 5.5 percent this year, compared with 13.1 percent last
year. The Central Bank of West African States also represents
the nations of  Senegal , Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Burkina Faso,
Benin, Togo and  Ivory Coast , according to its  website .  Ivory Coast  Growth in Ivory Coast, the biggest of the eight economies,
may reach 8.9 percent this year as the country recovers from the
effects of a political crisis in 2011, Kone said.  “In 2013, in general, all the countries, even Mali, which
has experienced problems, will have continuing good growth,”
Kone said.  Growth in the region is being bolstered by improved
agricultural output, Kone said. Ivory Coast is the world’s
largest cocoa producer, while Mali and  Burkina Faso  are the
continent’s two biggest cotton growers. Senegal is Africa’s No.
4 groundnut producer, according to Food and Agriculture
Organization data.  “The member states will carry on these efforts in the
agricultural sector, in the extractive industry, and also in
public investment in basic infrastructure and social
infrastructure,” he said. “This is an important factor for
growth and today the member states are making a lot of effort to
try and increase basic infrastructure.”  The central bank on June 3 left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 3.75 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  