-- Chile’s La Polar to Consider Store Openings, CEO Says
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-06-05T14:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/chilean-retailer-la-polar-considering-store-openings-ceo-says.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph of story published yesterday to
show that cost includes new store openings in Colombia, in
addition to remodeling costs.)  Empresas La Polar SA, a Chilean
department store, is considering new store openings in its home
country after two years of emphasizing renovations as the
company recovered from a bankruptcy filing, Chief Executive
Officer  Patricio Lecaros  said.  “We are seeing opportunities to expand into new regions of
Chile and new locations in Santiago,” Lecaros said in a
telephone interview today from the capital. “We are beginning
to study them.”  Lecaros, 52, was appointed in July 2011, after the
company’s board of directors forced out prior management
following the disclosure of accounting irregularities. La Polar,
which has an in-house credit card unit, had been unilaterally
restructuring terms of clients’ past-due loans to cap loss
provisions and boost profit, according to filings at the time.  The retailer, whose board of directors is now headed by
Chairman  Cesar Barros , raised about $280 million through equity
offerings last year to refurbish stores and compensate clients
for excessive fees and interest charges. The company’s stock
price has tumbled 18 percent this year, after losing 21 percent
in 2012 and 91 percent in 2011.  Today the shares fell 2.6 percent to 167.5 pesos as of 3:54
p.m. in Santiago. Chile’s benchmark  Ipsa index  advanced 0.3
percent.  Colombia Plans  La Polar has closed seven money-losing stores since 2011
and plans to spend about $25 million this year to remodel three
stores in Chile and open two in  Colombia , Lecaros said. It
currently has 40 stores in Chile and five in Colombia, according
to a  presentation  on its website.  Colombia accounted for 8.4 percent of revenue in the first
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company is on track in 2013 to post its first year of
positive earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, since 2010, Lecaros said. In 2012, La
Polar had negative Ebitda of 35.9 billion pesos. The prior year,
the company didn’t report Ebitda.  La Polar plans to add 200,000 new credit card accounts this
year, which should increase the total to 1 million, according to
Lecaros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  