-- China’s Stocks Fall for 4th Day, Led by Appliance Shares
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-06-04T07:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/china-s-stock-futures-fall-signaling-losses-for-index.html
China ’s  stocks  fell the most in six
weeks on speculation demand for consumer appliances will slow
and as small-company shares extended a slump after valuations
jumped to a two-year high.  Gree Electric Appliance Inc. and TCL Corp. led a gauge of
consumer companies to the second-biggest drop among industry
groups after the government ended subsidies for home appliances
at the start of June.  Qingdao TGOOD Electric paced losses for
the ChiNext index, which has slid 4.8 percent over three days
after its price-earnings ratio jumped to the highest level since
June 2011. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. lost 2.8 percent after the
Hong Kong-listed shares were cut at  Bank of China  Ltd.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.2 percent to 2,272.42
at the close. It dropped for a fourth day, the longest losing
streak in two months. The CSI 300 Index slid 1.4 percent to
2,565.67, as all 10 industry groups lost at least 1 percent. The
ChiNext fell 2.8 percent, paring this year’s gain to 43 percent.
The Hang Seng China Enterprises index was little changed.  “The main index will remain weak for at least two weeks,
as it will continue to be dragged down by the decline of small-cap stocks, which are being sold by investors after big gains,”
said Tang Yonggang, an analyst at Hongyuan Securities Co. in
Beijing. “The deciding factor to drive stocks upward will be
company earnings. Until we see signs that company earnings will
be good, the market performance will be lackluster.”  Chinese stocks have slumped amid concern small businesses
are struggling. The official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for
smaller companies slid to 47.3 in May, even as the broader gauge
rose to 50.8, a report yesterday showed. A PMI index from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics that includes small
enterprises fell more than forecast to 49.2, an eight-month low.  Upcoming Data  The government is scheduled to release reports on trade,
inflation and industrial output this coming weekend. Exports
probably gained 7 percent in May, down from the previous month’s
14.7 percent, according to the median forecast of 24 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Inflation probably accelerated last
month, while industrial output grew 9.3 percent, unchanged from
the previous month, surveys showed. Trade data are due June 8,
while the other reports are scheduled for the following day.  A gauge of  consumer-discretionary  companies in the CSI 300
fell for a fourth day, losing 2.4 percent. TCL, a television
maker, slid 8.2 percent to 2.58  yuan . Gree Electric, the biggest
maker of air-conditioners, dropped 1.9 percent to 26.04 yuan.
 Shanghai  Friendship Group Inc. paced declines for companies in
the Shanghai Composite’s commercial index, sliding 3.7 percent.  Inflection Point  China ended subsidies for purchases of energy-saving home
appliances from June 1, according to a statement on the Ministry
of Finance’s website on May 29.  Qingdao TGOOD Electric paced losses for ChiNext stocks,
falling 3.3 percent to 15.40 yuan, trimming this year’s rally to
48 percent. Tianjin Chase Sun Pharmaceutical Co. lost 1.5
percent to 34.54 yuan, paring the 2013 gain to 53 percent.  A measure of  technology  companies in the CSI 300 fell 2.7
percent, the most among the groups.  Goertek Inc. (002241) , an Apple Inc.
supplier, dropped 2.9 percent to 34.30 yuan, paring this year’s
gain to 64 percent. Neusoft Corp. lost 4.3 percent to 8.59 yuan.
The technology gauge has rallied 25 percent this year, the most
after phone stocks.  “We are at or near an inflection point of liquidity growth
that has been supporting the modest run-up in May,” Hao Hong,
the chief China strategist at Bank of Communications Co., said
in an e-mailed note yesterday. “Sectors sensitive to liquidity
conditions, such as the ChiNext, will be vulnerable.”  Liquidity Tightens  China’s crackdown on financial deals disguised as copper
trades is helping curb yuan appreciation and worsening the
tightest money market in more than a year. The benchmark seven-day repurchase rate averaged 3.57 percent in May, the highest in
13 months. The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating repo rate, climbed five basis points to
3.35 percent yesterday.  Yanzhou Coal Mining lost 2.8 percent in Shanghai and 1.6
percent in  Hong Kong  after the Hong Kong-listed shares were
downgraded to sell from hold at Bank of China.  Trading volumes in Shanghai index were 0.9 percent above
the 30-day average today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
benchmark index trades at 9.3 times 12-month estimated earnings,
compared with a seven-year average of 15.5 times, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index
advanced 1 percent yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite gained 5.6 percent last month, the
most since December, after interest-rate cuts by central banks
around the world spurred capital inflows and policymakers
accelerated reforms of the economy by allowing private
investment in industries such as telecommunications.  Fujian Guizhentang Pharmaceutical Co., a Chinese maker of
bear-bile products, withdrew its application for an initial
public offering as regulators increased scrutiny of companies
seeking listings.  IPOs in China have been suspended since October as investor
appetite for new stock waned amid equity-market declines. The
securities regulator may begin approving IPOs again as early as
mid-August, the 21st Century Business Herald reported May 29,
citing an unidentified person close to regulator.  -- With assistance from Belinda Cao in  New York . Editors: Allen
Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  