-- China Urged to Take Bigger Role in Regulating Energy Markets
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-06-04T06:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/china-urged-to-take-bigger-role-in-regulating-energy-markets.html
China , consuming  about half  the
world’s coal supply to produce power, must play a greater role
in regulating global energy markets and climate protection,
according to the World Energy Council’s secretary general.  The world’s most populous nation should send stronger
signals to prevent average temperatures from rising more than 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit), said Christoph Frei of the
London-based  group  that promotes access to energy and sets rules
for trading. China may join emerging nations including Brazil,
Russia and  India  in backing a  development bank , and it may widen
its role in United Nations-overseen climate talks, he said in a
May 31 interview from  London .  “The pressure for China to take a greater role is
increasing,” Frei said. China could send a “very important
signal” by setting an emissions cap after 2015, he said.  China has been reluctant to limit emissions linked to
 climate change , citing concerns about sustaining its economic
growth. The country has drafted plans to set emission-intensity
targets and cap in its five-year plan through 2020, the 21st
Century Business Herald reported May 20.  China and the U.S. established a climate-change working
group in April that will report to the U.S.-China Strategic and
Economic Dialogue talks in July, Todd Stern, the U.S. special
envoy on climate change, said May 31.  “We hope that this can become a new highlight of the
China-U.S. bilateral relationship.”  Xie Zhenhua , China’s lead
climate negotiator, said in Beijing May 31.  Climate Target Questioned  Without a carbon price, the 2 degrees target is looking
“unrealistic,” said Frei. “Time is running out if world
leaders are to have any chance of adapting energy infrastructure
to enable growth, enhance energy access and deliver on the
climate objectives,” he said, citing a study the council will
present at its congress in October.  About 1,200 coal power plants are proposed around the
world, mostly in China and India, Frei said. Building them all
would boost emissions by about 20 billion tons a year, he said.
That’s about 59 percent of emissions from energy in 2011,
according to statistics published June last year by  BP Plc. (BP/)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  