-- China Sticks to Carbon-Intensity Target, Dismisses CO2 Cap
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-04T15:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/china-sticks-to-carbon-intensity-target-while-dismissing-co2-cap.html
China’s Chief Climate Negotiator Su Wei reaffirmed his nation’s commitment to lower emissions
relative to economic output while dismissing reports that it
will adopt an absolute cap on  greenhouse gases .  The  Financial Times  and  Independent  newspapers both said
last month that China is looking to introduce a cap in 2016. The
Independent cited a proposal by the National Development and
Reform Commission, the economic planning agency where Su works.
The FT cited Jiang Kejun, an NDRC carbon-policy researcher.  “The paper quoted an expert,” Su said today in an
interview in Bonn, where two weeks of climate talks began
yesterday. “It’s not necessarily presenting the view of the
government or the NDRC. The NDRC would reaffirm that we have
committed to a carbon-intensity target by 2020.”  Su’s comments are the first by a senior Chinese negotiator
since the reports were published. While not an outright denial,
they suggest  China  isn’t ready to announce a cap at the United
Nations talks in  Germany , where such a move may have spurred
other nations to step up measures against global warming.  “What I have seen so far is speculation in the press, but
I haven’t seen China really coming out and saying it,” Artur Runge-Metzger, the European Commission’s lead envoy at the
talks, said in an interview. “It could really unlock the
negotiations and show leadership by China. It could be changing
the game, depending on the content.”  Largest Emitter  Envoys are waiting for China to take leadership because
it’s the biggest emitter, said Fuqiang Yang, senior adviser on
energy, environment and climate change for the Washington-based
Natural Resources Defense Council’s China program.  “An absolute peaking of Chinese emissions is one scenario,
and they’re looking at many possibilities,” Yang said in an
interview in Bonn. “They’re not yet ready to pick one of the
scenarios to announce internationally.”  Envoys at the UN talks aim to craft a new climate treaty by
2015 that will take effect in 2020. They’re also discussing how
to raise emission-reduction targets in the meantime, with the
World Bank warning that global temperatures may increase by 4
degrees Celsius, double the internationally agreed goal.  The average concentration of carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere exceeded 400 parts per million last month for the
first time at the Hawaiian monitoring station that first began
tracking the gas in 1958. That threshold hasn’t been passed in
millions of years, scientific studies show.  Behind Schedule  “Allowing the concentration to rise further would be
suicidal,” Nepalese envoy Prakash Mathema told delegates today
in Bonn. “We are behind schedule and time is not on our side.”  The emphasis at previous UN talks has been for developed
nations to take the lead by adopting absolute emission caps,
with  developing countries  taking voluntary measures. The 2015
deal will mark the first time developing nations accept binding
targets, and pressure has mounted on China to boost its efforts.  China’s current goal is to reduce emissions per dollar of
economic output by 40 percent to 45 percent in 2020, from 2005
levels. With a growing economy, that may still allow emissions
to rise, whereas an absolute cap would set a carbon ceiling.  “There are lots of ways we can achieve the carbon-intensity target by 2020,” Su said. “We would certainly make
arrangements in both the 12th and 13th five-year plans to
achieve that objective.”  The 12th of China’s five-year plans, which chart economic
priorities and targets, runs from 2011 through 2015, and the
13th runs through 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Bonn via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 