-- China Bear-Bile Farm Operator Among 269 Companies to Pull IPO
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-04T04:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/china-bear-bile-farm-operator-among-269-companies-to-pull-ipo.html
Fujian Guizhentang Pharmaceutical
Co., a Chinese maker of bear-bile products, withdrew its
application for an initial public offering as regulators
increased scrutiny of companies seeking listings.  Guizhentang was among 269 companies to pull their
applications this year, the  China  Securities Regulatory
Commission said in statements on its website on May 31, without
giving a reason for the withdrawals.  Animal-rights activists have opposed Guizhentang’s listing
since last year, when Beijing Loving Animals Foundation sent the
securities regulator a petition signed by 70 Chinese
celebrities, including snooker champion Ding Junhui and painter
Chen Danqing. Guizhentang says on its website that it can
harvest bile from bears without causing discomfort. Animal
welfare groups say the process is inhumane.  Guizhentang rears more than  400 black bears  on its farm in
the southeastern province of Fujian and is able to breed 100
cubs a year, according to its website. The company’s powders
made from bear bile have medical benefits such as preventing
hepatitis and other liver diseases, improving vision and
detoxifying the body, according to its  online products page .  Two calls by Bloomberg News to Guizhentang’s main number
weren’t answered.  Initial public offerings in China have been suspended since
October as investor appetite for new stock waned amid equity-market declines that dragged the benchmark Shanghai Composite
index to near four-year lows. The securities regulator may begin
approving IPOs again as early as mid-August, the 21st Century
Business Herald reported May 29, citing an unidentified person
close to regulator.  Authorities have already called for greater checks on
companies seeking listings. The securities regulator in January
 set a deadline  for advisers on offerings to submit “self-inspection” reports that check for fraud in the financial
statements of companies seeking listings. The CSRC has also said
legal action will be taken against issuers and advisers if
misconduct such as earnings manipulation and financial
irregularities is found.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Gregory Turk in Shanghai at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  