-- China COFCO Said to Buy First Argentine Corn Cargo After Accord
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-04T10:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/china-cofco-said-to-buy-first-argentine-corn-cargo-after-accord.html
COFCO Corp.,  China ’s largest grain
trader, bought the nation’s first cargo of Argentine corn since
the two countries signed an import agreement in February 2012,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the deal.  The 60,000-metric-ton Panamax-ship order will be filled
from the recently harvested crop and shipped by the end of July,
said an Argentine agricultural official and an executive from a
Chinese trading company, who declined to be identified because
the transaction is private.  The start of commercial shipments from Argentina to China
will increase competition for the U.S., the chief supplier of
corn shipments to the Asian nation. China’s imports in the year
that will begin on Oct. 1 may reach 7 million tons, beating a
record of 5.23 million tons in the period through Sept. 30,
2012, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said May 11.  December-delivery corn, the most-active contract for the
grain on the Chicago Board of Trade, fell 1.4 percent to $5.52 a
bushel at 5:50 p.m. in Beijing, adding to a 21 percent slump
this year. In China, futures settled at 2,435  yuan  a ton, or
$10.08 per bushel.  China buys almost all of its  corn  from the U.S., according
to customs data. Imports, which the government controls through
quotas, may drop to 3 million tons this year, according to the
USDA.  While quarantine authorities officially began to certify
Argentine companies in April this year, buyers have so far only
made one small trial purchase from the South American nation.  New Hope Liuhe Co. bought about 50 tons of Argentine corn
in the first transaction to clear quarantine, the embassy of
Argentina in Beijing said Dec. 20.  Ukraine was also approved as a supplier in November by
China’s General Administration of Quality Supervision,
Inspection and Quarantine, while no shipments have been made.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  