-- Christie Calls 2013 Election to Fill Lautenberg’s Seat
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-06-04T19:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/christie-calls-2013-election-to-fill-lautenberg-s-seat.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, a
Republican seeking a second term in November, called for a
special election in October to fill the U.S. Senate seat vacated
by yesterday’s death of  Frank Lautenberg .  “The decisions that need to be made in  Washington  are too
great to be made by an appointee,” Christie told reporters in
Trenton. “This is about guaranteeing the people of New Jersey
both a choice and a voice in the process, and the representation
they deserve in Washington.”  Lautenberg, a five-term Democrat, died of complications
from viral pneumonia at the age of 89. Christie, 50, said he
will name an interim replacement by next week, and declined to
say whether his choice would be a Republican, Democrat or
unaffiliated. It would be up to the appointee to decide whether
he or she wishes to run in the special election, he said.  “I haven’t made my decision,” Christie said of a
temporary replacement. “I will pick the person who I believe
will be the best representative of  New Jersey  in the United
States Senate.”  Christie had discretion in setting an election date as he
appointed an interim replacement, according to a ruling
yesterday by the nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services in
Trenton. The pick could have served until the November 2014
general election, said the memo obtained by  Bloomberg News .  ‘Transparently Political’  Christie said he set the election schedule today and that
the time frame -- an Aug. 13 primary and an Oct. 16 general
election -- was the soonest the contests could be held under
state law. The accelerated pace will still allow time for an
open and honest campaign, he said.  The governor’s decision to set a special election less than
three weeks before the Nov. 5 general election is
“transparently political” and a waste of taxpayer money, said
Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, an East Orange Democrat. Her
party controls the legislature, and all 120 seats are also up
for grabs in November.  While Democrats wanted a 2013 election to replace
Lautenberg, they said it should be held on the same day as
Christie’s race. Each additional special election will cost
about $12 million, according to the Assembly Democrats’ office.  “ Chris Christie ’s decision speaks more to his national
political ambitions than his responsibility to the residents of
New Jersey,” State Democratic Party Chairman John Wisniewski
said in a statement.  ‘Playing Politics’  Christie, who has been mentioned as a 2016 White House
contender, had faced a difficult choice in selecting a date for
the election and in tapping an appointee. He said today the
decision wasn’t influenced by his own run or by a potential
future presidential bid.  “I’m not going to play politics with this,” he said. “I
just thought it was too long a period of time for any person to
have the sole authority to pick who represents us in the United
States Senate. I believe people have the right to make that
choice. They need to have a voice and a choice and I’m giving it
to them.”  Lautenberg had announced in February that he wouldn’t seek
re-election next year. Newark’s Democratic Mayor  Cory Booker ,
who weighed a challenge to Christie in the governor’s race, has
been preparing to seek Lautenberg’s seat. U.S. Representative
Frank Pallone, another Democrat, is said to be considering a
bid, and another prominent Democrat potentially eying the seat
is U.S. Representative Robert Andrews.  Democratic Money  If Christie had opted for a special election on Nov. 5, the
Senate race would have played out in conjunction with his own,
complete with Booker’s name likely appearing on the ballot. That
might have brought a flood of Democratic money and attention to
the state and harmed Christie’s bid for another term.  Christie, enjoying high approval ratings after his response
to  Hurricane Sandy , holds an edge of more than 30 percentage
points in recent voter surveys over his Democratic challenger,
state Senator Barbara Buono. He has raised more than twice as
much as her for the campaign.  “Chris Christie, like pretty much every politician, wants
to win his next election by as big of a margin as possible, and
if he had to share ballot with Senate candidates it would have
hurt his landslide potential,” said Matthew Hale, who teaches
politics at  Seton Hall University  in South Orange. “He tried to
split the difference between protecting his own election, while
giving New Jersey’s voters a chance to vote on a U.S. Senate
candidate as soon as possible.”  Wide Open  U.S. Representative Bill Pascrell, a New Jersey Democrat,
said the separate elections will deflate Democratic turnout. A
Democratic governor in the same situation as Christie would have
done the same thing, he said.  “He did what is in his prerogative,” Pascrell told
reporters in Washington today.  Pascrell said he didn’t think Booker or anyone else was a
shoo-in for the Democratic nomination. Booker didn’t respond to
a voice mail seeking comment on the Senate race.  “It’s wide open,” Pascrell said. “It’s nobody’s.”  Pascrell said a contested Democratic primary in August
could hamper the winner’s efforts to raise enough money for the
statewide general election in October.  Christie’s decision “means Democrats will face an ugly
primary sprint between Cory Booker, Rob Andrews and  Frank
Pallone  -- all with substantial war chests and a healthy dislike
for each other,” Brook Hougesen, a spokeswoman for the  National
Republican Senatorial Committee , said in an e-mail. “Cory
Booker did not want this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  