-- Jeeps Tied to Pintos Defended by Chrysler Fighting Recall
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e ,   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-06-05T16:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/chrysler-signals-it-will-fight-u-s-jeep-recall-effort.html
Chrysler Group LLC’s unusual decision
to buck what would be one of the largest U.S. auto recalls shows
how much the company has at risk in reputation, perhaps more
than money.  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, in
asking Chrysler yesterday to recall 2.7 million Jeep Grand
Cherokee and Liberty sport-utility vehicles made over 15 model
years, linked them to 51 deaths in fires after rear-end
collisions.  Sergio Marchionne , chairman and chief executive officer of
Chrysler and its majority owner, Italy’s Fiat SpA, said the
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based automaker “stands behind the
quality of its vehicles.” Chrysler in a report called the SUVs
“among the safest vehicles of their era.”  Michelle Krebs , a senior analyst for auto-researcher
Edmunds.com, called the reaction “highly unusual,”
particularly after Toyota Motor Corp. underwent multiple
investigations and hearings after resisting recalls over
unintended acceleration.  “It’s unusual for a company to push back so strongly
against a regulator, particularly when it comes to safety and
their brands,” Mike Rozembajgier, vice president of
ExpertRecall, an Indianapolis-based company that works with
companies to manage product recalls.  “Companies do have conversations with NHTSA back and
forth,” he said. “But it’s rare to this extent where they’re
saying ‘We’re not going to do this.’”  ‘Supreme Negotiator’  Counting engineering, manufacturing and installation, a
recall of 2.7 million vehicles would cost Chrysler at least $500
million, according to  Dennis Virag , president of Automotive
Consulting Group in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  “Sergio is a supreme negotiator,” Virag said. “I don’t
think he would be refusing to do the recall if he was not 100
percent certain that through all of the testing Chrysler has
done that there is not a problem with the fuel tanks.”  U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood , who was involved
in NHTSA’s decision-making, told reporters yesterday that the
department will wait for Chrysler to formally respond to the
agency letter before deciding on NHTSA’s next move. The company
has until June 18, according to the letter.  Chrysler’s refusal could lead to the first recall-related
hearing by the auto-safety regulator in decades and possibly a
court challenge. The NHTSA letter proposes recalls for Grand
Cherokees in model years 1993 to 2004 and the Liberty in model
years 2002 to 2007.  ‘Modern-Day Pinto’  “NHTSA hopes that Chrysler will reconsider its position
and take action to protect its customers and the driving
public,” Administrator  David Strickland  said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Transportation Department has been investigating the
Chrysler SUVs for more than two years. At least three children
have died in fires while belted into the back seats of Grand
Cherokees, said  Clarence Ditlow , an auto-safety advocate who in
a 2011 letter to Marchionne called them a “modern-day Pinto for
soccer moms.”  About 1.5 million  Ford Motor Co.  Pintos were recalled in
the late 1970s because of reports that rear-end collisions could
spill gasoline and ignite fires.  The proposed Jeep recall would be one of the 20  biggest  in
U.S. history, said Ditlow, executive director of the Center for
Auto Safety, based in Washington.  “I’ve never seen a defect where kids burned to death in
the back of a vehicle in child safety seats,” Ditlow, an auto-safety advocate since the 1960s, said in an interview.  ‘Family Vehicle’  “The difference with the Pinto was the Pinto wasn’t a
family car. It was a compact that tended to have one or two
people in it,” he said. “But the Jeeps were advertised as a
family vehicle, so you have people in the back seats.”  A recall may be of little safety benefit given the age of
the SUVs involved,  Eric Noble , president of the Car Lab, an
industry consultant based in Orange, California, said today in
an interview on Bloomberg Television.  “It’s a little bit of a tempest in a teapot,” he said.
“The vehicles in question are quite old. A fiery death is never
a good thing, and nobody wants any to occur. But the number of
vehicles is very small” in terms of fatalities relative to how
many of the SUVs are on the road.  Last June, NHTSA upgraded a defect investigation into the
fuel systems in as many as 5.1 million Jeep vehicles following
reports of about two dozen fires. NHTSA opened its probe into
the Chrysler vehicles in October 2010.  Chrysler Statement  If Chrysler refuses to recall the vehicles, NHTSA “may
proceed to an initial decision that these vehicles contain a
safety-related defect,” a move that would involve publishing a
list of alleged defects in the Federal Register and scheduling a
public meeting, the agency said in its  letter .  NHTSA’s letter, written by Frank Borris, enforcement
director of the agency’s defects investigations office, included
pictures of burned and burning Jeep models involved in
accidents.  Chrysler said in its statement that all the vehicles under
scrutiny meet or exceed federal safety standards, including
those relating to fuel-system integrity. The company cooperated
with NHTSA’s review, providing technical information and
analyses, it said.  This isn’t the first time that Chrysler has resisted a
NHTSA recall request. The company defeated NHTSA’s attempt to
recall about 91,000 Cirrus and Dodge Stratus cars from model
year 1995 because of concerns about the strength of the seat
belt system anchors.  The agency challenged Chrysler in U.S. District Court and
won. Chrysler appealed while beginning a recall. With  John Roberts , now chief justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, as its
lawyer, Chrysler won on a 1998 appeal and had the recall thrown
out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  