-- Climate Benefits From Natural Gas Seen Hinging on Plugging Leaks
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-06-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/climate-benefits-from-natural-gas-seen-hinging-on-plugging-leaks.html
Leaks in the production and delivery
of natural gas threaten to undermine the benefits to the climate
from expanded use of the fuel in manufacturing, transportation
and appliances such as heaters, according to a report.  Advanced drilling techniques that are unlocking reserves,
promising to supply the U.S. with enough gas for almost 100
years, also trigger stray emissions that must be plugged to
achieve national goals, according to a report released today by
the  Center for Climate and Energy Solutions , a nonprofit group
advocating policies for tougher rules to limit the gases.  Emissions tied to global warming are falling as utilities
switch to gas, which produces half the carbon dioxide as burning
coal to generate electricity, according to the report. Further
savings are possible by using gas for home water heaters and
heavy trucks.  “If you substitute gas for coal there’s big savings,”
said  Eileen Claussen , president of the Arlington, Virginia-based
group, known as C2ES.  The report also stresses that long-term cuts in global-warming gases will require broader use of carbon-free energy
sources such as wind, solar and nuclear power.  Carbon-dioxide emissions have retreated to mid-1990’s
levels as abundant and cheap gas produced by hydraulic
fracturing has replaced coal in  power plants , according to the
report. Gas generated 29 percent of U.S. power in 2012.  Methane Emissions  Higher production may also increase leaks of methane, a
main component of natural gas that has about 21 times the heat-trapping potential of carbon dioxide, according to the report.
Environmental groups say stray emissions from drilling can
offset any benefit from burning gas over other fossil fuels.  Leaks occur in production and transmission and “represent
a significant source of global-warming pollution,” according to
the World Resources Institute, a Washington-based environmental
group. Methane leaks are about 3 percent of all greenhouse-gas
pollution in the U.S.  The Environmental Protection Agency in 2012 issued the
first rules to combat air pollution from gas drilling. The
agency gave gas drillers until 2015 to meet the most stringent
requirements.  Based on greenhouse gas data reported by companies, the EPA
reduced the assumed leakage rate for natural gas systems from
2.27 percent in 2012 to 1.54 percent in 2013, according to the
report. Independent studies estimate leak rates ranging from
0.71 percent to 7.9 percent.  1% Goal  Leaks must be less than 1 percent of total production to
ensure that the climate impacts of natural gas are lower than
coal or  diesel fuel , according to the World Resources Institute.  Issues with production include “everything from traffic in
a local community and the capacity of institutions in a local
community to deal with all the expanded activity, to water
issues to chemical disclosure issues,” Claussen said. “We
looked at one slice of this.”  The potential for expanding the use of natural gas to
reduce greenhouse-gas emissions is significant, she said. On
average, about two-thirds of the energy created from fossil
fuels is spent before a home appliance is switched on compared
with 8 percent when gas is used to power an appliance.  As a result, gas-powered water heaters are more than twice
as efficient as electric models, according to the report.  Manufacturers that replace older, less-efficient boilers
with new models can reduce carbon-dioxide emissions and save as
much as 20 percent a year on fuel costs, depending on the price
of natural gas.  Increasing the use of natural gas in heavy trucks and buses
can benefit the climate by displacing carbon-intensive
petroleum-based fuels. Government policies should provide
information on the efficiencies of using natural gas in
buildings and for transportation, according to the report.  “There are infrastructure issues to make sure people can
actually have access to gas, but there are huge educational
issues here,” Claussen said in an interview. “If consumers
were better informed they would make some better choices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  