-- Cocoa Seen Joining Commodity Losers as Crop Outlook Improves
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-04T11:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/cocoa-seen-joining-commodity-losers-as-crop-outlook-improves.html
Cocoa futures, down in  New York 
today, are bound to rejoin most other raw materials that have
dropped this year as the outlook for crops improves in West
Africa, the world’s largest producing region of the beans.  Cocoa traded on ICE Futures U.S. is one of six raw
materials that have gained this year as the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials declined. Rain in West Africa,
which accounts for about 70 percent of world output, will help
output to exceed demand by 11,000 metric tons in the 12 months
started Oct. 1, forecasts London-based Kona Haque, an analyst at
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s biggest investment bank.  Cocoa rallied 2.5 percent yesterday, joining natural gas,
cotton, lean hogs, soybeans and oil as this year’s gainers in
the S&P GSCI. The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against currencies of six U.S. trading partners, was near a one-month low yesterday after a report showed U.S. manufacturing
contracted in May at the fastest pace in four years. The weaker
dollar increased the attractiveness of cocoa priced in the U.S.
currency as an alternative investment.  “The weakness of the dollar certainly helped the New York
market to rally,”  Jonathan Parkman , co-head of agriculture at
Marex Spectron Group in  London , said by phone today. “I can see
no fundamental reason why cocoa should be a winner this year. At
the moment, there isn’t an issue with weather, there isn’t an
issue with crop development, there isn’t anything particularly
positive about demand. So this season it looks as if we will end
up close to a balance.”  Futures Fall  Cocoa for delivery in July fell 0.3 percent to $2,240 a ton
by 7:05 a.m. on ICE, while the U.S. dollar index was little
changed after gaining as much as 0.3 percent to 82.892 earlier
today. The currency fell to as low as 82.428 yesterday, the
least since May 9. In London, where the beans used in chocolate
trade in pounds, futures for delivery in the same month declined
0.2 percent to 1,504 pounds ($2,302) a ton on NYSE Liffe. London
cocoa gained 4.8 percent this year, while it added 0.2 percent
in New York.  Cocoa bean deliveries to ports in leading grower  Ivory
Coast  from the start of the season on Oct. 1 through June 2 were
estimated 6.4 percent higher than a year earlier, according to
KnowledgeCharts, a unit of Commodities Risk Analysis. Bean
arrivals at ports were 1.249 million tons in the period, up from
1.174 million tons a year earlier, the data showed. Arrival
figures were revised higher after a government report showed
that deliveries in the first six months of the season were
higher than initially forecast.  Cocoa Demand  There are already signs that slowing economic growth is
denting cocoa demand. Bean processing in  Europe , the main
consuming region, dropped 3.9 percent to 339,377 tons in the
first quarter, figures released by the European Cocoa
Association in Brussels on April 17 showed. In  Asia , grinding
slid 11 percent in the same period to 140,062 tons, the lowest
in at least nine quarters, according to data on the website of
the Cocoa Association of Asia based in  Singapore .  Ivory Coast’s central-western Daloa region, which produces
about 300,000 tons a year, got above-average rainfall from May
11 to May 20, according to data from the country’s National
Meteorological Service. Ivory Coast will gather 1.475 million
tons of cocoa in 2012-13, the ICCO estimates. Farmers are
harvesting the smaller of two annual crops known as the mid-crop.  “Current weather in the Ivory Coast is good and all areas
are expected to receive at least some rain from time to time,
but there are still several months to go with the mid-crop
extending into September,” Arthur Liming, a futures specialist
at Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said yesterday in an e-mailed
report. “Better follow-up precipitation will be needed by the
end of the month.”  Arabica coffee for July delivery fell 0.5 percent to
$1.2835 a pound on ICE. Robusta coffee for delivery in the same
month slid 0.5 percent to $1,875 a ton on NYSE Liffe.  Raw sugar for delivery in July was unchanged at 16.43 cents
a pound on ICE. White, or refined, sugar for delivery in August
was little changed at $476.40 a ton in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 