-- Colorado Theater Shooter Holmes’s Insanity Plea Accepted
-- B y   B a r r y   B o r t n i c k   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-06-04T19:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/colorado-theater-shooter-holmes-s-insanity-plea-accepted.html
James Holmes, facing capital murder
charges over a movie theater shooting rampage that killed 12
people, was allowed to plead not guilty by reason of insanity.  A bearded Holmes entered the hearing today in state court
in Centennial,  Colorado , in a red jailhouse jumpsuit with his
shaggy hair slicked back. At least eight Arapahoe County
deputies were in the courtroom for security.  Judge Carlos A. Samour Jr. spent most of the morning slowly
reading aloud to Holmes an advisement about what his plea means.
Holmes, his hands shackled, looked down at the document as one
of his attorneys, Daniel King, turned the pages to help Holmes
follow along.  “Do you have any questions?” Samour asked Holmes, when he
finished reading.  “No,” Holmes said.  “I find Mr. Holmes understands the consequences of a not
guilty by reason of insanity plea,” Samour said. “I watched
Mr. Holmes as I read this. He appeared to follow along. I
believe he has intelligently entered a plea. The court accepts
the not guilty by reason of insanity plea.”  Midnight Screening  Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the University of
Colorado, Denver, is charged with 166 counts, including murder
and attempted murder. In addition to those killed, 70 people
were injured in the July 20 shooting spree at a midnight
screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” in  Cinemark Holdings
Inc. (CNK) ’s Century Aurora 16 theater in the Denver suburb.  Prosecutors in March rejected an offer from Holmes to plead
guilty and spend his life in prison without any chance of parole
in exchange for sparing him from the death penalty.  Arapahoe County District Attorney George Brauchler said in
April that his office will pursue the death penalty against
Holmes. The judge on May 29 rejected Holmes’s constitutional
challenges to provisions of Colorado’s death penalty and
insanity-defense laws.  Defense lawyers argued at a May 13 hearing that Holmes had
“good cause” to change his not guilty plea, which a judge
entered for him in March, to not guilty by reason of insanity.
Samour said at that hearing that although he agreed “good cause
has been established,” he might not allow the insanity plea.  New Evidence  New evidence is one factor determining what constitutes
good cause to change a plea after an arraignment, and the
decision must be weighed “liberally and in favor of the
accused,” Samour said at the hearing.  King, the defense attorney, told Samour on May 13, without
specifying a diagnosis, that “qualified professionals”
concluded Holmes wasn’t sane at the time of the shooting.  Senior Deputy District Attorney Jacob Edson told the judge
at that hearing that he wanted to know exactly when, after
Holmes’s March 12 arraignment, the defense learned new
information about the defendant’s sanity. Edson argued that in
order to change the plea, Holmes’s lawyers had to show what
happened between his arraignment and the May 13 hearing.  Public defenders representing Holmes objected on due
process grounds to a provision of Colorado law blocking Holmes
from calling witnesses at any sentencing hearing to present
evidence about his mental condition unless he cooperates with
court-appointed psychiatrists.  Truth Serum  Under state law, psychiatrists can require Holmes to submit
to interviews under the influence of a drug popularly known as
truth serum, according to Karen Steinhauser, a former Denver
prosecutor now in private practice.  The judge who previously handled the case, William
Sylvester, ruled that prosecutors may require Holmes to submit
to a “narcoanalytic interview” under the influence of
“medically appropriate” drugs. Such drugs can enable people to
recall something they’re having difficulty remembering.  Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper, a Democrat, signed an
order May 22 granting one of three men on Colorado’s death row a
“temporary reprieve” from his sentence on grounds that under
Colorado’s capital sentencing system, “death is not handed down
fairly,” according to a statement from his office. The reprieve
for convicted murderer Nathan J. Dunlap remains in effect until
it’s modified or rescinded by another order from the governor,
Hickenlooper said in the statement.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Bortnick in court in Centennial, Colorado at 
7269 or  nickeyh1@icloud.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  