-- Commander Says More Time Needed to Gauge Afghan War Needs
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-04T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/commander-says-more-time-needed-to-gauge-afghan-war-needs.html
The top commander of U.S. and allied
forces in  Afghanistan  said the number of coalition troops needed
after 2014 may take another six to eight months to determine.  NATO defense ministers are unlikely to agree on long-range
troop requirements when they wrap up a discussion tomorrow in
Brussels on the Afghanistan war, said U.S. Marine General Joseph Dunford, the coalition commander in Afghanistan, who briefed
reporters at NATO headquarters today.  Former U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said in February
that NATO would likely need a combined force of 8,000 to 12,000
troops after 2014, when the combat mission officially ends and
Afghans take the lead in providing for their own security.  Dunford declined to endorse that estimate today, saying,
“I don’t need specificity of numbers at this point.”  He said he will assess the status of the war after this
summer’s fighting season -- the first with Afghans instead of
coalition troops in the lead -- and then assess the status of
the political situation of the government this fall.  “I suspect I will be back in six or eight months from
now” to get clarification from NATO defense ministers on the
number of troops required after 2014, Dunford said.  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said defense
ministers will use tomorrow’s conference to develop a “concept
of operations” that will “guide our military planners as they
finalize preparations in the course of the coming months.”  NATO’s mission after 2014 is “to train, advise and assist
Afghan forces,” he said.  NATO’s Task  Dunford said he’ll need clarity on “what it is that NATO
is going to do,” including how much of the country will require
coalition forces and how the training mission work will be
divided among allies.  Rasmussen also confirmed today that NATO will explore a
request by the Libyan government to train its forces. Allies
have agreed to send a delegation to  Libya  and report back by the
end of June on whether such training should be conducted.  “This is not about deploying troops to Libya,” Rasmussen
said today in Brussels before meeting with defense ministers.
“If we are to engage in training activities, such activities
could take place outside Libya.”  NATO air strikes helped topple former Libyan dictator
 Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  