-- Computex Opens With Asustek 3-in-1 Leading Mobile Push
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2013-06-04T05:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/computex-opens-with-asustek-3-in-1-leading-mobile-push.html
Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  introduced a
notebook computer that also works as a desktop and tablet PC as
manufacturers use the Computex trade show in Taiwan to announce
new products meant to capture the shift to mobile computing.  Acer Inc. (2353)  released details of a new 8-inch tablet computer,
along with notebooks with touch-enabled screens running
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8 operating system. Asia’s biggest
computer-trade show, a five-day event featuring 1,700 exhibitors
and 5,000 booths, formally  opens  today.  Personal-computer makers are trying to make up ground lost
to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co., which dominate the
mobile sector after introducing smartphones and tablets that tap
into shifting consumer tastes. PC shipments are forecast to
slump 7.8 percent this year, the worst result on record, and
tablets are set to overtake them in 2015, market researcher IDC
said last week.  Asustek’s Transformer Book Trio laptop has a detachable
screen with its own battery that can run as a tablet and also be
wirelessly connected to a monitor and keyboard to work as a
desktop computer. It runs on Windows and Google Inc.’s Android
operating system.  Tablet shipments are projected to grow 45 percent from this
year to 332.4 million units in 2015, compared with an estimated
322.7 million for PCs, according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC.  Haswell Chip  Component makers also are announcing new products to win
back PC sales.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  is relying on its new power-sipping Haswell
chip to restore demand. The semiconductor’s design delivers 50
percent more battery life than Intel’s previous model, enabling
manufacturers to produce thinner, lighter notebooks and machines
that convert to tablets. PC makers including  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
will show devices with the chip this week at Computex.  Santa Clara , California-based Intel, whose processors run
about 80 percent of the world’s personal computers, has less
than 1 percent of the market for smartphone and tablet
processors, according to research by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , whose technology is at the heart of the
chips running most of the world’s smartphones, announced a new
design to boost the performance of mid-range handsets.  ARM is counting on competition among models with more
features to reignite growth in the mid-range segment, which it
predicts will swell to 580 million devices by 2015, compared
with about 200 million today.  Other product introductions include a laptop for gaming
from  Razer , which said it’s the thinnest 14-inch computer on the
market at 0.66 inches (1.7 centimeters).  Foxconn Technology Group said it’s working with partners to
make at least five devices using Mozilla Corp.’s Firefox
operating system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  