-- Conexant Wins Approval of Soros Debt-for-Stock Swap Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-06-04T16:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/conexant-wins-approval-of-soros-debt-for-stock-swap-plan.html
Conexant Systems Inc., a maker of
semiconductors, won court approval of its restructuring plan
that swaps debt held by its secured lender, an affiliate of
funds managed by billionaire investor  George Soros , for all of
the equity in the reorganized company.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath approved the
company’s bankruptcy plan, which it largely had worked out with
creditors and stakeholders before seeking court protection, at a
hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Conexant, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , received “no
objections, no opposition” to the plan, allowing it to complete
its reorganization in 96 days, Joshua A. Sussberg, a lawyer for
the company, told Walrath. He expects the company to emerge from
bankruptcy in “a couple of weeks.”  QP SFM Capital Holdings Ltd., managed by Soros Fund
Management LLC, holds about $194.5 million in 11.25 percent
senior secured notes, according to court papers. In exchange for
debt, the Soros unit will get all of the reorganized company’s
stock and an unsecured $76 million note for a projected recovery
of about 41 percent. The lender will waive any recovery on a
$114.5 million unsecured deficiency claim.  Under the plan, the Soros affiliate, which provided a $15
million loan to help fund operations while in bankruptcy, will
also supply a $15 million working capital facility to help
support operations when Conexant exits bankruptcy.  Unsecured Creditors  Unsecured creditors, owed about $32.9 million, will get
$2.9 million for a recovery of about 6 percent to 9 percent,
according to court documents.  The bankruptcy was caused by a combination of declining
revenue, increasing costs and significant debt obligations,
Chief Executive Officer Sailesh Chittipeddi said in court
documents. Conexant listed assets of $212.7 million and
liabilities of about $250 million in Chapter 11 papers filed
Feb. 28.  The company designs and sells microchip sets used for
technologies including computers and communications devices, and
for audio, video, security and imaging functions, according to
court filings.  The case is In re Conexant Systems Inc., 13-bk-10367,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  