-- Cookie Maker Margin to Improve on Cheaper Wheat Prices
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-06-04T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/cookie-maker-margin-to-improve-on-cheaper-wheat-prices.html
M. Dias Branco SA (MDIA3) , the cookie- and
pasta-maker providing the top return among Brazilian food
producers, is counting on falling wheat prices to help boost
profit margins in 2013.  Harvests are set to rebound after the U.S. drought sent
wheat to a four-year high in 2012, Chief Financial Officer
Geraldo Luciano Mattos Jr. said. M Dias Branco responded to that
pinch by passing on costs to shoppers, fueling a 66 percent
 rally  in the 12 months through yesterday.  Now, with inflation squeezing consumer buying power,
cheaper ingredients for Adria-brand macaroni and Zabet crackers
would ease pressure on profits at the Eusebio, Brazil-based
company. The margin on earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization fell for four straight quarters to
a low of 15.8 percent in the three months ended March 31.  “Our biggest cost has been wheat,” Mattos said in a May
29 telephone interview. “We had this cost pressure in the first
quarter, it has passed now. Wheat should go down in price and in
the second half of the year, we are working to maintain, if not
surpass, Ebitda margins.”  M. Dias Branco has been buoyed by acquisitions in 2011 and
2012 that allowed the company to branch into making instant
noodles and cakes. Its shares were helped by inclusion yesterday
in the MSCI Brazil Index, a benchmark for equities in  Latin
America ’s largest economy.  Food Leaders  The past year’s gain was the most among Brazilian  food
companies , based on data compiled by Bloomberg, and trounced a 1
percent advance for the Ibovespa index. The stock fell 3.1
percent to 91.12 reais yesterday.  That left the shares trading at  19.2 times  estimated 2013
earnings, compared with food processors  BRF SA (BRFS3)  at 23 and  Marfrig
Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  at 24, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  M. Dias Branco said that it had a 26.6 percent share of the
cookie/cracker and pasta markets in the northeast of Brazil
earlier this year. It’s a region where crackers are eaten daily
at breakfast and pasta with both lunch and dinner, alongside the
rice and beans that are staples of diets elsewhere.  Raw materials  such as grain, vegetable oil and sugar
accounted for 69 percent of first-quarter expenses, according to
the company. Wheat made up more than half the total. Expenses
surged 26 percent in the three months through March 31,
outpacing a 17 percent gain in sales,  M. Dias Branco said.  2012 Surge  That was a hangover from wheat prices reaching $9.4725 a
bushel last year on the Chicago Board of Trade as the U.S., the
world’s leading exporter, endured one of its worst droughts on
record. The cost has been decreasing in 2013 and should keep
dropping as the harvest gets under way, said Mattos. Wheat
futures for July delivery closed at $7.0875 a bushel yesterday.  High-priced grain in stock was used in the first quarter to
make crackers and pizza dough, hurting margins, according to the
company. While wages and operating expenses also rose, M. Dias
Branco was able to mute the effect by getting shoppers to pay
more -- an average of 11 percent for all products, led by 25
percent increases for wheat flour and bran.  M. Dias Branco’s lineup is broad enough, and the company
big enough, that it can adapt to an economy with less growth and
faster-rising prices than  Brazil  has had in recent years, said
Chuk Wong, vice president and portfolio manager at Toronto-based
GCIC Ltd., which has owned shares for more than a year.  Pasta, Biscuits  “Unless we’re talking about galloping inflation, it does
have a strong ability to manage margins by passing on a lot of
the costs,” Wong said in a telephone interview. “Next quarter
it may have to absorb some costs. But at the end of the day,
pasta and biscuits are much less price sensitive than other
products like beer.”  The challenge will be extending that pricing power as
shoppers feel the pinch of annual inflation nearing the central
bank’s 6.5 percent ceiling. An index of  Brazilians’ consumer
confidence  has fallen in five of the past seven months.  “Inflation is corroding consumer income, and this could
affect sales volume, even if the products are a basic
necessity,” said Sandra Peres, a Sao Paulo-based analyst at
Coinvalores in  Sao Paulo . She rates the company a hold.  Acquisitions have been part of the growth strategy at M.
Dias Branco, which may report sales of 3.94 billion reais in
2013, based on analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That
would be a 61 percent increase over 2010’s total. The company’s
market value has doubled in the past two years to 10.3 billion
reais ($4.86 billion).  Buying Companies  M. Dias Branco bought food companies Pelagio Participacoes
SA and J. Brandao Comercio e Industria Ltda. in 2011 for as much
as 240 million reais, a year before buying wheat grinder and
cookie-maker Moinho Santa Lucia Ltda. for a maximum of 90
million reais, according to regulatory filings.  “We want to grow in all segments,” Mattos said. “We will
look for areas that have synergies with what we produce today.”  M. Dias Branco’s low debt of 485 million reais and cash
flow of 131 million reais open up the possibility for
acquisitions, said Henrique Augusto Koch, an analyst at  Banco do
Brasil SA (BBAS3)  in Sao Paulo, who is reviewing his rating.  “The company has a good history of passing on costs,”
Koch said in a telephone interview. “Given that history, I’m
optimistic that it can continue to pass on a little bit more
unless inflation loses control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  