-- Copper Rises to Two-Week High on Freeport Mine Shutdown
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-06-04T18:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/copper-rises-on-supply-concern-as-second-biggest-mine-stays-shut.html
Copper futures rose to the highest in
almost two weeks on prospects for reduced supply as the world’s
second-biggest mine remained closed following deadly accidents.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine in
 Indonesia  will be shut for as long as three months while the
government holds an investigation. Closing the mine for the
entire period would remove about 140,000 metric tons of copper
supply, according to Macquarie Group Ltd., about 20 percent of
the investment bank’s disruption allowance for 2013.  “The potential for an extended shutdown at the giant
Grasberg mine has helped lend support to copper prices,”  Leon Westgate , an analyst at Standard Bank Plc in London, said in a
report e-mailed today. “The most immediate impact will be felt
on the concentrate market.”  Copper futures for delivery in July advanced 1.2 percent to
settle at $3.369 a pound at 1:17 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Earlier, the price reached $3.3775, the highest for a most-active contract since May 22.  A tunnel collapse at Grasberg on May 14 killed 28 people,
and another worker died June 1 in a separate incident. A
landslide in April reduced production at Rio Tinto Group’s
Bingham Canyon mine in the U.S., and output at  Chile ’s
Collahuasi also is limited. Vedanta Resources Plc, controlled by
billionaire  Anil Agarwal , said on May 24 that its Konkola Copper
Mines unit in Zambia plans to cut 24 percent of the workforce.  As a result, copper supply is set to be curbed in what is
normally a seasonally strong period for demand, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The metal will trade at $8,000 a ton in
six months, the bank predicted.  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida site in Chile is the world’s
largest copper mine.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months climbed 1.6 percent to $7,455 a ton ($3.38 a pound), the
biggest gain since May 8. Aluminum, nickel, zinc and lead
gained, while tin dropped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  