-- CQS Said to Plan Equity Hedge Fund With Ex-SAC Manager Morant
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-06-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/cqs-said-to-plan-equity-hedge-fund-with-ex-sac-manager-morant.html
CQS U.K. LLP, the $12 billion hedge-fund firm founded by  Michael Hintze , is looking to start an
equity fund as the company expands beyond its focus on credit
investments, said two people familiar with the matter.  The new hedge fund would be managed by  David Morant , who
joined London-based CQS from  Steven Cohen ’s SAC Capital Advisors
LP last year, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. The fund would focus on
 European stocks , betting on both rising and falling prices, the
people said.  CQS joins hedge-fund managers BlueCrest Capital Management
LLP and Tudor Investment Corp. in considering an expansion into
stocks after the  MSCI World Index  gained about 24 percent over
the past 17 months and firms look to new markets to grow their
businesses. CQS invests in convertible bonds, corporate debt and
asset-backed securities.  Michael Rummel , a CQS spokesman, declined to comment on the
firm’s plans to start a stock fund.  More hedge funds are looking to invest in  European equities 
after the  European Central Bank  flooded markets with money,
making traders less concerned about the risks posed by the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The crisis had caused shares to
move in lockstep, making it difficult for traders to pick
winning and losing stocks based on company fundamentals.  Convertible Bonds  Morant joined CQS in May 2012 from Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC along with  Ben Halfacre , an equity analyst, according
to the people and registrations with the U.K.’s Financial
Conduct Authority. CQS also hired analysts  Daniel Woodbridge  and
 Alex Torrance  from Marble Bar Asset Management LLP and
Saxlingham Asset Management LLP, respectively, FCA records show.  Hintze, 59, started CQS in 1999 after trading convertible
bonds at  Credit Suisse AG . His $2 billion CQS Directional
Opportunities Fund climbed 36 percent last year, boosted by his
view that central bank stimulus would fuel gains for asset
prices, one of the people said. Hedge funds rose 6.7 percent in
2012 on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Directional Opportunities has gained 7.6 percent this year,
and has produced an average annual return of 21 percent since
Hintze started the fund in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  