-- Cricket Australia Gets $574 Million From Broadcast Rights Sale
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-04T06:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/cricket-australia-gets-574-million-from-broadcast-rights-sale.html
Cricket  Australia  said it will reap
A$590 ($574 million) over the next five years from the sale of
domestic broadcasting rights to Nine Entertainment Co. and  Ten
Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN)   Nine, owned by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  Oaktree
Capital Group LLC (OAK) , will pay A$450 million in cash and
advertising and promotional rights to retain elite Tests, one-day internationals and Twenty20 matches, Cricket Australia Chief
Executive James Sutherland said. Ten Network agreed to pay A$100
million a year in cash and advertising for the rights to the
domestic Big Bash Twenty20 competition, he added.  Nine will also enter a joint partnership with Melbourne-based Cricket Australia to develop digital broadcasting assets.
Sutherland said the new agreements represented a year-on-year
average increase of 118 percent on the governing body’s previous
broadcasting arrangements and would allow it to invest in
cricket from the grassroots up.  “How we spend the revenue is as important as the revenue
itself,” Sutherland said today at a televised news conference
in  Melbourne . “Seventy-five percent of our spend will be on
fans, teams and participation.”  Nine had the right to match any rival bid for the rights to
Australia’s home Test and limited-overs games under its previous
accord. The agreement will extend the cricket’s presence on
 Channel Nine  to almost 40 years since Kerry Packer secured the
rights to broadcast Australia’s international matches in the
late 1970s.  “There was never any doubt that Channel Nine was not going
to get the cricket,” Nine CEO David Gyngell said at the news
conference. “As long as the management team we’ve got are at
Channel Nine we won’t be losing cricket. It is Australia’s
national game and is wallpaper over summer. It is a much bigger
sport than the ratings always say it is.”  Ten months ago, Nine and pay-television broadcaster Fox
Sports agreed to pay A$1.02 billion to broadcast Australian
rugby league games over five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  