-- Cuomo Abortion Move May Draw Support From Republican Voters
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-06-04T17:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/cuomo-abortion-move-may-add-to-his-support-from-republican-women.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  introduced a
bill guaranteeing abortion rights that would align  New York  and
U.S. law and may win over Republicans in next year’s elections.  The measure would decriminalize abortions after 24 weeks
when a woman’s health -- not just life -- is at risk. Cuomo, a
55-year-old Democrat, says his bill would protect women if the
U.S. Supreme Court rolls back its 1973 Roe v. Wade decision
recognizing the right.  “We want to codify that in New York state law,” Cuomo
said at a press briefing in  Albany . “This is very simple: are
you pro-choice or are you not?”  In recent years, Republicans in states from  North Dakota  to
 South Carolina  have pushed a record number of laws to restrict
when and how women can terminate pregnancies. Cuomo, considered
a potential presidential contender, would take New York in the
opposite direction.  Republicans in the state senate oppose Cuomo’s move. In
November, Democrats won a senate majority for the first time
since 2008, yet five members calling themselves the Independent
Democratic Conference broke away to ally with Republicans,
letting that party continue to hold sway.  Republican Dilemma  If Cuomo can persuade lawmakers to vote on the bill, he
would force Republicans to take an antiabortion stance in a
state where most of their voters -- led by suburban women --
favor abortion rights, said Bruce Gyory, who teaches politics at
the  State University of New York  at Albany.  “This is an enormously divisive issue for the Republican
conference,” said Gyory. “In the primaries, they’re pulled
toward being pro-life and avoiding a Conservative Party
opponent, but it creates problems for them in November.”  More than half, or 51 percent, of Republicans favored
abortion rights in a March poll of registered voters by College
in Loudonville, New York. Democrats used the issue to attack
Republicans in the November election, helping them retake a
senate majority even as they were outspent about 4-to-1, Gyory
said.  The abortion bill was introduced along with measures to
strengthen penalties for human trafficking, and to bring women’s
wages in line with men’s.  Changing New York’s abortion law is an “unnecessary and
purely political maneuver,” said Kelly Cummings, a spokeswoman
for state Senator Dean Skelos, a Republican from  Rockville
Centre  on  Long Island  and a co-leader in the upper chamber.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  