-- Cycling’s McQuaid Faces Challenger After Armstrong Scandal
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-06-04T11:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/cycling-s-mcquaid-faces-challenger-after-armstrong-scandal.html
Pat McQuaid, who withstood calls to
resign as president of cycling’s ruling body after  Lance Armstrong  confessed to doping, will have at least one challenger
to his bid for reelection.  Brian Cookson, a member of the  Union Cycliste
Internationale ’s management committee since 2009, said today
he’ll stand against McQuaid in September. The 61-year-old is
also president of British Cycling. Armstrong was stripped of his
record seven  Tour de France  titles last year.  “I have decided to stand for the presidency of the UCI,”
Cookson said in a statement. “This is because I passionately
believe that the UCI needs to embrace a new way of doing things,
and address, head on, some of the critical challenges facing our
sport.”  Ireland’s McQuaid has led the Aigle, Switzerland-based UCI
since replacing Hein Verbruggen in 2005. Neither Verbruggen nor
McQuaid did enough to catch Armstrong, according to  Greg LeMond 
and other former riders.  McQuaid said last October that the UCI had limited powers
to uncover what he called a “sophisticated” doping regime on
Armstrong’s former teams, U.S. Postal and  Discovery Channel ,
from 1999 to 2005. McQuaid, 63, introduced blood-profiling of
cyclists in 2008, a method that can help target cheats more
efficiently.  “We must restore cycling’s credibility,” Cookson said.
“The first priority for the new UCI president must be to change
the way that anti-doping is managed so that people can have
confidence in the sport.  We must also urgently carry out a
fully independent investigation into the allegations of
corruption in this area which have so damaged the UCI’s
reputation.”  Disbanded Commission  The UCI on Jan. 29 disbanded an external commission set up
to review its handling of Armstrong, with McQuaid saying a
better way to “clear the air” was to create a truth and
reconciliation panel to study cycling’s past.  In dismissing the commission, the UCI is trying to insert
itself into the investigation and “script its own self-interested outcome,” Travis Tygart, chief executive of the U.S.
Anti-Doping Authority, said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  