-- Czech GDP Falls Most Since 2009 as Exports Stop Boosting Economy
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-04T10:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/czech-gdp-falls-most-since-2009-as-exports-stop-boosting-economy.html
 Czech economic output declined the
most in four years in the first quarter as businesses curbed
inventories and exporters stopped supporting the economy,
deepening the country’s record recession.  Gross domestic product  fell 1.1 percent from the previous
quarter, more than the preliminary estimate of a 0.8 percent
contraction, the statistics office in  Prague  said in a statement
today.  GDP (CZGDPSAY)  fell 2.2 percent from a year ago, the worst
performance in more than three years.  The $217 billion  economy  has shrunk for six straight
quarters, the longest recession since records began in 1996, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis curbed demand for exports and eroded
spending by households and businesses. The slump has tamed
inflation and pushed the central bank to cut rates to
effectively  zero , sparking a debate among policy makers about
whether to weaken the koruna with interventions.  “The data showed two faces of the Czech economy,”  Pavel
Sobisek , the chief economist at UniCredit Bank Czech Republic,
said in an e-mail. “One shows a further deepening of the
recession in its sixth quarter, making it one of the worst in
Europe. The other shows the end of a decline in private
consumption and an increase in households’ interest in durable
goods.”  The Czech koruna weakened 0.3 percent to 25.790 to the euro
after the data were published, the fifth worst daily performance
among the biggest emerging-markets currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Foreign trade and its contribution to total output showed
an “important change” in the first quarter as it no longer had
a positive effect on GDP development, the statistics office said
in the statement.  Consumption  Household demand rose 1.6 percent from the previous quarter
and  government spending  increased 0.8 percent, according to
statistics office’s data.  With the increase in  household  and state consumption as
well as investments, the decline in inventories is “the only
explanation of the worse quarterly reading,” said Petr Dufek,
an analyst at CSOB AS, the Czech unit of KBC Groep NV.  “Even though the first-quarter results are really very
negative, considering the causes we don’t see them as tragic or
devastating,” Dufek said. “The Czech economy is approaching a
stabilization phase, after which the first signs of recovery may
be visible near the end of the year.”  While a moderate economic revival should begin in the
second quarter, GDP will stagnate “at best” this year, the
 Finance Ministry  said in an update of its fiscal outlook
published last week.  After cutting investment and raising taxes to narrow the
budget  deficit  since taking power in 2010, Prime Minister Petr
Necas’s government agreed in April to target a wider shortfall
than initially planned in 2014, when elections are next held, to
boost growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  