-- Dell Trims CEO’s Pay 14% as Performance Slips Ahead of Buyout
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/dell-trims-ceo-s-pay-14-as-performance-slips-ahead-of-buyout.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  cut Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Dell ’s compensation by almost 14 percent last year after
a decline in the company’s financial performance that’s leading
to a bid to take it private.  Dell, the founder of the  Round Rock , Texas-based computer
maker, received total compensation for the fiscal year ended
Feb. 1 of $13.9 million, down from the $16.1 million he earned
in fiscal 2012, according to a company  filing  yesterday. The
CEO’s bonus payment of $1.33 million for the latest year was 70
percent of his target, the document said.  The company, which has suffered from slipping  sales ,  profit 
and stock price as demand for personal computers wanes, is in
the midst of an attempt by CEO Dell and Silver Lake Management
LLC to take it private in a $24.4 billion leveraged buyout. In a
filing last week, Dell reaffirmed the deteriorating financial
condition it first discussed in March that led to the buyout
offer, including a personal-computer business that’s projected
to shrink by $10 billion over four years.  The board’s compensation committee “considers a variety of
factors when evaluating Mr. Dell’s performance, including
performance against several key financial metrics and
performance against certain non-financial objectives such as
progress towards Dell’s strategic transformation,” the filing
said.  Last year, the CEO received a salary of $950,000 and stock
awards of $11.6 million, in addition to the bonus.  Shareholder Vote  The company plans to hold a special meeting of shareholders
July 18 at its headquarters to vote on the buyout, which is
being opposed by billionaire financier  Carl Icahn .  Since returning in 2007 to the company he founded, CEO Dell
has spent billions on  acquisitions  designed to make the company
less reliant on PCs and expanding its presence in equipment,
software and services for corporate data centers. Sales last
year declined 8 percent to $56.9 billion, and earnings excluding
some items fell 19 percent to $1.72 a share.  Dell rose less than 1 percent to $13.45 yesterday at the
 New York  close. The shares have gained 33 percent this year
ahead of the buyout plan, which  Bloomberg News  first reported in
January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  