-- Dell's MSD Says Silver Lake Is a ‘Value-Added’ Partner
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-05T01:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/dell-money-manager-says-silver-lake-helps-computer-maker.html
John Phelan, who helps manage  Michael
Dell ’s personal fortune, said the firm won’t have to sell any
holdings to finance its part in the proposed $24.4 billion
buyout of  Dell Inc. (DELL)   MSD agreed to provide $750 million for the deal, of which
$500 million will come from Michael Dell and $250 million from a
sister firm that raises money from outside investors, Phelan
said. While Michael Dell could have financed the deal by
himself, the participation of Silver Lake Management LLC adds a
perspective that may benefit the computer maker.  “Silver Lake is a good value-added partner,” Phelan, a
co-founder of MSD Capital LP, said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker . “It’s a situation where
you hope that one plus one equals three.”  Michael Dell, who founded the computer company with $1,000
while attending the  University of Texas  in 1984 and now owns a
15.6 percent  stake , is seeking to take the company private for
$13.65 a share to transform the computer maker into a contender
in tablets and cloud computing. The buyout has run into
opposition from Southeastern Asset Management Inc., which, as
Dell’s largest outside stockholder, has estimated that its
underlying value is closer to $24 a share.  Southeastern teamed up with financier  Carl Icahn  to propose
an alternative to the buyout in which they would pay investors
$12 a share in cash or stock in a company that would remain
publicly traded.  ‘Another Perspective’  Dell shares declined 3 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $13.42.  Phelan said  Silver Lake ’s participation reflects Michael
Dell’s belief in partnering with other investors. Silver Lake
helped bring Microsoft Corp. into the deal, he said. The
software company agreed to provide a $2 billion loan for the
transaction.  “Its always good to have another set of eyes, another
perspective,” Phelan said in the interview at the Bloomberg
Link Hedge Funds Summit in  New York .  Dell is urging stockholders to vote in favor of the
founder’s buyout offer at a meeting scheduled for July 18,
stating in securities filings that it is the “best alternative
available.” Southeastern, who together with Icahn holds almost
13 percent of Dell shares, is urging fellow stockholders to take
no action on Michael Dell’s buyout proposal.  Phelan and Glenn Fuhrman, both of whom are former
executives at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., formed MSD in 1998 as
the exclusive investment vehicle for the Dell family fortune.
Having started with an initial contribution of $400 million in
capital from Dell, MSD now has more than $13 billion in assets
that are managed by various investment groups, including a
private equity unit, a real estate team, and a special
opportunities arm.  In July 2009, Phelan and Fuhrman set up a separate firm
called MSDC Management LP to run funds with capital from outside
investors as well as the Dell family. The firm’s goal is to have
eventually as much as 40 percent of assets from outside clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  