-- Delta to Drop Money-Losing Memphis as Hub as It Cuts Flights
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-06-04T21:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/delta-to-drop-money-losing-memphis-as-hub-as-it-cuts-flights.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  said it will cut
230 jobs and trim flights by more than a third in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , after changes in operations failed to make the hub
profitable.  The reliance on inefficient 50-seat jets in Memphis and
high  jet-fuel prices  that make them too expensive to operate
were blamed for the decision to scale back operations, two Delta
executives told employees today in a memo that was made
available by the Atlanta-based airline.  Service at Memphis, already the smallest of Delta’s eight
U.S. hub airports, will fall to about 60 flights a day from 96
now, said  Anthony Black , a spokesman for the carrier. Memphis
flights had been declining in recent years and by this summer
will be at half the level of a year ago, Black said.  The job reductions represent about 28 percent of Delta’s
total headcount of 830 in Memphis and involve airport customer
service and cargo employees there, Black said. Workers can seek
transfers or accept retirement or severance packages after the
cuts take effect on Sept. 3, Delta said.  Delta has been retiring older 50-seat aircraft in favor of
larger 76-seat planes that are more fuel-efficient, have dual-class cabins and allow room for several rows of seats with extra
legroom that command premium fares. The carrier still has 300 of
the 50-seaters in its fleet and plans to shrink that to about
100 or 125 within two years, Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said in January.  Delta acquired the Memphis hub when it bought Northwest
Airlines Corp. in 2008 after both carriers went through
bankruptcy reorganization. Northwest’s hubs of Minneapolis,
Detroit and Memphis have been jokingly called  “Snowtown, Motown
and No Town”  by competitors and news media such as the Memphis
Flyer newspaper.  Delta rose 1.6 percent to $18.09 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 52 percent this year, outpacing a
39 percent advance for the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  