-- Disney’s Upgraded California Park Draws 23% More Visitors
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-06-04T20:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/disney-s-upgraded-california-theme-park-draws-23-more-visitors.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s California
Adventure, bolstered by a $1.1 billion expansion, led the
world’s largest theme parks with a 23 percent surge in visitors
to 7.78 million last year.  Attendance at the top 25 parks worldwide increased 5.2
percent to 205.9 million visitors in 2012, according to a  report 
today by the Themed Entertainment Association and the consulting
firm Aecom.  “The market in  North America  was, this year as last year,
driven by major reinvestment at the major operators’ parks,”
according to the report.  Disney, the world’s largest theme park operator, tripled
its investment in its resorts division between 2008 and 2012,
spending $9.2 billion on two new cruise ships and improvements
to its properties. The company’s net income jumped 32 percent to
$1.51 billion in the second quarter, in part due to higher
attendance and a surge in profits at its parks business.  Disney’s California Adventure park in Anaheim opened its
Cars Land attraction in June 2012, drawing tourists to a new
area based on the Pixar “Cars” films. Neighboring Disneyland
was the only park among the world’s largest to register fewer
visitors last year, with attendance shrinking 1.1 percent to 16
million, according to the report.  Attendance ‘Dream’  Jay Rasulo, Disney’s chief financial officer, said at an
investment conference last week that the money spent on
California Adventure was designed to correct an imbalance in
attendance between the two California resorts.  “We had a very uneven distribution where most people spent
most of their time at Disneyland and Disney’s California
Adventure was empty,” Rasulo said. “Now, half of the folks go
to one, half of the folks go to the other. It’s almost a dream
come true.”  Rasulo said at the conference the theme parks division
faces a tough year-over-year comparison in the current fiscal
third quarter. Results will reflect one less week of Easter
holiday traffic, compared with the same period last year, and
Disney won’t get the same earnings boost from the new cruise
ship Fantasy as the ship has now been operating for more than a
year, he said.  Disney’s stock  rose  less than 1 percent to $64.35 at the
close in  New York . Shares of the Burbank, California-based
company have risen 29 percent this year through today, compared
with 14 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company raised admission prices at its parks this week,
increasing the cost of a Disneyland or California Adventure
single-day, adult ticket by 5.7 percent to $92.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  