-- Dollar Holds Above 100 Yen on Fed Speculation Before Jobs Report
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-06-05T02:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/dollar-holds-above-100-yen-on-fed-speculation-before-jobs-report.html
The dollar held above 100 yen for a
second day, after rallying from the lowest in almost a month,
before U.S. employment data that may add to the case for the
Federal Reserve to slow stimulus.  Kansas City Fed President Esther George yesterday urged a
reduction in the central bank’s bond-buying program, known as
quantitative easing, as growth quickens. San Francisco Fed
President John Williams said a “modest adjustment downward” in
purchases is possible “as early as this summer.”  Australia ’s
dollar fell after the nation’s economy grew at the slowest pace
in almost two years.  “The dollar weakness only lasted for a day,” said Kazuo Shirai, a trader at Union Bank NA in Los Angeles. “The market
will be swayed by comments by Fed speakers about when they may
end the QE program ahead of U.S. jobs data.”  The dollar gained 0.2 percent to 100.18 yen at 11:04 a.m.
in Tokyo from yesterday, when it advanced 0.5 percent. It slid
to 98.87 on June 3, the lowest since May 9. The euro fell 0.1
percent to $1.3072. The shared currency was little changed at
130.95 yen from 130.84.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, rose 0.1 percent to 82.86.  The ADP Research Institute will probably say today the pace
of hiring in the U.S. quickened by 46,000 jobs to 165,000 in May
from the previous month, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.S. Economy  The Labor Department reported last month that nonfarm
payrolls swelled by 165,000 jobs in April, more than forecast,
and the unemployment  rate  unexpectedly fell to 7.5 percent. It
will probably say June 7 that employers added 167,000 workers in
May, economists forecast.  Figures from the Commerce Department yesterday showed the
U.S. trade deficit widened in April from a more than three-year
low, reflecting a rebound in imports of consumer goods and
business equipment.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage
bonds each month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs
under its quantitative-easing stimulus strategy, which tends to
debase the dollar.  “In light of improving economic conditions, I support
slowing the pace of asset purchases as an appropriate next step
for monetary policy,” Kansas City Fed President George said in
the text of her speech. “Waiting too long to acknowledge the
economy’s progress and prepare markets for more-normal policy
settings carries no less risk than tightening too soon,” she
said.  ‘Dial Back’  Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher told reporters in
Toronto the Fed should begin to “dial back” rate of bond
buying.  The dollar has gained 4.5 percent this year, the best
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has climbed 3.5
percent, while the yen has declined 11 percent, the biggest
loser.  The yen weakened against most of its major peers before
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe outlines his growth strategy,
the “third arrow” of an economic revival plan that seeks to
build on fiscal and monetary stimulus. The currency fell to the
weakest since October 2008 last month, after the Bank of Japan
announced in April it will buy more than 7 trillion yen ($70
billion) of bonds every month.  “Should we see more details of Abe’s growth strategy come
out, that may spur buying of domestic stocks and put the yen
under selling pressure,” said  Junya Tanase , the chief currency
strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.  The  Topix share index  was little changed from yesterday,
when it jumped 2.6 percent.  Must Deliver  “The speculative community is still very, very long
dollar-yen, so any signs of disappointment may trigger a knee-jerk move lower on dollar-yen,”  Thomas Harr , the head of Asia
local markets strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore ,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We still think over
the coming months,  there will be a further leg up in dollar-yen, but he has to deliver today and calm market to put upward
pressure again on dollar-yen.” A long is a bet prices will
rise.  Demand for the euro was limited before data forecast to
confirm a sixth straight quarter of contraction in the region’s
economy.  Preliminary figures  will probably show that gross
domestic product in the 17-nation euro zone shrank 0.2 percent
in the three-months ended March 31, after a 0.6 percent decline
in the fourth quarter, economists predicted before the release
today.  Australia’s Growth  In Australia,  GDP (AUNAGDPC)  grew at a 2.5 percent annualized rate in
the first quarter, the slowest pace since the three months ended
June 30, 2011, a statistics bureau report released in Sydney
showed. The result was less than the 2.7 percent increase
expected by economists in a Bloomberg survey and revised 3.2
percent growth in the fourth quarter.  Demand for New Zealand’s kiwi dollar was limited after milk
prices fell to a three-month low. Whole milk powder auction
prices tumbled amid expectations of rising production in the
second half of the year.  Powder for August delivery slumped 15 percent, according to
a trade-weighted index on the Auckland-based Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd.’s GlobalDairyTrade website. The near-term
contract for New Zealand product fell to $5,250 a metric ton,
the lowest since March 5.  The Aussie dropped 0.3 percent to 96.17 U.S. cents from
yesterday, when it sank 1.2 percent. New Zealand’s dollar was
little changed at 80.24 U.S. cents from yesterday, when it
weakened 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  