-- DoubleLine’s Gundlach Says ‘Horrible Time’ to Flee Bonds
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-06-04T22:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/doubleline-s-gundlach-says-horrible-time-to-flee-bonds.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , manager of the top-ranked  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) , said investors
shouldn’t exit bonds after global fixed-income markets had their
worst month in nine years.  “It’s a horrible time to be exiting bonds,” Gundlach,
chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital
LP, said today during a webcast presentation.  Bond yields probably won’t move much higher in the near
term and may drop to 1.7 percent at year-end because the global
economy isn’t strong enough to allow for an end of quantitative
easing by the world’s central banks, he said. Quantitative
easing has had a positive impact on the economy overall, he
said.  Global bond markets posted their biggest monthly losses in
nine years in May as the U.S. dollar rallied and stocks reached
record highs. The more than $40 trillion of bonds in the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index fell 1.5 percent
on average. Treasuries fell 2 percent amid speculation a
strengthening U.S. economy will allow the Federal Reserve to
reduce its monetary stimulus.  The Fed may reduce the amount of bond purchases, yet is
still likely to keep quantitative easing in place, especially if
rising rates start to cause problems, Gundlach said. Higher
interest rates would push up mortgage rates, which, together
with higher house prices, would make housing less affordable,
Gundlach said.  Treasury  10-year yields  approached a 14-month high today
before reports this week forecast to show employers stepped up
hiring. The U.S. 10-year note yield rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.15 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Gundlach said his favorite picks currently are bank loans,
dollar-denominated emerging-market corporate bonds and non-agency mortgage-backed securities.  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund advanced at an annual
average of 10.2 percent over the past three years, ahead of 99
percent of peers, and 1.5 percent this year, beating 88 percent
of similarly managed funds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  