-- Dying Girl’s Family Wins Temporary Order for Transplant
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-06-05T22:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/dying-girl-denied-u-s-waiver-for-adult-lung-transplant.html
A 10-year-old girl who needs a lung
transplant to survive will be considered a candidate for an
adult organ under a temporary court order overturning a U.S.
decision to deny her an exemption to transplant guidelines.  U.S. District Judge Michael Baylson in Philadelphia today
issued a temporary restraining order allowing Sarah Murnaghan to
be considered for a transplant from an adult donor after her
family sued the government.  Kathleen Sebelius, U.S. Health and Human Services
Department secretary, told Congress yesterday she wouldn’t sign
a waiver allowing the Pennsylvania girl to sidestep a policy
preventing children younger than 12 from being added to a
priority list for adult lung transplants. The policy exists
because of the different biological needs and circumstances
between the age groups.  Sebelius said she spoke with the Murnaghan family and while
she has asked for a review of donor procedures, the department
had no plans to overstep the rules. Lawmakers urged the
secretary at a hearing yesterday to set aside the policy on an
emergency basis or direct the Organ Procurement and
Transplantation Network to do more research about the
suitability of adult organs for children.  “We believe the regulations allow for you to direct OPTN
to conduct an experimental variance,” U.S. Representative
Patrick Meehan and U.S. Senator Pat Toomey, both Pennsylvania
Republicans, wrote in a June 3 letter to Sebelius. “We do not
have much time to wait.”  Sarah Murnaghan has only a few weeks to live, they said.  Lawsuit  Murnaghan’s family sued Sebelius today in federal court
seeking immediate injunctive relief, arguing that the under-12
policy is unfair. Baylson issued the temporary restraining order
and scheduled a June 14 court hearing on a preliminary
injunction.  Tait Sye, a spokesman for HHS, said today in an e-mail
before the judge’s decision that the agency “declines to
comment on an ongoing legal matter.”  Sebelius, at a budget hearing of the House Education and
Workforce Committee, told lawmakers yesterday that she prefers a
process set by “medical science and by medical experts” rather
than politicians and policy makers.  “I would suggest that the rules that are in place and are
reviewed on a regular basis are there because the worst of all
worlds, in my mind, is to have some individual pick and choose
who lives and who dies,” Sebelius said.  OPTN, created by Congress, operates as an independent
nonprofit group under federal contract to manage transplant
needs. Almost 1,700 people nationwide await a life-saving lung
transplant, including 30 children ages 10 or younger, the OPTN
said in a May 27  statement . In 2012 there were 11 lung donors
from the ages of 6 to 10, the network said.  Transplant Policy  Murnaghan can’t receive a transplant from anyone older than
age 12 ahead of other adults on the waiting list, according to
national rules. The organ network said it can’t create an
exemption on behalf of an individual patient, though it does
routinely review allocation policies.  Sebelius wrote a letter May 31 to the president of OPTN
asking for a review of lung allocation policies that pay close
attention to the age categories, HHS spokesman Sye said in an e-mail.  “I urge you this week to allow that lung transplant to
move forward,” U.S. Representative Tom Price, a Georgia
Republican, told Sebelius at the hearing. “A study will take
over a year.”  There are 40 “very seriously ill” Pennsylvanians older
than 12 waiting for a lung transplant, Sebelius said. There are
three other children as sick as Murnaghan in Philadelphia who
need a transplant, she said. She didn’t say the other children’s
ages.  “While the availability of organs remains limited, the
OPTN is committed to developing and improving policies that give
all groups of candidates the best possible opportunity for life-saving transplantation,” the network said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  