-- Teaching Women to Salute Rapists
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-06-04T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/teaching-women-to-salute-rapists.html
Rape without consequence starts early
in the military, if you believe the woman in a case  now wending
its way  through the U.S. Naval Academy.  A female midshipman says she was raped by three football
players at an off-campus party in April 2012. She didn’t
remember much, but other students did, and there’d been talk
about it on Facebook. So officials immediately swung into
action: They punished the woman for underage drinking. The
football players kept playing. And, because Naval Academy rules
require midshipmen to attend home games, the woman had to watch
as her accused assailants were cheered.  Now, more than a year later, the case languishes. True, the
woman didn’t push the Navy to investigate after one of the
players begged her not to hurt the team. But she didn’t drop the
case, and at any rate that’s not how the system works. She’d
already given over the information, and it was up to the Naval
Criminal Investigative Service to proceed. There was already
damning evidence, from witnesses and from social media postings.
There was no dearth of corroborating testimony.  And so it goes for too many sexual-assault victims in the
military. Walking down a dark alley on the wrong side of town is
preferable to going to the latrines late at night in  Afghanistan 
-- or to a party in Annapolis. The brass decries the violence
but wants those who report it to accept the command structure
and bow to authority. There is a lot of wringing of hands, but
not of necks.  Something Happens  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel calls sexual assaults a
“ scourge ” on the military. Last year, the  Pentagon received 
3,374 reports of sexual assault, with the actual number
estimated at closer to 26,000. Of those 3,374, almost 1,000 were
thrown out and several hundred others were dropped by commanders
as unfounded or for other reasons.  Something happens when a crime is reported in the military.
Service members close ranks. How dare she, or he, upset good
order and discipline? The victim often has to continue to salute
her assailant. Everyone publicly agrees the situation is dire.  This week’s  Senate hearings  about sexual assault in the
military illuminate an awful truth: Beneath all the official
declarations about the need for change is a more powerful desire
to preserve rank at all costs, even if the cost is a crime
spree.  Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a member of the Senate Armed
Service Committee, has proposed bipartisan legislation that
attempts to break this buddy system by taking the prosecution of
sexual assaults out of the command structure. Uniformed
investigators and prosecutors would still handle complaints. But
that’s not enough to reassure the brass. If their authority is
removed in the barracks, their thinking goes, it is also gone
from the battlefield. Without their support, this one tiny step
for accusers could fail.  So much for today’s four-star generals. What about the next
generation of officers graduating from the elite military
academies? The news there is just as grim. Consider  the lawsuit 
filed last year by another female midshipman, a star soccer
player from a military family that dates its roots to the
Revolutionary War.  She says she was raped on two occasions by midshipmen after
drinking. When she went to her Naval Academy counselor, she was
not encouraged to report the rapes. When she became depressed
and suicidal, she told her parents and reported both rapes. She
was a year from graduation but, according to her lawsuit, Naval
Academy officials decided that the “mental-health issues caused
by the rapes precluded her from becoming a commissioned
officer.” Eventually her parents and a member of Congress had to
intervene to keep her from being sent to a mental institution.
Both of the accused rapists graduated and became officers.  Nothing Happens  It’s not just Annapolis. That same lawsuit also tells the
story of a female cadet at West Point who enthusiastically
shined shoes, made beds and did whatever mundane tasks required
by upperclassmen. Then, she said, she was raped by an
upperclassman after he gave her a sports drink with alcohol in
it. She reported the incident, despite being called a “slut.”
But she was still responsible for emptying her accused
assailant’s trash, and was even assigned “walking hours” with
him. She never graduated.  And what about the case in the news this week, of the woman
who accuses the three football players of raping her? So far the
only punishment meted out is that the senior among the three was
not allowed to attend his graduation and become an officer. So
it’s unclear if he heard President  Barack Obama , in his Naval
Academy  commencement address  last month, say: “We have to be
determined to stop these crimes, because they’ve got no place in
the greatest military on earth.”  A Naval Academy spokesman told the  New York  Times that
officials are “monitoring the progress of this investigation.”
It will be telling if, come September, they are still monitoring
the case when the two other players accused of rape take to the
field.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 