-- Health Management CEO Exit Stokes Takeover Talk: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-06-04T14:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/health-management-ceo-exit-stokes-takeover-talk-real-m-a.html
Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA) ,
facing a leadership change and potential pressure from its
biggest shareholder, is becoming one of the hottest subjects of
merger speculation among U.S. stocks.  The operator of rural American hospitals surged 25 percent
last week, more than almost every Russell 3000 Index stock and
enough to drive Health Management’s  price-earnings ratio  to a
level last seen in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rally came amid optimism shareholder Glenview
Capital Management LLC may spur a sale and after Health
Management said its chief executive officer will retire.  The CEO  shift  amid government investigations could lead to
a sale of the $3.6 billion company, Royal Bank of Canada said.
Both RBC and shareholder Snow Capital Management LP see
 Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) , which said last week that it’s
open to friendly mergers, as the most logical suitor. At
Susquehanna International Group LLP’s estimated price of about
$18.50 a share, a deal would be the biggest in the health-care-services industry since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “HMA’s CEO resigned and their board needs to do something
for shareholders,” Joshua Schachter, a  money manager  at
Sewickley, Pennsylvania-based Snow Capital, said in a telephone
interview, referring to Health Management by its stock ticker.
Snow Capital oversees more than $3 billion, including shares of
 Community Health  and Health Management. “Shareholders of HMA
would really welcome a deal to be with the good management team
of Community.”  Florida Focus  MaryAnn Hodge, a spokeswoman for Health Management,
declined to comment on whether the company would be open to a
sale or had held conversations with potential buyers. Scott Tagliarino, a spokesman for New York-based Glenview, declined to
comment on whether the investor would support a deal.  Health Management runs 71 hospitals with about 11,100 beds.
The company, which has almost a third of its locations in
 Florida , had $5.9 billion of net  revenue  in 2012.  Last month, shareholder Glenview Capital began reporting
its 14.6 percent stake on a form 13D, a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission document usually reserved for activist
holdings. In a May 24 filing that mentioned the shift, Health
Management said it adopted a takeover defense because the
investor had sought regulatory approval to purchase as much as
$2.2 billion of stock -- at the time, about a 75 percent stake.  Glenview responded on May 28, saying it had “no present
intention or future plan” to purchase that much stock. Glenview
also said it hoped to continue private discussions with Health
Management.  Spurring Rally  The stock  jumped  6.9 percent on May 28 after the statements
from Health Management and Glenview as well as a report from
Lazard Capital Markets LLC that said the investor may desire a
sale of the company. After the market closed that day, Health
Management said Gary Newsome will retire as CEO and leave the
board on July 31, fueling even more gains for the stock -- which
rose 25 percent between May 24 and May 31.  It was the 10th-biggest weekly increase in the Russell 3000
Index during the period and also Health Management’s biggest
advance since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Today, the shares rose 2 percent to $14.19 at 9:56 a.m. New
York time, climbing for the ninth straight day. That’s the
longest streak of gains since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The rally has pushed Health Management’s  price-earnings
ratio  to greater than 20, the most expensive valuation in more
than three years, the data show.  Market’s Bet  “The market obviously thinks the company is in play,”
John Ransom, an analyst at  St. Petersburg , Florida-based Raymond
James Financial Inc., said in a phone interview. “You had the
poison pill and then you had the CEO resign in rapid
succession.”  Community Health is the most logical suitor for Health
Management, said Schachter of Snow Capital. Community Health
owns, leases or operates 135 hospitals with about 20,000 beds
and posted $13 billion of net revenue in 2012.  The Franklin, Tennessee-based hospital operator is
interested in buying complementary companies of a “decent
size,” though it probably wouldn’t pursue hostile deals, Chief
Financial Officer W. Larry Cash said at a conference last week.  Tomi Galin, a spokeswoman for Community Health, didn’t
respond to a phone message or e-mail seeking comment.  Health Management “would significantly add to earnings for
Community,” Schachter said in a phone interview. A combination
would be “a perfect fit.”  Also, their operations don’t significantly overlap
geographically, said Gary Lieberman, a New York-based analyst at
Wells Fargo & Co.  Takeover Price  Chris Rigg, a New York-based analyst at Susquehanna, said
in a report last week that Health Management could fetch about
$18.50 a share in a takeover.  That would give the company an enterprise value of $8.4
billion, making a deal the fourth-biggest on record for a
health-care-services provider, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
It would be the largest purchase since a group of private-equity
firms purchased HCA Inc. in 2006 for more than $30 billion, the
data show.  Private-equity firms could also be tempted to bid on Health
Management, lured by the opportunity to cash in on an influx of
newly insured patients from the U.S. Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, said Frank Morgan, an analyst at RBC.  “If you’re a private-equity investor, you might look at
HMA as an investment vehicle to get a really big portfolio of
assets in one fell swoop,” Morgan said in a phone interview.  Expanding Footprint  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , as HCA is now known after its 2011
initial public offering, and  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  could be
interested in Health Management to expand their footprints in
Florida, said Whit Mayo, a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co.  “You can get better leverage, better pricing,” Mayo said
in a phone interview. “There are some strategic reasons why
this would make a lot of sense.”  Ed Fishbough, a spokesman for Nashville-based HCA, and Rick Black of Dallas-based Tenet declined to comment on whether their
companies would seek to buy Health Management. The two companies
have market values of $18 billion and $4.9 billion,
respectively.  Still, Health Management may not be interested in selling,
Mayo said. Also, potential legal costs or the prospect of
business disruptions stemming from Health Management’s
government investigations could deter buyers, said  Sheryl Skolnick , a  Stamford , Connecticut-based analyst at CRT Capital
Group LLC.  ‘Highly Problematic’  Health Management said on May 2 that the SEC was reviewing
its accounting procedures, including payments from Medicare and
Medicaid, the U.S. health programs for the elderly and poor.  “HMA is highly problematic as a takeout candidate”
because of the inquiries, Skolnick said in a phone interview.  Community Health, which has faced its own government
investigations, may not be turned off by Health Management’s
potential legal issues, Schachter of Snow Capital said.  “That’s part of the business and being in this industry,”
he said.  With Health Management juggling both the investigations and
a CEO search, now could be the time for the company to evaluate
options including a sale, RBC’s Morgan said.  “There are not many portfolios of this size that come to
market very often,” he said. “To the extent that that’s one of
the options they explore, certainly there would be people that
would absolutely look at it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  