-- Heat Return to NBA Finals With 23-Point Rout of Pacers in Game 7
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-04T05:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/heat-beat-pacers-99-76-to-win-conference-title-reach-nba-finals.html
LeBron James and the Miami Heat are
back in the National Basketball Association Finals for the third
year in a row after routing the  Indiana  Pacers 99-76 in a
decisive Game 7 to win the Eastern Conference title.  James had 32 points and eight rebounds last night for the
defending-champion Heat, who outscored the Pacers 33-16 during
the second quarter to open a 15-point halftime lead at
AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami.  “We weren’t going to win with just LeBron being amazing,”
Dwyane Wade, whose 21 points were his most in the series, told
reporters. “We needed timely scorers and early on I thought
everyone was involved in the ballgame.”  Miami led by as many as 28 points in the second half in
advancing to face the San Antonio Spurs in the best-of-seven NBA
Finals beginning June 6 in Miami. The Spurs have been off since
May 27, when they completed a four-game sweep of the Memphis
Grizzlies in the Western Conference finals.  The Heat are 5.5-point favorites in Game 1, according to
Las Vegas oddsmakers. Miami has a 70 percent chance to
successfully defend its title based on oddsmakers’ betting lines,
Las Vegas-based handicapping information website Pregame.com
said.  “I’m definitely going to savor this win,” James said at a
news conference. “Tomorrow I’ll start to get back into the
books and film on a team that’s very good, very disciplined and
well coached. They’ve got a bunch of Hall of Famers. So I look
forward to the challenge.”  Seventh Game  This is the second straight year the Heat have won a Game 7
at home to advance to the NBA’s championship round. Miami last
season beat the Boston Celtics 101-88 in a decisive seventh game
in the Eastern Conference finals and went on to defeat the
Oklahoma City Thunder in the NBA Finals.  The Heat two years ago lost to the Dallas Mavericks in the
NBA’s championship series.  The Heat last night trailed 23-19 less than one minute into
the second quarter before Ray Allen came off the bench to spark
the home team. James scored 12 points in the quarter for Miami
while Allen hit three 3-pointers and netted 10 points in a span
of less than seven minutes.  Miami took a 52-37 lead into halftime and continued to
stretch its advantage in the second half as Wade matched his
highest scoring game of the postseason. The Heat held a 43-36
rebounding advantage, forced 21 Indiana turnovers and shot 87
percent from the free-throw line, making 33 of 38 foul shots.  “They taught us a lesson,” Pacers coach Frank Vogel said
at a news conference. “They’ve won it all and they know how to
ratchet up their defense at a level that just imposes their will
on a basketball game. Our guys didn’t handle it well in the
first half. You have to give them credit.”  ‘Battle Tested’  Roy Hibbert had 18 points and 10 rebounds to lead the
Pacers, while David West added 14 points and George Hill scored
13.  “Those guys have been battle tested,” Hibbert said of the
Heat. “Their guys were making the right plays and making game-winning plays because they’ve been through it before.”  Miami never trailed in the series, as Indiana rallied for
wins three times after losses in games 1, 3 and 5. The Heat, who
had the best record in the NBA during the regular season at 66-16, haven’t lost consecutive games since Jan. 8 and 10.  “The competition brought out the best in us,” Heat coach
 Erik Spoelstra  said.  It was the second of 14 series that’s gone to seven games
this postseason. The only other one was the Chicago Bulls’ win
against the Brooklyn Nets in the first round.  “I dreamed about opportunities like this as a kid -- to
have a Game 7, no matter at home or on the road, and that game
allows you to advance to the Finals,” James said. “To see a
dream become a reality, I’m just very blessed. Our team is
blessed. We’re happy that we are able to represent the Eastern
Conference in the Finals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  