-- Egypt Court Sentences Pro-Democracy Workers to Prison
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-06-04T18:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/egypt-court-sentences-pro-democracy-workers-to-prison.html
An Egyptian court handed down prison
sentences ranging from one to five years in the case of 43
Egyptian and foreign pro-democracy workers, including Americans,
that has strained Cairo’s ties with  Washington .  Sam LaHood, the son of U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, was sentenced in absentia to five years in prison. The
court also ordered the closure of the branches of the groups
involved in the case including the National Democratic Institute
and the International Republican Institute. Some of the verdicts
were issued in absentia. Most of the Americans in the case have
left the country.  “The case has a political dimension,” Negad El Borai, a
defense lawyer representing some of the defendants said by phone
before the verdicts. “These people have paid the price for the
tensions between the military council” and the U.S., he said
referring to the interim military rulers at the helm when the
issue started. The council took over after the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  until Mohamed Mursi became president.  Critics have questioned the legal action, saying it’s part
of an attempt by Egyptian officials to muzzle freedom and
cripple civil society, as well as to shift attention from
domestic problems. Egyptian officials have said the issue is
legal, not political.  The trial of the workers opened last year on accusations
relating to operating without licenses and receiving funds from
abroad.  ‘Brutal’ Verdict  Tharwat Abdel-Shahid lawyer for the NDI and the Intentional
Centre for Journalists, one of the NGOs involved in the trial,
said defendants will appeal.  “The verdict is so brutal especially for those who
insisted to attend the court secessions and provided all the
evidence that proves they’re innocent” he said in a phone
interview today.  Robert Becker, an American who was sentenced to two years,
wrote on his Twitter account today that he was reviewing legal
and appeals options with his lawyers.  “We, as NGO workers were dragged into a larger battle
between two governments,” Hafsa Halawa, one of the defendants,
said in response to e-mailed questions yesterday. “Ultimately
this trial is not about us or the American administration,
despite the media play out, it is more about attacking the long-embedded conspiracy fueled by Mubarak that foreign activities in
this country are there to harm the prosperity and national
security of  Egypt .”  ‘Politically Motivated’  “The  United States  is deeply concerned by the guilty
verdicts and sentences” that were handed down “in what was a
politically motivated trial,” U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said today in a statement. “This decision runs contrary
to the universal principle of freedom of association and is
incompatible with the transition to democracy.”  In a statement, German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle 
said his country was “outraged” by what he called a harsh
ruling against employees of the German-based Konrad Adenauer
Foundation and the order to close its Egypt office.  Germany  also
summoned Egypt’s senior diplomat from the Egyptian Embassy in
Berlin to protest.  The trial “was a politically motivated effort to squash
Egypt’s growing civil society, orchestrated through the courts,
in part by Mubarak-era hold overs,” according to an e-mailed
statement from the International Republican Institute.  Yasser el-Shimy, Egypt analyst with the  International
Crisis Group , said by phone after the verdict that while he
expected “verbal condemnations from Washington,” he doesn’t
see the convictions “as an issue that can break the U.S.-
Egyptian ties in any significant way” given they “are built on
strategic interests.”  The verdict came after Mursi sent to the upper house of
parliament, which holds temporary legislative powers, a draft
law on non-governmental organizations that the presidency said
reflected its full support for civil society. The bill, however,
was criticized by rights groups, with  Amnesty International 
calling it a “death blow” to civil society.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  