-- Erdogan Yields Within 1% of Record Show No Panic
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-06-04T14:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/erdogan-yields-within-1-of-record-show-no-panic-turkey-credit.html
Turkey ’s anti-government protests
that sent the lira to a 17-month low and stocks to the biggest
slump in a decade have left holders of longer-dated government
bonds showing little sign of panic.  Markets rebounded today after the 10-year lira yields
increased 1 percentage-point since a May 2 record low to 7.15
percent yesterday. The yield, which was at 10 percent at the
start of last year, fell to 6.87 percent at 5:11 p.m. in
Istanbul. The benchmark stock index climbed the most in more
than 18 months and the lira strengthened for the first time in
six days. The cost to protect Turkish bonds using credit-default
swaps was 14 basis points below higher-rated  Russia  today.  Protesters took to the streets accusing Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan of increased autocracy, alleging police
brutality and demonstrating against curbs on alcohol sales and
labor unions and the jailing of army officers and journalists.
The benchmark equity  gauge , which doubled in four years, closed
at a three-month low yesterday. Two-year yields declined the
most among major  emerging markets  in the past year after
climbing to an almost seven-month high this week.  “The market reaction so far isn’t really drastic for the
bond market,” Neslihan Yilmaz, a trader at Maxis Securities in
 London , said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “People took off
some of their positions but are in rather a wait-and-see mode.”  The yield on two-year lira notes jumped 71 basis points to
6.78 percent yesterday, narrowing the  spread  with 10-year bonds
to 37 basis points, the least since July 25. “Tighter” money-market liquidity sparked the sell-off, according to Inan Demir,
chief economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul.  Overnight Borrowing  Today, the yield on the two-year lira notes tumbled the
most since at least 2005 in percentage terms, plunging 75 basis
points to 6.03 percent. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 index
rose 4.7 percent, the biggest jump since November 2011. The
gauge plunged 10 percent yesterday.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci has used an interest-rate
corridor to stabilize the lira and rein in lending that fueled a
record current-account deficit.  “Primary dealers had to resort to overnight borrowing from
the central bank at the ceiling of the interest-rate corridor,
which leads to a sell-off in the short end of the curve,” Demir
said by e-mail. “The central bank is tightening the liquidity
so as to force interbank interest rates higher which would
increase the carry return on lira and support the currency.”  The three-month interbank offered rate jumped 58 basis
points to 5.74 percent, a five-week high, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Rallies  The central bank will continue to tighten monetary
conditions if needed, Basci said May 31 in televised remarks.  The weakness in global markets coupled with the escalation
of protests erased the impact of Basci’s verbal intervention
“leaving a solid move to be the only viable option in our
view,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for central and eastern
Europe, the Middle East and  Africa  at Morgan Stanley in London,
said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  Bonds rallied in the past year as Basci narrowed the
current-account gap and the country received investment-grade
status while stimulus efforts and near-zero rates in the U.S.,
Europe and  Japan  lured investors to higher-yielding debt.  The two-year  yield  had jumped 199 basis points until
yesterday from a record-low on May 17 after U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled the central bank could start
tapering its bond purchases if it sees sustained economic
improvement. Yields increased 28 basis points on May 31 after a
report showed Turkey’s trade deficit widened more than forecast
to $10.3 billion in April.  Violent Clashes  “This is the perfect storm for Turkish markets - a
strongly adverse backdrop for global markets, and now some
negative noise domestically that undermines investor confidence
further,”  Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-markets strategy at
Societe Generale SA in London, said in e-mailed comments today.
In case protests grow further, there may be an “escalation of
financial stress,” he said.  Erdogan said protests were the work of extremists, before
departing for a three-day trip to North Africa. After a weekend
of violent clashes between police and tens of thousands of
demonstrators, Istanbul was calmer yesterday, though crowds
again gathered in the central Taksim Square.  President Abdullah Gul appealed for calm in a speech in
Ankara yesterday, saying the protesters’ message had been
received and called it a test for Turkey’s democracy.  Paring Losses  “Do not be mistaken: This is no Arab Spring,” Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF Global Trading UK Ltd, said in a research
note. The dispute can be resolved “swiftly with some contrition
and flexibility from the prime minister,” he said. “The market
implications are entirely dependent upon how long it takes
Erdogan to climb down from his high horse and pacify the
dissent.”  The lira appreciated 0.5 percent to 1.8727 a dollar today.
The currency weakened as much as 1.4 percent yesterday to the
weakest level since December 2011.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points to 189
today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified index. That compared with an average of 300 for
emerging markets, the index showed.  “It’s been one-way traffic with investors selling yields
higher and the currency weaker,”  Nigel Rendell , a senior
analyst at Medley Global Advisors in London, said in e-mailed
comments yesterday. “The demonstrations have set down a clear
marker to the government and Erdogan to be more encompassing in
the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  