-- Erdogan Risks Roiling U.S.-Turkey Ties With Crackdown
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-06-04T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/erdogan-risks-roiling-u-s-turkey-ties-with-crackdown.html
The Turkish government’s crackdown on
demonstrators is complicating U.S. relations with Turkey less
than three weeks after President  Barack Obama  praised his
“partnership” with Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan .  Secretary of State  John Kerry  said yesterday that the U.S.
is “deeply concerned” about the violence in Turkey, a close
U.S. ally and fellow NATO member, as police battled protesters
for a fourth day in the largest anti-government demonstrations
there in years.  Protesters in Istanbul, the capital Ankara and other cities
are denouncing Erdogan and demanding his resignation. The
turmoil is buffeting a country that the U.S. has relied on as a
showcase of democracy influenced by Islam and as a bulwark of
opposition against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  “With the Arab Spring, the U.S. looked to Turkey as a
model country,” said Bulent Aliriza, director of the Turkey
Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
 Washington . “Now, more than ever, there are questions about
whether Turkey can be a model, an example, or an inspiration
when it’s got its own problems.”  For these clashes to erupt weeks after Erdogan met with
Obama at the White House “is embarrassing, to say the least,”
Aliriza said in a telephone interview.  While Aliriza said the demonstrations came as a surprise,
they reflect tensions between the country’s 90-year tradition of
secular government and Erdogan’s efforts to centralize power and
impose his conservative Islamic views through moves such as
curtailing consumption of alcoholic beverages.  ‘Top-Down’  The protests are “more about the type of top-down, non-inclusive polarizing mode of operation that Erdogan has adopted,
and not really a challenge or a protest that tends to undermine
the legitimacy of the government as such,” Sinan Ulgen, a
visiting scholar at Carnegie Europe, a policy research
institute, said in a telephone interview from Istanbul.  “This is certainly a first for Turkey’s democratic
history, to see this type of mass protests come to be at this
scale,” he said. “From that perspective they are very
significant.”  The heavy-handed response by police drew criticism
yesterday from Kerry and from White House spokesman  Jay Carney .  “The  United States  supports full freedom of expression and
assembly, including the right” to peaceful protest, Kerry said
at a news conference in Washington. “We are concerned by the
reports of excessive use of force by police.”  Kerry called for a “full investigation” into the use of
force by police and “full restraint.”  U.S. Relations  Erdogan’s attitude toward the demonstrators will make it
“more difficult” for the U.S. to sustain the close ties that
both countries say they value, Ulgen said.  During his visit to Washington, Erdogan met with Obama in
the Oval Office on May 16 and had dinner with the president. At
a State Department luncheon, Kerry and Vice President  Joe Biden 
praised Erdogan and the U.S.-Turkish relationship.  The talks in Washington exposed U.S.-Turkish rifts on a
number of topics, Aliriza said.  During his Washington visit, Erdogan failed to win more
muscular U.S. action on Syria or support for the Palestinian
group Hamas -- which the U.S. and  Israel  consider a terrorist
organization -- to be included in any Israeli-Palestinian peace
talks, Aliriza said. The prime minister also didn’t gain
American backing for a deal by a Turkish state-run  oil company 
to obtain oil from  Iraq ’s Kurdish region, Aliriza said.  Arab Spring  Erdogan remained defiant yesterday as he left for a trip to
North Africa. He blamed the protests that have rocked  Turkey 
since May 31 on extremists and said their actions shouldn’t be
compared to the Arab Spring revolts that toppled autocratic
leaders in Tunisia,  Egypt  and  Libya .  Aliriza said Erdogan’s handling of the demonstrations has
echoed the upheaval in those North African countries.  “Even though there are lots of differences, the one
similarity is that a leader has allowed disproportionate use of
force against civilian protesters, which has only strengthened
the resolve of those opposed to him,” he said.  The turmoil, if it continues, risks damaging Turkey’s
image, as well as its economy, including the important tourism
sector. Turkish bond yields surged yesterday the most on record,
and the lira and stocks tumbled after a weekend of protests
against Erdogan, who has led the country since 2003.  The yield on benchmark two-year lira bonds rose 71 basis
points to 6.78 percent, the biggest jump since at least April
2005 when Bloomberg began compiling the data. The benchmark
 stock index  plunged 10.5 percent, the most in a decade, and the
lira weakened for a fifth day, sliding 0.4 percent to 1.883 per
dollar yesterday.  ‘Popular Politician’  The course of events is hard to predict because Erdogan
remains popular and powerful, said analysts such as Ulgen.  “He remains by far Turkey’s most popular politician,”
Ulgen said. “His party is firmly in power, he has the majority
in parliament, and there are no near-term elections.”  Erdogan has presided over an economic boom and won three
elections, each with a larger share of the vote, making him less
vulnerable to the kind of unrest that swept away longtime
leaders in other Middle East countries two years ago. Turkey
will hold its first public vote for the presidency next year,
and there’s speculation that Erdogan may run. Parliamentary
elections are due the following year.  “While the demonstrations remind many observers of the
Arab Spring, Turkey is no Egypt, and Erdogan no Mubarak,”
according to Emiliano Alessandri and Ozgur Unluhisarcikli,
analysts with the  German Marshall Fund  of the United States.  ‘Increasingly Intolerant’  “He is a democratically elected leader who is increasingly
intolerant of dissent,” they wrote in an  analysis .  “As his
rule provides material benefits to large swaths of the Turkish
population, it remains likely that Erdoğan’s party could still
win the next elections.”  Still, they wrote, the turmoil could derail projects
including Istanbul’s bid for the 2020  Olympic Games  as well as
efforts to negotiate an end to decades of Kurdish nationalist
violence, “if events escalated in a way to tarnish the image of
Turkey abroad and weaken the position of its leaders at home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  