-- Merkel CDU Says Euro Future Hinges on Low Debt
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-06-04T11:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/merkel-cdu-says-euro-future-hinges-on-low-debt.html
Staying the course on debt reduction
and measures to boost competitiveness are the prescriptions for
ending the euro region crisis, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
party says in a draft paper for her re-election campaign.  The 10-page platform for the  Christian Democratic Union 
suggests that Merkel, who is running for a third four-year term
in Sept. 22 elections, will stick to positions staked out during
the debt crisis that have made her popular in Germany and
resented in southern Europe.  “The answer to the sovereign-debt crisis must be greater
competitiveness in Europe” and lower budget deficits, the CDU
document obtained by  Bloomberg News  says. “This is the only
path that leads to growth and new jobs and strengthens Europe.”
Pooling euro-area debt, including with so-called euro bonds, is
rejected because it “would weaken Europe.”  Merkel consistently ranks as  Germany ’s most popular
politician in polls, allowing her to run on the domestic
standing built up during the crisis. Her decision to hold the
euro area together, solidified as the crisis peaked in 2011, is
reflected in the paper, which says the 17-nation currency has
“overwhelming importance” for Europe’s economy.  The document lists 10 proposed themes, including the
economy, family policy, technology and law and order, for the
CDU’s platform, which the party plans to present on June 24.
Working for a European Union-U.S. free-trade agreement, stronger
rules for financial markets and reducing Germany’s national debt
starting in 2016 are other election themes cited in the paper.  Its euro area proposals include more investment in
education, research and technology and extending Germany’s
vocational training system to other countries. “Our goal
remains to lead a strengthened  Europe  out of the crisis together
with our partners,” the paper says.  Poll Results  Her CDU and its Christian Social Union Bavarian affiliate
dropped a point in the week to score 40 percent in a Forsa poll
published May 29. Their Social Democrat main rivals polled an
unchanged 24 percent. Merkel wants to perpetuate her coalition
with the Free Democrats, who garnered 4 percent compared with
the 14 percent for the SPD’s favored allies, the Greens.  The Merkel coalition bloc gained power in 2009 by winning
48 percent of votes to the SPD and Greens 37 percent combined.  The CDU leadership will add detail to the outlines of the
paper that’s titled “What’s Close to My Heart” before it is
presented to the public by Merkel and CSU Bavarian Prime
Minister  Horst Seehofer  on June 24.  The draft shows that Merkel would not raise tax while
burdens on the budget would rise under a plan to equalize
pensions paid to mothers with offspring born before and after
1992 and a reduction of tax for adults bringing up children.  FDP Opposed  Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus yesterday said
the plans would cost some 7 billion euros ($9 billion) annually,
a quarter of the bill estimated in a May 30 report in
Handelsblatt. Cited in the same newspaper on June 1, FDP caucus
chief  Rainer Bruederle  said his party wouldn’t back measures
that would create a new  budget deficit .  Merkel today is inspecting three regions in southern and
eastern Germany blighted by floods, aiming to “raise the
spirits” of volunteers and emergency services that are working
round the clock to contain the disaster, government spokesman
Steffen Seibert said yesterday.  Her tour echoes steps by her predecessor,  Gerhard Schroeder , whose visits to the 2002 flood-affected regions are
credited by pollsters with helping him win a second term in
federal elections weeks later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  