-- ESM Bank Aid Delayed by German Push to Slow Banking Union
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-04T11:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/esm-bank-aid-delayed-by-german-push-to-slow-banking-union.html
Germany has secured French support to
delay rules on direct bank aid from the euro area’s firewall
fund, calling into question when the tool will be available,
according to two European officials.  Euro-area finance ministers had aimed to reach political
agreement this month on when and how the European Stability
Mechanism could help banks so that the new program is ready next
year when common supervision starts within the currency bloc.  German reluctance, as channeled through a  joint statement 
released May 30 by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French President
Francois Hollande, has put the guidelines on hold until at least
next year, the officials said on condition of anonymity because
European negotiations are ongoing. That means direct aid might
not be usable until 2015 or beyond depending on when new bank-shutdown regulations take effect, one of the officials said.  “Unless the ESM gets an opportunity to potentially
recapitalize banks directly, the euro area may not be able to
cope with the results of a credible stress test -- undermining
the confidence-building effects of the entire process,” Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics, said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  If the direct-aid instrument isn’t ready when the European
Central Bank takes up its oversight mantle, expected in mid-2014, investors may question whether the bloc is prepared to
handle problems uncovered by the new supervisory regime. The ECB
plans in-depth reviews of bank balance sheets in the first half
of next year.  Breaking Link  EU leaders agreed in  June 2012  to explore direct ESM bank
aid in an effort to break the sovereign debt-banking link that
has fueled more than three years of financial crisis. Euro-area
officials pledged to unveil guidelines in mid-2013 on how the
tool would work.  Merkel, who faces an election on Sept. 22, and Hollande
said last week that even if the “main features for the
operational criteria” for direct aid should be decided this
month, the deliberations need to take place “in parallel with
negotiations” on bank resolution and deposit guarantee schemes.
The euro area shouldn’t sign off until the legislation is
finished, according to the joint German-French statement.  “As soon as these directives will be finalized with the
European Parliament, the operational criteria for direct banking
recapitalization scheme should be finalized as well,” they
said.  German Concerns  The effort faces delays tied to German concerns about the
broader goals of banking union, including what kind of
obligations might fall on German taxpayers. As the EU argues
over how to shore up deposit guarantee schemes and bank
resolution policies,  Germany  has sought to delay the ESM tool
until other details are spelled out.  EU nations hope to agree among themselves on the two laws,
possibly as soon as this month. If nations reach a deal, they’ll
then need to negotiate with the European Parliament. This
process could last well into 2014, as shown by the EU’s recent
experience with laws to implement the Basel III capital accords
that took more than eight months to iron out after nations
reached a provisional deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  