-- Tests of Exported U.S. Wheat Find No Gene-Altered Strain
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-06-04T17:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/tests-of-exported-u-s-wheat-find-no-gene-altered-strain.html
Tests of U.S. wheat imported by
 Japan , South Korea and the European Union have found no evidence
of the unapproved gene-altered strain discovered in Oregon in
April, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  A field owned by an Oregon farmer who reported the wheat,
which was a type developed by  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and not approved for
sale or human consumption, also shows no evidence of further
contamination, and interviews with farmers turned up no sign the
strain spread, Vilsack said today in an interview at the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. How the rogue wheat got into the
field remains unknown, he said.  “To date there is nothing to suggest this is in the stream
of commerce,” he said. “We’ll continue the investigation.”  The discovery of the altered wheat in  Oregon , nine years
after St. Louis-based Monsanto ended an effort to have the wheat
approved for commercial sale, prompted Japan to halt imports of
western-white and feed wheat. South Korean millers have
suspended purchases of U.S. white wheat, and the Taiwan Flour
Mills Association said it wants the U.S. to label cargoes by
state of origin. The European Union, which competes with the
U.S. for exports, said it’s asked Monsanto for a method to
detect genetically modified wheat.  15 Investigators  The USDA has assigned 15 investigators to learn the origin
of the altered wheat and develop a faster, less expensive test
for contamination, Vilsack said. Should the investigation show
violations of the Plant Protection Act, which lets USDA shield
crops from unapproved genetically modified plants, may lead to
civil penalties as high as $1 million.  Monsanto said in a posting on its corporate blog today that
it gave the USDA and U.S. trading partners a testing method to
distinguish the wheat trait developed to resist the company’s
Roundup herbicide from varieties approved for planting and
consumption.  “Our support is aimed at ensuring that the U.S. wheat
industry and wheat farmers do not experience disruptions in
exports,” Philip Miller, the vice president of regulatory
affairs, said in a statement. The company continues to believe
the Oregon case is an isolated incident, according to the post.  Prices of U.S. wheat may decline should more nations delay
or cancel purchases from the world’s largest supplier, said
 Abdolreza Abbassian , senior economist at the Food & Agriculture
Organization, in an interview. “If more countries start having
second thoughts or cancel their purchases, it could have
downward pressure on prices of U.S. wheat,” Abbassian said.  Farmer Lawsuit  Ernest Barnes, a Kansas wheat farmer, yesterday sued
Monsanto in federal court in Wichita seeking at least $100,000
in damages for lower wheat prices triggered by the export
limits. Monsanto tested genetically modified wheat “knowing
full well that release of its experimental seeds into the
general wheat population could result in the loss of huge
domestic and export markets,” according to a copy of the
complaint provided by the farmer’s lawyer.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration determined in a 2004
consultation that the crop is as safe for people and animals as
is conventional wheat, the Department of Agriculture said in a
 statement  last week.  Wheat futures, which fell the most since February after the
USDA disclosed the Oregon contamination, rose 1 cent to $7.03975
a bushel at 11:47 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. Prices
through yesterday tumbled 26 percent from an almost four-year
high of $9.4725 on July 23, as rising global supplies create a
glut.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  