-- EU Hits China With Solar-Panel Duties in Dumping Dispute
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-05T09:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/eu-hits-china-with-solar-panel-duties-in-dumping-dispute.html
The European Union imposed tariffs as
high as 67.9 percent on solar panels from China in the largest
EU commercial dispute of its kind, seeking to help revive a
withering industry in Europe.  The duties punish Chinese manufacturers of solar panels for
allegedly selling them in the 27-nation EU below cost, a
practice known as  dumping . Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., Wuxi
Suntech Power Co. and Changzhou Trina Solar Energy Co. are among
the more than 100 companies targeted.  EU producers such as  Solarworld AG (SWV) ,  Germany ’s No. 1 maker
of the renewable-energy technology, have suffered “material
injury” as a result of dumped imports from China, the European
Commission, the bloc’s trade authority in Brussels, said today
in the  Official Journal . The commission said 25,000 jobs in EU
solar production would likely be lost without the  import taxes .  The EU’s action “is an emergency measure to give life-saving oxygen to a business sector in Europe that is suffering
badly from this dumping,” European Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht told reporters. The levies, due to take effect tomorrow at
an initial lower rate of 11.8 percent, will be for six months
and may be prolonged for five years.  The trade protection covers EU imports of crystalline
silicon photovoltaic modules or panels, and cells and wafers
used in them -- shipments valued at 21 billion euros ($27.4
billion) in 2011. European companies including Solarworld have
demanded punitive levies to counter growing competition from
 China  following similar U.S. trade protection.  Broader Crackdown  The case highlights EU concerns about the expansion of
Chinese solar companies, which have grabbed market share from
European rivals that were once dominant, and underpins a broader
crackdown by Europe on perceived unfair low pricing by China’s
exporters. The dispute also spotlights tensions within Europe
between high-tech manufacturers and consumers and between
policies to bolster production and to spur clean-energy use.  In Europe, which accounts for about three-quarters of the
global photovoltaic market, more than two dozen manufacturers
have sought protection from creditors since 2010 and many have
shifted production to lower-cost factories in  Asia . Germany’s Q-Cells SE, which was acquired last year by  South Korea ’s Hanwha
Group, has its largest factory in  Malaysia .  Solarworld rose 11 percent in  Frankfurt  yesterday, when the
commission announced the planned anti-dumping duties before the
publication of them. That was the steepest gain since May 9.  ‘Concrete Measures’  “We are relieved that the European Commission finally
introduced concrete measures,” EU ProSun, a group that
represents European producers including Solarworld, said in a
statement. “Dumping is fraud and harms the future of solar
energy.”  Chinese exporters increased their combined share of the EU
modules market to 80 percent in the 12 months through June 2012
from 63 percent in 2009, said the commission. The Chinese
industry expanded its share of the bloc’s cells market to 25
percent from 8 percent and of Europe’s wafers market to 33
percent from 6 percent over the period, according to the
commission.  The duties are the preliminary outcome of a dumping inquiry
that the commission opened in September and that German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said last month shouldn’t lead to
permanent levies against China. EU governments, acting on a
commission proposal, have until Dec. 6 to decide whether to turn
the provisional duties into “definitive” five-year measures.  Provisional Levies  De Gucht held out the possibility of negotiating a
settlement with China in which Chinese exporters would boost
prices in return for an eventual end to the levies. He said the
initial lower duty rate of 11.8 percent, which will last for two
months, is an incentive for the government in Beijing to sit
down for talks.  As of Aug. 6, unless an accord is reached, the provisional
levies will range from 37.3 percent to 67.9 percent, depending
on the Chinese company. A 47.6 percent rate will apply to about
130 Chinese producers that cooperated in the investigation
without being sampled by the commission.  “This staggered approach allows a smooth transition for
our markets to adapt and it is a one-time offer to the Chinese
side, providing a very clear incentive to negotiate,”  De Gucht 
said. “It provides a clear window of opportunity for
negotiations, but the ball is now in China’s court.”  Photovoltaic Systems  In a statement today highlighting the risk of tit-for-tat
retaliation, the Chinese Ministry of Commerce said it “firmly”
opposes the EU anti-dumping duties and would probe whether
European wine sold in China was being subsidized and dumped. The
ministry also said it didn’t want the solar-panel case to affect
the broader EU-China relationship.  Along with the Chinese government, a group of EU nations
including the U.K. and solar-project developers and installers
have fought to prevent anti-dumping protection. Opponents warn
about higher prices, depressed demand and more lost jobs in
Europe than would be gained in the European solar-panel
manufacturing industry.  “We call on both parties to come to an agreement within
the next two months that avoids price increases,” the Alliance
for Affordable Solar Energy, a group opposed to EU anti-dumping
duties, said in a statement. “The current market development
leaves no room for price increases.”  European Demand  The initial lower provisional duty is likely to “be
positive” for European demand for Chinese solar panels over the
next two months, Jenny Chase, Zurich-based chief solar analyst
for Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by e-mail. Any negotiated
accord is likely to be complicated by the “sheer number of
players,” she said.  Overall, the provisional anti-dumping duties are likely to
increase capital expenditure for ground-mounted photovoltaic
systems in  Europe  by about 5 percent, Chase said.  The EU is also threatening to impose a separate set of
duties on Chinese solar panels to counter alleged subsidies.
That’s the focus of a second investigation in which the deadline
for introducing any provisional anti-subsidy duties is Aug. 8
and for imposing any definitive anti-subsidy measures is early
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  