-- EU Seeks Role in Bank Shutdowns That Goes Against German Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-04T08:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/eu-seeks-role-in-bank-shutdowns-that-goes-against-german-plan.html
The European Commission is seeking to
give itself the power to shut down failing euro-area banks as
part of a draft crisis blueprint that defies German calls for a
more decentralized approach.  The Brussels-based authority is set to propose that
decisions to force losses on crisis-hit lenders’ creditors, as
well as other steps to prevent a disorderly collapse, should be
taken largely out of national hands, according to a document
obtained by  Bloomberg News . While the system would include a
“newly-created central resolution body,” final decisions would
be taken by the commission itself.  “Among EU institutions, the commission is best placed to
play this role, bolstered by its experience of bank
restructuring during the crisis under state-aid control, and
given the need to ensure expeditious and effective decision-making,” according to the document.  The move puts the commission at odds with  Germany (GDBR10) , which
has said that a centralized approach to bank resolution in the
euro area should only come once the bloc has taken further steps
toward common fiscal and economic policies. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has warned that a strong single
authority couldn’t be set up under the EU’s current treaties,
and that the euro area should opt in the first instance for a
networked approach that is reliant on national regulators.  Both the  European Central Bank  and the commission have,
instead, urged rapid progress toward a centralized system in a
bid to bolster confidence in the bloc’s banks, and break the
financial link between lenders and sovereigns.  Resolution Agency  Under the commission’s  draft blueprint , to be discussed by
the institution’s 27-member college tomorrow, an executive board
at the central resolution agency would prepare draft decisions
for the commission. It would also be able to initiate some
measures itself, such as authorizing on-site inspections of
banks.  This board would be dominated by commission and ECB
appointees, with only a “limited number” of national
representatives, according to the document.  Representatives from all participating national regulators
would sit on a larger board, outside of day-to-day decision-making, that could “oversee and decide on general matters
related to the internal functioning of the body.” The national
regulator of a bank in distress would have “appropriate
involvement” in decision-making “without however giving them a
veto over decisions,” according to the document.  Failing Lenders  The draft commission plans also include the creation of a
central, bank-financed fund, to cover the costs of winding down
failing lenders.  The amount paid into the fund by individual  banks  would be
calculated against how risky their activities are perceived to
be by regulators, according to the document. The fund would over
time replace national-level backstops and would “have the
ability to borrow from the market or third parties.”  The commission proposals are still under internal
discussion, and once published would need approval from EU
governments and the European Parliament before they could take
effect.  The Financial Times earlier reported on the draft plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  