-- EU States Seen Agreeing on Carbon-Fix Stance by ‘Early Fall’
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-06-04T14:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/eu-states-seen-agreeing-on-carbon-fix-stance-by-early-fall-.html
European Union nations may reach a
negotiating position on a draft fix for the EU carbon market
by “early fall” should the bloc’s Parliament approve the
stopgap plan next month, according to  Lithuania .  “If there’s a mandate from the plenary in July” at the
Parliament, “then we’ll work to reach a qualified majority
position on backloading pretty soon, by early fall,” said
Arunas Vinciunas, Lithuania’s Deputy Permanent Representative to
the EU. His country takes over the EU’s rotating  presidency  next
month.  EU governments and the Parliament are considering a change
to the region’s emissions-trading law to enable temporary curbs
on the supply of carbon permits. The amendment is the first
element of the carbon-market rescue plan, known as backloading,
which would help prices rebound from record lows.  EU carbon allowances for delivery in December rose as much
as 4.9 percent to a seven-week high of 4.11 euros a metric ton
on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange today. The contract
slumped to an all-time low of 2.46 euros in April on concerns
policymakers may fail to tackle a record glut of permits
aggravated by an economic crisis.  The EU carbon program imposes pollution limits on about
12,000 manufacturing companies and utilities in the region,
including  Germany ’s largest utility EON SE and steelmaker
ArcelorMittal. The system, in which caps were set before the
economic crisis, doesn’t allow any price floors or ceilings.
After the slowdown reduced industrial production and cut into
demand for pollution rights, the surplus of permits rose to
around 2 billion metric tons last year, a level almost matching
the annual supply, according to EU estimates.  Delayed Auctions  The backloading plan, which would delay auctions of some
carbon permits, has divided governments, members of Parliament
and industry. It was proposed last year by the European
Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, and needs approval by
governments and the Parliament to be enacted.  The Parliament’s environment committee is scheduled to
recommend next steps on the draft measure on June 19 before the
whole assembly holds a second vote on it on July 2. In the first
ballot on April 16, lawmakers declined to support backloading
and sent it to the environment panel for further talks.  Should the assembly endorse the market fix next month, EU
governments will need to adopt a position on the draft measure
for talks with representatives of the Parliament on the final
wording of the proposal. A potential deal in such negotiations,
which are also known as trilogue because they also involve the
commission, must be formally approved by the ministers and the
assembly before it becomes a law.  Merkel Call  “Optimistically, we could start the trilogue in
October,” Vinciunas said.  While most member states favor backloading, they are short
of the 255 votes needed in the EU weighted-ballot system to
approve the proposal because several nations, including Germany,
remain undecided.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said last month she
hoped Germany would be able to tackle the plan soon after
elections on Sept. 22.  Spain , which doesn’t have an official position on
backloading yet, aims to decide on whether to back the plan in
two weeks, its state secretary for environment Federico Ramos
said on May 29. Poland, Cyprus and  Greece , which have a total of
43 votes, have said they won’t back the measure. To stop it,
they would have to form a blocking minority of 91 votes.  Lithuania’s “optimism” is a good sign, because it
indicates that, in its role as the EU presidency, the country is
willing to put pressure on  member states  to take official
positions on backloading even before German elections, said
Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in
London. Lithuania will chair meetings of climate officials from
national governments and gatherings of the EU Council of
Ministers in the second half of next year.  “Nonetheless, it will be a difficult task to establish an
official Council position before a new German cabinet has been
elected,” Hanschmidt said. “That in turn would delay a
potential trilogue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  