-- Europe to Be Cooler Than Average This Month, Forecasters Say
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-06-04T16:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/europe-to-be-cooler-than-usual-in-june-weather-forecasters-say.html
Most of  Europe  will be cooler than
average in June while a high-pressure area will bring above-normal temperatures to the Nordic region, according to weather
forecasters.  Temperatures in the U.K. will be close to the seasonal
average until June 17, when high pressure is forecast to weaken,
Byron Drew, lead forecaster at MetraWeather, said by e-mail.
Meteorologists at WSI Corp. also predicted cooler-than-normal
weather in most of Europe, while Deutscher Wetterdienst expects
temperatures to be in line with the average.  “The overall pattern is expected to be variable across
central Europe in June as the region finds itself between the
warmer-than-normal temperatures over the Nordic region and
cooler conditions across the Mediterranean,” Bradley Harvey,
operational meteorologist at MDA Information Systems LLC, said
by e-mail.  European power and natural  gas prices  typically decline in
the summer months as increased daylight hours boost solar
generation and demand for heating drops. New German solar-panel
installations rose 2.4 percent to 367.7 megawatts in April,
according to figures published by the Bundesnetzagentur grid
regulator on May 29.  The average temperature in the U.K. will be 12.1 degrees
Celsius (53.8 degrees Fahrenheit) through June 18, according to
a GFS model supplied by MetraWeather at 5:38 p.m. London time.
That compares with a seasonal norm of 16 degrees.  Wind Decline  In Germany, the average temperature will be 15.4 degrees
through June 18, the data show. The seasonal norm, based on
records from 1981 to 2010, is about 15.7 degrees Celsius, Uwe
Kirsche, a spokeswoman at DWD, said by telephone from Offenbach,
 Germany .  Wind output in  France  and the U.K. declined in May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. This trend
is set to continue in June, MDA’s Harvey said.  “The pattern favors lower than normal wind speeds,” he
said. “This should limit wind power generation for the month
from the U.K. to  Poland .”  Heavy rainfall that pushed water levels on Germany’s Rhine
River to the highest in at least seven years is forecast to ease
in June. While rain will remain near average across most
regions, Germany and Scandinavia will get above-average
precipitation and parts of Iberia will receive less than the
seasonal norm, MetraWeather said.  Cooler Temperatures  Temperatures across Europe are expected to cool in the
second half of June, Stephen Davenport, a senior analyst at
MeteoGroup U.K. Ltd. said in an e-mail today.  “The pressure pattern should flip, with low pressure to
the north and high pressure to the south, meaning northern
Europe should get wetter and the south drier,” Davenport said.
“Temperatures are most likely to fall again to become near or
slightly below normal across much of Europe.”  Cooler-than-average temperatures are predicted next month
in  Norway ,  Sweden , the U.K. and mainland Europe, WSI said.  “We can’t find any convincing evidence that the cool and
wet pattern experienced in recent summers in the U.K. and
Western Europe will relent this year,” said  Todd Crawford ,
chief meteorologist at WSI, said in an e-mailed report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  