-- Euro Endorsement Key to Igniting Delayed Latvian Debt Rally
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-06-04T12:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/euro-endorsement-key-to-igniting-delayed-latvian-debt-rally-2-.html
Latvia  is banking on a green light
for its euro-adoption bid awakening investors who’ve so far
failed to drive an asset rally similar to the one neighboring
 Estonia  experienced before it switched currencies in 2011.  Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis says joining the euro
region will trim borrowing costs. Still, the yield spread
between Latvian government euro bonds due 2018 and the
equivalent German debt is little changed this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The cost to insure Latvian debt
against default for five years has declined less than 10 basis
points this year, while Estonia’s fell by half in the six months
before its euro bid was approved in 2010.  Latvia is eager to trim loan rates and boost trade with the
currency area’s 17 existing members even as  Europe ’s debt crisis
curbs the zeal of the continent’s east to adopt the euro.
Approval this week would cement the success of a 2008 bailout
and lower the risk of repeating a banking crisis that erased a
quarter of economic output, SEB AB and Commerzbank AG say.  “We see further spread tightening and a good chance that
Latvia outperforms its peers,” said Margarete Strasser, who
helps manage the equivalent of about $770 million in central and
eastern European debt, including Latvian bonds, at Pioneer
Investments Austria.  Yield Falls  As comments from the U.S Federal Reserve on a possible
reduction in monetary stimulus crimp financial-market gains, the
extra yield on Latvia’s 2018 euro notes over German equivalents
declined nine basis points to 137 at 2:40 p.m. in Riga, after
reaching a five-week high of 146 basis points on May 30.  The yield on dollar bonds due 2020 declined 6 basis points
from a four-month high to 3.34 percent. Latvian credit-default
swaps fell four basis points from a five-week high to 116.  Latvia wants to adopt the euro on Jan. 1, 2014, crowning a
recovery from the world’s deepest recession in 2008-2009 to the
EU’s fastest growth last year. The European Commission, the
bloc’s executive arm, and the  European Central Bank  will give
their recommendations on Latvia’s application tomorrow.  Latvia’s government has received “mostly positive
signals” from both institutions during the preparation of the
convergence report assessing its eligibility to join the euro
bloc, Dombrovskis told reporters in the capital Riga yesterday.  Euro Recommendation?  The European Commission plans to recommend tomorrow that
Latvia join euro area next year,  Germany ’s Handelsblatt
newspaper reported today, citing copy of a commission report. It
echoed a similar report by Latvijas Radio yesterday, which
didn’t say where it got the information.  “We would expect lower interest rates” after joining,
Dombrovskis told Bloomberg Television in a May 13 interview.
“We would also expect reduced currency conversion costs as we
do around 70 percent of our foreign trade in euros. We also hope
it would help us attract foreign investment in a similar way as
it happened after Estonia joined the euro zone in 2011.”  To meet the euro-area requirements and the terms of a 7.5
billion-euro ($9.8 billion) bailout from the European Commission
and the  International Monetary Fund , the nation of 2.1 million
transformed its public finances with austerity equal to 16
percent of gross domestic product, winning praise from officials
including EU President  Herman Van Rompuy .  Early Repayment  Latvia repaid its IMF loan at the start of 2013, almost
three years ahead of schedule, even drawing criticism from the
fund for taking socially focused spending cuts too far.  The government narrowed the budget shortfall to 1.2 percent
of GDP last year from as much as 9.8 percent in 2009 and state
debt is 40.7 percent of gross domestic product, Eurostat data
show. Among the existing 17 euro-area members, only Finland,
Estonia and Luxembourg stayed within the EU’s 3 percent and 60
percent budget and debt limits last year.  “Latvia comfortably meets the Maastricht criteria,” which
also include thresholds for long-term bond yields, inflation and
exchange-rate stability,  Fitch Ratings  said May 31 in a
statement. “No country that has met the quantitative criteria
has had its euro application rejected.”  Euro-area finance ministers meet July 8 and EU finance
ministers meet on July 9 to make a final decision. Admitting
Latvia to the euro would “likely” trigger an upgrade in
Latvia’s BBB credit rating, the second-lowest investment grade
and on par with Russia and Iceland, Fitch said.  ‘Event Risks’  Moody’s Investors Service, which in March upgraded Latvia’s
rating to Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade, said euro
entry “would reduce Latvia’s susceptibility to event risks,
particularly exchange-rate risk and support the positive outlook
on the rating,” according to an e-mailed comment today.  Latvia’s economy grew 5.6 percent last year, the EU’s
fastest pace, and will probably outpace the bloc again in 2013
and 2014 as exports of machinery, food and forest products jump,
the European Commission predicted May 3. The recession five
years ago, worsened by the terms of the EU and IMF-led bailout
as its biggest lender collapsed, erased about a quarter of GDP,
which remained 12 percent lower than its 2007 peak at the end of
last year.  Euro adoption was a key plank in the Washington-based
fund’s aid package and the European authorities will be keen to
show the currency remains attractive even after the region’s
recession extended into a sixth quarter, according to  Sweden ’s
SEB AB, the second-biggest lender in the Baltic countries.  “The EU probably wants to show that the euro process is
alive, despite the crisis in various euro-zone countries,” it
 said  last month.  Neighbor Wins  Estonia has benefited from adopting the euro in 2011
because  interest rates  and currency-conversion costs have
fallen, President Toomas Ilves told reporters May 27 in the
Lithuanian capital, Vilnius. Public support for the currency in
Estonia has risen since membership, he said. A Faktum ja Ariko
poll of 500 people put it at a record-high 63 percent at the end
of 2012. It didn’t give a margin of error.  Backing for the switch in Latvia grew to 36 percent in
April, with opposition at 62 percent, according to an April 3-23
TNS survey of 1,016, people that gave no margin of error.  Estonian CDS declined by more than half to 105 basis points
in the six months to May 12, 2010, when the European Commission
issued its report recommending the first expansion of the euro
area to a former Soviet republic.  Other countries in Europe’s east have grown skeptical of
the common currency.  Regional Caution  Poland in February delayed setting a date for euro adoption
until after a general election in 2015, when Prime Minister
Donald Tusk said all requirements to switch currencies will have
been met. The  Czech Republic  probably won’t adopt the euro
before 2019, central bank Governor Miroslav Singer said last
week. Hungary isn’t planning accession during the next decade,
central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said May 31.  Polish dollar bonds due 2021 have outperformed equivalent
Latvian debt over the last month, with the extra yield investors
demand to hold the Baltic nation’s paper increasing to 43 basis
points from 37.  “The introduction of the single euro currency is not a
guarantee of well-being and economic growth any more, as the
recent crisis in the euro zone has demonstrated,” Artem Birykov, a Moscow-based economist with HSBC, said in an e-mail.
“Latvia’s knock on the euro zone’s door is more a political
move rather than an economic one.”  Still, euro adoption will reduce the risks of another
banking crisis in Latvia with the ECB becoming the back-stop for
its banks, which don’t have a lender of last resort under the
existing currency board system,  Barbara Nestor , a strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  London , said May 10 by e-mail. The benefits
are underscored by the size of Latvia’s banking industry
relative to GDP, the second-biggest in eastern Europe behind
Slovenia at 129 percent last year, she said.  “There can be some additional spread tightening,” Nestor
said. “It is not certain at the moment how much emphasis the
EC/ECB place on factors of sustainability, hence a few basis
points of uncertainty about Latvia’s entry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  