-- EU Parliament to Delay Vote on Fund Manager Bonus Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-04T07:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/european-parliament-to-delay-vote-on-fund-manager-bonus-rules.html
European Parliament lawmakers will
delay voting on rules to curb fund manager bonuses as they
continue to tussle over details of the plans.  Legislators are weighing changes to draft measures approved
by the assembly’s economic and monetary affairs committee
earlier this year that would ban managers of so-called UCITS
funds from receiving bonuses worth more than their fixed pay and
crack down on performance fees, Sven Giegold, the parliament’s
lead lawmaker on the dossier, said today in an e-mail.  “We are trying to figure out if a pro-European and cross-party compromise for waterproof consumer-protection rules in the
area of managers remuneration and performance-fee regulations
can be found,” Giegold said. “I asked for the postponement of
the debate and vote of the UCITS V dossier in plenary in order
to continue political negotiations,” he said.  The draft rules for fund managers go beyond planned EU
curbs on banker pay that would allow bonuses of twice fixed
salary. European asset-management firms are concerned the
proposal, which may affect two-thirds of senior fund managers,
may cause a bidding war for their  best-performing employees ,
increasing fixed costs and making the industry more vulnerable
to market downturns.  Investor-Protection  The draft law must be approved by the parliament and by
national governments before it can take effect.  UCITS, or Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities, had more than 6 trillion euros ($7.8
trillion) under management as of April 2012, according to the
European Commission. The funds are regulated at  EU level  and
have the right to operate throughout the 27-nation bloc if they
meet minimum oversight and investor-protection standards.  Syed Kamall, a U.K. Conservative lawmaker representing
 London  in the EU Parliament, warned last month that the draft
rules were “crude” and would backfire.  “It’s frustrating that we are not focusing on making sure
asset managers’ fees and bonuses reflect their performance,”
Kamall said.  The assembly will settle its stance on the draft law by its
August recess, Giegold said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  