-- Ex-Goldman Sachs Trader Tourre Loses Bid for Partial Ruling
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-06-04T17:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/ex-goldman-sachs-trader-tourre-loses-bid-for-partial-ruling-1-.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
trader Fabrice Tourre lost a bid for a ruling that he wasn’t
liable under U.S securities laws for foreign transactions while
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission won a ruling that
Tourre violated a provision of U.S. securities law.  Tourre had sought summary judgment, or a ruling before
trial, in a lawsuit filed against him by the SEC. U.S. District
Court Judge Katherine Forrest in  Manhattan  today denied his
motion and granted the SEC a partial ruling that Tourre had
violated a provision of the Securities and Exchange Act.  Tourre, citing a 2010 U.S.  Supreme Court  ruling, claimed he
couldn’t be held liable under U.S. securities laws for foreign
transactions, such as those he made for Dusseldorf, Germany-based IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG, which allegedly lost almost
all of its $150 million investment, and  ABN Amro  Bank NV, which
assumed the credit risk associated with a portion of a CDO
called Abacus.  Under the Morrison v. National Australia Bank ruling by the
Supreme Court, Tourre argued the SEC’s claims should be
dismissed because they involved transactions outside the U.S.  Fraud Claim  Forrest ruled that the SEC had established a domestic
component of its fraud claim against Tourre tied to
misrepresentations he made in connection with ACA Management
LLC’s sale of protection on $909 million of the Abacus notes,
which defaulted.  The judge granted the SEC its request for partial summary
judgment on an Interstate Commerce claim that Tourre used the
telephone, Internet or e-mail to accomplish his fraud, and a
claim that the fraud occurred in connection with a transaction
in which liability was incurred in the U.S.  The SEC sued the London-based trader in April 2010, saying
he defrauded investors by not disclosing that hedge fund Paulson
& Co. had helped pick the underlying securities for Abacus and
planned to bet against them.  “To make the showing, the SEC must prove only that the
offeror was in the  United States  at the time he or she made the
relevant offer,” Forrest said in her ruling. “The SEC has
satisfied that burden. It has cited to record evidence that
would allow a reasonable jury to find that Tourre worked in  New
York  at all relevant times. It has also cited to record evidence
that would allow a reasonable jury to conclude that he e-mailed
and called both IKB and ABN to discuss possible transactions.”  New Claim  After reaching a $550 million settlement with New York-based Goldman Sachs, the SEC filed a new claim against Tourre,
saying he gave the company “substantial assistance” as it
misled investors.  In 2011, U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones, who presided
over Tourre’s case before leaving the bench, dismissed some
claims involving IKB and ABN Amro, citing the Supreme Court
ruling.  The high court ruled that U.S. securities laws don’t
protect foreign investors who buy stocks on overseas exchanges.  Pamela Rogers Chepiga, a lawyer representing Tourre, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at her office
seeking comment.  “We’re pleased with the decision and look forward to
proceeding to trial against Mr. Tourre,”  John Nester , a
spokesman for the SEC, said in an e-mail.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 