-- Ex-Janus Managers at Arrowpoint to Buy Meridian Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-06-04T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/ex-janus-managers-at-arrowpoint-to-buy-meridian-funds.html
Arrowpoint Partners, the investment
firm co-founded by former  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  fund
managers, will buy Aster Investment Management Co. to add $2.9
billion in mutual-fund assets.  Brian Schaub and Chad Meade, hired from Janus by Arrowpoint
in May, will manage the $2.1 billion  Meridian Growth Fund (MERDX) , the
company said yesterday in a statement. The deal is expected to
be completed in the third quarter, pending approval by fund
boards and shareholders. Terms weren’t disclosed.  “In terms of culture and research and process, this is a
very complementary acquisition,” David Corkins, co-founder of
Denver-based Arrowpoint, said in an interview. “We expect the
integration will be seamless.”  Arrowpoint, started in 2007 by Corkins and Karen Reidy,
also a former Janus manager, oversees $2.2 billion in separate
accounts and limited partnerships, according to its website.
Other former Janus employees at the firm include portfolio
managers Minyoung Sohn and Tony Yao, and Chief Operating Officer
Rick Grove.  Arrowpoint will pay for Larkspur, California-based Aster
from available capital, Corkins said.  Schaub and Meade, who specialize in investing in small and
medium-sized companies, made the $4.9 billion Janus Triton Fund
that firm’s best stock fund in the five years through May 10,
returning an annual average of 12 percent and beating 98 percent
of competing funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Meridian Growth has returned an annual average of 10
percent while beating 95 percent of rival funds over the past
five years. The firm was managed by Aster’s founder, Richard
Aster Jr., until his death at 71 in February 2012, Corkins said.  James England will continue to manage the $719 million
Meridian Value Fund and the $29 million Meridian Equity Income
Fund, Corkins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  