-- Mexico Peso Bonds Surge on Fed Stimulus Comments; Currency Drops
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-06-04T19:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/mexico-peso-bonds-surge-on-fed-stimulus-comments-currency-drops.html
Mexico ’s peso bonds jumped, pushing
yields down the most since November 2011, after a Federal
Reserve official supported a stimulus program that has buoyed
emerging-market assets.  Yields on local currency debt due in 2024 dropped 18 basis
points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 5.24 percent at 1:35 p.m.
in Mexico City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
decline was the biggest on a closing basis since Nov. 30, 2011.
The peso fell 0.1 percent to 12.7524 per dollar.  Bonds are rising for a second day after Atlanta Fed
President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday that officials are
committed to the record program of asset purchases even as
divergent views on when to start paring it back create a “mixed
message” for investors. Foreigners’ holdings of Mexican fixed-rate government debt fell to a three-week low on May 24, two
days after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated that policy
makers may curtail stimulus if the U.S. economy shows signs of
sustained recovery.  “There was a big selloff,”  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based Latin America economist at 4Cast, said in a telephone
interview. “A lot of people were looking at what was the right
level to go back” into Mexican bonds.  Demand for Mexican fixed-income debt surged earlier this
year, driving yields to record lows, as foreign investors
avoided near-zero  interest rates  at home and bet Mexico would
pass legislation to boost economic growth.  Salvador Orozco, deputy director for money markets and
exchange at Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB, said in a
telephone interview that the increase in the  difference between
yields  on U.S. and Mexican government debt is helping spur
today’s rally.  The yield gap between 10-year U.S. Treasuries and Mexican
 government bonds  maturing in a decade surged to a four-month
high of 3.35 percentage point on May 31. It has since narrowed
by 20 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  