-- Federer Loses to Tsonga in French Open Quarterfinals
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-04T17:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/federer-loses-to-tsonga-in-french-open-quarterfinals.html
Men’s Grand Slam record-holder  Roger Federer  lost in the quarterfinals of the French Open to Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, his earliest defeat in Paris since 2010.  Tsonga, 28, beat the second-seeded Swiss 7-5, 6-3, 6-3 on
the main Court Philippe Chatrier in Paris.  Tsonga, the sixth seed, is the first Frenchman to reach the
last four in Paris since Gael Monfils in 2008. France hasn’t had
a male champion on the Parisian clay courts of  Roland Garros 
since Yannick Noah 30 years ago. Tsonga made the final of the
Australian Open in 2008, his best result in a major to date.  “I’d love to scream and embrace everybody, hug my family,
but I have to stay calm,” Tsonga said in a court-side
interview. “I really believe in my chances.”  Tsonga will play No. 4  David Ferrer  of Spain in the
semifinals after he beat fellow Spaniard Tommy Robredo earlier
today. Women’s top seed  Serena Williams  defeated unseeded
Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova. The American will face Sara Errani
in the semifinals after the Italian ousted fourth-seeded
 Agnieszka Radwanska  of  Poland .  It’s not the first time Tsonga has beaten former champion
Federer at a major. He became the first man to defeat him from
two-sets-to-love down in the quarterfinals of Wimbledon two
years ago. The last time Federer lost in straight sets in a
major was last year at Roland Garros, when he was beaten by
top seed Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  in the semifinals.  Federer Fades  “I struggled a little bit everywhere,” Federer said in a
news conference. “I’m pretty sad about the match and how I
played.”  Today, Federer had been leading 4-2 in the first set when
Tsonga rallied to 4-4, and took the set on his fourth set point
as the 31-year-old Swiss mis-hit a forehand.  Tsonga took a 4-1 lead in the second set as the crowd
cheered loudly for two one-handed backhand passing shots. He
normally hits his backhand with both hands. Just as during his
win against Federer at Wimbledon in 2011, Tsonga kept thumping
winners from the baseline. He took a two-sets-to-love lead as
Federer hit a return long.  Federer made 34 unforced errors in the match, 12 more than
Tsonga.  Federer had struggled in his previous round, needing five
sets to beat another Frenchman,  Gilles Simon . Federer has never
beaten seven-time champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain at Roland 
Garros. The Swiss won his lone Paris title in 2009, the year 
Nadal lost in the fourth round.  Moving On  Even though he gave his press conference only half an hour
after his defeat, Federer said he’d “already moved on,” and
would now concentrate on the grass-court season, which starts
after Roland Garros.  Federer, who won a record-extending 17th major last year at
Wimbledon, had started the European clay-court season following
an eight-week break from the ATP World Tour to rest his back and
train.  He played only two events before the French Open. He lost
in the third round of last month’s Madrid Masters to  Japan ’s Kei Nishikori. A week later in  Rome , he won only four games as he
was overpowered in the final by Nadal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Paris at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  