-- Fewer Families in U.S. Say Struggling to Pay Medical Bill
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/fewer-families-in-u-s-say-struggling-to-pay-medical-bill.html
Fewer families are struggling to pay
their medical bills, according to a report that suggests the
cost of health-care may be starting to slow.  About 20 percent of people under 65 reported being in a
family that was having problems paying for medical bills in the
first six months of 2012, according to a survey by the  National
Center for Health Statistics . That’s a decrease from about 22
percent in the same period a year earlier, a drop of about 3.6
million people, the report found.  Health-care costs have eased because of increased use of
cheaper generic drugs, more efficient care from hospitals and
people putting off procedures during the economic downturn, said
Peter Cunningham, a senior fellow at the Center for Studying
Health System Change. Though the drop in people struggling to
pay medical bills isn’t related to the health-care law, the
trend may continue when insurance coverage is expanded starting
in 2014, he said.  “Based on the earlier trends we’ve noted, this really
isn’t a surprise and it coincides with moderating health-care
costs,” Cunningham said. “People just started pulling back on
what they are using and spending in terms of health care, which
isn’t too dissimilar to what we’ve seen in other sectors of the
economy.”  Among those who reported problems, 36 percent were
uninsured, while 14 percent had private insurance and 26 percent
had government-funded coverage, such as Medicare or Medicaid,
the  survey found . Fewer Americans with private and public
insurance reported having trouble with medical bills in the
first six months of 2012 than a year earlier. There was no
change among those without insurance.  ‘Near Poor’  Those described as “near poor,” who may not qualify for
Medicaid in some states, were the most likely to have been
struggling with bills. The survey didn’t ask people why they
were having problems or what they were doing to address them,
said Robin Cohen, an author of the report and a researcher with
the division of health interview statistics at the National
Center for Health Statistics.  “I would expect that with the implementation of the
Affordable Care Act that you should see some decrease for the
poor and near poor in terms of affordability,” Cunningham said.
“Affordability of health care is still a pretty substantial
problem.”  The  National Center for Health Statistics  has been tracking
data on difficulty with medical bills since 2011. The findings
were based on data from 155,321 people who completed the
National Health Interview Survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  