-- Fischer Defends Reinhart, Rogoff Against Attacks
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-06-04T14:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/fischer-defends-reinhart-rogoff-against-attacks.html
Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer defended Harvard University economists  Carmen Reinhart 
and  Kenneth Rogoff  against criticism from fellow academics.  A 2010 paper by Reinhart and Rogoff used to justify
austerity in the U.S. and Europe is at the center of a storm in
economics and policy making after flaws were revealed. While
acknowledging mistakes, Reinhart and Rogoff say their basic
findings hold and last week accused Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman 
of “spectacularly uncivil behavior” in his critique.  “The attack on these two outstanding economists is
completely wrong, unfair and unacceptable,” Fischer said in a
speech today to economists in Tel Aviv, without mentioning the
critics by name. “You can’t behave this way.”  Reinhart and Rogoff last week hit back at Krugman for
asserting in an  article  published in the  New York  Review of
Books that they had withheld data from their research. Krugman
then said the two have done little to dispel what he called a
 misconception  generated by their paper -- that economies falter
when debt levels exceed 90 percent of gross domestic product.  Fischer and Krugman both taught at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in the 1980s and 1990s. Krugman is now a
professor at  Princeton University  and in February said Fischer
would be “highly qualified” to lead the  Federal Reserve .  No Love  Fischer, who spoke at an Israel Economic  Association 
meeting, said he is often helped by his knowledge of central-banking history, since lessons from the past can aid in framing
current policy. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
familiarity with the lessons of the Great Depression led him to
make different policy choices in the current crisis, with a
better outcome for the  U.S. economy , he said.  Fischer said that Reinhart and Rogoff have made an
“important contribution” to understanding the connection
between various historical financial crises. While economists
have frequently disagreed, they have kept their disputes civil
and should do so for the good of the discipline, he said.  “There wasn’t a lot of love between the leaders of the
various camps in economics in the U.S., but arguments of this
kind didn’t occur,” Fischer said. “They don’t contribute
anything to scientific advancement and it’s a shame.”  Reinhart and Rogoff acknowledged on April 17 that they had
inadvertently left some data out of their calculations in the
study, in response to a paper questioning their methods released
on April 15 by researchers from the University of Massachusetts
at Amherst. Still, the error didn’t change the thrust of their
research, the Harvard economists said.  “Growth in a Time of Debt” concluded that countries with
public debt greater than 90 percent of GDP suffered measurably
slower economic growth. It has been cited by U.S. House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  and European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  in defense of their
arguments against high budget deficits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  