-- Fox Broadcasting on Appeal Seeks to Stop Dish’s AutoHop
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-06-04T19:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/fox-broadcasting-on-appeal-seeks-to-stop-dish-s-autohop.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting Co.
asked a federal appeals court to overrule a district judge and
halt  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s AutoHop ad-skipping service that it
says threatens television’s advertising system.  Dish’s PrimeTime Anytime allows subscribers to
automatically record the entire prime-time lineup of all four
major broadcast networks every night. It’s similar to a video-on-demand service, which Dish can only provide under its
contract if it doesn’t allow viewers to fast-forward through
commercials,  Paul Smith , a lawyer for Fox, argued today to a
three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  at a hearing in
Pasadena, California.  Instead of disabling fast-forwarding through the ads, the
AutoHop service allows subscribers to skip them entirely when
they watch the recorded shows, Smith said. Fox alleges that the
Dish services breach their license agreement and undermine Fox’s
business selling shows online through  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes and
Amazon.com Inc.  “This is an unlicensed service that competes with a
licensed service that we get paid for,” Smith told the three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.  Fox alleges the AutoHop service threatens the ad-supported
television model because it diminishes the value of commercials,
which are the main source of financing for primetime
programming. The ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox affiliate associations,
as well as the  National Association of Broadcasters , filed
arguments in support of Fox’s appeal.  Fox’s Argument  U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee in Los Angeles last year
rejected Fox’s argument and ruled that the Dish service was more
akin to digital-video recording than to a video-on-demand
service because the subscriber decides to enable PrimeTime
Anytime.  Circuit Judge Raymond Fisher, who said he records
“Masterpiece Theater” and  Jon Stewart ’s “The  Daily Show ,”
asked Smith to explain how this practice of creating a library
of television shows to watch at some later time is any different
from what Fox accuses Dish of doing.  “I do exactly what you’re complaining about,” Fisher told
the lawyers.  Smith said it’s a fundamentally different process when a
viewer decides what to record as opposed to a service that
automatically records blocks of programs every night.  Initial Broadcast  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , introduced its Hopper
digital video recorder in March of last year. It can record all
the major networks’ primetime shows and store them for eight
days after their initial broadcast. AutoHop, introduced in May
2012, allows viewers, with the touch of a button, to skip all
the commercials on recorded shows automatically.  Dish’s lawyer, Joshua Rosenkranz, told the panel that Fox
didn’t complain about PrimeTime Anytime until Dish introduced
AutoHop four and a half months later.  The Dish lawyer also argued that the satellite-TV
provider’s subscribers are already paying for Fox’s programs and
that Fox can’t argue that it’s unfair if a subscriber who misses
a show doesn’t pay for it again to watch it.  Circuit Judge  Sidney Thomas  challenged Rosenkranz’s
argument, saying he didn’t see much of a difference between the
PrimeTime Anytime service and a video-on-demand service.  ‘Very Close’  “I see them as very close,” Thomas said.  Fox, Comcast Corp.’s NBCUniversal and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  separately
sued Dish, the No. 2 U.S. satellite-television provider, in May
2012, claiming the service will destroy the “advertising
supported ecosystem” that provides free, over-the-air primetime
television. Dish sued the networks in New York, seeking a court
ruling that it isn’t infringing copyrights.  The satellite-TV provider has argued that Fox’s claims were
decided by the U.S. Supreme Court 30 years ago when it found
that  Sony Corp. (6758)  couldn’t be held liable by movie studios for
selling video recorders. Television networks “are raking in
record revenues” in spite of the availability of ever-more
efficient home recording devices, Dish said.  The case is Fox Broadcasting Co. v. Dish Network LLC,
12-57048, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth District
(Pasadena, California).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  