-- France Had Cold May With Weather Unusually Wet for Seventh Month
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-04T11:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/france-had-cold-may-with-weather-unusually-wet-for-seventh-month.html
France, the European Union’s largest
grain grower, had an unusually cold and humid May, with a
seventh month of higher-than-usual rainfall boosting soil
moisture above normal levels.  Last month’s average temperature was 13.1 degrees Celsius
(55.6 degrees Fahrenheit), 2 degrees lower than normal for May,
the Paris-based  Agriculture Ministry  wrote in an online  report 
today. Rain was 44 percent above normal.  The cold and humidity delayed plant development, with 35
percent of France’s soft wheat at the grain-heading stage as of
May 27, compared with 85 percent a year earlier, according to
crop office FranceAgriMer.  “It was cold in all the regions, particularly in the
southwest,” the ministry wrote. “According to Meteo France,
average daily temperatures were below the seasonal norm from May
9 on.”  The country’s north, which accounts for about 55 percent of
French wheat production, averaged 11.6 degrees Celsius, 2.1
degrees below normal and the fifth month in a row that was
colder than usual, the ministry’s weather data show.  In the southwest, which grows about a third of  France ’s
corn, temperatures averaged 12.5 degrees Celsius last month, 2.9
degrees below normal, making it the country’s coldest region
relative to long-term average temperatures.  France’s corn conditions deteriorated last week, with the
portion of the crop rated good or excellent falling to 67
percent from 72 percent in the previous week.  National rainfall averaged 9.9 centimeters in May, the
ministry wrote. Total rainfall since March 1 is 36 percent above
usual amounts in the country, according to the report.  Soil-humidity levels climbed above reference values for
most of the country and were close to normal only for parts of
the Atlantic and North Sea coasts and in the Savoy region, the
ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  