-- France Telecom Seeks Cable Cross-Selling Deals for Expansion
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-06-05T08:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/france-telecom-seeks-cable-cross-selling-deals-in-europe-push.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) , the French phone
company whose sales have dropped for the past two years, will
look for deals with cable companies to cross-sell services,
offering European users packages combining TV, mobile and Web.  The company wants to mimic the relationship between Verizon
Wireless and cable company  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  in the U.S., which
allows the companies to sell each other’s services under their
own brands, strategy chief Elie Girard said.  France Telecom is looking for ways to expand into
increasingly popular, multiservice bundles -- a strategy its
competitors are adopting across Europe -- without making
expensive acquisitions, Girard said. Romania and Belgium, where
France Telecom only offers mobile service, are the top
candidates for this type of relationship, he said.  “When you look at the addressable market, it’s shrinking
by several points every year,” Girard said over lunch at the
French Open in Paris. “You have this idea of trying to sign
deals. Look at what Comcast and Verizon have done. One needed
mobile. One needed fixed, so they cross-sold to each other.”  France Telecom  offers bundled packages already in France
and has said the strategy has helped it retain customers in the
face of cheaper offers, led by  Iliad SA (ILD) ’s Free brand mobile
service. Still, the company has pledged to cut costs this year
as a price war initiated by Iliad last year continues. Earnings,
excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, fell 9
percent in the first quarter and sales dropped 5.9 percent. The
company cut its dividend last year and has said it will stay
away from major acquisitions to save cash.  European Model  France Telecom rose 0.7 percent at 10:21 a.m. in Paris to
7.82 euros. The shares have fallen 6.9 percent this year through
yesterday.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao 
has also cited the Comcast-Verizon partnership as a model for
carriers across Europe as they confront declining prices, weak
economies and regulators who have delayed or rejected
acquisitions. Newbury, England-based Vodafone has network
sharing agreements with Germany’s  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  in Spain.  The average European consumer spent $38 per month in 2012
on mobile subscription, compared with $69 in the U.S., the GSMA
said in a report published last week. Wireless phone bills in
Europe have declined steadily since 2000, while U.S. carriers
have reversed that trend since 2010, it said.  Yoigo Bid  France Telecom failed in its effort to buy Yoigo,
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Spanish unit, when the parent company stopped
the sale in April after being disappointed with the bids. France
Telecom had to make a lower offer for Yoigo than it might have
in a friendlier regulatory environment to account for delays
that can leave management teams on the lurch for as long as a
year, Girard said. He declined to comment on the size of the
discount.  France Telecom’s sale of video-sharing website Dailymotion
also failed last month when talks broke down with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) 
because the Sunnyvale, California-based  Internet company  wanted
to own a larger stake than France Telecom was willing to sell,
Girard said. He’s still looking for an American buyer to help
Dailymotion break into the U.S. market and has restarted a
screening process for potential acquirers who would be willing
to take a 51 percent holding, he said.  “We said no. We want to remain minority shareholders,”
Girard said. “We’re coming back to the step before. We want an
American partner for Dailymotion, so we are starting our
screening again.”  ‘Telecom Desert’  Still, France Telecom is prepared to spend money in high-growth markets outside of Europe. The company is part of a
consortium that’s bidding for one of two licenses to operate a
mobile-phone network in Myanmar. The group, which includes
Japanese finance firm  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  is prepared to spend $1
billion to build the network by 2019 and will cover more than 75
percent of the country’s geography in five years, Girard said.  Myanmar “is the biggest telecom desert. There is less
telephone use in Myanmar than in  North Korea  and Cuba,” he
said. “We’ve never seen anything like this.”  Myanmar has a mobile-phone penetration rate of 9 percent,
compared to 70 percent in Cambodia, 87 percent in Laos and more
than 100 percent in Thailand, Myanmar’s Communication Ministry
said in January.  The country’s transition to democracy was hailed by U.S.
President  Barack Obama  last year after decades of military rule,
peaking the interest of Western brands such as Coca-Cola Co. and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  whose executives have said they plan to expand
in the Southeast Asian nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  