-- France Says ‘No Doubt’ Syrian Regime Used Chemical Arms
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-06-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/france-says-no-doubt-syrian-regime-used-chemical-arms.html
French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said there is no question that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces used sarin gas against rebels in an escalating
civil war that’s entered its third year.  French tests detected the nerve agent in samples sent from
Syria, and  France  is “certain that sarin gas has been used in
Syria on several occasions and in a localized manner,” Fabius
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  In one of two samples, testing left “no doubt” that the
sarin came from Assad’s regime, Fabius said later on France 2
television.  Fabius’s commented the same day a United Nations panel
investigating human-rights abuses in the Syrian conflict said
that, while there were “reasonable grounds” to believe
chemical weapons had been deployed, investigators haven’t
confirmed their use by any of the parties.  In  Washington , White House spokesman Jay Carney said the
U.S. continues to seek conclusive proof that chemical weapons
were deployed, including information about the circumstances of
their use.  “We need to expand the evidence we have,” Carney told
reporters. “We are aggressively pursuing other avenues to
gather the evidence that is required here.”  The U.K.’s ambassador to the UN, Mark Lyall Grant, told
reporters yesterday in New York that Britain has evidence
suggesting the “use of a number of different variants of
chemical agents.” The British Foreign Office on May 29 said it
had given the UN information about three additional cases of
alleged chemical weapons use in  Syria .  UN Investigation  Fabius spoke after meeting with Ake Sellstrom, a Swede who
is leading a UN team of scientists to investigate allegations of
chemical warfare in Syria. The scientists are testing samples
brought from Syria by French journalists because the team hasn’t
been allowed to enter Syria to get a firsthand look and
establish a chain of custody for the evidence.  Allegations of at least six incidents of possible chemical
weapons use have been reported to the UN so far. Carla Del Ponte, a member of the UN panel probing human-rights abuses in
Syria, said last month there were signs that rebels, and not
just government forces, had released nerve agents in combat.  The panel played down Del Ponte’s comments in yesterday’s
report, saying there is no compelling evidence that the rebels
“possess such weapons or their requisite delivery systems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in New York at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  