-- Gallup Reviews Poll Methods After 2012 Prediction Skewed
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-06-04T17:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/gallup-reviews-poll-methods-after-2012-prediction-skewed.html
Gallup, whose final 2012 election
 poll  showed Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  leading President
 Barack Obama , said today that its likely-voters screen and too
few interviews on the East and West coasts contributed to its
failure to forecast the final vote accurately.  The  Gallup poll  commissioned a study of its methods after
its last pre-election survey gave Romney a one-point lead, 49
percent to 48 percent, over Obama, who won re-election by almost
four percentage points.  “That’s not where we wanted to be,”  Frank Newport , Gallup
editor-in-chief, told reporters at a briefing today in
Washington.  The firm said it was reviewing its models, had already
changed some of the methods it follows in conducting surveys,
and would make other adjustments as needed.  Newport said that Gallup’s techniques were sound and that
other polling organizations’ likely-voter models also leaned
more toward Romney than the actual electorate, although not to
the extent that Gallup’s did. Gallup’s survey of registered
voters gave Obama a three-point lead, 49 percent to 46 percent.  ‘Significant Difference’  “The basic procedures are sound, but they are significant
enough that they made a significant difference in our overall
estimate of who was going to win the presidential election last
fall,” Newport said.  Gallup’s failure in  2012  was magnified as other polling
organizations called the election correctly. Nate Silver, the
computer expert who gave Obama a 90 percent chance of winning
re-election, successfully  called  each of the 50 states as well
as Obama’s final percentage of 51 percent. The  Pew Research
Center for the People & the Press  and ABC News/Washington Post
surveys put Obama up by three points.  In a report prepared with the  University of Michigan ,
Gallup said the way that it determined likely voters, such as
screening for those who have voted in previous elections and
their interest in this one, tilted its sample toward Romney.  “What we’re doing is evaluating the whole process of
estimating likely voters,” Newport said.  With fewer adults willing to participate in telephone
polls, Newport said that the respondents may be self-skewed
toward those more likely to turn out on Election Day, requiring
a change in how the sample is weighted.  “It is possible that with higher refusal rates, Gallup and
others are doing some screening already,”he said.  The firm said its samples skewed more to Midwestern and
Southern voters rather than those on the East and West coasts,
where Obama was strongest.  Gallup discovered that its telephone samples appeared to be
tilted toward Republicans and raised questions about the way it
weighted for respondents who have only mobile phones.  Its questioning to determine race and ethnicity of
respondents also produced flawed information, Gallup said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  