-- German Stocks Climb as Fed’s Lockhart Supports Stimulus
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-04T07:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/german-stocks-climb-as-fed-s-lockhart-supports-stimulus.html
German stocks  advanced from a three-week low as Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said the central bank is committed to its monetary
stimulus program.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  gained the most since April 17
after a report that Vodafone Group Plc may rekindle its interest
in the company.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  added 1.1 percent as
a gauge of carmakers rose on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 0.9 percent to 8,357.98 at
9:50 a.m. in Frankfurt. The gauge rose 5.5 percent in May and
has rallied in all but one of the past 12 months as central
banks around the world maintained their stimulus efforts. The
broader HDAX Index also rose 0.8 percent today.  “The Fed’s comments yesterday influenced the U.S. markets,
which ended yesterday at a day’s high,” Soeren Steinert, who
helps manage about $24 billion as associate director for
equities trading at Quoniam Asset Management GmbH in  Frankfurt ,
said in a telephone interview. “This is an extremely positive
support for German equities this morning.”  In the U.S., Lockhart said recent data suggest the world’s
biggest economy isn’t strong enough to justify a reduction in
the central bank’s bond-buying program.  “To the extent that the markets are seeing mixed messages,
it simply reflects the debate that’s going on among the
colleagues on the  Federal Open Market Committee ,” Lockhart said
in a Bloomberg Television interview. “The bigger picture is
that any adjustment is not a major policy shift.”  Kabel Deutschland  Kabel Deutschland  gained 2.3 percent to 74.41 euros.
Vodafone may rekindle its interest in bidding for Germany’s
largest cable operator, Dow Jones Newswires reported, citing a
person familiar with the matter that it didn’t identify.  BMW, the world’s largest maker of luxury cars, rose 1.1
percent to 73.89 euros.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the third-biggest, climbed
0.6 percent to 49.35 euros.  United Internet AG (UTDI)  rose 0.7 percent to 22.10 euros after
Berenberg Bank said catalysts including an upgrade of earnings
estimates and possible acquisitions may lead to a rerating of
the provider of phone and Internet services.  Deutsche Boerse AG, the operator of Frankfurt’s stock
exchange, slipped 0.7 percent to 49.69 euros after JPMorgan
Chase & Co downgraded the shares to neutral from overweight,
citing “moribund” activity in financial markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  