-- German May New Car Sales Decline 9.9% on European Economy
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-06-04T11:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/german-may-new-car-sales-decline-9-9-on-european-economy.html
New car sales in  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, resumed declining in May as buyers shied away
from big-ticket purchases and fleet operators cut spending amid
a lingering sovereign-debt crisis in the region.  Registrations last month fell 9.9 percent from a year
earlier to 261,316 cars, the German Federal Motor Vehicle
Office, or KBA, said today in a  statement . Five-month sales
declined 8.8 percent to 1.22 million vehicles.  The drop in May reverses a gain in April, the only month
this year that German car sales increased. The European auto
market is contracting for a sixth consecutive year to a two-decade low amid a recession in the countries using the euro. Car
sales also tumbled in France last month, according to the
country’s CCFA auto-industry association.  Italian carmaker  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Alfa Romeo and Lancia brands
suffered the biggest slump in Germany in May, with sales
declines of 63 percent and 53 percent, respectively.
Registrations at market leader  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s namesake brand
fell 10 percent and were down 9.7 percent at the manufacturer’s
Audi premium division.  French light-vehicle sales fell 11 percent in May to
176,852 units, the CCFA  said  yesterday.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , the
country’s biggest automaker, sold 7.6 percent fewer cars and
light vans in May, while its main local competitor,  Renault SA (RNO) ,
posted a 19 percent drop.  The Peugeot brand’s German auto sales in May fell 28
percent and the Citroen nameplate’s registrations in the country
plunged 33 percent, according to the KBA. German sales by
Renault fell 26 percent last month, while the company’s low-cost
Dacia brand posted a 19 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  