-- German Air Traffic Agency Seeks Stake in U.K. Counterpart
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-04T15:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/german-air-traffic-agency-seeks-stake-in-u-k-counterpart.html
Deutsche Flugsicherung GmbH ,
 Germany ’s air-traffic control agency, is pursuing a stake in its
U.K. counterpart with a target of cooperating on reducing costs
while consolidating handling of aviation routes.  DFS is awaiting results of a first phase of bidding on a
venture that owns 42 percent of National Air Traffic Services
Ltd., Chief Executive Officer Klaus-Dieter Scheurle said today
at a press conference in the  Frankfurt  suburb of Langen.
Combining DFS and NATS operations would enable more efficient
control of in excess of 80 percent of trans-Atlantic air routes
serving Europe, he said.  “Now we are keen to get access to more detailed data and
participate in the second round,” Scheurle said.  The venture, known as Airline Group, is currently  owned  by
seven partners, including U.K. carriers  British Airways (IAG) ,  EasyJet
Plc (EZJ)  and Virgin Atlantic Ltd., the airline of tour operator
 Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  and German carrier Deutsche Lufthansa AG.
Rothschild & Cie. investment bank is handling Airline Group’s
disposal, Scheurle said.  The biggest owner of Fareham, England-based NATS is the
U.K. government, with a 49 percent stake plus a golden share
giving veto rights over corporate decisions. Employees hold 5
percent and Heathrow Airport Holdings Ltd., operator of  London ’s
busiest airport, owns 4 percent. NATS declined to comment today
on Scheurle’s remarks. A message seeking comment at Hering
Schuppener, the public relations company working for Rothschild
in Frankfurt, wasn’t immediately answered.  EU Policy  Three dozen entities guide planes through skies in Europe,
a figure that market regulators wants to reduce.  Air-traffic charges in Europe are about double the rate in
the similarly sized U.S. airspace, and network inefficiencies
add 42 kilometers (26 miles) to the average flight distance and
increase costs by almost 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion) a year,
the Brussels-based European Commission, the European Union’s
regulatory arm, said in a May 3 announcement of new rules
intended to push consolidation of air-traffic operators.  Press reports about the value of NATS have been
exaggerated, Scheurle said in an interview. The London-based
Sunday Times reported in January that  3i Group Plc (III)  plans to buy
a 12 percent stake in NATS valued at 120 million pounds ($184
million) from travel companies TUI and Thomas Cook.  “We won’t overpay,” Scheurle said, declining to comment
on any price offered for a NATS holding. “But in the end, this
is a political process” for determining who will buy a stake,
as “it means influence over a country’s territory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  