-- Golden Agri Sees Positive China Earnings as Sector Improves
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-06-04T06:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/golden-agri-sees-positive-china-earnings-as-sector-improves.html
Golden Agri-Resources Ltd. (GGR) , the
second-biggest palm plantations operator, expects to maintain
profitability at its  China  unit as a drop in soybeans and higher
selling prices improve earnings in oilseed processing.  “Currently the environment there is quite stable and
therefore we should be able to continue with the positive
performance that we achieved in the first quarter,” Chief
Financial Officer Rafael Buhay Concepcion Jr. said in an
interview.  The Singapore-based company reported first-quarter profit
at its China unit of $6 million, after losses at the business in
the preceding three quarters. Industry overcapacity, state
imposed price caps and record soybean prices hurt earnings in
2012 at Golden Agri’s China operations and at peers such as
 Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)   Soybeans, which are processed into meal and oil, are down
15 percent from a peak of 17.89 cents a bushel reached in
September. Prices may extend declines to below $10 a bushel by
July as U.S. farmers switch some acres from corn, the U.S.
Soybean Export Council said in May.  “The price of beans has come down significantly and we
were also able to steadily increase our selling price,”
Concepcion said in the May 30 interview in  Singapore . “That
enabled us to improve in our performance and the first quarter
in China was back to a profit.”  Golden Agri’s China unit posted a full-year loss of $48
million in the 12 months ended Dec. 31, the company said in a
Feb. 28 presentation.  The company expects China’s contribution as a percentage of
 revenue  to stay roughly the same in the next three years,
Concepcion said. Golden Agri completed its first expansion of
the business, since entering China in 2005, by starting a new
crushing and refining plant in Tianjin last year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  