-- Gold Imports by India Seen Falling as Central Bank Widens Curbs
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-06-04T12:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/gold-imports-by-india-seen-falling-as-central-bank-widens-curbs.html
India , the world’s biggest consumer
of gold, widened curbs on imports to narrow a record current-account deficit after shipments surged in the past two months.
The rupee climbed.  The restrictions on overseas purchases by banks on a
consignment basis will be expanded to include state-run trading
companies and others authorized to directly import gold, the
 Reserve Bank of India  said in a notification on its website. The
central bank also tightened financing norms for inbound
shipments. The restrictions come after Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram yesterday said the country can’t afford
high levels of imports and policies will be reviewed if needed.  Bullion slumped the most in three decades in April,
sparking a buying frenzy for coins and jewelry in India and
prompting the government to take steps to reduce demand. Imports
will decline in the short term, Haresh Soni, chairman of the All
India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation, said by phone from New
Delhi.  “This will affect the supply chain and the domestic cost
of gold will go up as bankers will charge extra for buying
gold,” he said. Premiums paid by jewelers to banks may rise to
$6 per ounce to $8 an ounce over the London cash price from $3-$3.5 a week earlier, he said.  Limiting Banks  The central bank on May 13 limited imports by banks on a
consignment basis to only those required to meet the genuine
needs of exporters in an attempt to rein in the current-account
deficit, the broadest measure of trade. The bulk of the imports
by the banks before the curbs were on a consignment basis,
according to the central bank.  India imported 117 metric tons of gold in April after
prices entered a bear market, according to Soni. Purchases were
estimated at 162 tons in May, according to the Finance Ministry.  Gold has fallen 16 percent this year on speculation the U.S.
Federal Reserve may roll back stimulus. The precious metal
plunged 14 percent in the two days through April 15, the biggest
such drop since 1983.  “Supply will be more channelized and normalized now,”
said Rajesh Mehta, chairman of  Rajesh Exports Ltd. (RJEX) , India’s
biggest gold jewelry exporter. “An unnecessary glut was created
in the market because of higher imports, that will ease now.”  The rupee rose 0.6 percent to 56.4525 per dollar in Mumbai
today. The shortfall in the current account, the broadest
measure of trade, was $32.6 billion in the last quarter of 2012
and is the biggest risk to the $1.9 trillion economy, according
to the central bank.  The government today sold inflation-linked bonds for the
first time in 15 years, aiming to provide investors with an
alternative to gold as a buffer against price gains.  Linkers for 10 billion rupees ($177 million) were auctioned
at a real yield of 1.44 percent, the central bank said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  