-- Goldman Sachs’s Hatzius Says Fed Could Taper Buying in September
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-06-04T08:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/goldman-sachs-s-hatzius-says-fed-could-taper-buying-in-september.html
The Federal Reserve could announce a
reduction of its monthly bond purchases as early as September if
employment and inflation strengthen enough, said  Jan Hatzius ,
chief economist at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   While Goldman Sachs’s forecast remains for Fed officials to
wait until December before slowing their $85 billion of monthly
asset purchases, Hatzius said yesterday that so-called tapering
could occur sooner.  “A September tapering is certainly possible, I think that
is going to depend on the data,” Hatzius said in a Bloomberg
Television interview at Goldman Sachs’s Global Macro Conference
in London.  Speculation that a strengthening U.S. economy will allow
the Fed to reduce its monetary stimulus has helped propel the
yield on the 10-year Treasury bond to its highest since April
2012 even as Chairman Ben S. Bernanke expresses caution over
trimming the program too soon.  The likelihood that the economy will continue to grow about
2 percent over the next couple of quarters with inflation “well
below” target will probably stay the Fed’s hand until December,
Hatzius said.  By contrast, an earlier pullback could occur if payrolls
regularly increase by more than 200,000 a month or inflation
outside of food and energy costs speeds up.  “It’s definitely a mosaic of different indicators,”
Hatzius said. “It’s the broad picture.”  Consider Tapering  Bernanke said May 22 during a response to questions
following Congressional testimony that the central bank could
consider reducing the amount of assets it buys within “the next
few meetings” if officials see signs of sustained improvement
in the labor market. Still, he has warned that “premature
tightening” could reduce inflation and jeopardize the economic
expansion.  With unemployment lingering at 7.5 percent, higher than
before the last recession, the policy-setting Federal Open
Market Committee announced May 1 it will increase or decrease
the pace of its monthly purchases in response to changes in
inflation and the labor market. Policy makers agreed to maintain
monthly buying of $40 billion in mortgage securities and $45
billion of U.S. Treasuries in a bid to boost employment. The
purchases have expanded Fed assets to about $3.4 trillion.  ‘Very Resistant’  Even with global bond markets posting their biggest monthly
losses in nine years in May, led by a 2 percent drop in
Treasuries, Hatzius said the Fed is going to be “very resistant
to a large tightening of financial conditions precipitated by a
bond-market sell off.”  He predicted the 10-year Treasury bond yield will end 2013
at 2.5 percent and 2014 at 3 percent, up from 2.12 percent
yesterday. Goldman Sachs anticipates U.S. economic growth of 1.9
percent this year and 2.9 percent in 2014.  Not in his outlook is a repeat of 1994 when a sudden and
sharp increase in interest rates from the Fed surprised many
investors. Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein
said May 2 that the current rate environment has parallels to
then.  The Fed increased its  benchmark rate  3 percentage points
from February 1994 to February 1995, from a then record-low 3
percent to 6 percent. The yield on the 30-year U.S. Treasury
bond surged above 8 percent in late 1994 from below 6 percent 12
months earlier.  Still, employment and inflation are weaker than two decades
ago, while the Fed has become more transparent and better at
communicating its plans to financial markets, Hatzius said.  “We’re not expecting a 1994,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  