-- Gross Says Reduce Risk Assets Since QE Not Boosting Growth
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-06-04T11:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/gross-says-reduce-risk-assets-since-qe-not-reinvigorating-growth.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond  fund , said the
 Federal Reserve ’s zero-bound interest rate policy and
quantitative easing programs are becoming more of a problem for
an economy that needs structural reforms.  The Fed’s polices are “desperately attempting to cure an
economy that requires structural as opposed to monetary
solutions,” Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook
posted on Newport Beach, California-based Pimco’s website today.
“Central banks -- including today’s superquant Kuroda, leading
the  Bank of Japan  -- seem to believe that higher and higher
asset prices produced necessarily by more and more QE check
writing will inevitably stimulate real economic growth via the
spillover wealth effect.”  The Fed is purchasing $85 billion a month in Treasuries and
mortgage debt as part of its third round of quantitative easing,
which began after it dropped its benchmark rate to almost zero
to lift the economy out of recession. The central bank cut its
target rate for overnight loans to a range of zero to 0.25
percent in December of 2008.  Global Stimulus  Haruhiko Kuroda, governor of the BOJ, is pursuing
unprecedented stimulus to jolt Japan out of deflation. The
 European Central Bank  cut its benchmark rate by 0.25 percentage
point to a record 0.5 percent on May 2, and speculation has
mounted that the  Bank of England  will increase its bond-buying
target after  Mark Carney  takes over as governor next month.  The Fed holds more than $3 trillion in  assets  on its
balance sheet as a result of three rounds of quantitative
easing, up from about $900 billion in 2007.  “Low yields, low carry, future low expected returns have
increasingly negative effects on the real economy,” Gross
wrote. “Credit expansion in the private economy is restricted
by an expanding Fed balance sheet and the limits on Treasury”
repurchase agreements.  Gross advised investors reduce risk and carry-related
assets, referring to assets that have a higher perceived risk
than securities such as Treasuries or longer-term debt.  Past Predictions  Gross said May 16 that fixed income’s three-decade bull
market “was over.” He said on May 31 that Pimco likes
 Treasuries (USGG10YR)  that mature in five to 10 years, as there will be
“no tapering for now.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries rose 46 basis points in May,
including a jump of 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point,
on May 28, as a report showing consumer confidence climbed to
the highest in more than five years bolstered speculation the
Fed would scale back its purchases. Gross’s  Pimco Total Return
Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s largest mutual fund, declined 1.9 percent in
May, the biggest monthly loss since September 2008.  The  performance  of the $293 billion Total Return Fund puts
it behind 94 percent of similarly managed funds through May 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund’s  allocation 
to Treasuries has hindered performance as government-debt
securities declined.  U.S. government debt tumbled 2 percent last month, the most
since December 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Employment gains and increases in housing and  consumer
confidence  suggested the recovery in the  U.S. economy , the
world’s largest, is gaining momentum.  Global bond markets posted their biggest monthly losses in
nine years in May. The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Broad Market Index, which tracks more than $40 trillion of
bonds, fell 1.5 percent.  Gross raised the holdings of Treasuries in his flagship
fund to 39 percent as of April 30, the highest level since July
2010, from 33 percent as of March 31. He’s increased the
proportion of U.S. government securities every month this year
since February. In 2011, Gross’s fund lost an estimated $5
billion to withdrawals, according to Morningstar Inc., after he
eliminated  U.S. Treasuries  early in the year and missed a rally.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $2.04 trillion in  assets  as of March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  