-- ICE Gasoil Moves to Backwardation as Rhine Floods Halt Shipments
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-06-04T16:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/ice-gasoil-moves-to-backwardation-as-rhine-floods-halt-shipments.html
Front-month gasoil traded at a
premium, or backwardation, to the next month for the first time
since February amid speculation supplies will be disrupted by
floods that halted barge traffic on parts of the Rhine River.  June gasoil traded at $854.75 a metric ton, $1 more than
July on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at 4 p.m.  London  time.
The front spread last traded in backwardation on Feb. 27,
excluding expiry day anomalies. Contracts for July to January
2014 are trading in the opposite contango structure.  “Part of it is to do with some physical scarcity in the
European gasoil market as the Rhine River is shut due to
flooding,” Abhishek Deshpande, an oil markets analyst at
Natixis in London, said by e-mail. Futures will probably return
to contango after shipments along the river resume, he said.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  toured affected areas in Germany
as authorities battled to limit the damage from flooding that is
the worst on record in some parts of the country and recalls the
devastation in 2002, which submerged regions in the  Czech
Republic , Germany and  Austria . The Rhine links industrial sites
including the BP Plc-operated Gelsenkirchen oil refinery to
Rotterdam, Europe’s busiest port. The waterway also connects to
canals in neighboring countries.  The Rhine isn’t navigable upstream from Koblenz in Germany
because of high water levels, which means  Frankfurt , Mannheim,
Strasbourg in France and Basel in Switzerland can’t receive oil
product shipments, Joachim Hessler, operations manager at
Maintank Schiffahrtsgesellschaft mbH, a barge-owner based in
Woerth near Frankfurt, said by e-mail today.  “In this physical scarcity, oil products tend to be
delivered by more expensive alternative methods of
transportation,” which boosts prompt prices, Deshpande said.
“As we see barges back into operation to deliver oil products,
we should see the backwardation flip into contango,” he said.  Oil companies  are currently using supplies from storage to
offset any delay in shipments, Pieter Kulsen, founder of
Netherlands-based energy researcher PJK International BV, said
by phone from Breda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  