-- Iceland Mortgage Bank Bondholders Gird for Debt Restructuring
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-06-04T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/iceland-mortgage-bank-bondholders-gird-for-debt-restructuring.html
Bondholders in Iceland’s state-backed
Housing Finance Fund are waiting for the nation’s biggest
mortgage bank to change the terms of their investment as the
government looks for ways to keep the lender afloat.  “It wouldn’t surprise me if they tried to push through
changes to the terms of HFF bonds this summer,”  Kari Arnor Karason, chief executive officer at Stapi Pension Fund, said in
a phone interview. Stapi, which holds 77 billion kronur ($630
million) in HFF and  government bonds , hasn’t yet been approached
by the lender, he said. “Usually they’ve already made up their
minds; the so-called consultations are often just statements.”  HFF, which has about $4.1 billion in bonds outstanding, has
struggled to escape insolvency as its inflation-linked home
loans lose ground to regular mortgages sold by commercial banks.
HFF’s capital adequacy ratio was 3.2 percent at the end of last
year, compared with a 5 percent regulatory minimum, the fund
said in March. Iceland’s regulator said May 28 it was concerned
HFF lacked the necessary capital to protect it against losses.  Iceland will seek the participation of HFF bondholders to
bail out the state-owned lender, Welfare Minister Eyglo Hardardottir, whose ministry is responsible for HFF, said in an
interview last week.  Bondholder Consent  The government and HFF have said they won’t take any steps
to change the terms on the debt without the consent of
bondholders.  A restructuring “has been discussed,” HFF Deputy Chairman
Sjofn Ingolfsdottir said in an interview. “But I can’t make any
assertions about whether this will be the outcome.”  Iceland’s new government, which took office last month,
wooed voters with promises of mortgage debt relief and lower
taxes. The administration of the Progressive Party and the
Independence Party, which ousted a Social Democrat-led
coalition, has said it wants “radical” changes to the island’s
housing market, pledging to write down  household debt  by as much
as 20 percent and cut reliance on inflation-linked loans.  Tracking consumer prices has proved costly for Iceland’s
households after inflation peaked at 19 percent in January 2009.
 Price growth  was 3.3 percent in May, compared with the central
bank’s 2.5 percent target.  Default Ratio  Iceland’s new banks, created from the domestic assets of
the island’s failed lenders, have attracted customers with
nominal loans allowing inflation to cut their debt burdens.  According to Karason at Stapi Pension Fund, creditors are
bracing for an announcement from HFF and the government sometime
in the coming three months.  “The summer is usually a popular time to take actions like
these,” he said. “People are on holiday, parliament is
suspended and reporters are also vacationing.”  HFF’s default ratio rose to 14.8 percent by the end of
April, according to a monthly report from the Reykjavik-based
bank. That figure needs to come down if the fund wants to
improve its  credit rating , according to Moody’s Investors
Service.  Iceland, which refused to bail out its three biggest banks
in 2008, said in February it would rescue HFF before an outright
default. That followed a November pledge to inject 13 billion
kronur into the lender.  Moody’s Rating  Since exiting a $4.6 billion International Monetary Fund-led economic program in 2011, Iceland has tapped the dollar bond
market twice. The spread between Iceland’s $1 billion bond
maturing in 2022 and the benchmark Treasury curve widened to 222
basis points this week from a low of 209 basis points on May 28.  In February, Moody’s changed its outlook on Iceland’s Baa3
credit grade to stable from negative and Fitch Ratings raised
the island to BBB from BBB-. Standard and Poor’s rates the
country’s debts BBB-, one step above junk, with a stable
outlook.  Moody’s, which rates HFF seven steps below investment grade
at Caa1 on a stand-alone basis, said the lender needs to restore
its ability to generate operating profit and match its
capitalization to its risk profile.  An upgrade of the “credit assessment could develop if
there is a material improvement in the fund’s asset quality,”
Oscar Heemskerk, a senior credit officer at Moody’s, said last
week in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 