-- Michael McClintock, Macquarie Managing Director, Dies at 55
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-06-04T19:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/michael-mcclintock-macquarie-managing-director-dies-at-55.html
Michael McClintock, a Harvard
Business School graduate who built a 30-year career advising
financial institutions, most recently as a senior managing
director in  New York  for  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s
biggest investment bank, has died. He was 55.  He died on June 2 at his home in Larchmont, New York, from
cardiac arrest after exercising, his wife, Cynthia McClintock,
said today in an interview. An avid skier, biker and golfer, he
completed the Jarden Westchester Triathlon, his first Olympic-length triathlon, in September, with a time of just under 3
hours, 56 minutes for the swimming, bicycling and running event.  McClintock joined Macquarie’s principal investment unit,
Macquarie Capital, in 2011. As part of the firm’s Financial
Institutions Group, he focused on working with small- and mid-capitalization banks and thrifts.  McClintock’s previous employers included FBR Capital
Markets and CIBC Capital Markets Corp., the merchant bank of
 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce .  One area of expertise was bank mergers and acquisitions
spurred by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. While at FBR
Capital, he helped two buyers of troubled banks, NBH Holdings
Corp. and North American Financial Holdings Inc. (now Capital
Bank Financial Corp.), raise money with initial public
offerings,  Bloomberg News  reported in 2011.  ‘Good Guys’  “Mike was truly one of the good guys in our business,”
Rob Redmond, head of Macquarie Capital for the U.S. and  Latin
America , said today in a statement provided by the company.  “Those of us who had the privilege of working with him
will never forget him,” Redmond said. “Mike will be remembered
for his smile and friendly demeanor around the office. Our
thoughts are with his family at this difficult time.”  McClintock also was chairman of the Merchants Bank of Rugby
in  North Dakota , a family business since his great-grandfather,
William D. McClintock, established it in 1897.  A 1980 graduate of  Dartmouth College , in Hanover,  New
Hampshire , McClintock was a past president of its Class Officers
Association, which fosters ties between alumni and the college.
In 2009, he helped  arrange  for outgoing Dartmouth president
James Wright to throw out the first pitch at a Red Sox game at
 Boston ’s Fenway Park.  Family First  A father of three, he tried not to let his work keep him
from his children’s athletic games, concerts and other important
events at home.  “He was able to make family his highest priority when he
wasn’t pursuing the extensive travel schedule his job
demanded,” Cynthia McClintock said.  Michael Robert McClintock was born on Aug. 20, 1957, in
 Minneapolis , one of six children of the former Aileen McHugh and
George D. McClintock, a onetime managing partner of the law firm
Faegre & Benson LLP, who died in 2012.  He graduated from the Blake School in Hopkins,  Minnesota ,
in 1976, and studied history at  Dartmouth . For his senior honors
thesis, he put his Eagle Scout skills to work by canoeing the
major trade route from Saskatchewan to Lake Superior during a
three-month span with three classmates.  After college, he entered J.P. Morgan & Co.’s training
program and spent four years there before entering  Harvard
Business School , earning his earning his master’s in business
administration in 1986.  Merrill, Oppenheimer  He worked in New York at Merrill Lynch & Co. and then at
 Oppenheimer & Co. , where he remained after its 1997 acquisition
by Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. He was co-head of the
Financial Institutions Group at Advest Inc. from 2002 to 2004
and managing director of the Financial Institutions Group at FBR
Capital Markets from 2004 until he joined Macquarie.  McClintock and his wife, the former Cynthia Crowley, met as
first-year students at Harvard Business School. They got engaged
while canoeing in the Boundary Waters of northern Minnesota,
said Cynthia McClintock, a former associate at Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc. who is chairman of the board of Rye Country Day
School and active with  Golden Seeds , a New York-based
organization of early-stage investors focused on supporting
companies led by women entrepreneurs.  In addition to his wife, McClintock’s survivors include
their three children, Christina, 23, Clare, 18, and William, 15,
and McClintock’s four sisters and one brother.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  