-- ICICI Sees RBI Rate Cuts Pushing Yields Below 7%
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-06-04T18:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/icici-sees-rbi-rate-cuts-pushing-yields-below-7-.html
India’s largest private lender
predicts 10-year sovereign bond yields will slide below 7
percent for the first time in four years as the central bank
adds to three interest-rate cuts.  The Reserve Bank of India will lower its repurchase rate by
25 basis points or 50 basis points in the fiscal year through
March, Shilpa Kumar, head of treasury at  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , said
in a June 3 interview. The  benchmark yield  has fallen 85 basis
points, or 0.85 percentage point, in 2013 to 7.20 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Similar-maturity debt dropped 14
basis points in  China .  “Monetary policy has been cognizant of the need to support
growth,” Kumar, 46, senior general manager for markets and
proprietary trading, who joined ICICI in 1989, said at the
bank’s headquarters in Mumbai. “Penciling in the kind of rate
cuts we are looking at, we could see something sub-7 percent on
the benchmark bond this year.”  Kumar, a former chairman of India’s fixed-income industry
body, said the current-account deficit will narrow this year and
price pressures will continue easing through September,
extending the bond rally. RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said May
14 that inflation at a 41-month low of 4.89 percent in April
will be factored in the next monetary policy review on June 17.  ‘Still High’  Subbarao, who cut the benchmark rate by 75 basis points to
7.25 percent this year, said May 30 that while inflation has
slowed in the last few months, gains in retail prices are
“still high.” The record current-account deficit and slowing
economic growth are a concern, he said in a speech. The governor
told the Press Trust of India on June 3 that wholesale inflation
at 5 percent is “comfortable.”  Gains in the benchmark  wholesale price index  averaged 7.55
percent in 2012 and 9.48 percent in 2011, official data compiled
by Bloomberg show. A separate gauge of  consumer prices  rose 9.39
percent in April from a year earlier after peaking at 10.91
percent in February, according to government data.  Subbarao’s latest comment “pointed to a rising chance of a
rate cut at the next meeting,”  Sebastien Barbe , head of
 emerging markets  research and strategy at Credit Agricole CIB in
Paris, wrote in a research report yesterday. “The rupee should
benefit, as should Indian bonds.”  The currency advanced 0.6 percent to 56.4525 per dollar
yesterday, paring its decline this year to 2.6 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the 7.16
percent note due May 2023 fell five basis points to 7.20
percent. India’s 10-year sovereign debt offers a premium of 507
basis points over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Bond Risk  India’s bond risk has declined. The cost of insuring the
debt of  State Bank of India (SBIN) , considered a proxy for the
sovereign, using five-year credit-default swaps, has fallen 34
basis points since Dec. 31 to 192, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets.  Inflation in  India  should soften as the government may
raise the prices at which it buys food from farmers by less than
last year, ICICI’s Kumar said. The government offers to purchase
crops from farmers at a “minimum support price” and sells them
to the poor at subsidized rates.  Inflation Forecasts  Consumer prices  will increase an average 8.55 percent in
the year through March 2014, according to the median of 10
estimates in a Bloomberg survey, compared with 10.2 percent in
the previous 12 months. Food contributes about 50 percent to
consumer prices. Gains in wholesale prices will slow to an
average 6.30 in the same period from 7.4 percent, a separate
survey shows.  “Food prices are not going to come down anytime soon,”
 Paresh Nayar , head of fixed-income and currencies trading at
 FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  in Mumbai, said in a June 4 telephone interview.
“We had been expecting a rate cut in June, but have put our
view on hold after the RBI’s comments” on May 30, he said.  Asia’s third-largest economy expanded 5 percent in the 12
months ended March, the Central Statistical Office said May 31.
That was the weakest in a decade and compares with a 10-year
average of about 8 percent. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s
efforts to boost investment floundered as protests over alleged
graft disrupted parliament, impeding bills to simplify taxes and
provide more land for industry.  RBI Easing  Subbarao has said the current-account deficit and inflation
risks limit room for reducing interest rates further. The RBI
has sought to bring down borrowing costs by reducing the
proportion of deposits banks are required to hold as  cash
reserves  to an almost 40-year low of 4 percent, and by pumping
in money into the financial system by buying government bonds.  Kumar said ICICI predicts GDP growth will accelerate to 6
percent in the current fiscal year, with consumption rather than
investment as the main driver. The current-account deficit will
narrow to below 4 percent of GDP in the period from a record of
around 5 percent largely due to lower global commodity prices,
Kumar predicted.  “From January 2012 till now, we’ve had times when we felt
inflation was at a difficult place, when we felt growth needed
some support,” she said. “And at every point in time, though
the central bank cautioned on inflation, we’ve had a series of
cuts either in the cash-reserve ratio or the repo rate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in  Mumbai  at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  