-- Milk Powder Prices Drop to Three-Month Low on Production Outlook
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-06-04T20:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/milk-powder-prices-drop-to-three-month-low-on-production-outlook.html
Whole milk powder auction prices
tumbled to a three-month low amid expectations of rising New
Zealand production in the second half of the year.  Powder for August delivery slumped 15 percent, according to
a trade-weighted index on the Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.’s
 GlobalDairyTrade  website. The near-term contract for New Zealand
product fell to $5,250 a metric ton, the lowest since March 5.
Across all contracts out to December, prices dropped 7.1 percent
to $4,643 a ton.  Fonterra expects at least 2 percent growth in New Zealand
milk collection in the 2013-14 season, Chief Executive Officer
Theo Spierings said in a May 29 interview. Slowing global milk
supply suggests powder prices across all contracts will remain
around current levels until the end of the year, he said.  Prices surged to a record in April as a drought declared
across the entire  North Island  including Waikato province, the
country’s biggest milk producer, curbed collection. The nation
may receive near-normal rainfall through July, the National
Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research said last month.  Fonterra on May 29 said it expects to pay its farmers NZ$7
($5.61) a kilogram of milksolids in the 2013-14 season, up from
NZ$5.80 in the season that ended May 31.  Fonterra, which accounts for about a third of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole, skim and butter-milk
powder, dried-milk fat, lactose, butter, cheese and casein at
its GlobalDairyTrade auctions. The company offers monthly
contracts with delivery starting from two months after the sale.
Casein is a protein found in milk.  In other auctions, prices for August delivery of milk fat
butter and skim milk powder also declined. Butter milk powder
increased, while cheddar, lactose, casein and milk protein
concentrate weren’t offered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  