-- Illinois Losing Rally as State Fails to Fix Pension: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-06-04T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/illinois-losing-rally-as-state-fails-to-fix-pension-muni-credit.html
Investors in the $3.7 trillion
municipal market assumed Illinois lawmakers would fix the worst-funded U.S. state pension system. The legislature’s latest
failure is showing buyers the cost of inaction.  Legislators left Springfield, the capital, May 31 without
mending underfunded retirement plans that they’ve neglected for
two decades. Both Democratic-led chambers passed proposed bills
in the first 10 days of May, spurring a 0.45 percentage point
drop in the yield penalty on taxable Illinois pension bonds
maturing in June 2033. That was the steepest monthly rally in at
least three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Richard Ciccarone  at McDonnell Investment Management LLC
and Bill Black at  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  said with a pension fix elusive,
bond spreads for the lowest-rated state will rise.  Fitch Ratings 
cut the state yesterday. The  cost  of protecting Illinois debt is
the highest since April, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw Hill Financial and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  “You had the house speaker, the senate president and the
governor all working on the issue and not being able to reach
some kind of compromise,” said  Oakbrook Terrace , Illinois-based
Black, whose company oversees $22.3 billion in munis. “That
makes me worried about Illinois’s ability to do anything.”  Credit Consequence  Governor  Pat Quinn , 64, a Democrat, said in January that
the pension challenge “has confounded legislatures and
governors for 70 years.” When lawmakers ended their 2012
session that month without a fix,  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the
state to A-, four steps above junk, and said more cuts would
follow if the systems weren’t improved. Another reduction from
the New York-based company would give Illinois the lowest  credit
rating  for a state since  California  in 2004.  The five Illinois pension systems are the worst-funded
among U.S. states at about 43 percent, Bloomberg data show. The
latest collapse of rescue efforts resulted from a standoff
between House Speaker Michael Madigan and Senate President John Cullerton, Democrats who backed competing measures.  Madigan’s bill would have required retirees to accept
diminished pension benefits, saving $187 billion over 30 years,
he said. Cullerton called that approach unconstitutional and
proposed a choice of pension or health-care reductions that
would save an estimated $50 billion.  ‘Way Apart’  Quinn said he preferred the Madigan approach to resolving
the liability, which grows $17 million daily.  “They were a long way apart going into this,” said
Ciccarone, managing director at  Oak Brook , Illinois-based
McDonnell, which oversees $8 billion in munis. “They’ve moved
another notch in the wrong direction, which justifies a bond
downgrade and a slippage in bond prices.”  Legislators’ previous two failures to agree on the issue --
in January and August -- led to S&P downgrades. S&P, Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch have negative outlooks on the state.
Fitch reduced its general-obligation rating to A-, joining S&P
and Moody’s in giving Illinois their lowest grade among states.  Olayinka Fadahunsi, an S&P spokesman, referred to the
company’s reports.  David Jacobson  at Moody’s said in an e-mail
to “keep in mind” that Quinn can call back the legislature.  Buyers’ Time  Even with the prospect of a rating cut, state law protects
bondholders, giving the governor “no discretion to consider not
paying debt service,” Matt Fabian, a managing director at
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, said in
a report yesterday.  Illinois is one of seven states with the strongest legal
provisions for paying debt service on its general obligations,
according to a 2011 Fidelity Investments  report .  Any rating cut and cheapening of the state’s bonds would
offer a buying opportunity for investors holding the debt until
maturity, Fabian said. Issuers from the state pay the highest
yield penalty among the 19 tracked by Bloomberg.  Yesterday morning, investors demanded as much as 0.15
percentage point more to own the pension debt due in 2033, said
Hardy Manges, head of muni trading at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities
in  New York .  It cost the annual equivalent of about $189,000 yesterday
to protect $10 million of  Illinois  bonds for 10 years through
credit-default swaps, the most since April 9, CMA data show.  Python Persists  While investors receive timely payments, Illinois faces
about $6 billion in unpaid bills, Comptroller Judy Baar Topinka
said last month. Lawmakers in April considered chipping away at
the backlog with a $2.5 billion bond sale.  Quinn said in a statement yesterday that he plans to meet
Cullerton and Madigan today to discuss a way to resolve the
unfunded pension obligations. A special session requires a
three-fifths vote to pass a measure, rather than a simple
majority.  The Fitch downgrade is “no surprise,” Quinn said in the
statement. “This will continue to happen until legislators pass
a comprehensive pension reform bill and put it on my desk.”  With the missed opportunity, a video from the governor
featuring “ Squeezy the Pension Python ,” a cartoon character
that threatens to strangle the capitol building, will serve as
the backdrop for the Illinois legislature. For investors and
rating companies, it represents diminished creditworthiness. For
residents, the snake squeezes out funds for essential services.  “Speaking as an investor, I’m disappointed,” said Black,
a senior portfolio manager. “As an Illinois taxpayer and voter,
I’m disappointed as well.”  Issuers from  Massachusetts  to  Los Angeles  are selling $5.6
billion of debt this week, up from $4.1 billion last week,
Bloomberg  data  show. The increase comes after investors withdrew
the most money from muni mutual funds in about a month.  At  2.17 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are
close to a 15-month high. The  interest rate  compares with  2.11
percent (USGG10YR)  for similar-maturity Treasuries. The  ratio  of the
yields, a gauge of relative value, is about 103 percent, close
to the highest in a month. The greater the figure, the cheaper
munis are compared with federal debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  