-- IMF Says France Must Continue to Free Labor Market; Cuts Outlook
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-06-04T10:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/imf-says-france-must-continue-to-free-labor-market-cuts-outlook.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its growth forecasts for France and said the country had to
build on efforts to free up its labor market.  In its latest Article IV consultations, the Washington-based IMF said the French economy will contract 0.2 percent this
year and rebound 0.8 percent next year. In its mid-April world
outlook, the IMF had forecast a decline of 0.1 percent this year
for France and growth of 0.9 percent next year.  “The main downward risk to French growth is household
confidence, which has been hurt by uncertainty over taxes,”
 Edward Gardner , the IMF’s mission chief in France, said today in
a Paris press conference. “It will be difficult to reverse
growing unemployment by the end of the year.”  A day after the government of President  Francois Hollande 
announced yet another income tax increase, the IMF’s Gardner
said France had “no more scope to raise taxes” and that its
high tax rates were “distorting incentives and undermining
growth.”  While the IMF said recent tax increases had put the French
government on track to hit its target of a  budget deficit  under
3 percent in 2015, further efforts had to come from lower
spending.  French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault yesterday announced
a reduction in income tax child credits for wealthy families,
which will raise an extra 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in
revenue next year, while rejecting calls to cut direct child
support payments to wealthy families.  Labor Market  “ France  spends more on welfare than other countries while
not having results that are better than most other countries,”
Gardner said.  The French government has “made meaningful progress” on
liberalizing its labor markets, since the last Article IV
consultations in October 2012, today’s report said.  After his election a year ago, Hollande pushed through
measures making it easier for companies to sign labor contracts
outside the framework of national union accords. More has to be
done to create flexible contracts for low wage earners and to
reduce legal uncertainty for companies in firing procedures,
Gardner said.  “France has more than just cyclical problems, it has
structural problems,” Gardner said. “But the number of reforms
that have been passed in the past six months shows that the
government appreciates it has problems. But we see it as a first
step in a long process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  