-- India Clears Plan Toward Resolving Vodafone Tax Dispute
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-06-05T08:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/india-clears-plan-toward-resolving-vodafone-tax-dispute.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Cabinet approved a non-binding proposal that would start
a conciliation process to resolve a $2.2 billion tax dispute
with  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   The decision is the first step toward a resolution which
will need parliamentary approval, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told reporters in New Delhi yesterday.  Ben Padovan ,
a Vodafone spokesman, declined to comment on the Cabinet plan.  Vodafone, which has expressed willingness to settle the
claim if it isn’t liable for interest, has invested at least 513
billion rupees ($9.1 billion) in the fastest-growing mobile
market, including buying wireless airwaves. The dispute dates
back to the Newbury, England-based carrier’s 2007 acquisition of
the Indian unit of Hong Kong-based  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) 
Vodafone has argued it didn’t owe taxes in India because the
deal took place between two overseas companies and the target
asset was registered in the  Cayman Islands .  “You’re jumping the gun,” Chidambaram said when asked
whether Vodafone would be exempted from paying interest on the
tax. “It is in India’s interest to resolve this matter.”  India must amend its laws and again seek the Cabinet’s
confirmation, while Vodafone may require board approval, before
the dispute can be resolved, Chidambaram said.  IPO Plan  In 2011, Vodafone said it may consider an initial public
offering of its India venture after resolving the tax dispute.
The company is the largest foreign direct investor in India,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vodafone shares  slipped  0.4 percent to 191.25 pence at 9:09
a.m. in  London . The stock gained 24 percent this year through
yesterday.  “It’s a good thing: they can look at India from a longer-term perspective, maybe resulting in that IPO they’ve been
planning for so long,” said Harit Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst
with Nirmal Bang Equities Ltd. “This is just a start. Hopefully
the process will continue through its logical conclusion.”  The decision could amount to a partial reprieve for
Vodafone, Shah said. The company is the world’s second-largest
wireless carrier, behind  China Mobile Ltd. (941)   After defeating the government’s initial demand in January
2012, Vodafone received another bill following an Indian
amendment to retrospectively tax cross-border transactions
dating back to April 1, 1962.  Vodafone and Hutchison conducted their transaction
offshore, with Vodafone’s Dutch subsidiary, Vodafone
International Holdings BV, acquiring CGP Ltd., a Cayman Islands
company controlled by Hong Kong-based Hutchison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  