-- Miners Face Slow Asset Sales as Buyers Seek Bargains, PwC Says
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-06-04T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/miners-face-slow-asset-sales-as-buyers-seek-bargains-pwc-says.html
Rio Tinto  Group., the world’s second-largest miner, and its peers face longer negotiations over about
$48 billion of asset sales as buyers seek bargains amid weak
commodity prices, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said.  There are few takers for mines and resources on offer as
companies trim spending because of lower prices and rising costs,
said Jock O’Callaghan, the energy, utilities and mining leader
for PwC  Australia . The size of mining assets for sale is almost
double last year’s $23 billion of completed and pending deals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In these conditions, the deal cycle is much longer,”
O’Callaghan said yesterday in an interview. “Many have said
they are not going to divest unless it’s divesting at value.”  London-based Rio Tinto is pursuing an initial public
offering of its gem unit after failing to find a buyer, a person
familiar with the matter said June 3. New chief executives at
both Rio and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner, are
leading a global asset sale that may involve $35 billion worth
of businesses or stakes in mines, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Commodity prices as measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Industrial Metals Index has fallen 7.4 percent this year amid
concern about slowing growth in  China , the world’s largest
consumer of industrial metals. The S&P GSCI Energy Index has
declined 2.6 percent.  An annual PwC study of 40 global mining companies in 10
countries to be published today showed costs gained an average 9
percent, profit fell 49 percent and impairment charges were $45
billion last year, the highest in the survey’s 10-year history.
Impairment charges were $16 billion in 2011, according to the
2012 report.  Deals in the coming months will probably involve either a
small number of bidders, or a single bidder, reducing the
likelihood of quick agreements, O’Callaghan said.  “Once that competitive tension has dropped off, there’s
not a lot of incentive from the buyer’s perspective to hurry
things along,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  