-- IPad Prices Add to Tokyo Surprise as Linkers Gain: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-06-04T01:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/ipad-prices-add-to-tokyo-surprise-as-linkers-gain-japan-credit.html
Apple Inc.’s raising of iPad prices
in  Japan  and a surprise increase in Tokyo consumer prices added
to signs that monetary stimulus is starting to stoke inflation.  Japan’s  breakeven rate , a measure of inflation
expectations, indicate annual price increases of 1.61 percent in
the next five years, 0.23 percentage point from the highest on
record going back to 2009 and compared with a 0.83 percent
reading last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
equivalent  U.S. gauge  has fallen to 1.91 percent from 2.07
percent on Dec. 31.  Apple raised iPad and iPod prices because of the weakening
yen, as government data showed that Tokyo living costs rose for
the first time in four years. Bonds linked to price increases
have returned 2.12 percent this year, compared with the 0.95
percent gain in nominal bonds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show, amid signs Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s
bid to end deflation is bearing fruit.  “We’re seeing sprouts of an economic recovery in Japan,”
said  Masaru Hamasaki , a senior strategist at Tokyo-based
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $100 billion. “Inflation will become genuine when
prices of a broad category of products start rising.”  Japanese government bonds rose for a third session
yesterday as domestic shares plunged and the central bank
announced its first debt purchases of the month. Benchmark 10-year  yields  fell 5 1/2 basis points to 0.805 percent as the
Topix stock index dropped 3.4 percent. The bond rate was 0.83
percent today.  Kuroda Stimulus  The  equity gauge  has gained 50 percent since mid-November,
when Shinzo Abe called for unlimited cash provisions by the BOJ
to overcome 15 years of deflation. The yen has weakened 19
percent against the dollar since then. Elections a month later
made Abe Japan’s prime minister. At the first board meeting that
Kuroda led on April 4, the BOJ doubled debt buying to achieve 2
percent inflation in two years.  The yen traded at 99.62 per dollar at 10:23 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
after touching 98.87 yesterday, the strongest since May 9.  The depreciating local currency is prompting companies to
raise prices on imports.  Apple now sells the iPad Wi-Fi model tablet computer with
16 gigabytes of memory for 49,800 yen ($500), compared with its
previous price of 42,800 yen, according to the company’s
website. The iPod Shuffle music player costs from 4,800 yen,
compared with the previous starting price of 4,200 yen.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA raised prices at the
Japan unit of Louis Vuitton by an average of 12 percent on Feb.
15. Tiffany & Co. increased jewelry prices in April.  Tokyo Prices  Tokyo  consumer prices  excluding fresh food rose 0.1 percent
in May from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said on May
31. That compared with the median estimate of a 0.2 percent
decline in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The core
consumer price index nationwide fell 0.4 percent in April,
matching the analyst forecasts.  Increases in television prices and electricity costs
contributed to the higher living expenses in Japan’s capital,
according to a statement from the statistics bureau.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Softbank Co. priced
400 billion yen of five-year bonds targeting individual
investors to yield 1.74 percent, according to a filing yesterday
with the Ministry of Finance. The Tokyo-based wireless carrier,
founded by billionaire Masayoshi Son, offered 300 billion yen of
four-year, 1.47 percent notes in February to help fund its $20
billion takeover of Sprint Nextel Corp.  Corporate Bonds  Tohoku Electric Power Co. hired banks for a sale of 10-year
debt this month, according to a statement from Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co., which is managing the deal with
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Japanese
corporate bonds rather than sovereign debt was at 35 basis
points yesterday, matching the lowest since March 2011,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The
spread for company notes worldwide was 139 basis points, or 1.39
percentage points.  The  Markit iTraxx Japan  index, comprised of credit-default
swaps for 50 companies, rose to 101.5 basis points yesterday,
the highest level since April 4, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. An increase in the
contracts signals worsening perceptions of creditworthiness,
while a decrease suggests the opposite.  Monetary Base  Japan’s  monetary base  climbed 2.5 percent to 159 trillion
yen at the end of May compared with a month earlier, the BOJ
said in a statement today. The BOJ aims to boost the gauge,
which is total money in circulation plus reserve deposits at the
central bank, to 270 trillion yen by the end of next year.  As Japanese consumer prices show signs of picking up,
inflation is slowing overseas.  The U.S. core personal-consumption-expenditures index, the
Federal Reserve’s preferred measure of inflation, rose 1.05
percent in April, the lowest on record.  U.K. core inflation 
slowed to 2 percent in April from 2.4 percent in March.  While a sales tax increase may help Japan’s inflation reach
2 percent, such a price advance will be “short-lived and
meaningless,” according to Takehito Yoshino, the chief fund
manager at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. Abe said in April he will
decide on whether to boost the 5 percent consumption levy to 8
percent in April 2014 and 10 percent in October 2015 based on
the state of the economy.  Impossible Goal  “It’s impossible to achieve 2 percent inflation that’s
sustainable with Governor Kuroda’s current method,” said
Yoshino, whose bank manages the equivalent of $209 billion in
assets. “The BOJ needs to constantly create bubbles. What we’re
seeing in the market now is the bursting of a mini bubble.”  Reaching the price-increase goal won’t be easy, Japanese
Finance Minister Taro Aso told reporters in Tokyo today.  In a sign that the BOJ’s monetary stimulus has yet to
inspire company managers to bolster spending, corporate capital
expenditures excluding software decreased 5.2 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, according to Ministry of
Finance data released yesterday.  Kuroda’s easing also caused price swings in the debt market
to shoot up. Ten-year yields fell to a record low of 0.315
percent on April 5, a day after the stimulus was unveiled, then
surged to a year-high of 1 percent last month.  Implied volatility of Japan’s 10-year note futures, a
measure of expected moves used to price options, jumped to 7.96
percent on May 29, the highest since November 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s ‘no pain, no gain’ for the BOJ’s new leadership, and
their bold policy in exchange for some side-effects has been
successful overall so far,” said Kazuhiko Ogata, the Tokyo-based chief economist for Japan at Credit Agricole SA, one of
the 24 primary dealers obliged to bid at Japan’s debt auctions.
“The weaker yen and rising shares are helping elevate inflation
expectations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  