-- IRS Paid Speaker $17,000 to Paint Michael Jordan at Event
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-04T21:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/irs-paid-speaker-17-000-to-paint-michael-jordan-at-event.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  spent
$17,000 to hire a speaker who painted pictures of  Michael Jordan 
and U2 singer Bono to motivate employees at a 2010 conference in
 California , the agency’s inspector general said.  IRS officials financed some costs of the conference in
Anaheim, California, with $3.2 million in unused funds for
hiring enforcement personnel, the review said.  The tax agency spent about $49 million on 225 conferences
from fiscal 2010 to 2012, including $4.1 million on the Anaheim
meeting, said the inspector general report released today. In
Anaheim, some IRS employees stayed in rooms typically costing as
much as $3,500 a night, and the agency paid $135,350 to
speakers, including $17,000 for a lecture by Erik Wahl on “The
Art of Vision,” the report said.  The IRS contract said Wahl was “uniquely qualified”
because of his “artistic abilities and his presentation
skills,” the report said. “In each presentation, he will
create a unique painting that reinforces his message of
unlearning the rules, breaking the boundaries, and freeing the
thought process to find creative solutions to challenges.”  The amount the IRS spent on conferences is adding to
criticism of the tax agency, which is being investigated after
disclosing that it gave extra scrutiny to small-government
groups that sought tax-exempt status. The agency is under
investigation by six congressional committees and the  Justice
Department  regarding its review of those groups.  Most Expensive  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee plans a
June 6 hearing on the IRS spending.  The Anaheim meeting was the most expensive IRS conference
held between fiscal 2010 and 2012, according to the inspector
general’s report.  The IRS “specifically requested numerous upgraded rooms
and other concessions” from the Anaheim hotels, the report
said. The costs could have been reduced if the tax agency had
instead negotiated for a lower room rate, it said.  “The wasteful Anaheim conference is one example of a
culture of excess that plagues the IRS and many federal
agencies,”  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and chairman
of the House Oversight panel, said in a press release.
“Taxpayer money meant to pay for a core agency mission, the
hiring of more enforcement personnel, was instead spent on a
lavish party.”  Safety, Security  An IRS fact sheet said the Anaheim meeting’s focus included
safety and security training after a suicide attack on an IRS
facility in Austin,  Texas , earlier that year. The agency no
longer hires paid outside speakers, it said.  The IRS has “dramatically reduced its conference
spending,” according to a Treasury Department statement.
Spending on large conferences dropped about 87 percent to $4.86
million in fiscal 2012 from $37.6 million in fiscal 2010, it
said.  The inspector general said the agency paid about $34,000 to
house local employees at hotels during the Anaheim conference
and paid for two top officials to stay in presidential suites
that typically cost between $1,499 and $3,500 a night. The IRS
paid the government rate of $135 a night for all rooms,
according to the report.  “Because these free rooms and upgrades were part of the
Letters of Intent with the hotels, they are not gifts to
employees,” the report said. “However, the solicitation and
use of hotel room upgrades increases the perception of wasteful
spending and should be carefully considered in the future.”  Presidential Suite  The commissioner of the IRS small business and self-employed division stayed in the presidential suite at a  Marriott
International Inc. (MAR)  hotel that typically cost $3,500 a night,
according to the report. Christopher Wagner was the commissioner
of the small business division at the time of the event,
according to Jose Manuel Vejarano, an IRS spokesman. Wagner
recently retired as the IRS chief of appeals.  The small business division’s deputy commissioner stayed in
a presidential suite at a Hilton hotel, owned by private equity
firm  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)  Faris Fink, now the division’s
commissioner, was the deputy commissioner for that division at
the time of the event, Vejarano said in an e-mail.  The Anaheim gathering, for workers overseeing small
businesses and self-employed taxpayers, featured an IRS-produced
video parody of  Star Trek . Fink played Spock in the spoof.  ‘Dance Party’  The IRS constructed a mock set at its television studio in
New Carrollton,  Maryland , at a cost of $2,400 to make the Star
Trek video, the report said. Executives featured in the video
bought their costumes with personal funds, it said.  Agency employees also participated in a “dance party”
video that mentioned plans for the Anaheim conference.  Some employees received prizes, including 24 tickets to two
Los Angeles Angels baseball games, which IRS management said
were provided by the hotels. The agency spent more than $64,000
on gifts and trinkets for employees who attended the conference,
according to the report.  Two attendees also received a painting done by Wahl, the
speaker. Three other Wahl paintings were donated to the Combined
Federal Campaign workplace charity program and one was lost, the
report said.  IRS officials estimated that the event for about 2,600
employees cost $4.1 million, according to the inspector
general’s report. The agency’s auditors were unable to verify
the cost figure, the report said.  Actual Costs  “Procedures at the time of the conference did not require
IRS management to track and report actual conference costs,”
the review said. As a result, the inspector general “could not
validate the conference cost.”  The Anaheim conference was approved by the deputy
commissioner for operations and the deputy commissioner for
services and enforcement in April 2010, according to the report.
Mark Ernst was the deputy commissioner for operations support at
the time, said Vejarano, the IRS spokesman. Steven T. Miller,
the former acting commissioner who was recently forced out of
the position, was deputy commissioner for services and
enforcement at that time.  Danny Werfel, the new acting IRS commissioner, said in a
statement last week that the event was “an unfortunate vestige
from a prior era” and the agency has since cut training and
travel expenses.  GSA, Veterans  The  General Services Administration  and the Department of
 Veterans Affairs  had similar audits last year of employee
conference spending. GSA expenditures included $823,000 for a
Las Vegas event featuring a clown, a mind reader and a $75,000
bicycle building exercise. Martha Johnson, the GSA
administrator, resigned.  Department of Veterans Affairs employees improperly
accepted gifts such as massages and incurred $762,000 in
unauthorized and wasteful expenses tied to two conferences in
 Florida , the agency’s inspector general reported last year. John Sepulveda, the VA’s assistant secretary for human resources,
resigned the day before the report was released.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  