-- Israel Limits West Bank’s Palestinian Growth, Group Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-06-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/israel-limits-west-bank-s-palestinian-growth-group-says.html
Israel has effectively annexed about
60 percent of the  West Bank  and is neglecting its responsibility
to let Palestinians build and flourish in the territory, an
Israeli  human rights  group said.  The report published today by  B’Tselem , the Israeli
Information Center for Human Rights in the Occupied Territories,
says Israel illegally gives its own citizens incentives to live
in more than 100 Jewish settlements scattered around the West
Bank’s so-called Area C and restricts construction in
Palestinian towns and villages. Spokesmen for the Defense
Ministry and its supervisor for the West Bank and  Gaza Strip 
said they were still reviewing the report and not prepared to
comment.  “Israel consistently takes actions that strengthen its
hold on Area C, displace the Palestinian presence, exploit the
area’s resources to benefit Israel’s own population, and promote
a permanent situation in which Israeli settlements thrive and
Palestinian presence is negligible and weakened,” the B’Tselem
report says.  The division of the West Bank between Palestinians and
Israelis will be a central part of discussions when U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  arrives next week for his fifth
Middle East trip since taking office in February. About 2.7
million Palestinians and 350,000 Jews live in the territory,
which Israel captured from Jordan during the 1967 Six-Day War.  Areas A and B, drawn up as part of the 1993 Oslo peace
accords, contain only Palestinians and include the West Bank’s
biggest cities, Ramallah, Bethlehem, Nablus and Hebron. Both
Israelis and Palestinians live in Area C.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  