-- Issa Says E-Mails Show FHA Hid $115 Billion Loss Scenario
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-06-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/issa-says-e-mails-show-fha-hid-115-billion-loss-scenario.html
Federal Housing Administration
officials urged a contractor not to publish an analysis showing
the government mortgage insurer could face a $115 billion
shortfall, according to a letter from a U.S. lawmaker.  The FHA reported in October that losses on defaulted loans
could lead it to rely on as much as $16.3 billion in taxpayer
aid, the first such subsidy in its 79-year history. White House
budget writers reduced the estimate to $943 million in the
budget plan they released in April as the housing market
improved.  The October report intentionally omitted a projection
performed by the FHA’s independent actuary showing the cost
could be as high as $115 billion in a catastrophic scenario,
 Darrell Issa , chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform, said in a May 29 letter.  E-mails obtained by the committee “indicate that the
fund’s true liability may be as high as $115 billion under
severe economic circumstances, and that FHA may have encouraged
IFE Group to obfuscate this fact from Congress,” Issa, a
California Republican, wrote to FHA Commissioner Carol Galante.  In his letter, Issa quoted e-mails between an FHA official
and the independent contractor.  “We just do not want that analysis to be in the actuarial
review report for the first time this year,” one e-mail said,
referring to the $115 billion projection, according to Issa.
“In congressional hearings, it is quite possible that we will
be required to present this information on the record, but that
will be well after the actuarial review is released and the
initial media coverage takes place.”  Documents Sought  Issa’s letter was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  Issa asked Galante for more documents pertaining to the
preparation of the actuarial report and requested that she and
her staff make themselves available for interviews.  “We are looking into this matter and we will respond to
the committee appropriately,” Addie Whisenant, a spokeswoman
for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, said in an
interview.  The FHA is required to keep enough cash on hand to cover
all expected future losses. The agency has until Sept. 30, the
end of the fiscal year, to make a final determination of whether
it will require aid from the Treasury this year.  Bad Loans  The FHA’s shortfall stems largely from loans it backed from
2007 to 2009 when it expanded its book of business as private
capital evaporated. Those loans alone are projected to cost the
agency $70 billion.  The FHA insures $1.1 trillion worth of  mortgages  and backs
about 15 percent of the U.S. loan originations for home
purchases, almost quadruple the 4 percent share it covered in
2007. About 9.5 percent of loans insured by the FHA are at least
90 days delinquent.  The budget prediction for the FHA is being followed in
Congress, where Democrats and Republicans are working on
legislation that would further tighten the agency’s
underwriting.  Leaders of the Senate Banking Committee have pledged to
work on a bipartisan bill to restructure the FHA. Republicans in
the  House of Representatives  are working on their own measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  