-- Listeria Death Rate Shows U.S. Food Safety Shortcomings
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-06-04T16:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/listeria-death-rate-shows-u-s-food-safety-shortcomings.html
One in five Americans sickened by
listeria over a three-year period died, according to government
data that highlight how little has been done to curtail the
pathogen linked to tainted cheese and produce.  Listeria sickened 1,651 people from 2009-2011, the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta said in a report
today. Twenty percent of those stricken died, primarily the
elderly and prenatal babies who were stillborn or miscarried.  “No progress in reducing the overall incidence of
listeriosis has occurred in over a decade,” the CDC said.
“Renewed prevention efforts are needed from farm to table.”  The Obama administration proposed in January the first
major regulations from the 2011 Food Safety Modernization Act,
which was to be the most sweeping overhaul of U.S. food
oversight in 70 years when it passed. The  Food and Drug
Administration  is developing the rules aimed at keeping people
safe from listeria.  “We are also working with produce growers, food
processors, and our state partners to further implement what we
know works to minimize food safety risks,”  Michael Taylor , the
FDA’s deputy commissioner for foods, said in a statement.  Congress passed the food safety law after poisonings
related to cookie dough, spinach, jalapenos and other foods
killed at least nine people and sickened more than 700 in 2008
and 2009.  For the three years studied by the CDC, 12 listeria
outbreaks sickened 224 consumers in 38 states. Five outbreaks
implicated soft cheeses made from pasteurized milk that were
likely contaminated during cheese making. The overall CDC data
also included a 2011 listeria outbreak where 146 people were
sickened and at least 30 died from cantaloupes grown at Jensen
Farms in Granada,  Colorado . That outbreak was the deadliest in
almost 90 years.  In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the incidence of
listeriosis declined markedly after investigations led to
industry changes, such as using ingredients that inhibit
listeria growth. The data today show that progress has stalled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  