-- Italy to Put Ilva Steelmaker Under Special Administration
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-06-04T17:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/italy-to-put-ilva-steelmaker-under-special-administration.html
The Italian government said it will
put steelmaker Ilva SpA under special administration after a
widening environmental probe put Europe’s largest steel plant at
risk.  The closure of the steelmaker would be “an enormous
shock” for the Italian economy, even in terms of jobs, Industry
Minister Flavio Zanonato said at a press conference in  Rome 
today. Prime Minister Enrico Letta plans to name Enrico Bondi
special administrator for one year, with the possibility to
extend his mandate for another two years, Zanonato said.  Magistrates in July last year ordered the partial closure
of Ilva’s Taranto plant in southern  Italy , Europe’s largest. Top
executives, including Emilio Riva, chairman at Ilva’s owner
Gruppo Riva SpA, were arrested on suspicion they knowingly
neglected environmental controls at the plant contributing to
high cancer rates in the area. Milan-based Riva denies
responsibility for health issues in the region.  Italy’s government approved a decree in November to keep
the plant operating, subject to a 3 billion-euro clean-up by the
company. The impact from the plant shutdown would be 8 billion
euros ($10.4 billion), Zanonato reiterated at a hearing in
Parliament today. The  Environment Ministry  said yesterday the
company hasn’t so far implemented all the measures required to
comply with health standards.  The company’s board resigned May 25 over the seizure of 8.1
billion euros ($10.6 billion) of assets belonging to the Riva
family. Ilva said it would mount a legal challenge to the asset
seizure.  The asset seizure threatens the company’s capacity to
continue production and could send the situation at the plant
“out of control,” with repercussions for 20,000 employees, the
family’s holding company Riva Fire said in a statement May 27.  Ilva accounts for 30 percent of Italy’s steel production
and generates 75 percent of the province of Taranto’s gross
domestic product, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  