-- Littoral Ship to Get Close Scrutiny From Congress
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-04T17:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/littoral-ship-to-get-close-scrutiny-from-congress.html
Congress will take a close look at
the Pentagon’s $34 billion Littoral Combat Ship program and may
consider restrictions on the Navy’s $2 billion request to buy
four vessels in fiscal 2014, Representative Randy Forbes said.  Forbes, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee’s
seapower panel, said today that any decisions would await the
final report from an LCS review by the Government Accountability
Office. A draft of the GAO study said Congress should consider
slowing the program’s funding because the Navy is buying ships
faster than it can test their design and performance.  “I’m not going to prejudge” the report, Forbes, a
Virginia Republican, told reporters. “I’ll wait until we see
it, but we are going to do some intensive oversight on this
program, which will include hearings.”  The Littoral Combat Ship has continued to draw support from
the Pentagon and lawmakers despite  federal budget  cuts and a
growing list of questions about its designs, firepower, defenses
and survivability. Estimated construction costs have doubled to
$440 million per ship, and a Navy study last year found the
vessels are too lightly armed and that plans to reconfigure the
ships for different missions aren’t practical.  The GAO’s draft report “is very concerning,” because “of
the intensity” of its content, Forbes said. “It is something
we will be monitoring very, very carefully.”  Restricting Funding  The GAO, Congress’s nonpartisan investigative arm, said in
the draft report that Congress “should consider restricting
future funding” until the Navy completes technical and design
studies and determines whether the results require redesigns of
24 ships already under contract, out of a planned total of 52.  Forbes said he’s not prepared to act based on the draft,
which the Navy is reviewing. When the final report is published,
he said, “we are going to take some action.” Any definitive
congressional action is probably months away, he said.  Forbes’s seapower panel approved the Navy’s fiscal 2014
request for four ships on May 21, before the GAO draft said the
Navy is buying vessels before it’s completed “technical studies
that raise fundamental questions” about the ship.  The full House Armed Services Committee is scheduled to act
tomorrow on a measure that includes money for the additional
four vessels. The House defense appropriations subcommittee, in
its draft version of the Pentagon’s spending plan, approves the
four vessels, according to a congressional aide who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  ‘Substantial Unknowns’  The GAO report obtained by  Bloomberg News  is entitled
“Navy Shipbuilding: Significant Investments in the Littoral
Combat Ship Continue Amid Substantial Unknowns About
Capabilities, Use and Cost.”  Rear Admiral  John Kirby , the chief of naval information,
said in an e-mailed statement that the LCS program “is vital to
our current and future fleet.”  “We look forward to continuing to work with the GAO and
Congress,” Kirby said. “ A productive dialogue remains key to
successfully integrating LCS into the surface force and reaching
our stated shipbuilding goals.”  The GAO draft was submitted to the Navy last week for
comment. Forbes said it would be issued in final form in about
two months. That’s before the House and Senate are likely to
finish work on the fiscal 2014  defense budget .  “If, based on that report and the hearings, we need to do
something, we will have time to do it” before final action on
the defense authorization for the fiscal year that starts Oct.
1, he said.  Shallow Waters  The LCS is to be a small, speedy, adaptable ship for
patrolling shallow waters close to shore, such as in the  Persian
Gulf . It’s designed to use interchangeable modules for different
missions, such as clearing mines, hunting submarines or waging
surface warfare.  The Navy is buying two versions of the ship. One, with a
steel hull, is being made in Marinette,  Wisconsin , by a group
led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  A group led by  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  is
building an aluminum trimaran in Mobile,  Alabama .  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel toured the Navy’s first
Littoral Combat Ship on its deployment to Singapore June 2,
saying the ship represents “a new era of partnership” as the
U.S. military shifts focus toward  Asia .  “You’re all making history out here,” Hagel told the crew
of the USS Freedom, built by a team led by Lockheed Martin Corp.
“A new ship, new capacity, new opportunities,” Hagel said from
the ship’s pilot house via intercom.  The GAO draft said the Navy’s “expectations of LCS
capability have weakened over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  