-- J.C. Penney Continuing Ron Johnson’s Vision on the Cheap
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-06-04T20:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/j-c-penney-continuing-ron-johnson-s-vision-on-the-cheap.html
J.C. Penney Co.’s (JCP)  new home department
is like Technicolor Oz plunked down in black-and-white  Kansas .  Dreamed up by  Ron Johnson  before the former Apple Inc.
retail wizard was ousted as chief executive officer in April,
the housewares emporium, which opens this week, features vibrant
colors, wood fixtures and other modern flourishes. The rest of
the century-old department-store chain? Not so much.  The dichotomy presents a challenge for CEO Myron Ullman.
Johnson’s vision is too far along to abandon, yet J.C. Penney is
consuming cash faster than any other U.S. brick-and-mortar
retailer. So Ullman, 66, has opted for what might be described
as Johnson Lite as he sets about renovating the two-thirds of
store space left untouched during Johnson’s 17-month tenure.  Rather than a mini-mall of 100 branded shops, Ullman is
testing scaled-down versions of the concept, including one
selling Haggar and Dockers khakis that looks nothing like
Johnson’s proposed Khaki Bar. If it works, Ullman will do the
same with additional national and house brands.  As he renovates the stores, Ullman must appeal to the
younger shoppers Johnson was chasing and the chain’s older, more
conservative customers, said  Paul Swinand , an analyst for
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago .  The contrast between old and new may be “jarring” for
some of them, he said. “It’s an issue they have to address.”  Ullman, who ran the chain from 2004 to 2011, initially
focused on shoring up J.C. Penney’s finances after returning. He
borrowed $850 million from the company’s credit line and secured
a loan of $2.25 billion from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Trading Discount  That helped boost the Plano, Texas-based chain’s shares,
which have gained 12 percent since Ullman’s return. Still, they
trade at a 73 percent discount to the Standard & Poor’s 500
Retailing Index on a price-to-sales basis, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares rose 1.1 percent to $17.96 at
the close in  New York .  Now Ullman is trying to win back customers who decamped in
droves after Johnson axed most discounts for an everyday low
pricing model. Deals are back and feature prominently in
advertising, which under Johnson sought to persuade shoppers
that J.C. Penney was drop-dead cool. Ullman even greenlighted an
ad that acknowledged mistakes and pleaded for customers to
return.  Reversing the chain’s fortunes -- J.C. Penney’s net loss
widened in the first quarter to $348 million and sales sank 16
percent -- means getting the stores and assortment right.  Johnson originally planned to install 100 of his shops by
the end of 2015 in what he called a specialty department store.
Only a handful were completed in about 700 of the largest
locations before he left. Even if he had stayed, the company
lacks the funds to continue beyond the housewares department.  Cash Burn  Once that’s done, less than 10 percent of this year’s
budget for  capital expenditures  will remain, the company has
said. Meanwhile, J.C. Penney’s operations consumed $752 million
in cash in the quarter ended May 4, more than any other U.S.
brick-and-mortar retailer, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  With money tight, Ullman is also ditching Johnson’s plans
for coffee bars and food stands dotted throughout the stores.
Ditto for the “street” that was to lead shoppers to a town
“square,” home to such activities as yoga and pilates.  Johnson’s original Khaki Bar featured long wooden tables
equipped with iPads loaded with sizing and style apps. The
scaled-down version is right out of the department store 101
manual: neatly folded clothes on wooden shelves and tables,
track lighting, posters of hunky-looking guys, more mannequins
and bolder signs for the Haggar and Dockers brands. Some version
of the concept will be expanded to more than 500 stores by
October, said Daphne Avila, a company spokeswoman.  Never Implemented  While Haggar and Dockers had shops designed and prototypes
built, they were never implemented. The scaled-down versions
represent an evolution, not a departure, said Rich Honiball,
senior vice president for marketing, licensing and e-commerce
for Dallas-based Haggar.  “At no point was it that we weren’t going to do this,”
Honiball said in an interview. “That commitment has continued
through Ullman.”  Under Johnson, some of J.C. Penney’s most popular house
brands disappeared or were minimized because they lacked the hip
factor. Now, to win back customers, the company is reviving four
private-label brands in time for the back-to-school shopping
season that kicks off next month. The return of St. John’s Bay
was in the works before Johnson left. When paired with the men’s
side of the brand, St. John’s Bay had generated more than $1
billion in annual revenue, Avila said.  Older Shoppers  The company is also bringing back three other brands
popular with older, female shoppers: Ambrielle, a lingerie line,
outdoor-apparel Made For Life and JCP Home. They’ll be promoted
heavily, helping to underscore the chain’s return to its
original value positioning.  “Private brands have been under-emphasized over the past
year,”  Deborah Weinswig , an analyst with Citigroup Inc., wrote
in a note to clients on May 17. “J.C. Penney is focused on
getting back into this business, which should resonate well with
core customers.”  The question is what core customers will make of the new
home section as it rolls out at 500 locations in the coming
weeks. Besides distressed flooring that screams  Restoration
Hardware (RH) , the department features $60 Michael Graves toasters,
Martha Stewart cupcake liners and demonstration kitchens.  Even if shoppers respond favorably to the renovations and
new products, there’s no hiding the fact that the rest of the
store will look dated by comparison.  “You just can’t neglect the old parts of the store,”
Swinand says. One of the themes Ullman has been focusing on
since he came back is that the company “can’t flush the rest of
the store down the toilet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  