-- Jain Says Deutsche Bank’s Quarterly Revenue Is ‘Sound’
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-06-04T16:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/jain-says-deutsche-bank-s-second-quarter-revenue-is-sound-1-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain said the company’s revenue was “sound” in
the first two months of the second quarter.  The bank rose 2.3 percent to 36.73 euros in Frankfurt
trading, the biggest advance in two weeks, as Jain spoke at a
conference in New York today. Deutsche Bank outpaced the 0.9
percent gain in the Bloomberg Banks & Financial Services Index.  While revenue at the investment-banking unit was “solid”
in the period, the lender’s performance was hurt by low interest
rates and pressure on margins in some regions and businesses,
Jain said. Deutsche Bank is scheduled to publish earnings for
the April-June period on July 30.  Deutsche Bank, continental Europe’s biggest bank, is
cutting costs by moving staff to less expensive locations and
reducing riskier assets on its balance sheet to help boost
profit and meet capital goals. The bank sold 3 billion euros
($3.9 billion) of shares to investors in April to strengthen its
finances and fund growth as rival investment banks retrench.  The funds Deutsche Bank spends to implement a cost-savings
plan that will take full effect in 2015 will boost expenses in
the second quarter through the end of the year, Jain said. The
bank also faces known litigation burdens and will continue to
reduce riskier assets, which may weigh on profit, he said.  Cutting Assets  The company is sticking to a goal to reduce a portfolio of
assets it deems not central to its business to 80 billion euros
by the end of the year from 91 billion euros at the end of March
and 106 billion euros at the end of 2012, Jain said. The sale
and hedging of these assets helps free up capital to meet
regulatory requirements known as Basel III.  “You will notice that that is a slowdown in the pace of
de-risking,” Jain said. “We have plucked a lot of the easy
low-lying fruit and in my own opinion the environment is going
to turn a little less amiable.”  Jain also said Deutsche Bank still intends to meet
profitability and capital targets he set for 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  