-- Jain Says Policy Makers Should Start Withdrawing Stimulus
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-06-04T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/jain-says-policy-makers-should-start-withdrawing-stimulus.html
Rising bond yields fueled by
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may scale back purchases
are good for markets, said Anshu Jain, co-chief executive
officer of  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   “It’s very healthy,” Jain said in response to an investor
question about U.S. monetary policy at a conference sponsored by
Deutsche Bank in New York yesterday. “We’ve seen what happened
in  2007 (SPX)  when you let pricing get to extremely lofty levels. Now,
of course, they have to get it right and not get that pace
wrong.”  Treasuries posted the steepest monthly loss since 2009 in
May amid speculation the Fed will pare its program of buying $85
billion of bonds a month to keep rates low. Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank’s economists predict purchases will end this year,
while some peers expect it in 2014, Jain said. Federal Reserve
Bank of Kansas City President Esther George yesterday urged a
reduction of the bond buying, known as quantitative easing.  “Without any privileged knowledge, I think you can see
exactly what they’re doing -- they’re jawboning the possibility
of this intervention coming to an end,” Jain said, referring to
a practice of using speech instead of actions to produce market
moves. “Term rates are now starting to absorb that information
and reflect it in pricing -- no bad thing.”  The yield on 10-year Treasury notes climbed to 2.23 percent
on May 29, the highest since April 2012, after reaching a 2013
low of 1.61 percent on May 1. The average yield for the past 10
years is 3.58 percent. The note yielded 2.14 percent at 4 p.m.
yesterday in  New York , Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show.  Less Pressure  Jain said he welcomes some of the recent market reaction
because it’s easing speculation in real assets and the “very
extreme spread compression that we’ve seen in credit markets.”  “Certainly when I look at the rate at which leveraged
borrowers have been able to borrow, especially in this last leg
of the credit contraction, it starts to concern me,” he said.  Central banks took necessary measures to stimulate economic
growth, even if they may have had negative consequences, Jain
said.  “I endorse what the central banks have done, candidly they
had no choice,” Jain said. “Now that we are where we are, the
medicine has worked, how do we withdraw?”  Central bank policies have increased demand for assets that
Deutsche Bank’s non-core operations unit is selling to help
raise capital levels, Jain said. The fixed-income, currency and
commodity-trading division hasn’t reaped the same benefit
because it doesn’t hold a large inventory of assets that can be
marked up, he said. Instead, the trading business would benefit
more from a steeper yield curve and more interest-rate
volatility, he said.  “I would much prefer, and Colin Fan and his team would
much prefer, a steeper curve, higher volatility, bigger
volumes,” Jain said, referring to the executive who co-leads
Deutsche Bank’s investment banking unit, known as corporate
banking and securities. “If we sat here Japan-like for the next
five years, that’s a more challenging environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net 
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 