-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Decline on Fed Stimulus Concerns
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-04T23:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/japan-australian-stock-futures-decline-on-fed-stimulus-concerns.html
Japanese and Australian  stock futures 
fell as economists said the  Federal Reserve  may scale back its
stimulus efforts as early as September amid improving economic
growth.  American Depositary Receipts  of Nomura Holdings Inc.,
Japan’s largest brokerage, declined 1.1 percent. Shares of  Fast
Retailing Co. (9983) , Asia’s biggest clothing retailer, may be active
after store sales in May at Uniqlo Japan outlets climbed 11
percent. ADRs of  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  declined 0.4 percent
before a report to be released today that may show the
Australian economy grew 2.7 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the weakest pace since the fourth quarter of 2011.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring this
month closed at 13,570 in  Chicago , down from 13,650 at the close
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 13,560 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index retreated 0.4 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
fell 0.1 percent.  “Fed tapering fears are likely to be felt for several
months and this is likely to see ebbs and flows in markets,”
said Matthew Sherwood, Sydney-based head of investment market
research at Perpetual Ltd., which manages about $25 billion.
“The tapering will lay the framework by which markets can
prepare to function in a way that is less dependent on central-bank stimulus.”  Bond Purchases  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Jan Hatzius  and Joseph Lavorgna at Deutsche Bank AG predicted the Fed may begin to
taper bond purchases beginning in September. The U.S. central
bank is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage bonds each
month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs under its
quantitative-easing strategy.  Fed Bank of Kansas City President Esther George, who has
dissented against record stimulus at every policy meeting this
year, urged the Fed to reduce purchases in the text of a speech
she was due to give in  Santa Fe , New Mexico, yesterday. She was
unable to speak because of illness.  Japan’s Topix index is down about 12 percent from an almost
five-year high on May 22. Japan’s broadest equity measure has
swung by an average of 3.9 percent daily since May 23. Japan is
still the best-performing major equity market this year, with
the Topix and Nikkei 225 Stock Average both up around 30 percent
on optimism the nation can emerge from 15 years of deflation.  Hong Kong  Futures on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.1 percent
and contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong retreated 0.3
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 0.3 percent in New York
yesterday.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed. The gauge lost 0.6 percent yesterday as economists
predicted the Federal Reserve may reduce stimulus as soon as
September.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, gained 4.1 percent this year through yesterday.
That left the gauge yesterday trading at 13.1 times average
estimated earnings compared with 14.8 for the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  and 13.2 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia’s economy probably grew 0.7 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months and 2.7 percent from a
year earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  