-- Japan Set to Overtake Germany as World’s Largest Solar Market
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-06-04T03:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/japan-set-to-overtake-germany-as-world-s-largest-solar-market.html
Japan  is set to overtake  Germany  as
the world’s largest solar market by annual installations this
year as government incentives to encourage clean energy after
the Fukushima nuclear crisis attract investment.  Developers may install 6.9 gigawatts to 9.4 gigawatts of
solar in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Germany
led solar installations in 2012 with 7.6 gigawatts of capacity.  The outlook from Bloomberg New Energy Finance revises the
lower end of a forecast by the London-based researcher, which
earlier called for Japan to install 6.1 gigawatts to 9.4
gigawatts of capacity. Based on the most conservative estimates,
BNEF previously said China would edge out Japan as the world’s
largest market this year.  The change comes after the Japan Photovoltaic Energy
Association announced that Japan’s domestic shipments of solar
modules rose 73 percent in the first three months of the year
compared with the previous quarter, according to the report.  The rise in shipments is due to the “generous” rate solar
power producers receive in an incentive program that started in
July, according to BNEF. Japan’s solar tariff is currently 37.8
yen (38 cents) per kilowatt hour for 20 years, more than twice
those of  China  and Germany.  Japan’s energy needs are in the spotlight after the
Fukushima disaster prompted the idling of all but two of the
nation’s 50 nuclear reactors. Solar has proven the most popular
new energy because it can be built quicker than other forms such
as geothermal or wind, both of which need an environmental
impact study before construction.  China will add 6.3 gigawatts to 9.3 gigawatts of solar this
year, trailed by the U.S. at 3.7 gigawatts to 4.3 gigawatts,
according to BNEF’s estimates. One gigawatt equals 1,000
megawatts.  “Unless the Chinese government moves very quickly to
clarify its solar premiums for roof-mounted projects, or
Japanese project developers move more slowly than expected,
Japan will be the world’s largest PV market in 2013,” BNEF
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  