-- Japan Wages Gain in Boost for Abe's Drive to Reflate Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-06-04T03:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/japanese-wages-gain-in-boost-for-abe-campaign-to-reflate-economy.html
Japan ’s wages rose by the most in a
year in April, a gain that supports Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
campaign to reflate the world’s third-biggest economy after 15
years of falling prices.  Monthly wages  including overtime and bonuses rose 0.3
percent from a year earlier to 273,427 yen ($2,746), the Labor
Ministry said today in Tokyo. Abe aims to sustain investor and
public confidence amid market volatility, with the Topix index
of stocks swinging betweens gains and losses today.  Japan’s economy expanded the most in a year last quarter as
consumers responded to the campaign mounted by Abe and Bank of
Japan chief Haruhiko Kuroda. Major Japanese companies may boost
summer bonuses by 7.4 percent, the most since 1990, according to
a survey published last week by Keidanren, the country’s biggest
business lobby.  “The effects of Abenomics are appearing little by
little,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in Tokyo and a former official at the central
bank. “Wages, mainly bonuses, will probably be on an upward
bias as corporate profits are recovering. The improvement in
wages will probably support consumption.”  Gross domestic product last quarter rose an annualized 3.5
percent, the biggest gain in a year, the Cabinet Office said on
May 16. Private consumption, which makes up 60 percent of the
economy, contributed 2.3 percentage points to the increase.  Regular Earnings  The index of regular earnings, excluding overtime and
bonuses, for full-time employees rose to 100.9 in April, the
highest since October 2008, according to today’s report.  The  Topix index  rose 0.8 percent as of 12:47 p.m. in Tokyo
today after falling as much as 1.9 percent earlier. Japanese
equities have corrected after soaring since elections were
announced in November that brought Abe to power on a platform of
monetary and fiscal stimulus. The  Bank of Japan  has pledged to
reach 2 percent inflation within two years by doubling the
monetary base through asset purchases.  Employment rose by 40,000 jobs in April, and the labor
force participation rate was at 59.6 percent from 58.9 percent
in March, according to the government statistics bureau. The
 jobless rate  was 4.1 percent, unchanged from March and compared
with a 4.3 percent rate in February.  UBS AG analysts said Japan’s shrinking labor force means
salaries need to rise even more to prevent total wages from
contracting and damping consumer spending capacity. The
aggregate wage level may not rise even with wages growing 1
percent per worker, Hong-Kong based economists Duncan Wooldridge
and Silvia Liu wrote in a May 23 report.  Inflation Indicator  “Historically the growth rate in Japan’s labor force is an
excellent indicator for inflation,” they said. “Can Japan
sustainably lift aggregate demand above supply? If that cannot
be done then it’s hard to see deflation resolved in a
fundamentally positive way. Aggregate demand is heavily
influenced by demographics and exports.”  Toyota Motor Corp., which employs almost 70,000 workers in
Japan, approved the biggest salary bonus in five years in
agreeing to a union proposal for a 2013 average of about 2.05
million yen, compared with 1.77 million yen in 2012, the company
said March 13. The increase follows similar raises by Honda
Motor Co. and electronics group Hitachi Ltd.  Convenience store operator Lawson Inc. said in February
that it will raise the basic wage of some employees by about 3
percent. Seven & I Holdings Co., owner of the 7-Eleven
convenience-store brand, said in March it will raise wages of
about 50,000 employees at its 54 group companies.  In a May 17 speech, Abe said he wants to boost private
investment to 70 trillion yen a year -- the level before the
2008 financial crisis -- through deregulation, tax changes,
spending and equipment-leasing deals. He aims to triple
infrastructure exports to about 30 trillion yen by 2020.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  