-- Japan Becomes First Team to Qualify for 2014 World Cup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-06-04T22:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/japan-becomes-first-team-to-qualify-for-2014-world-cup-1-.html
Japan  scored a stoppage-time penalty
to draw 1-1 at home against  Australia  and become the first team
to qualify for next year’s soccer  World Cup  in  Brazil .  Socceroos winger Tommy Oar opened the scoring in the 82nd
minute in Saitama last night when his cross dropped in at the
far post. Teammate Matt McKay was then penalized for handball in
the final minute and Keisuke Honda put the spot-kick straight
down the middle.  “I was nervous,” Honda told reporters. “I tried to hit
the shot to the center. If it was saved, there was nothing I
could do about it.”  The result secured Japan’s fifth straight appearance at
soccer’s four-yearly championship with one qualifying game to
spare. Japan has 14 points atop Group B in Asia’s final pool
phase, guaranteeing a top-two finish. The winners and runners-up
from each five-team group take the region’s four direct berths
in the 32-nation event, with the third-place finishers playing
off for the right to take on South America’s fifth-ranked team
for another spot.  Japan’s Blue Samurai also were the first team to qualify
for the 2010 edition in  South Africa . Brazil, the record five-time world champion, has an automatic berth as tournament host.  “I came to Japan to bring them to the World Cup,” coach
Alberto Zaccheroni said. “I’m relieved that I achieved it. We
are going to improve further and surprise the world.”  Oman Victory  In yesterday’s other Group B game, Oman beat Iraq 1-0 in
Muscat with a headed goal by Ismail al-Ajmi just before half
time. Oman moves to second place on nine points with a game
left, ahead of Australia and Jordan, both with seven points and
two games remaining. Iraq is bottom with five points.  Japan finishes its qualifying campaign in  Iraq  on June 11,
when Australia hosts Jordan in the first of two home games in a
week for the Socceroos, who play Iraq in Sydney in their final
group match on June 18. Oman visits Jordan in its last game.  “I told my players to keep their heads up,” Australia
coach Holger Osieck said in a televised interview. “They
shouldn’t question themselves a lot. I think we gained a lot of
confidence from this game to be ready for the two home games.”  In Group A,  South Korea  moved ahead of Uzbekistan on goal
difference atop the  standings  after tying 1-1 at Lebanon. Kim
Chi Woo’s deflected free-kick in the seventh minute of stoppage
time secured the draw after Hassan Maatouk put the home team
ahead in the 12th minute.  Third-place  Iran  beat Qatar 1-0 in Doha with a 65th-minute
goal by Reza Ghoochannejhad to move to 10 points, one behind the
top two, who meet in  Seoul  on June 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  