-- JPMorgan Asset Management Boosts Treasury Holdings on Fed Bet
-- B y   M a x   J u l i u s
-- 2013-06-04T16:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/jpmorgan-asset-management-boosts-treasury-holdings-on-fed-bet.html
JPMorgan Asset Management boosted its
Treasury holdings in recent weeks to take advantage of higher
yields and on the expectation the  Federal Reserve  will maintain
an accommodative monetary policy to spur growth.  The benchmark  10-year yield  climbed to the highest level in
14 months last week amid speculation improving U.S. economic
data will prompt the Fed to scale down its asset-purchase
program. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month the Fed could
reduce stimulus if there are indications of economic growth will
be sustained.  “You’ve got an ambiguous growth picture,” said Nick Gartside, international chief investment officer for fixed
income in  London  at JPMorgan Asset Management, which oversees
about $1.5 trillion. “That’s Treasury supportive because it
means the risk is that central banks keep monetary policy looser
as opposed to tightening it.”  The Treasury 10-year yield rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.13 percent at 12:07 p.m. in  New York 
after climbing to 2.23 percent on May 29, the highest level
since April 2012.  JPMorgan Asset Management increased its holdings of
Treasuries to “neutral-ish” from underweight “a week or so
ago,” Gartside said. An underweight position means it owns
fewer securities than recommended in the benchmark index it uses
to track performance.  The Fed, which is buying $85 billion of government and
mortgage-backed securities each month, will probably taper its
purchases at some point, Gartside said.  “To us it’s just part of the natural evolution of central
bank policy but I think the message is that it will still look
loose as opposed to tight, irrespective of the degree of
tapering,” he said.  The company prefers German and Japanese government bonds to
Treasuries due to the differences in central-bank policy that
will probably develop in light of the weaker underlying
economies of  Japan  and the euro area, Gartside said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Julius in London at 
 mjulius4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Deborah L. Hyde at 
 dhyde10@bloomberg.net  