-- Neuberger Berman’s Dyal Buys 20% Stake in Capstone
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-06-04T16:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/neuberger-berman-s-dyal-buys-a-20-stake-in-hedge-fund.html
Capstone Investment Advisors LLC, a
hedge-fund firm with $2.4 billion in assets, sold a minority
stake to a private-equity fund run by Neuberger Berman Group
LLC, according to a letter sent to Capstone’s clients.  Dyal Capital Partners LP paid $60 million for 20 percent of
Capstone, according to two people with knowledge of the
transaction, who asked not to be identified because the deal is
private. Dyal will be a passive investor and will have no day-to-day control of the fund, according to the letter from Paul Britton, Capstone’s chief executive officer.  “This investment enables us to further align ourselves
with our fund investors by placing a greater amount of our net
worth in our fund,” Britton, 39, wrote in the June 3 letter.
The bulk of the after-tax proceeds from the sale will be
invested in the firm’s main Capstone Vol fund, he said.  Capstone, based in New York, was founded in 2004 and
initially managed internal capital and separate accounts. The
Vol fund, started it 2007, uses options to bet on fluctuations
in prices across equity, bond, currency and commodity markets.  The fund, one of the largest volatility funds in the
industry, has returned an average of 10 percent a year since
2007, according to investors.  Capstone is the seventh investment for Dyal, which raised
$1.28 billion to buy minority stakes in 12 to 15 established
hedge funds. It has taken minority stakes in firms including MKP
Capital Management LLC, Halcyon Asset Management LLC and Scopia
Fund Management LLC, investing more than half its capital.  “Capstone is an excellent manager with a unique investment
approach, and we look forward to a long partnership with Paul
and his team,” said Michael Rees, senior portfolio manager for
Dyal.  Shawn Pattison, a spokesman for Capstone at Abernathy
MacGregor declined to comment on the terms of the transaction as
did  Alex Samuelson , a spokesman for Neuberger Berman in New
York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  