-- New Zealand Will Need Gradual Interest Rate Increases, OECD Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-06-04T12:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/new-zealand-will-need-gradual-interest-rate-increases-oecd-says.html
New Zealand  will need to gradually
raise  interest rates  later this year or in early 2014 as growth
accelerates amid earthquake rebuilding, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  “Economic slack will dissipate over 2013-14 and, as
inflation pressures emerge, monetary stimulus should then be
gradually removed,” the Paris-based OECD said in its biannual
economic survey of New Zealand.  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler kept
the official cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent in April and
said he didn’t expect to raise borrowing costs this year, citing
benign inflation and a strengthening exchange rate. Borrowing
costs have been unchanged since March 2011 to help the economy
recover from the global financial crisis and an earthquake in
Christchurch that caused NZ$30 billion ($24 billion) of damage.  “Monetary policy is appropriately accommodative, given the
high exchange rate, weak employment growth and subdued
inflation,” the OECD said. The currency has risen 5.9 percent
in the past year, the second-strongest among the 10 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Interest rates are higher than many other developed
nations, and recent estimates suggest the  exchange rate  is as
much as 20 percent over-valued, the OECD said.  Wheeler last week said he has intervened to sell the
currency and is prepared to keep doing so, citing the damage it
does to exports and growth.  Currency Puzzle  “The strong currency appears to be part of a longer-term
puzzle in which the real exchange rate has failed to adjust down
to levels consistent with New Zealand’s productivity
underperformance relative to other advanced countries,” the
OECD said.  The central bank “could lean more heavily against future
cyclical swings” in the economy and is more likely to use
prudential tools in the future, the OECD said. The tools give
the central bank the ability to influence bank balance sheet
ratios, and to curb the volume of home loans at more than 80
percent of purchase price.  Capping high loan-to-value lending “could supplement
eventual  monetary policy  tightening, if need be, in controlling
excessive mortgage credit growth, rather than being used to
substitute for monetary policy action,” the OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  