-- New Look Seeks China Riches With Plan for Hundreds of Stores
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-06-04T13:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/new-look-seeks-chinese-riches-with-plan-for-hundreds-of-stores.html
New Look Group Ltd., a closely held
budget fashion retailer, plans to open “hundreds” of stores in
 China  as it joins competitors such as  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  that
are tapping into growth in the world’s most populous nation.  The U.K.-based company will open its first Chinese store in
March 2014 and aims to have 20 outlets there within a year,
Chief Executive Officer Anders Kristiansen said today on a
conference call as he reported a gain in full-year earnings.  “We’ve had good meetings with landlords” in China,
Kristiansen said. “It all feels right, but we will take it step
by step.”  New Look, whose owners include private-equity firms Permira
Advisers LLP and Apax Partners Worldwide LLP, is setting its
sights on expansion after selling bonds last month to refinance
net debt of 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7 billion). In targeting
China, the Weymouth, England-based retailer is following global
peers  Inditex SA, (ITX)  H&M and Gap Inc. H&M CEO Karl-Johan Persson
said this year that he sees the Asian nation overtaking Germany
as the company’s largest market.  “New Look is now well positioned to explore exciting
development opportunities of new markets,” Kristiansen said in
a statement, pinpointing China and  Russia  as target markets. The
retailer expects the economic outlook to remain “challenging.”  Stores in China will be smaller than those in the U.K. at
about 2,500 square feet (232.3 square meters), the CEO said at a
press conference.  Russian Stores  New Look also sees “exciting” potential in Russia,  Poland 
and  South Korea , he said. The retailer already operates about 20
stores in Russia through its franchise partner there.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 29 percent to 189.2 million pounds in the 53
weeks ended March 30, New Look said today.  Gross profit as a percentage of sales widened by 2
percentage points, reflecting both tighter control of inventory
and a lower level of discounting, the company said.  U.K. same-store sales rebounded in the second half, gaining
2 percent compared with the first half’s 3.1 percent decline.
For the year, group same-store sales fell 0.7 percent.  Online revenue increased by 50 percent, New Look said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at   pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  