-- New York Merchants Sue to Stop Ban on Card-Fee Surcharges
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-06-04T19:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/new-york-merchants-sue-to-stop-ban-on-card-fee-surcharges.html
A group of small businesses filed a
lawsuit challenging  New York ’s law prohibiting merchants from
imposing surcharges to make up for the fees they must remit when
customers pay with a credit card.  Five merchants including a hair salon, ice-cream parlor and
liquor store filed a complaint today in federal court in
Manhattan demanding that the law be declared unconstitutional.
While prohibiting extra charges, the state allows merchants to
offer customers discounts for paying with cash, infringing on
freedom of speech and preventing consumers from understanding
the costs of swipe fees, according to the complaint.  “New York’s no-surcharge law allows credit card companies
to keep the costs of credit hidden from consumers by preventing
merchants from communicating these costs in an effective
manner,” the businesses said in the complaint. “The
prohibition on communication insulates  credit card  companies
from competition, causes the costs of credit to skyrocket, and
frustrates the purposes of federal antitrust law.”  Ten states have laws prohibiting credit card surcharges and
more lawsuits are expected to be filed in those jurisdictions,
lawyers for the plaintiffs said in a statement.  The action follows  Visa Inc. (V) ’s and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s
$7.25 billion settlement of an antitrust suit over merchant
credit card fees under which the companies agreed to lift their
own restrictions against surcharges.  The settlement, said to be the largest-ever in a U.S.
antitrust case, is opposed by dozens of large retailers, which
contend it isn’t big enough and allows the card companies to
continue to fix fees.  The case is Expressions Hair Design v.Schneiderman, 13-cv-3775, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ). The settlement case is In re Payment Card
Interchange Fee and Merchant Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  