-- NFL Hall-of-Famer Deacon Jones of Fearsome Foursome Dies
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-04T15:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/nfl-hall-of-famer-deacon-jones-of-fearsome-foursome-dies-at-74.html
Deacon Jones, the Hall of Fame
defensive end credited with creating the term “quarterback
sacks,” died of natural causes at his home in Southern
California, the Washington Redskins said. He was 74.  Jones played the last of his 14 National Football League
seasons with the Redskins in 1974. He played for coach George Allen with both the Redskins and Los Angeles Rams, and had Allen
as his presenter when he was inducted into the  Pro Football Hall
of Fame  in his first year of eligibility in 1980.  “Deacon Jones was one of the greatest players in NFL
history,” Redskins General Manager Bruce Allen, George Allen’s
son, said in a  statement . “Off the field, he was a true giant.
His passion and spirit will continue to inspire those who knew
him. He was cherished member of the Allen family and I will
always consider him my big brother.”  Nicknamed the “Secretary of Defense,” Jones was selected
the NFL’s Defensive Player of the Year in 1967 and 1968.  The NFL didn’t begin recording sacks as an official
statistic until 1982, though Jones is credited with creating the
term and has  claimed  to hold the NFL’s all-time record.  “We needed a shorter term,” Jones once was quoted as
saying, according to the Pro Football Hall of Fame. “I gave it
some thought and came up with the term ‘sack.’ Like, you know,
you sack a city -- you devastate it. And the word is so short
you can even get Deacon in front of Jones in some headlines.”  The Hall of Fame said today that if sacks were an official
stat when Jones played, he’d rank third in history behind Reggie White and Bruce Smith with 173 1/2.  “He was an icon among the icons,” NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said in a statement. “Even with his fellow Hall of
Famers, Deacon Jones held a special status. He was a hard-charging football player and the original sack artist who coined
the term. He is warmly regarded by his peers not only as one of
the greatest players in NFL history but also for his tremendous
influence and sense of humor. Deacon Jones will be missed but
always remembered.”  Jones entered the NFL in 1961 as a 14th-round draft choice
of the Rams after playing one season as South Carolina State in
1958 and a year at Mississippi Vocational in 1960. As a rookie,
he put aside his given name, David, in favor of the nickname
Deacon, reasoning that “no one would remember a player named
David Jones,” according to the Hall of Fame.  In Los Angeles, he teamed with Merlin Olsen, Rosey Grier
and Lamar Lundy to form a defensive line that became known as
the “Fearsome Foursome.” The Rams in 1968 set an NFL record
for the fewest yards allowed in a 14-game season.  ‘Tenacity, Determination’  “His tenacity on the field, attitude, and his
determination to sack the quarterback propelled his Hall of Fame
career and made him one of the most recognizable figures in
sports,” Rams coach Jeff Fisher said.  Jones won consensus All-Pro honors from 1965 through 1969
and was selected to the Pro Bowl eight times. The Hall of Fame’s
website describes him as among the NFL’s first “fast, tough,
mobile defensive linemen.”  Jones played with the San Diego Chargers in 1972 and 1973
before finishing his career with the Redskins. He missed only
five of 196 regular-season games.  Jones was named to the NFL’s 75th Anniversary All-Time Team
in 1994. Five years later, he was selected by Sports Illustrated
as the “Defensive End of the Century.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  