-- Nike Supplier in Cambodia Says Most Workers Return After Protest
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-04T10:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/nike-supplier-in-cambodia-says-most-workers-return-after-protest.html
A  Nike Inc. (NKE)  Cambodian supplier said
most workers at its factory returned to work this morning after
after property was damaged during protests yesterday.  Sabrina (Cambodia) Garment Manufacturing Co.’s 3,500
employees, about 70 percent of the total workforce, attended
work as usual today, according to Geoff Bilbrough, an external
spokesman for the Taiwanese-owned company. As many as 300
people, not all of them employees, protested outside the factory
gates yesterday, the company said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Cambodian police arrested seven workers after clashes at
the plant in Kompong Speu, near capital  Phnom Penh , on Monday,
the  Associated Press  reported yesterday. The protests began May
21 when workers demanded higher pay, the AP reported. Mary Remuzzi, a spokeswoman for Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike, said
today the company does not have anything to add beyond a
statement issued last week.  “It is our understanding that this factory raised its own
minimum wage on May 1 and pays above the country’s minimum
wage,” the world’s largest sporting-goods  company  said in the
statement last week. In addition to wages, the workers were
given additional monthly allowances for housing, transportation
and food as well as an attendance bonus, Nike said then.  Some protesters, who broke into the factory grounds and
damaged property, were removed by the police yesterday, Sabrina
said, without providing more details. The garment maker said it
pays above the minimum wage, and has started talks with
employees, the Labor Department, and the Garment Manufacturers
Association in Cambodia, after protests started last week.  Concern over labor standards in Asian apparel factories
after the collapse of a garment factory in  Bangladesh  in April,
considered among the world’s worst industrial disasters, has
risen. A kiosk at a garment factory in  Cambodia  collapsed on May
20 injuring at least 23 people, Xinhua reported then, citing
municipal police.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  