-- N. Korea Plutonium Reactor Nears Restart, U.S. Monitor Says
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 2013-06-04T03:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/north-korea-plutonium-reactor-nears-restart-u-s-institute-says.html
North Korea  is nearly finished work
needed to restart a mothballed nuclear reactor used to produce
weapons-grade plutonium, according to a U.S. institute that
monitors the totalitarian country.  Commercial satellite images show North Korea “is making
important progress” at the Yongbyon site, the U.S.-Korea
Institute at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced
International Studies said yesterday in a report on its  38 North 
website. The 5-megawatt graphite-rod reactor “may be 1-2 months
from start up but the availability of fresh fuel rods to power
the reactor remains uncertain.”  Satellite photos taken as recently as May 22 show a new
secondary cooling system for the reactor appears almost finished
and two tanks next to the building housing spent fuel have been
buried to ensure water is available to store used rods,
according to the institute’s analysis.  South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok today
told reporters in Seoul that the one-to-two month forecast for
restarting the reactor was “a bit too early,” adding the
military continued to monitor the Yongbyon site with help from
the U.S.  Kim Jong Un’s regime announced in April it would restart
the reactor, following threats it would carry out preemptive
nuclear strikes on  South Korea  and the U.S. While those threats
have moderated, North Korea has resisted pressure from  China ,
its biggest ally, to return to nuclear disarmament talks.  Tensions on the Korean peninsula rose after Kim’s
government defied United Nations sanctions with a rocket launch
in December, then detonated an atomic bomb in February. The
Obama administration has said that North Korea must pledge to
abandon its nuclear ambitions as a condition to resuming six-nation talks that were abandoned in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  