-- Norton Rose, Goodwin Procter, Milbank: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/norton-rose-goodwin-procter-milbank-business-of-law.html
Norton Rose  Fulbright LLP, the
transatlantic combination of London-based law firm Norton Rose
LLP and U.S. law firm Fulbright & Jaworski LLP was completed
yesterday as the firm announced its leadership.  The merger creates a 3,800-lawyer firm with more than 50
offices in  Europe , the Americas,  Asia , Australia, Africa and the
 Middle East .  Peter Martyr will continue to lead the global executive
management team and is joined by Fulbright’s former managing
partner Kenneth Stewart. The firm’s global chairman is Adrian Ahern, based in Sydney.  “Norton Rose Fulbright has a strong business model and
culture. We also have momentum,” Martyr said in a statement.
“This combination endorses our position on the global stage.
This is one of the largest transatlantic legal combinations
completed to date and confirms Norton Rose Fulbright as a global
legal practice. We have an exciting future ahead.”  In the U.S., the firm has more than 750 lawyers at 11 U.S.
offices.  The combined firm, which operates under a Swiss verein, a
corporate structure that allows the firms to keep separate
profit pools, will rank among the top 10 wealthiest law firms
with its combined gross revenues.  Norton Rose has lawyers across a range of practices. The
firm said in a statement its key industry sector strengths are
financial institutions; energy; infrastructure, mining and
commodities; technology and innovation; transport; and life
sciences and health care.  Deals  Mid-America to Buy Colonial Properties in $2.2 Billion Deal  Goodwin Procter LLP was legal adviser to  Mid-America
Apartment Communities Inc. (MAA) , a Memphis-based residential
landlord, which agreed to buy  Colonial Properties Trust (CLP)  for
about $2.2 billion in stock to expand as demand climbs for U.S.
apartment rentals.  Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell & Berkowitz PC also
advised Mid-America. Burr & Forman LLP and Hogan Lovells LLP
advised Colonial Properties. Burr & Forman partners Mike
Atchison and Ed Hardin, who are outside co-general counsel for
Colonial, worked on the deal. Burr partners Jack Stephenson and
April Mason also worked on the deal.  Colonial investors will receive 0.36 newly issued Mid-America shares for each share of Colonial they own, the
companies said in a statement yesterday. Based on Mid-America’s
closing share price of $67.97 on May 31, that indicates a price
of $24.47, about 11 percent more than Birmingham, Alabama-based
Colonial’s last close.  Goodwin Procter’s deal team was led by Gil Menna, and
included partners Yoel Krantz, Mark Opper, Craig Todaro and Neal Sandford on tax.  Baker Donelson’s partners include Robert J. DelPriore and
Richard F. Mattern, corporate, and William H.D. Fones Jr., tax.  The Hogan Lovells team consisted of Washington corporate
partners Paul Manca, Warren Gorrell, Joe Gilligan, and
Washington tax partner Cristina Arumi.  Latham & Watkins LLP is advising JPMorgan in the
transaction with a corporate team led by Orange County partner
Charles Ruck, and Los Angeles partner Julian Kleindorfer.  The deal would create a real estate investment trust with
about 85,000 rental units, primarily focused on the U.S. south.
Demand for rental homes is rising among Americans who can’t
qualify for a mortgage or don’t want to own property after the
worst housing crash since the Great Depression. The nation’s
apartment-vacancy  rate  was 4.3 percent in the first quarter, the
lowest in more than a decade, according to  Reis Inc. (REIS)   “The scale of the combined company will support
accelerated growth,” Mid-America Chief Executive Officer H. Eric Bolton Jr. said in the statement. The merger will “drive
higher margins as a result of synergies and advantages
generated.”  Mid-America shareholders will own about 56 percent of the
combined company’s equity with Colonial owners holding the rest.
Bolton will be chairman and CEO, while Mid-America’s chief
financial officer and chief operating officer will also assume
those roles at the combined company.  For more, click here.  Moves  International Project Finance Partner to Join Milbank in Tokyo  Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP announced that project
finance lawyer Aled Davies, previously the head of Allen & Overy
LLP’s Asia Pacific projects group, will join the firm in  Tokyo 
in September.  Davies, who will be a member of Milbank’s global project
finance group, recently advised on the Ichthys LNG project, a
liquefied natural gas facility being developed in Western
Australia and the  Northern Territory , Australia, the firm said.
The $34 billion Ichthys LNG project is the largest project
financing ever, the firm said.  In addition to his project work, Davies often advises
clients on asset-based financings, including tax-based leasing
of large drillships and other vessels used in energy
exploration.  “We are fortunate to gain the talents of Aled Davies, who
has led high-profile financings in every corner of the globe,
with an emphasis on high-impact energy and natural resource
development,” Milbank chairman Scott Edelman said in a
statement. “His arrival also underscores our commitment to
Japan, where we recently marked our 35th anniversary as the
first international  law firm  in Tokyo.”  Milbank’s project finance practice teams has more than 100
lawyers, who closed on more than 140 project financings, raising
more than $125 billion in the last three years, the firm said.
Milbank is headquartered in New York and has 600 lawyers at 11
offices in the Americas, Europe and Asia.  Herbert Smith Global Funds Partner Joins Bingham  Bingham McCutchen LLP is expanding its global funds
practice with the addition of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP’s
Thiha Tun as a partner in the London office.  Tun, who joins the firm in September, represents investment
funds, investment managers and others in the funds industry. He
works with private equity, real estate, infrastructure and  hedge
funds , the firm said. He will work closely with partner John
Holton, who relocated his international funds practice to the
London office from Boston in 2011.  “Thiha has built a strong practice that will augment our
growing international funds and financial regulatory
capabilities,” Bingham investment management practice group
leader Roger Joseph said in a statement.  Bingham has about 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in the U.S.
Europe and Asia.  Akin Gump Adds Corporate Partner Chen in Beijing  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP added to its corporate
practice in Asia with the hire of Chen Li as a partner in the
firm’s Beijing office. She was previously at Milbank, Tweed,
Hadley & McCloy LLP.  Chen’s practice concentrates on outbound and cross-border
mergers and acquisitions and foreign direct investment, with a
focus on major Chinese state-owned enterprises.  “Outbound M&A is emerging as a key driver of growth and
consolidation for Chinese companies,” Greg Puff, head of Akin
Gump’s Asia practice said in a statement. “Li has proven skills
helping Chinese companies navigate these transactions and a
track record as a well-respected lawyer with a profound
appreciation of her clients’ needs and goals.”  Akin Gump has more than 850 attorneys in offices throughout
the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Litigation  Apple Fights U.S. E-Books Pricing Claims in Antitrust Trial  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , accused by the U.S. of being the ringleader in
a conspiracy with publishers to fix prices of electronic books,
went to trial in a case that will feature evidence from the
company’s dead founder,  Steve Jobs .  A lawyer for the U.S.  Justice Department  began his opening
statement in Manhattan federal court yesterday in a rare
antitrust trial to determine whether Apple orchestrated an
illegal price-fixing agreement when it entered the e-books
market in 2010 with the introduction of the iPad.  Apple and five of the six biggest U.S. publishers
“consciously committed to a scheme to raise e-book prices
throughout the industry” that cost consumers hundreds of
millions of dollars, Justice Department lawyer  Lawrence Buterman 
told U.S. District Judge Denise Cote.  Apple claims it did nothing wrong and says it benefited
consumers by bringing innovation and competition to an e-books
market that was dominated by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Apple’s lawyer,
 Orin Snyder , a partner at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, yesterday
echoed Apple’s Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  in his opening
statement yesterday, calling the government’s case “bizarre.”  “Apple is going to trial because it did nothing wrong,”
Snyder said.  Apple is the last defendant remaining in the case after the
five publishers sued by the government avoided trial by
settling.  “You don’t see a lot of these antitrust trials,” said
 Andrew M. Friedman , a partner with the law firm  Patton Boggs LLP 
in Washington. “It’s pretty unusual.”  The case is part of an upsurge in antitrust litigation by
the Justice Department, reflecting an Obama administration that
has been more aggressive than its predecessors in challenging
companies. The government is seeking an order barring Apple from
anticompetitive actions, including price-fixing, in the market
for digital books. The U.S. isn’t asking for money damages.  A group of states is also seeking fines and unspecified
damages. If Apple is found liable in the trial, damages will be
determined in a separate proceeding. A win for the government
may fuel class actions by private plaintiffs seeking triple
damages permitted under antitrust law.  The government team is led by  Mark W. Ryan , the director of
litigation for the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division. Ryan
joined the division after a career in private practice.  Ryan supervised a lawsuit that challenged beermaker
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s proposed $20.1 billion purchase of
Grupo Modelo SAB. The suit was settled in April. Ryan is joined
by Buterman, who represented the government in a 2011 case that
killed  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) ’s proposed $287.5 million acquisition of
the maker of TaxAct products.  Gabriel Gervey, a lawyer in the Texas attorney general’s
office, is the lead lawyer for the states.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Government Lawyers  Robert E. Rice Named as Chief Counsel to SEC Chairwoman White  Robert E. Rice was appointed Securities and Exchange
Commission Chief Counsel, Mary Jo White said yesterday in a
statement.  Rice is a former federal prosecutor and most recently, the
head of governance, litigation and regulation for the Americas
at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. He was also the global co-head
of its governance, litigation and regulation operating
committee.  At the SEC, Rice will be a senior legal and policy adviser
to White and provide advice and counsel on regulatory matters.  Rice, 57, began his legal career in 1987 as an associate at
Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett LLP, in New York, and spent from
1991 to 2000 in the criminal division of the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in the Southern District of New York. He investigated and
prosecuted  securities fraud , mail and  wire fraud , and money
laundering cases and was named Deputy Chief of the Criminal
Division, according to the SEC statement.  Before joining Deutsche Bank in 2004, he spent four years
at McDermott, Will & Emery LLP.  News  Singapore Ex-Law Professor Jailed Five Months for Corruption  Tey Tsun Hang, a former associate professor of law at
 National University of Singapore , was sentenced to five months
in prison for abusing his position by having sex with a student
and accepting gifts from her.  “Corruption must be stamped out effectively and swiftly,”
Chief District Judge  Tan Siong Thye  said in imposing the
sentence at a Singapore subordinate court yesterday.  Tan imposed a longer term than had been sought by
prosecutors, who had recommended that Tey, 42, be jailed for at
least 12 weeks for violating the “sacred” position of a
teacher and undermining the university’s reputation. Tey’s
lawyer Peter Low had sought only a fine for his client, or if
necessary, he said, a short jail term.  Tan raised Tey’s bail to S$150,000 ($119,000) from
S$100,000. Tey was handcuffed and led away by four police
officers.  Low said his client will be released once the bail is
processed and will appeal.  Tey was sentenced to three months in jail for having sex
with the student and two months for accepting the gifts, to be
served consecutively. He was given the same terms for a second
sex charge and three other charges of accepting gifts, which are
to run concurrently. Each charge carried a maximum sentence of
five years in jail and a S$100,000 fine.  Tey, fired by the university after his conviction, had said
the gifts and sex were part of a consensual relationship he had
in 2010 with the student, now 23.  The case is Prosecutor v. Tey Tsun Hang. DAC027011/2012.
The Subordinate Courts of Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 