-- Obama Cites Chilean Growth in Meeting With Pinera on Trade
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-06-04T20:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/obama-cites-chilean-growth-in-meeting-with-pinera-on-trade-push.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
Chilean President Sebastian Pinera renewed their push for a
trans-Pacific trade agreement at a White House meeting that also
touched on education and renewable energy.  Chile is “fully committed” to negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership and creating the world’s largest free-trade
zone, Pinera said. Close economic ties with the U.S. benefit
Chile. “We are very optimistic that the  U.S. economy ’s picking
up,” he said, calling it good “for the whole world.”  “Chile has been on a remarkable growth trajectory,” Obama
told reporters after the meeting, which included discussions of
a visa-waiver program.  Vice President  Joe Biden  also attended the private session,
which took place as the U.S., Chile and nine other nations are
negotiating the Pacific trade agreement. The governments in the
talks invited  Japan  in April to join.  If Japan decides to participate, “that will have an impact
on timing” for a deal, Pinera said today after a luncheon
speech at the  National Press Club  in Washington. “It will take
some more time, but I think it’s worthwhile” to include Japan,
the world’s third-largest economy, he said.  The TPP nations aim to reach agreement by the end of the
year, Pinera said. The parties are still trying to resolve
differences on issues including intellectual property and labor
and environmental standards, he said, without elaborating.  Expanding Trade  Pinera’s government is seeking to boost trade as the U.S.
and  China , the world’s largest economies, vie for increased ties
with Latin America. Obama, Biden and Commerce Department
officials separately visited the region last month ahead of a
Latin American tour by Chinese President Xi Jinping.  Chile, which has trade deals with 62 countries, is forecast
to expand its economy by 4.9 percent this year, the second-fastest pace of major nations in Latin America after  Peru ,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Latin America has become divided between Pacific-facing,
market-friendly countries with free trade policies, such as
 Chile  and Mexico, and Atlantic-facing, protectionist and
populist countries such as Argentina and Venezuela, said Tony Volpon, head of research for the Americas at Nomura Holdings
Inc.  “ Brazil  is kind of in the middle but slipping slowly
toward Argentina and Venezuela,” Volpon said by telephone on
May 3.  Pacific Alliance  Chile has a free-trade agreement with the U.S. It’s also a
member of a regional trading bloc, known as the Pacific
Alliance, with Colombia, Mexico and Peru. The Trans-Pacific
Partnership would create a trading region with about $26.4
trillion in annual economic output with Japan’s inclusion.  The TPP group includes Australia, Brunei, Canada, Malaysia,
Mexico,  New Zealand , Peru, Singapore and  Vietnam . China also may
consider joining, according to its Ministry of Commerce. The
U.S. is seeking broad participation from economies in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. Obama is set to meet with
Peru’s President  Ollanta Humala  on June 11.  The U.S. last year had a surplus of $9.4 billion in trade
in goods with Chile, a 36 percent increase from 2011, according
to U.S. Commerce Department data.  The Andean nation exported $9.4 billion in goods to the
U.S. last year, compared with $32.1 billion from Brazil. Still,
Chile’s exports have grown faster since the free-trade agreement
with the U.S. went into effect in 2004, increasing 153 percent
during the period, almost double the 80 percent increase for
Brazilian goods.  Pinera, 63, a billionaire, won election in 2010 and is in
the last year of his presidency. He was ranked by Forbes as the
11th wealthiest person in Chile and the 589th wealthiest in the
world, with a net worth of $2.5 billion.  Pinera said in  Washington  yesterday that talks to ease U.S.
visa restrictions for Chileans had made “important progress”
and that this was a recognition of the country’s integration
into the global economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  