-- Mobile TV to Dominate Growth in Entertainment Spending
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/mobile-tv-to-dominate-growth-in-consumer-entertainment-spending.html
U.S. consumer spending on media and
entertainment will increase 4.8 percent a year through 2017,
with digital consumption finally rivaling physical sales,
according to a report yesterday.  Online purchases of movies, music and other forms of
entertainment on services such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  will rise to 43
percent of consumer media spending in 2017 from less than a
third in 2012, the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
said in a report. Total U.S. spending on entertainment and media
will reach $632.1 billion by then, according to the report.  Most forms of media will weather the transition to the
digital age quite well, according to  Deborah Bothun , advisory
leader for the firm’s media and entertainment practice.
Companies in film and television are adapting to changing 
viewing habits, she said.  “We’ve had a lot of speculation about TV going away, many
segments crashing and burning,” Bothun said in an interview.
“That hasn’t been the case. There’s a lot of innovation going
on.”  Music is farthest along in the transition to digital, with
worldwide electronic sales forecast to exceed physical by 2016,
the firm said. Globally, recorded music sales dropped for a
decade before stabilizing last year, the International
Federation of the Phonographic Industry said in February.  Music purchases in the U.S., including tickets to live
performances, are reversing the multiyear slide caused by
illegal downloads and collapsing compact disc revenue. Domestic
purchases will rise to $16 billion by 2017 from $15.1 billion
this year, driven by digital downloads, streaming services and
higher ticket prices, Bothun said.  Loss Leader  “Because music went digital early and suffered early,
they’ve had the time to figure it out,” she said.  Filmed entertainment will see digital sales increase faster
than any other segment, with the share almost doubling to 25
percent in 2017 from 13 percent in 2012.  U.S. television advertising will rise 5.1 percent annually
to $81.6 billion in 2017, PricewaterhouseCoopers said, with more
consumers watching on iPads and smartphones.  “There’s no less video consumed,” Bothun said. “It’s
just happening on different screens.”  Increased  Internet access  will remain a major force behind
the growth in entertainment and media, reflecting expanded
broadband service and more use of smart devices,
PricewaterhouseCoopers said. Household broadband penetration
globally will rise to 51 percent in 2017 from 40 percent in
2012, with  Asia  and  Latin America  leading the growth.  Online Advertising  Online advertising will be fastest-growing segment of the
U.S. ad industry, climbing 14 percent annually to $69.4 billion
by 2017, at which point it will exceed newspapers, radio and
magazines combined, the report projects. Only TV will be larger.  Print media will continue to struggle. The newspaper
industry has the lowest digital adoption, with just 5 percent of
newspapers’ consumer revenue coming from digital last year.
Uptake will increase slowly, with digital reaching only 11
percent of the total by 2017, Pricewaterhouse Coopers said.
Magazine spending will shrink over the next five years, while
book publishing grows only modestly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  