-- Lockyer Seen as California Kingmaker With Campaign Cash
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-06-04T01:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/lockyer-seen-as-california-kingmaker-with-campaign-cash.html
California  Treasurer Bill Lockyer,
who never realized his ambition of governing the most-populous
state, may remain a powerbroker after leaving office with
$2.5 million in campaign funds and four decades in politics.  Lockyer, a 72-year-old Democrat, said he’ll leave elective
office rather than run for controller after serving the maximum
two terms as the state’s banker. In addition to treasurer, he’s
been undefeated as an assemblyman, senator and attorney general.  Lockyer is positioned to remain a force in California
politics, particularly in next year’s campaigns for treasurer
and controller, said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a University of
 Southern California  political analyst.  “Particularly in an office where nobody may be well-known,
i.e., state controller at this point, it may be helpful to have
his endorsement,” Jeffe said by telephone. “The average voter
probably doesn’t know him. Democrats do.”  Lockyer had $2.2 million in a campaign fund for the state
controller’s election next year and $220,000 remaining in his
2010 account for state treasurer as of Dec. 31, according to
secretary of state’s  records . That puts him second only to
Governor  Jerry Brown  among current statewide officeholders, with
$7.3 million. Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat, hasn’t said whether
he’ll seek another term.  Lockyer will be able to transfer funds from his accounts to
other candidates before he leaves office, according to a  fact
sheet  by California’s Fair Political Practices Commission. His
term expires in 2015.  Financial Aid  The treasurer helped his wife, Nadia Lockyer, win a seat on
the Alameda County Board of Supervisors in 2010 by shifting
$1.45 million to her campaign account. Nadia Lockyer, 42,
resigned in April 2012 after saying she’d take a leave of
absence to deal with substance-abuse issues following a dispute
with Steven Chikhani, described by Bill Lockyer as an ex-boyfriend of his wife.  Bill Lockyer filed for divorce in July 2013. He
subsequently told reporters that he was reconciling with his
wife and withdrawing the divorce papers. The two have a 9-year-old son, Diego.  Last August, Nadia Lockyer pleaded not guilty in Orange
County Superior Court to three counts of substance abuse and one
count of child endangerment after police found methamphetamine
and drug paraphernalia in a room she was sharing with Diego,
according to court records. Nadia Lockyer pleaded not guilty and
the case is pending,  court records  show.  Marital Turmoil  Jeffe said the family tension, which was chronicled in
California newspapers, probably played a role in Bill Lockyer’s
decision not to run again.  In a telephone interview, Lockyer said family concerns are
“always a factor. They’re not unique or different in these
circumstances. Every campaign, there’s been a family aspect.”  “I want to do something new and different,” Lockyer said.
“I’ve been in state government since 1973 as an elected
official -- 18 legislative races, eight statewide campaigns,
attorney general for eight years, treasurer for eight years. So
I just need a new challenge.”  He said he hasn’t decided whether to back candidates for
treasurer or controller.  The treasurer’s salary was $133,841 in 2011, according to
information on state Controller John Chiang’s website. The
California Public Employees Retirement System hasn’t calculated
Lockyer’s pension, spokeswoman Amy Norris said. Under a standard
formula for public employees, Lockyer would be paid more than
$100,000 a year in retirement.  Campaign Favorite  Lockyer was one of six people who filed to run for
controller in 2014. He would have been the odds-on favorite to
win said  Dan Schnur , director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of
Politics at the  University of Southern California  and a former
spokesman for Republican candidates.  “Bill Lockyer is an example of public service at its
best,” Schnur said in an interview. “He’s an example of a
politician who is willing to work across party lines on a
variety of issues. That is not something you see a lot of in
state or national politics these days.”  As state treasurer, Lockyer has overseen the sale of about
$49 billion of general-obligation bonds, according to a
spokesman,  Tom Dresslar .  Lockyer and Chiang deserve credit for being candid with
bond investors as California weathered the financial crisis in
2008 and 2009, said Michael E. Johnson, managing director of
Gurtin Fixed Income Management LLC in Solana Beach, California.
Other states, notably  Illinois , were less forthcoming, Johnson
said.  Government Transparency  “There was a lot of transparency in California: what they
were doing, what their plans were,” he said by telephone.
“Lockyer and Chiang complemented each other very well.”  As attorney general, Lockyer had considered challenging
then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  in 2006 before deciding
instead to seek his first term as treasurer. He said in a 2005
statement that he didn’t want to have to endure the politics and
fundraising involved in a bid for governor of the most populous
U.S. state.  In 2012, he expressed interest in serving as the chancellor
of the California State University system, the nation’s largest,
to oversee 23 campuses and almost 437,000 students. Timothy P.
White was selected for the job.  To contact the reporter on this story: James Nash in  Los Angeles 
at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  