-- Office Depot to Sell Venture Stake for $690 Million
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2013-06-04T14:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/office-depot-to-sell-venture-stake-for-690-million.html
Grupo Gigante SAB, a Mexican owner of
office-supply stores, agreed to buy half of a joint venture from
 Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  for 8.78 billion pesos ($690 million) in cash.  Gigante and its affiliates will have total ownership of
 Office Depot de Mexico  after the deal is completed,  Boca Raton ,
Florida-based Office Depot said today in a statement. The
transaction requires approval from Mexican regulators and
Gigante’s shareholders.  The deal allows Gigante to develop and operate Office Depot
stores in  Latin America , with the exception of the Caribbean,
the Mexico City-based company said in a separate filing to the
nation’s stock exchange. The companies agreed to use the Office
Depot brand for 15 years in the region, which will be
automatically renewed without additional cost, Gigante said.  Office Depot, the second-largest U.S. office-supply chain,
is unloading its portion of the venture, which has more than 248
stores throughout Mexico and Central America, as it prepares to
merge with  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX)  The sale will result in about $550
million in after-tax proceeds, which Office Depot said it will
use to pay off debt and redeem preferred shares.  Gigante announced in February it had offered 8.78 billion
pesos for the stake. Gigante extended its offer past the March
15 deadline after Office Depot agreed to merger with OfficeMax.
In May, Office Depot said it received consent from Naperville,
Illinois-based OfficeMax to proceed with the Gigante
negotiations.  Office Depot  fell  2.5 percent to $4.35 at 10:28 a.m. in  New
York . The shares had gained 36 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 15 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Orland in Chicago at 
 korland@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in  Mexico  City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  