-- Ohio State President Gordon Gee to Retire on July 1
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-06-04T20:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/ohio-state-president-gordon-gee-to-retire-on-july-1.html
E. Gordon Gee, president of the  Ohio
State University  since 2007, will step down from the post July
1, months after making remarks he later apologized for.  Gee, 69, is ending his second term in the office, having
earlier served as head of the Columbus, Ohio-based university 
from 1990 to 1997. Provost Joseph Alutto will serve as interim 
president until the board hires a permanent successor, Ohio 
State said today in an e-mailed statement.  Gee, who’s had one of the biggest compensation packages
among college presidents, has been a controversial figure. He
has used university funds to pay for flights on private jets and
has apologized for remarks made about other schools. He’s also
been an effective advocate for OSU, helping raise more than $1.6
billion for the college since 2007, the university said.  “After much deliberation, I have decided it is now time
for me to turn over the reins of leadership to allow the seeds
that we have planted to grow,” Gee said in the statement.  The resignation follows a December meeting of the Ohio
State Athletics Council, at which Gee referred to “those damn
Catholics” at the University of  Notre Dame , implied that the
University of Louisville has poor academic integrity, and
suggested that students at Southeastern Conference colleges
can’t read or write, the Columbus Dispatch newspaper reported
today. He apologized to the Big Ten Council of Presidents and
Chancellors for those comments last week, according to the
newspaper.  Gee said he recently took some time with his family during
which he considered the university’s achievements and future,
and then came to the decision to step down.  “Gordon has been a transformational leader for Ohio
State,” said Robert Schottenstein, chairman of the university’s
board. “His thoughtful and unique leadership style has taken
the university to new levels.”  Gee’s total annual compensation last year was $1.9 million,
according to the Chronicle of Higher Education.  Gee has also served as president or chancellor of
 Vanderbilt University ,  Brown University , the  University of
Colorado  and  West Virginia University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  