-- Oi Rallies Most Since 2008 as Bava Is Named CEO: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-06-04T21:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/oi-soars-most-since-2008-as-bava-is-named-ceo-sao-paulo-mover.html
Oi SA rose the most in four years as
the company’s appointment of Zeinal Bava as chief executive
officer signaled that Portugal Telecom SGPS SA is taking a more
direct leadership interest in the Brazilian carrier.  Non-voting shares of Oi rose 17 percent to 4.80 reais at
the close of trading in  Sao Paulo , the biggest advance since
October 2008. Trading volume was 4.5 times the three-month daily
average. The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  benchmark stock index added 0.1 percent.  Bava, who has been with Portugal Telecom since 1999 and has
headed all of its main units, is replacing Jose Mauro da Cunha
at Oi to lead the company’s restructuring after profit declined
in two straight years. Cunha took over temporarily as CEO in
January, replacing Francisco Valim, who occupied the position
for a year and four months.  “This executive has a record of success, and investors now
consider that Oi’s turnaround process in order to increase
profitability will be driven by a very competent manager,”
Felipe Rocha, an analyst at brokerage Omar Camargo, said by
phone from Curitiba,  Brazil . “It was known in the market that
Cunha was temporarily in that position while the shareholders
were looking for the right person to take over.”  Oi has pledged to sell some assets to raise cash and is
investing to improve network quality. The Rio de Janeiro-based
company is currently the fourth-biggest mobile service carrier
in Brazil, with a 19 percent share of the market.  ‘New Impetus’  Portugal Telecom owns 12.1 percent of TmarPart, the
investor group that controls Oi, and 19.4 percent of the
Brazilian carrier’s non-voting shares, according to Oi’s annual
report.  “I believe Bava, with his recognized competence and
experience, will give a new impetus to the company,” Ricardo
Salgado, CEO at the Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo SA,
Portugal Telecom’s biggest shareholder, said in an e-mailed
statement. Portugal Telecom’s shares rallied 7 percent to 3.365
euros in Lisbon.  “The appointment of Mr. Bava is more than just a personnel
change and signals a larger change in the execution at Oi,”
analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. including  Robin Bienenstock  wrote in a note to clients. “We expect Mr Bava to
focus more on reducing the balance sheet with asset sales
including submarine cables and to increase wireless network
investment, roll out a better integrated product including TV
and to be much more productive and innovative than previous
teams at finding cost savings.”  Oi’s adjusted net income fell 17 percent to 837.5 million
reais ($390.5 million) in 2012 in a second annual decline,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares have lost 41 percent this year, while the benchmark
Ibovespa has declined 11 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  