-- Hong Kong Home Deals Fall for Third Straight Month on Curbs
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-06-04T09:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/hong-kong-home-deals-fall-for-third-straight-month-on-curbs.html
The number of  home transactions  in
Hong Kong fell for a third straight month in May, after the
city’s government earlier this year imposed its toughest yet
measures to curb prices that have doubled since early 2009.  A total of 4,276 homes changed hands last month, down 49
percent from a year earlier, according to Land Registry figures.
The value of those transactions fell to HK$24 billion ($3.1
billion) from HK$47.4 billion in May 2012.  Near record low interest rates and a lack of new supply
over the past decade have underpinned a 107 percent gain in  home
prices  since the beginning of 2009, even as the government
imposed several property curbs to cool demand.  Hong Kong  doubled
stamp duty taxes in February on all property transactions over
HK$2 million.  “The extra taxes are still affecting the market,” said
Wong Leung-sing, an associate director of research at Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held realtor.
“We’ve seen some buyers taking advantage of the subdued
sentiment but overall transactions is still at the lower end.”  Hong Kong home prices have risen for three straight weeks
ended May 26, after going through its biggest decline since May
2010 during April, according to an index compiled by Centaline.  Since 2010, Hong Kong has charged an extra tax of up to 20
percent of the value of homes on buyers who resell them within
three years and raised the minimum down-payment on mortgages for
homes costing more than HK$7 million. In October, Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying imposed an extra 15 percent tax on all
home purchases by companies and non-residents, and promised to
raise land supply.  Home prices  in the city may fall as much as 20 percent in
the next two years, Deutsche Bank AG said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  