-- Hong Kong Halts Processing Applications for New Airline Licenses
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-06-04T20:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/hong-kong-halts-processing-applications-for-new-airline-licenses.html
Hong Kong won’t process any
applications to start airlines in the city pending the
completion of a review of its criteria for designating local
carriers, the city’s Transport and Housing Bureau said.  While airlines must be incorporated in the city and have
their principle place of business in Hong Kong to be considered
local under the law, and the government looks at shareholding
structure, these aren’t the only determining factors, according
to a  statement  on the government’s Website yesterday. It didn’t
say what additional elements would be considered.  Jetstar Hong Kong, a low-cost carrier owned by  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670) , had secured a
local investor and planned to start service at year-end, after
waiting more than year for a license, the Hong Kong Economic
Journal said yesterday, citing China Eastern Chief Economist
Shan Chuanbo. A further delay would protect the interests of
existing local airlines such as  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)   “I am disappointed, but not surprised, to see the
government stalling on the licensing of new airlines,” David Webb, founder of local governance watchdog  Webb-site.com , said
in an e-mail.“It follows on from years of foot-dragging over
the issue of new terrestrial TV broadcast licenses.”  The city has two over-the-air television broadcasters, one
of which,  Television Broadcasts Ltd. (511) , is dominant, Webb said.
The government is planning to issue “one or two” new TV
licenses, rather than the three originally expected, the
Standard newspaper said last month, citing an unidentified
person.  “The government is trying to decide the ‘right’ number of
licenses rather than let the market discover that,” Webb said.
“The government claims to be in favor of competition but its
protectionist actions contradict this.”  For airlines, the “government won’t provide any
recommendations to an investor who is interested in setting up
an airline in Hong Kong,” the Transport Bureau and Housing
Bureau said in yesterday’s statement. “It is an airline’s own
commercial decisions to make investment or other arrangements
and it is the airline’s own responsibility to bear the
commercial and legal risks involved,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  