-- Monsanto Sued by Farmer Over Gene-Altered Seed Release
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-06-04T19:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/monsanto-sued-by-farmer-over-gene-altered-seed-release.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, was sued by a  Kansas  farmer who accused it of
negligently releasing genetically altered wheat seed in the U.S.
and damaging the export market for his crop.  The modified strain, which isn’t approved for human
consumption or sale, was discovered on an 80-acre Oregon farm in
April, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department.  The lawsuit filed yesterday by Ernest Barnes of Morton
County, Kansas, in federal court in Wichita could be the first
of many against St. Louis-based Monsanto alleging contamination,
according to a statement from his lawyers.  “Monsanto has failed our nation’s wheat farmers,” his
attorney Stephen Sussman, of Houston-based Sussman Godfrey LLP,
said in yesterday’s statement. “Monsanto knew of the risks its
genetically altered wheat posed and failed to protect farmers
and their crops from those risks.”  Barnes, who accused the company of negligence, gross
negligence and creating a nuisance, is seeking at least
$100,000, according to the complaint.  The USDA, in a May 29  statement , said Monsanto had been
authorized to field-test the genetically modified seed in 16
states from 1998 to 2005.  ‘Tractor-Chasing’  “Tractor-chasing lawyers have prematurely filed suit
without any evidence of fault and in advance of the crop’s
harvest,” David Snively, Monsanto’s general counsel, said today
in an e-mailed statement. The program for “closing out” the
wheat development plan was “rigorous, well-documented and
audited,” according to the statement. The company said it will
fight the farmer’s claims.  Monsanto said in a posting on its blog today that it gave
the Agriculture Department and U.S. trading partners a method to
distinguish the wheat trait developed to resist the company’s
Roundup herbicide from varieties approved for planting and
consumption.  “Our support is aimed at ensuring that the U.S. wheat
industry and wheat farmers do not experience disruptions in
exports,” Philip Miller, Monsanto’s vice president of
regulatory affairs, said. The company continues to believe the
 Oregon  case was an isolated incident, according to the post.  Tests of U.S. wheat imported by  Japan , South Korea and the
European Union have found no evidence of the unapproved gene-altered strain discovered in Oregon in April, Agriculture
Secretary Tom Vilsack said today.  The case is Barnes v. Monsanto Co., 13-cv-01218, U.S.
District Court, District of Kansas (Wichita).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  