-- Monsoon Seen Advancing to India’s Main Cotton, Sugar Cane Areas
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-06-04T09:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/monsoon-seen-advancing-to-india-s-main-cotton-sugar-cane-areas.html
The monsoon, which accounts for 70
percent of  India ’s annual rainfall, may advance to the main
cotton, sugar and coffee-growing areas this week, drenching
regions parched by the worst drought in four decades.  Rains will cover all of Maharashtra state, the country’s
second-biggest grower of sugar cane, cotton and soybeans, by
June 10 after having advanced through the southern coastal
states of Karnataka,  Tamil Nadu  and parts of  Andhra Pradesh ,
said D.S. Pai, head of the long-range forecasting division at
the  India Meteorological Department . Karnataka is the largest
coffee producer, while Andhra Pradesh is the top rice grower.  A normal monsoon is critical to boosting harvests of rice,
corn, soybeans, sugar cane and cotton, as well as curbing retail
 inflation  that hovers at about 10 percent. Agriculture accounts
for about a fifth of  India’s economy , while 55 percent of the
farmland does not have access to irrigation.  “The monsoon is progressing as per expectations and will
help major crops such as rice, cotton, lentils and sugar cane,”
said Harish Galipelli, head of commodity and currency
derivatives at JRG Wealth Management Ltd. “The rains were
delayed last year, which affected yields. A good crop will help
ease consumer prices of food commodities across the board.”  Parts of Maharashtra and Karnataka, which together account
for 45 percent of the country’s total output, have faced drought
because of below-average monsoon rains in the past two years.  Average Rainfall  Monsoon rainfall during the four months through September
may be 98 percent of a 50-year average this year, a level
considered normal, according to the weather department. The
precipitation was 8 percent below average last year and reduced
water available to irrigate crops in Maharashtra, Gujarat and
Karnataka, cutting cotton and sugar cane harvests.  A good monsoon may boost prospects for a bumper food grain
harvest in 2013-2014 and output may surpass the 255.4 million
metric tons a year earlier, the  Agriculture Ministry  said in a
statement yesterday. Farmers planted rice, cotton and other
monsoon-sown crops in 6.48 million hectares (16 million acres)
so far this year, the ministry said on May 31.  “The next two months will be crucial as any failure in the
monsoon could have a negative impact on crops,” Galipelli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  