-- Loomis Rushes to Short-End Debt in Trading Surge: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-06-04T15:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/loomis-rushes-to-short-end-debt-in-trading-surge-credit-markets.html
Corporate bond trading  is soaring to
record levels in the U.S. with the biggest buyers churning more
of their funds as policy makers consider tapering unprecedented
economic stimulus.  Regulatory data show average investment-grade trading rose
to $13.9 billion for the busiest May ever, accelerating after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
could slow unprecedented stimulus if the economy shows sustained
improvement. Loomis Sayles & Co.’s  Dan Fuss  said last week he’s
shifting into shorter-dated notes in anticipation of rising
interest rates.  Investors who had grown reluctant to part with bonds during
the biggest four-year rally since 1993 are more willing to trade
the notes with the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate
index posting its biggest monthly loss since the height of the
credit crisis. With money managers racing to protect their gains
as yields climb from a record low 2.65 percent reached on May 2,
top-graded notes maturing in less than three years are returning
more than longer-dated debt for the first time since 2009.  “You can make money in a bond portfolio,” Fuss, manager
of the $23.2 billion  Loomis Sayles Bond Fund (LSBDX) , said May 30 in an
interview at Bloomberg LP headquarters in  New York . One way to
do it is to “bring in the maturities, ax the market
sensitivity,” said Fuss, whose fund has beaten 97 percent of
rivals during the last three years.  Bond Losses  Investment-grade trading volumes rose 17.8 percent from
$11.8 billion in the corresponding month last year and surpassed
the previous record of $13.4 billion in May 2009, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  As concern mounts that prices for government debt will fall
if the Fed begins to slow its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases, investors are rushing to sell notes that are most-sensitive to moves in  Treasury yields .  Investment-grade corporate bonds that mature in seven-to-10
years lost 3 percent in May, the biggest monthly decline since a
9.2 percent loss in October 2008 at the height of the credit
crisis, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
Notes due in one-to-three years declined 0.12 percent.  Pimco Fund  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $5.1 billion Total
Return Exchange-Traded Fund is reducing its longer-maturity
debt, cutting the proportion of notes due in more than 10 years
by 13.4 percentage points in the first five months of the year
to 32 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The fund
almost quadrupled its allocation of debt maturing in one-to-three years to 20 percent.  “For a while there, we’ve all been on the same side of the
trade, with everyone having a pretty constructive view of
credit,” said Brian Machan, a  Des Moines , Iowa-based money
manager at Aviva Investors North America Inc. who helps oversee
$433 billion. “There are starting to be different views on the
start of the Fed tapering.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of 79 basis points as
of 11:41 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rate Swaps  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.3 basis point to 16.7 basis
points as of 11:41 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Rio de Janeiro-based Petroleo Brasileiro SA are
the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities
by dealers today, accounting for 3.2 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more as of 11:38 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The  Bloomberg Global Investment Grade Corporate Bond index 
has gained 0.26 percent this month, paring the  decline  for the
year to 1.51 percent.  Lehman Failure  Returns on investment-grade corporate notes suffered the
worst loss in more than four years last month after Bernanke
said May 22 that the central bank could reduce its monthly
purchases of $45 billion of Treasuries and $40 billion of
mortgage bonds “in the next few meetings” on continued
economic growth.  The 2.28 percent decline on the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate index was the biggest since a 7.38 percent
loss in October 2008, the month after the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. ignited the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression. Yields have climbed to 3.004 percent as of
yesterday.  While notes maturing in one-to-three years returned 0.7
percent this year through May 31, those due in seven-to-10 years
declined 0.9 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. That’s the first time the shorter-term notes have
outperformed longer-dated debt since the period in 2009.  ‘Pretty Complacent’  The average daily volume of dollar-denominated investment-grade bonds traded in January through May rose to $13.4 billion,
the most ever for the period, from $12.7 billion during the
corresponding five months of 2012,  Trace (NTMBIV)  data show.  Trading in the period from May 22 through the end of the
month was up 5 percent from the rest of the year.  “People were pretty complacent going into that speech,
really expected rates to stay at a really low level,” said Jon Sablowsky, the head of trading at Brownstone Investment Group
LLC in New York. “We got some commentary that was unsettling
for the market. It was a good catalyst.”  The proportion of investment-grade notes outstanding that
traded on average each day from May 22 through the end of the
month was 0.34 percent, about equal to the same period last
year, Trace and Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
That’s a departure from the three full years after 2009, when
daily average trading increased by 1.7 percent compared with a
market expansion of 40 percent, according to the data.  “People are selling longer-end holdings and investing in
shorter and safer paper,” Sablowsky said. There’s “lots of
focus on duration for sure.”  Economic Rescue  Based on options trading, concern that Fed stimulus is
poised for a reduction is taking a bigger toll on confidence in
bond markets than stocks. Indexes that measure expected
volatility in equities are diverging by the most in a year
compared with Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE Index, which tracks
option projections for swings in  U.S. government debt , climbed
62 percent to 79.99 in May. That’s three times the monthly
increase for the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index
of Standard & Poor’s 500 Index contracts.  The Fed has pumped more than $2.5 trillion into the
financial system as part of its effort to rescue the economy
from the credit seizure. In the four years ended in December,
dollar-denominated investment-grade notes returned 55.6 percent,
the most since the 55.7 percent gain in the period ended Dec.
31, 1993.  ‘Good Signs’  Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said
yesterday policy makers may start reducing the pace of bond
purchases over the next three months and potentially end
quantitative easing by year-end.  With continued “good signs” on jobs and confidence in a
“substantial improvement” I could see as “early as this
summer some adjustment, maybe modest adjustment downward, in our
purchase program,” he said in  Stockholm .  “People are not only shortening duration, they’re also
moving up in quality,” said Charles Sanford, a managing
director in corporate credit at Babson Capital Management LLC,
which oversees more than $180 billion. “Shorter-duration,
higher-quality corporate investment-grade securities are almost
like the new Treasury right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  