-- Oracle Veteran Brings M&A Playbook to Open Text
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-04T20:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/oracle-veteran-brings-m-a-playbook-to-open-text.html
Open Text Corp. (OTC)  Chief Executive
Officer Mark Barrenechea, taking a page from former boss  Larry Ellison ’s merger playbook at  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , is planning to expand
the Canadian software maker by going shopping again.  Open Text, which has a market value of C$4.21 billion ($4.1
billion), spent at least $750 million on five acquisitions in
2011 and 2012. The Waterloo, Ontario-based company, which makes
programs to help companies improve operational efficiency, had
C$447 million of cash at the end of last quarter.  “We will continue to make acquisitions,” Barrenechea said
in a telephone interview from  San Francisco , where he was
traveling. Whether from  cash flow  or raising fresh debt or both,
“we have all the strategic flexibility we need, all the way
from operating the company to any deal size we see in the
marketplace.” He declined to give a time frame or say whether
he’s currently working on a deal.  Barrenechea spent 15 years in Silicon Valley, including a
six-year stint at  Redwood City , California-based Oracle, where
he reported to founder Ellison. Since moving to  Canada  to become
CEO of Open Text in January 2012, he’s hired six new executives;
boosted the sales force by 20 percent to chase opportunities in
 Latin America ,  Asia , the  Middle East  and Eastern Europe; and
last month began paying the company’s first dividend.  “Their cash flow is huge and dividends are only one use of
that,” said  Kris Thompson , an analyst at National Bank
Financial in Toronto who rates the stock the equivalent of a
buy. “There’s going to be more M&A for sure.”  Filling Gaps  Founded in 1991, Open Text gets its name from a text-search
technology developed through a University of Waterloo project.
Clients include Chartis Group LLC,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   The company’s most recent acquisitions have been to add
features or fill in gaps in its corporate-efficiency software,
including EasyLink Services International Corp. for messaging
technology and Resonate Knowledge Technologies Ltd. for data-sifting programs. Barrenechea declined to say what companies
he’s now targeting.  Open Text was up 31 percent this year through yesterday in
Toronto trading, the second-best  performer  of the seven
companies in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Information Technology
Index, trailing only rival  CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A)  Open Text climbed 2
percent to C$72.97 at the 4 p.m. close in Toronto today.  Track Record  The company has enough cash and debt to take on $1 billion
in acquisitions, said Eyal Ofir, an analyst at Clarus Securities
Inc. in Toronto.  “The company’s track record of acquisitions is a greater
reason to own the stock into 2014,” he said last week in a
research note. He established a buy rating with a price target
for the U.S. shares of $85, compared with yesterday’s close of
$69.66. His estimates assume an acquisition of $500 million over
the next 12 months.  Still, Barrenechea must contend with slowing growth. While
sales in the current fiscal year, which ends in June, are
 forecast  to climb 14 percent to $1.38 billion, they’re projected
to expand 5 percent next year, according to the average estimate
of analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Barrenechea is looking to boost sales by adding clients
outside  North America  and Western Europe that need to overhaul
their  information systems .  Content Management  He’s also offering more products to current customers. A
typical client might have information stored about contracts or
workers that could be put to greater use through a more
interactive system, Barrenechea said.  “Content management is about putting that into a single
platform,” he said. “The next step is building applications on
top of that to automate everything from the recruitment to the
retirement process.”  Enterprise information management, as it’s known, is set to
grow to a $19 billion industry in 2016 from a $13 billion
industry today, according to Gartner Inc.  U.S. competitors include CA Inc., where Barrenechea was
chief technology officer from 2003 to 2006 after leaving Oracle.
Barrenechea said he looks back fondly on his tenure at the
company Ellison founded in 1977. Oracle is now worth $162
billion and bought 11 companies in 2012 alone.  “It was fantastic,” Barrenechea said of the time he spent
reporting to Ellison as senior vice president of applications
development. “I think of Larry as, certainly a competitor, but
fundamentally a software architect and a brilliant strategist.”  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  First Dividend  Just as Oracle rallied when it declared its first dividend
in 2009, Open Text prompted a 12 percent jump in its stock on
April 25 by announcing a shareholder payout of 30 Canadian cents
a share.  The move should attract new investors, said Tom Liston,
analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP. He raised his  rating  for Open
Text to buy after the dividend news, lifting the number of buy
recommendations on the stock to 10. Open Text has four holds and
two sells, according to data  compiled  by Bloomberg.  One of those sells is Michael Nemeroff, an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG who said the dividend may cause investors
who prefer high-growth companies to lose interest.  “The new payouts could be viewed as an admission by
management that OTEX will not likely return to double-digit
revenue growth,” he said in a research note last month, using
 Open Text ’s U.S. ticker symbol.  “Our strategy is value and growth,” said Barrenechea.
“We are investing in innovation, acquisitions and now a
dividend.”  Waterloo Talent  Open Text’s headquarters are located blocks away from the
offices of BlackBerry, the smartphone maker trying to engineer a
rebound after being eclipsed by nimbler rivals. Waterloo remains
a good place to build a business as, like Silicon Valley, it
offers a deep talent pool and is a place where people aren’t
afraid to take risks, said Barrenechea. It needs to improve
startups’ access to  venture capital , he said.  “What is the Canada of the future beyond a resource-centric country?” he said. “You have to invent and you have to
innovate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  