-- Morgans Jumps to Highest Since 2011 on Sale Consideration
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-04T20:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/morgans-hotel-to-explore-sale-if-board-nominees-elected.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC) , a hotelier
embroiled in a proxy battle with its largest stockholder,
climbed to the highest in almost two years after saying it has
received interest in a takeover and would consider a sale.  The company’s  board  nominees plan to explore strategic
alternatives, including a sale, if they are re-elected, New
York-based Morgans said today in a statement. The company, which
operates hotels including the Mondrian in Los Angeles and the
Delano in Miami’s  South Beach , said it has received unsolicited
expressions of interest in a takeover from five investors.  Morgans  shares  rose 13 percent to $7.53, the highest
closing price since July 2011. The stock has gained 36 percent
this year.  “Morgans’s Delano, Mondrian and Hudson brands would be
desirable brands for better-capitalized, larger hotel
franchisors seeking to grow their room pipeline in the boutique
segment,” Stephen Altebrando, an analyst at Sidoti & Co. in  New
York , said in a research note. “A combination would also
eliminate the company’s high debt costs and provide capital to
expand the management pipeline.”  Altebrando has a buy  rating  on Morgans stock.  OTK Associates LLC, which owns about 14 percent of
Morgans’s  shares , is seeking to overhaul the board to try to
return the company to profitability. Morgans, which includes 13
boutique hotels, has lost money in every quarter since 2007,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  OTK said Morgans’s announcement is an attempt to undermine
the proxy battle and that the company is “highly unlikely” to
pursue a sale, according to a statement.  Burkle Deal  OTK in April sued board members over a recapitalization
deal with billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos. Jason Taubman Kalisman, a founding member of OTK, is currently a director. He
has a slate of seven nominees to the board, which will be
decided at the company’s annual meeting June 14.  Morgans’s hotels would be attractive to operators seeking
to add boutique brands, said Chris Agnew, a  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based analyst at MKM Partners LLC. The company said
last month it had received a $7.50-a-share takeover offer from a
“large international hotel company” late last year that it
rejected as too low.  “Everyone is interested in the younger generation today
and is looking at how to make their brands relevant and
attractive to this type of consumer,” said Agnew, who has a
neutral rating on the stock. “Morgans has these brands that
quite neatly fit into this category.”  Morgans last week said its board voted to end a poison-pill
plan and instated a new policy requiring shareholder approval of
any future rights provision. Poison pills are used to discourage
takeover bids by making companies less attractive to potential
buyers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  