-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise on Stimulus as Turkey Rallies
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-04T21:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/most-emerging-stocks-decline-as-philippine-china-shares-slide.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in five days as Turkish shares rebounded from the
biggest plunge in a decade and investors weighed prospects for
Federal Reserve stimulus.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index jumped
the most since September 2011 as  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  and
 Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  surged at least 5.1 percent, while Turkish bond
yields declined the most on record. Russian stocks climbed from
a six-week low as the nation’s biggest lenders advanced.
advanced. Brazil’s Ibovespa rose a second day as Oi SA surged
after the phone company appointed a new chief executive officer.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.6 percent to
1,004.03, the most since May 8. Turkey’s bonds and stocks surged
as Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc apologized to the victims
of excessive police force. Recent U.S. data suggest the economy
isn’t strong enough to justify a reduction in bond buying, Fed
Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday.  “There’s a lot of conversation about an exit strategy, but
the cooler heads are saying the economy is not strong enough to
exit QE,”  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management, said by phone from Atlanta, referring to the Fed’s
asset purchases. His firm oversees about $48 billion. “Emerging
markets are going to move higher as we’ve seen a market
adjustment to changes in policy and we’re likely to see better
demand from the developed markets.”  Nine of  10 groups  in the measure of developing-nation
stocks rose, led by health-care and consumer discretionary
shares. The broad gauge trimmed this year’s drop to 4.9 percent,
compared with a 10 percent jump in the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slid 1.2 percent to $41.30. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
added 2.4 percent to 23.34.  Brazil’s Ibovespa added 0.1 percent. Oi surged the most on
the benchmark gauge after its appointment of Zeinal Bava as
chief executive officer signaled that Portugal Telecom SGPS SA
is taking a more direct leadership interest in the company.  The ruble-based Micex Index increased 0.3 percent in
Moscow. The RTS Index rose 0.3 percent after plunging as much as
20 percent from this year’s high yesterday. VTB Group increased
2.6 percent.  Ad Spending  Benchmark gauges in the  Czech Republic , Poland and Hungary
added at least 0.3 percent. Kino Polska SA soared to a record
after UniCredit SpA recommended buying shares of the Polish
television broadcaster on expectations higher advertising
spending on thematic channels will boost earnings.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 1.2 percent, while the
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies dropped
0.1 percent.  Nine Dragons Paper Holdings Ltd. (2689) , a maker of paper
and packaging materials co-founded by Cheung Yan, one of China’s
richest women, slumped 7.5 percent. The company may face more
earnings downside risk if paper prices continues to weaken,
Credit Suisse Group AG said.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex lost 0.3 percent, a third day of
losses and the lowest close since April 30. Volume on the gauge
was 25 percent below the 30-day average.  State Bank  of India
retreated to the lowest level in almost two months, leading its
peers lower.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s
largest refining complex, slid to a six-week low.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index’s 10-day  historical
volatility  increased to 33 yesterday from 12 two weeks ago, the
highest level since October 2011 and the biggest jump among 21
developing-nation gauges tracked by Bloomberg. Overseas money
managers sold a net $78 million of the nation’s shares
yesterday. The PSE index  fell  1.3 percent at the close in
 Manila , extending its drop from a May 15 record to 9.7 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slid two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 300 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  