-- Mourinho Targets Jovetic, Dzeko for Chelsea: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-06-04T10:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/mourinho-targets-jovetic-dzeko-for-chelsea-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Mourinho Signings  New Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  has five main targets as
he arrives for a second stint at Stamford Bridge, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  He’s interested in Fiorentina forward Stevan Jovetic,
Manchester City striker Edin Dzeko and Porto defender Eliaquim
Mangala. Roma midfielder  Daniele De Rossi  and Brazilian
midfielder Fernandinho of Shakhtar Donetsk are also on his list,
the newspaper added.  Galatasaray playmaker  Wesley Sneijder  is a potential target
for Mourinho, according to  the Sun . The pair were together at
Inter Milan when the Italian team won the Champions League in
2010.  Since arriving at Galatasaray five months ago, Sneijder has
struggled under coach Fatih Terim and the Turkish team will
consider a “reasonable” offer, the Sun added.  Liverpool Target  Liverpool has identified Shakhtar Donetsk midfielder
Henrikh Mkhitaryan as a top transfer target and isn’t put off by
his 22 million-pound ($34 million) price tag,  the Guardian 
reported.  The Armenian national team player, an attacking midfielder,
scored 25 goals in the Ukrainian Premier League last season, the
newspaper added.  Gunner Michu?  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  is interested in signing
Swansea forward Michu, who scored 22 goals last season, the
Daily Mail reported.  He’s also indicated he’d want to sign Manchester United
striker  Wayne Rooney  if he leaves Old Trafford this offseason,
the Mail added.  Martinez Deal  Roberto Martinez  will take over as Everton manager today
after agreeing terms in principle on a three-year contract, the
Daily Mirror reported.  He’s impressed Chairman Bill Kenwright with his record and
style of play at Wigan, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  