-- How U.S. Politics Was Hijacked by Partisans
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-06-04T22:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/how-u-s-politics-was-hijacked-by-partisans.html
Power has devolved to the people. And
the people hate it. In his book “ Disconnect : The Breakdown of
Representation in American Politics,” Stanford University
political scientist Morris Fiorina considers this “the great
irony” of American politics: that the more Americans participate
in their political system, the angrier and more disillusioned
they become. We have met the enemy, and it is us. Or at least
some of us.  American politics is vastly more open to the masses than it
was a few generations ago. Party nominees are chosen by voters
in primaries rather than by party leaders in backrooms. C-SPAN
cameras unflinchingly record committee hearings. Polling gives
politicians detailed information about the preferences of
constituents. Voice votes have fallen in favor of roll calls,
permitting voters to see how their representatives stand on
almost every bill and amendment. The explosion of online media
has given political junkies access to more and better political
news. Countless activist groups have emerged to channel the
passions and frustrations of Americans into sophisticated,
effective political action.  Yet according to Fiorina’s data, turnout in elections has
fallen and faith in government has plummeted.  “Against all natural expectations,” he wrote, “Americans
liked their government better, trusted their leaders more, and
voted in higher numbers in the bad old days when party bosses
chose nominees in smoke-filled rooms; when several dozen old
white men (mostly Southerners) ran Congress, when big business,
big labor and big agriculture dominated the interest group
universe; and when politicians didn’t have the tools to figure
out what their constituents wanted. Why?”  One Example  Last week, Representative  Michele Bachmann , Republican of
Minnesota, announced that she will retire. Her exit from
Congress is a good moment to consider Fiorina’s question because
her career, perhaps more than any other, is a product of, and a
tribune for, the “disconnect” he identifies.  Let’s begin with an example slightly less extreme than
Bachmann: You. If you are reading this column, you are very
weird. You’re spending spare time considering arguments about
American politics, which most people don’t bother to do.  Politics is a niche hobby, not unlike mountain biking or
playing the oboe. Only a small number actually follow the
proliferation of political news; few send e-mails to members of
Congress or volunteer for campaigns. So the opening of U.S.
politics, Fiorina wrote, “had a perverse consequence: political
power and influence were transferred to political activists who
were not like most people.”  Bachmann was one of those activists. She became a pro-life
advocate after watching Francis Schaeffer’s 1976 documentary,
“How Should We Then Live?” She spent years holding sidewalk
demonstrations outside clinics that performed abortions. In
1993, she began a charter school that was supposed to be
nonsectarian but soon exhibited a clearly Christian perspective.
The school almost lost its charter, and Bachmann was forced to
leave its board. That led her to begin fighting the state’s
educational standards, which put her on the path to elected
office.  Bachmann wasn’t chosen by party bosses looking to win the
middle of the electorate. Rather, she emerged through an
organic, grass-roots process driven by committed political
activists looking to change the country. She won Republican
primaries decided by a sliver of her district’s voters. She owed
her general-election victories to the votes of a small minority.
She gained notoriety by speaking to partisans nationwide. She
amassed a huge fundraising advantage over potential comers by
raking in out-of-state donations. She built her career, in other
words, on her intense appeal to a politically active fraction of
the electorate even as she represented everybody in  Minnesota ’s
6th District. She leveraged the political activity of the
ideological few against the relative apathy of the more moderate
many.  Admirable Activism  None of this is wrong. Indeed, most of it is admirable.
Bachmann cares about her country and organized with like-minded
citizens to improve it. This is what political activists on both
left and right do, and much of what is best in America -- the
civil rights movement, for example -- is the result of such
efforts.  Like other political activists, Bachmann is a true
believer. At another time, a local party machine might have
dismissed her electoral ambitions, judging her too extreme for
the district. The opening of politics has given true believers
an opportunity to seize party and political machinery on both
sides of the aisle. The result, Fiorina says, is a politics in
which representatives are far more extreme and partisan than the
people they represent.  Fiorina’s argument isn’t universally accepted. Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory University, says
Fiorina underestimates how much the voters, too, have grown
polarized. David Broockman, a doctoral candidate in political
science at the University of California at Berkeley, has
conducted research suggesting the decisive factor isn’t so much
extremism as partisanship.  Analyzing opinion surveys, he found that voters are more
likely to endorse “extreme” policy measures than political
leaders are, perhaps because leaders have internalized the
boundaries of the politically possible. Meanwhile, leaders are
more likely to hold positions that are wholly consistent with
one party or the other’s agenda.  “In D.C., if you give me a given member of Congress and
tell me where they stand on gay marriage, I can guess where they
stand on almost everything,” Broockman said. “If you give me a
member of the public and tell me where they stand on gay
marriage, I can do a bit better than chance in guessing what
else they believe, but not that much better than chance.”  Few doubt Fiorina’s broad point that a more open political
system has further polarized politics and frustrated the public.
The more closed system of yesteryear was problematic in a
thousand ways, but the system’s gatekeepers played an
underappreciated role in moderating U.S. politics. In their
absence, activists have streamed in, and the public has grown
more and more disgusted. Bachmann may be retiring, but other
activists are running and winning. The door is open.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 