-- Philippines Reopens Davao Airport After Cebu Air Plane Cleared
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-06-04T13:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/philippines-asks-cebu-air-to-remove-jet-from-runway-shares-fall.html
Davao International Airport in the
southern Philippine island of Mindanao was reopened after a  Cebu
Air Inc. (CEB)  plane that veered off a runway blocking flights for two
days was cleared, according to transportation officials.  The airport reopened at about 8 p.m., John Andrews, deputy
director-general of the  Civil Aviation Authority  of the
 Philippines , said by phone. The agency took over the removal of
the Airbus SAS A320 aircraft from Cebu Air after a 3 p.m.
deadline, with the airline agreeing to assist, he said.  “The economy of Davao is losing millions a day because of
the two-day closure of the airport,” Andrews said. “We had
given Cebu enough time, enough leeway to extricate the
aircraft.”  Davao  is the Philippines’ largest city in terms of
land area.  About 100 Davao flights had been cancelled since the
evening of June 2, affecting 15,000 passengers, Andrews said.
The aircraft “veered off to the right side” of Davao’s runway
during heavy rains in the evening of June 2, and all its 165
passengers were safe, the carrier said. Andrews earlier today
said it was likely a pilot error.  Cebu Air, majority owned by  JG Summit Holdings Inc. (JGS)  fell
0.6 percent to 78.55 pesos, the lowest closing level in a week.  Aviation authorities are investigating whether regulations
had been violated and “accountabilities will be made as soon as
possible,” William Hotchkiss, director general of the aviation
authority, said in a televised briefing earlier today.  Cebu Air was worried that removing the aircraft quickly
would worsen the damage, Andrews said. The aviation office can
exercise emergency powers and tow away a stalled aircraft,
overriding a law that gives the plane’s owner the sole right for
removal, Andrews said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  