-- Philippine Stock Swings Surge as Index Tumbles 10% From High
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m ,   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-06-04T08:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/philippine-volatility-leads-emerging-stocks-on-tapering-concern.html
Philippine stock volatility is
surging at the fastest pace in  emerging markets  as foreign
investors sell the world’s most expensive equities on
speculation the U.S. will reduce monetary stimulus.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index’s 10-day  historical
volatility  increased to 33 yesterday from 12 two weeks ago, the
highest level since October 2011 and the biggest jump among 21
developing-nation gauges tracked by Bloomberg. Overseas money
managers sold a net $78 million of the nation’s shares
yesterday. The PSE index  fell  1.3 percent at the close in
 Manila , extending its drop from a May 15 record to 9.7 percent.  A four-year rally has driven the PSE index’s  valuation  to
19 times estimated profit, the highest level among gauges in 45
emerging and developed markets. While foreign inflows and record
earnings helped  Philippine shares  produce the best risk-adjusted
returns among major markets since March 2009, Schroders Plc says
increased volatility will deter investors as the U.S. Federal
Reserve moves closer to scaling back its bond-buying program.  “There is still a fair bit of profits that can be taken if
the volatility continues,” Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based
 fund manager  at Schroders, which oversees more than $300
billion, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The PSE  index  dropped the most among benchmark equity
gauges in  Asia  today, falling to a 10-week low of 6,643.58.  BDO
Unibank Inc. (BDO)  and Robinsons Land Corp. sank at least 2.7 percent.
The Philippine index has gained 14 percent this year, compared
with a 3.6 percent increase in the MSCI Southeast Asia Index and
a 5.2 percent drop in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Riskless Return  The Philippine gauge returned about 350 percent since
equity markets bottomed during the global financial crisis in
March 2009 through May 20. Adjusted for volatility, the PSE
index’s 20 percent gain in the same period is more than twice
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) ’s 9 percent advance, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Volatility measures the degree of
price swings relative to the historical average.  The four-year rally in Asia’s 12th-biggest equity market
has coincided with $7.3 billion of foreign inflows, a 116
percent surge in PSE index profits and the nation’s first
investment-grade rating.  Philippine growth prospects haven’t changed as a result of
increased volatility in the $245 billion stock market, said
Marvin Fausto, who oversees about $20 billion as the chief
investment officer at BDO Unibank in Manila.  ‘Perfect Opportunity’  Philippine economic growth unexpectedly accelerated to 7.8
percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace in almost three
years, as President  Benigno Aquino  boosted investment and state
spending, according to official data released on May 30. The
expansion will remain elevated as the government targets growth
of as much as 7 percent this year, Finance Secretary Cesar
Purisima said in a May 29 interview in  Singapore .  The decline in stocks “is not due to reasons of our own
making,” BDO Unibank’s Fausto said. It’s a “perfect
opportunity to come in,” he said.  Emerging-market assets from Indonesian stocks to  South
Africa ’s rand have slumped as gains in U.S. employment and
housing spurred investors to raise bets the Fed will reduce its
$85 billion in monthly debt purchases, known as quantitative
easing, later this year.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  sank 4.4 percent in the three
days through yesterday, the largest three-day decline since June
2012. Foreign institutional investors sold $171.2 million of
Indonesian equities yesterday, the most since August 2011. The
rand lost 11.3 percent against the dollar last month, leading
declines among 24 developing-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Expensive Stocks  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in response to questions
following Congressional testimony on May 22 that the central
bank could consider reducing the amount of Treasuries and
mortgage debt it buys within “the next few meetings” if
officials see signs of sustained improvement in hiring.  “Investors are becoming more uncertain as to the
continuation of QE,” said Khiem Do, the Hong Kong-based head of
Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management Ltd.,
which oversees about $51 billion.  The combination of expensive valuations and high returns
during the past few years has left Philippine shares vulnerable
to further outflows, said James Thom, a money manager at
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which oversees about $322 billion
worldwide.  The PSE index’s price-to-estimated earnings  ratio  of 19
compares with the five-year average of 13. The MSCI emerging
markets index has a multiple of 10, while the S&P 500 trades for
14 times projected 12-month profits, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The  Philippines  is “one of the markets that has done
particularly well in the region and an obvious source of profit
for the more nervous investors,” Thom said in a phone interview
from Singapore. “It remains relatively expensive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  