-- Pimco Flagship Has First Withdrawals Since 2011
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-06-04T16:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/pimco-flagship-has-first-withdrawals-since-2011.html
Bill Gross ’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ,
the world’s largest mutual fund, suffered the first client
withdrawals since 2011 last month as global bond markets tumbled
the most in nine years.  Investors pulled $1.32 billion from the $285 billion fund,
according to estimates from Chicago-based research firm
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  An exchange-traded version of the  Total Return (BOND) 
fund saw clients pull an estimated $64.4 million, the first ever
withdrawals since the ETF’s inception in 2012.  A bet on  U.S. government debt  hurt Gross last month as
Treasuries tumbled 2 percent amid speculation a strengthening
U.S. economy will allow the Federal Reserve to reduce its
monetary stimulus. Gross’s fund declined 1.9 percent last month
through May 30, its biggest monthly loss since September 2008,
to trail 94 percent of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Gross raised the holdings of Treasuries in his fund
to 39 percent as of April 30, the highest level since July 2010,
and has increased the proportion of U.S. government securities
every month this year since February.  Global bond markets posted their biggest monthly losses in
nine years in May as the  U.S. dollar  rallied and stocks reached
record highs. The more than $40 trillion of bonds in the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index fell 1.5 percent
on average.  2011 ‘Stinker’  The last time investors pulled money from Gross’s fund was
in December 2011. The fund had its first ever annual redemptions
that year of about $5 billion after Gross eliminated U.S.
Treasuries early in the year and missed a rally in what he
called a “stinker” of a performance. The Total Return fund
rose 4.2 percent in 2011, behind 70 percent of peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past five years, Gross’s
fund has advanced 7.5 percent, ahead of 93 percent of rivals.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said the
firm doesn’t comment on client deposits or redemptions.  Morningstar estimates deposits or withdrawals for mutual
funds by computing the change in assets on a monthly basis that
isn’t accounted for by performance. The fund’s actual
withdrawals or deposits may differ from Morningstar’s estimates
because of the timing of purchases and redemptions or dividend
distributions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  