-- Pistorius Trial Delayed to Allow Further Investigation
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-06-04T09:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/pistorius-trial-delayed-to-allow-further-investigation.html
The trial of  Oscar Pistorius , the
Paralympian gold medalist who killed his model girlfriend, was
postponed until Aug. 19 to give prosecutors and police more time
to investigate.  Pretoria magistrate, Daniel Thulare, agreed to the request
today that was backed by the athlete’s defense lawyer.
Pistorius, wearing a gray suit and surrounded by family members,
didn’t say anything during the 20-minute hearing.  Pistorius, known as the  Blade Runner  because of his
prosthetic running blades, was released on 1 million rand
($100,000) bail on Feb. 22 after a four-day hearing. Prosecutors
accuse him of deliberately shooting Reeva Steenkamp, 29, on Feb.
14, Valentine’s Day, in a bathroom at his Pretoria home. The
athlete says that he mistook her for an intruder.  At the next hearing, which falls on Steenkamp’s birthday,
the magistrate will probably rule on when, and in which court,
the trial will start, Medupe Simasiku, spokesman for the
National Prosecuting Authority, told reporters outside the
court.  Thulare said in court he was “concerned” by some
reporting by international media, which threatened to
“scandalize” the trial. He didn’t identify any news
organizations.  ‘Terrible Night’  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s Sky News on May 31
showed images which it said were of the crime scene. One photo
showed a blood-spattered toilet seat, surrounded by a pool of
dried blood. Markers on the open bathroom door identified where
the bullets had pierced it.  Pistorius, 26, was the first amputee runner to compete at
an  Olympic Games , taking part at the London event last year. He
was included in Time magazine’s list of the world’s 100 most
influential people. Pistorius, who won six Paralympic gold
medals, was born without fibulas and had both legs amputated
below the knee at 11 months old.  “We continue to have great faith in the South African
legal justice system and believe that Oscar’s account of what
happened on that terrible night in February will be borne out by
the evidence that the defense team will lead in court,”
Pistorius’s family said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Pistorius, who had his bail conditions eased to allow him
to compete internationally, hasn’t resumed training, his agent
Peet van Zyl said in April.  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest sporting-goods company,
 Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) ’s Oakley and Clarins SA’s Thierry Mugler
perfume brand have all ended sponsorship deals with Pistorius
since the shooting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  