-- Poland’s LOT Says Looser Ownership Rule to Ease EU Aid Appraisal
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-06-04T13:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/poland-s-lot-says-looser-ownership-rule-to-ease-eu-aid-appraisal.html
LOT Polish Airlines SA’s plan to
shrink operations and slash costs with the help of state aid
should be eased by a law change allowing an end to government
control, Chief Executive Officer Sebastian Mikosz said.  The move to waive a long-standing law requiring  Poland  to
hold an absolute majority of Warsaw-based LOT’s stock goes
before the Senate for endorsement tomorrow, leaving only the
president to sign off, Mikosz said in an interview in  Cape Town .  The change should help smooth the European Commission’s
assessment of a restructuring plan due to be submitted June 20
as the regulator evaluates a bailout application. LOT hasn’t
made a profit in five years and booked a 200 million zloty ($62
million) operating loss in 2012, even after it cut headcount by
9.8 percent and boosted the passenger count 7 percent.  “The message of the change in law is we mean business this
time,” Mikosz, who returned as CEO in February after departing
in 2010 and who is targeting profitability in 2014, said at the
International Air Transport Association annual meeting.  The latest revamp plan for LOT, as Polskie Linie Lotnicze
LOT SA is known, may be less drastic in terms of fleet and route
cuts than first signaled, Mikosz said. Proposals in January had
suggested the carrier would operate 25 planes instead of 40 and
cut 30 percent of jobs in seeking approval for a 1 billion zloty
aid package. It got a 400 million-zloty rescue loan in December.  With the restructuring and relaxation of the ownership cap,
LOT, which is being advised by Rothschild, should be more
attractive to potential buyers, given growth in its home market
that could see passenger numbers triple to 20 million in coming
decades, the CEO said.  Outside Option  While European Union rules limit the stake a company from
beyond the bloc can hold to 49 percent, making a local buyer
“easiest,” an outside bid cannot be ruled out, Mikosz said,
citing last month’s purchase of a 44 percent stake in Czech
Airlines, or Cesky Aeroholding AS, by  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490)   The return to operational service of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 after
a three-month grounding as the planemaker fixed a battery fault
should help cut operating costs at LOT, Mikoskz said. Three
Dreamliners are now in its hands, with two more due by August
and a sixth before the year’s end. A further two will come
later.  LOT selected the 787 to target the intercontinental market,
where margins are higher and it can still aim to find a viable
niche. The grounding stranded its first jet in  Chicago  after an
inaugural flight and led to a $50,000 daily loss.  As part of LOT’s cost cutting moves the company has
eliminated its fleet of  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  regional jets, Mikoskz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in Cape Town at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Jasper in Cape Town at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  