-- Polo Club Founder Gets August Hearing for Crash Retrial
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2013-06-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/polo-club-founder-gets-august-hearing-for-crash-retrial.html
John Goodman , the  Florida  polo tycoon
whose conviction in the death of a 23-year-old man whose car he
slammed into with his Bentley was vacated, is set to appear in
court for an Aug. 29 hearing.  Goodman, 49, was sentenced to 16 years in prison in May
2012 following his conviction on charges of driving under the
influence-manslaughter and vehicular homicide in the February
2010 death of 23-year-old Scott  Patrick Wilson .  Palm Beach  County Circuit Court Judge Jeffrey Colbath last
week agreed to postpone a pre-trial hearing set for yesterday,
according to the online docket. No reason was given on the
docket for the rescheduling. Colbath, who presided over
Goodman’s trial, vacated the conviction on May 3 and ordered a
new trial based on juror misconduct, according to court records.  One of the jurors, Dennis DeMartin, failed to disclose that
his ex-wife received a DUI while they were married, according to
court records. DeMartin later self-published an e-book in which
he wrote about the DUI and the end of his marriage.  “The undisclosed information was relevant and material to
jury service in this case,” Colbath wrote in his order vacating
the conviction.  Struck Car  Goodman founded the  International Polo Club Palm Beach  in
Wellington, Florida, in western Palm Beach County. During his
2012 trial, prosecutors said Goodman ran a stop sign in his
convertible Bentley, striking Wilson’s car, which careened into
a roadside canal. Prosecutors said Goodman then walked home and
waited an hour before calling 911.  Goodman’s attorney, Roy Black, argued during the trial that
the Bentley malfunctioned, causing him to run the stop sign, and
that he got drunk after the accident in a horse barn.
Prosecutors, however, presented evidence that he was in a bar
before the accident.  Black withdrew from the case after the conviction was
vacated. Goodman’s current attorney, Doug Duncan, declined to
comment on the case.  Scott Smith , the attorney for Wilson’s
parents, didn’t return a call seeking comment. DeMartin couldn’t
be reached for comment.  Goodman had adopted his girlfriend, and during court
proceedings, prosecutors had asked that they be notified if
Goodman’s girlfriend gained access to a trust that was set up
for his children. The adoption was thrown out in March by a
Florida appeals court, which ruled it was a “fraud on the
court.”  The case is State of Florida v. Goodman, 10-cf-5829,
Fifteenth Judicial Circuit ( West Palm Beach .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Palm Beach County court
in Florida at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 