-- Portugal Seeks Eligibility for ECB’s Bond-Buying Program
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   O d e t t e   B e r g
-- 2013-06-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/portugal-seeks-eligibility-for-ecb-s-bond-buying-program.html
Portugal won’t need a new aid plan
and wants to be eligible for the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying program, its Secretary of State for Finance said.  “Portugal is regaining full  market access  and full market
access will guarantee the eligibility for the OMT program,”
Manuel Rodrigues said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
New York yesterday. “We will not need other additional programs
-- the fact that Portugal is eligible for the OMT will
necessarily have a very positive impact on our credit risk
profile,” he said. “We are working on ensuring that we are
eligible for this program.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Sept. 6 that the central
bank’s debt-purchase program, called Outright Monetary
Transactions, may be considered for euro-area countries
currently under bailout programs, such as Greece, Portugal and
Ireland, when they regain bond-market access.  Last month, Portugal sold  10-year (GSPT10YR)  debt for the first time
in more than two years as yields on the country’s existing bonds
were at the lowest since 2010 and a decline in  interest rates 
worldwide led investors to seek higher-yielding assets. Portugal
stopped selling bonds until this year after requesting a 78
billion-euro ($102 billion) bailout from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  in April 2011 following a surge in
debt levels and borrowing costs.  Credit Rating  The  difference  in yield that investors demand to hold
Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds has narrowed to
4.16 percentage points from a euro-era record of 16 percentage
points on Jan. 31, 2012. Portugal pays an average interest rate
on its aid loans of 3.25 percent, Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said on May 10.  Portugal is starting on the pre-financing for 2014 and has
already been able to meet its requirements for this year,
Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said on May 7. The country’s
bailout program ends in June 2014. Portugal’s debt is ranked
below investment grade by  Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors
Services and  Standard & Poor’s .  “Rating agencies tend to lag, and tend to revise their
ratings slowly as they are very prudent,” Rodrigues said.  The government on March 15 announced less ambitious targets
for narrowing its  budget deficit  as it forecast the  economy  will
shrink twice as much as previously estimated this year. Coelho
targets a deficit equivalent to 5.5 percent of gross domestic
product in 2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below the EU’s 3 percent
limit in 2015, when it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. It sees debt
peaking at 123.7 percent of GDP in 2014.  More Time  The EU may consider giving  Portugal  more time to meet its
deficit targets if economic conditions worsen, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, head of the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said on May 27. Dijsselbloem said the government hasn’t yet
requested another change of timetables and targets.  Economic growth has averaged less than 1 percent a year for
the past decade, placing Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest
performers. The government projects GDP will contract 2.3
percent this year before growing 0.6 percent next year. The
 jobless rate  will climb to 18.2 percent in 2013 and 18.5 percent
in 2014.  “The biggest concern we have in Portugal and in Europe has
to do with unemployment, and in particular with youth
unemployment,” Rodrigues said. The government has announced
measures including tax incentives and more financing for small
and medium-sized enterprises, he said.  The nation has injected a total of 5.6 billion euros in
Portuguese banks that aren’t state-owned through the
recapitalization facility that is available as part of its
financial-aid program.  “Our banking institutions are now stronger than before,”
Rodrigues said. “We don’t expect more recapitalizations will be
needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Odette Berg in London at 
 oberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  