-- Prague Prepares to Clean Up From Flooding as Vltava River Crests
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-06-04T09:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/prague-prepares-to-clean-up-from-flooding-as-vltava-river-crests.html
Prague  prepared to clean up from
three days of flooding that disrupted transportation and left
parts of the Czech capital under water for the second time in
less than 11 years.  The Vltava river, which winds through the city of 1.3
million inhabitants, crested early today after flooding 4
percent of the metropolis. The famed 650 year-old Charles Bridge
straddling the Vltava, parts of the subway and  embankments in
the Kampa and Smichov areas remained closed.  “The situation in Prague is stabilized and the worst is
behind us,” acting mayor Tomas Hudecek said in a statement
broadcast by news channel CT24. “Right now, we are dealing with
the complicated transport situation and putting together clean-up plans as the subway will have to remain closed for at least a
day.”  With all dams on the river at capacity, it will be some
time before waters recede, the Vltava river basin management
said. City officials, who were caught unprepared by flooding in
2002 that devastated the city’s subway system and the embankment
areas, rushed on June 2 to erect a new flood barrier system
purchased in the wake of the last disaster. Several
neighborhoods in Prague remained underwater as of early today.  Floodwaters also inundated cities and towns in the south
and west of the Czech Republic, destroying homes, businesses and
killing seven people. As many as 8,340 were evacuated as of 6
a.m. today, including inhabitants of the town of Terezin, site
of a memorial for the World War II Jewish ghetto located
northwest of Prague.  Damage Estimate  The damage in the Czech Republic may total as much as 35
billion koruna ($1.78 billion), according to  Martin Lobotka , an
economist at Ceska Sporitelna AS in Prague. Repairs may add 0.6
percent to 0.7 percent to nominal gross domestic product in the
second half of the year, he said in a report to clients
yesterday.  CEZ AS, the largest Czech producer of electricity,
preventively shut down Melnik 2 and Melnik 3 power plants with a
combined capacity of 720 megawatts as the Elbe river continued
to rise.  Pivovary Staropramen, the country’s second-largest producer
of beer, stopped work yesterday at its Smichov site in Prague
because of the floods. Spolana Neratovice, a chemical plant that
produced  Agent Orange  in the 1960s, also closed its factory
located some 16 kilometers (9.9 miles) north of Prague, CTK
reported.  A high alert for flooding remains in effect for some 40
locations around the  Czech Republic  while rain moves away from
the battered Bohemia region toward the north-east. While more
rain is scheduled for this week, sunlight broke over the capital
today for the first time in days.  With the Elbe not expected to crest until tomorrow,
authorities are preparing an evacuation of 6,000 inhabitants of
Melnik, Decin and Usti and Labem north of Prague.  The Elbe, which joins the Vltava near the town of Melnik,
may reach water levels of 11.3 meters (37 feet), nearing highs
from the 2002 floods, the fire brigade said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  