-- Putin Says Russia Withholds S-300 From Syria to Preserve Balance
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-06-04T13:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/putin-says-russia-withholds-s-300-from-syria-to-preserve-balance.html
Russia hasn’t delivered S-300
surface-to-air missiles to  Syria  to avoid upsetting the regional
balance of power, President Vladimir Putin said.  “It’s perhaps the best such weapon in the world,” Putin
said at a briefing with European Commission head Jose Barroso
and European Union President Herman Van Rompuy in the Urals
regional capital of Yekaterinburg. “We don’t want to alter the
balance in the region. The contract was signed several years
ago. It hasn’t yet been fulfilled.”  The comment casts doubt on remarks by Bashar al-Assad days
ago when the Syrian leader expressed confidence in an interview
broadcast May 30 by Hezbollah’s Al Manar television that all
arms agreements between the two governments will be honored.  The S-300 is a long-range surface-to-air missile, first
deployed by the Soviet Union in late 1970s. The system can
engage 12 targets simultaneously at ranges of 200 kilometers
(124 miles). The U.S. has told Russia that sales of advanced
missile systems to Syria would be “destabilizing” for  Israel ’s
security, Secretary of State John Kerry said on May 9 in  Rome .  Israeli Minister of International Relations Yuval Steinitz
said May 28 the S-300 missile system amounts to an offensive
weapon for the Jewish state because it has a range to attack
airplanes over the Tel Aviv region.  During talks with EU officials, Putin said Russia
emphasized that any outside military intervention in Syria is
“doomed to failure and will inevitably lead to difficult
humanitarian consequences.” Russia was “disappointed” with an
EU decision to lift its arms embargo on Syrian rebels.  About 80,000 people have died in Syria’s civil war, the
United Nations estimated last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  