-- QIC Seeks U.S. Acquisitions to Grow A$10 Billion Property Unit
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-06-04T08:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/qic-seeks-u-s-acquisitions-to-grow-a-10-billion-property-unit.html
QIC Global Real Estate , the property
arm of Queensland state’s asset management company with A$10
billion ($9.7 billion), plans to buy more U.S. malls after
investing in shopping centers in the world’s biggest economy.  The unit of  QIC Ltd. , based in Brisbane, plans to take
advantage of a recovery in consumer sentiment and shopping mall
rents to add to its assets in the U.S., said Steven Leigh,
managing director of global real estate.  Australia ’s QIC today said it had entered into a joint
venture with Cleveland-based  Forest City Enterprises (FCE/A) , paying
$435.6 million for a 49 percent equity stake in eight U.S.
malls. Retail property vacancies fell 10 basis points to 6.7
percent across the U.S. in the first quarter of 2013, and rents
are expected to rise this year across the country, according to
 data  from Chicago-based property broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  “Our focus at the moment is on  North America ,”  Leigh
said in a telephone interview today. “There are more buying
opportunities in the U.S. than in Australia and the current
pricing there is attractive. And we think there are reasonable
prospects for income growth.”  The company set up an office in  Los Angeles  more than a
year ago and has six staff members in the U.S. to “scan the
landscape and look for potential transactions,” Leigh said. It
will increase the number of U.S.-based employees “in time,” he
said, declining to provide a time frame.  Fifth Fund  QIC, which has four property funds, will create a fifth to
house the U.S. investments, Leigh said. The transaction marked
the group’s first direct property investment in North America,
he said.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. rose in May to the highest
level in almost six years, a private gauge showed, as a rising
stock market and property values helped lift Americans’ outlook
on the economy.  QIC’s only other overseas direct property investment is in
the Merry Hill shopping center in Birmingham in the U.K., which
it owns in partnership with Sydney-based  Westfield Group (WDC) , Leigh
said. The group prefers retail properties, which account for
more than 80 percent of its real estate investments, he said.  In Australia, QIC will continue to seek acquisitions, Leigh
said, adding that it is not currently in talks on any
properties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  