-- Queensland Defers Surplus Return as Second-Fastest Growth Seen
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-04T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/queensland-defers-surplus-return-as-second-fastest-growth-seen.html
Queensland deferred a return to
 budget surplus  by a year as weaker commodity prices and the
currency’s sustained strength eroded state revenue, even as it
projected the fastest growth after Western  Australia .  The nation’s most indebted state projected a deficit of
A$7.7 billion ($7.5 billion) in the 12 months through June 2014,
wider than the A$4.6 billion forecast in December, Treasurer Tim Nicholls said in handing down the Liberal National Party
government budget. It predicted 3 percent growth over the period
and a 21 percent rise in gross general government borrowings.  “The delay in reaching a fiscal surplus means that the
government will not have to raise taxes or cut spending by as
much as it would have otherwise had to do,” Nicholls told state
parliament in the text of a speech, forecasting the budget will
be back in the black in 2015-16. “There is no magic pudding.
Government must strive to live within its means.”  Nicholls’s dilemma in resource-rich Queensland echoes that
of his federal counterpart, Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who in
December abandoned a surplus pledge this fiscal year because of
the currency’s impact on  tax revenue . Queensland is also
grappling with reconstruction from Tropical Cyclone Oswald in
January that damaged railway lines and prompted Rio Tinto Group
and Xstrata Plc to declare force majeure on thermal coal supply
contracts.  Natural Disasters  “We know now with some accuracy that we were blown off
course by ex-Tropical Cyclone Oswald and the summer of natural
disasters to the extent of A$2.5 billion in damage and between
A$500 million and A$750 million in lost economic production,”
Nicholls said. The government will introduce measures including
increased duties on insurance premiums and a higher levy for
 emergency services  to help meet the shortfall, he said.  Queensland’s general government net borrowings are forecast
to decline to A$7.97 billion in 2013-14, from A$9.04 billion in
the previous year, the budget papers show. Gross borrowings on
that basis will climb to A$47.2 billion from A$38.9 billion.  Total Queensland government borrowings, including debt
issued by government-run commercial organizations such as
transport and water utilities, are forecast at A$8.5 billion
from A$7.8 billion on a net basis. Gross borrowings for the non-financial public sector are estimated to expand to A$78.1
billion from A$69.5 billion.  The government forecast a deficit of A$244 million in the
2014-15 fiscal year, compared with a surplus seen in the
previous budget, and projects a fiscal surplus of more than A$1
billion a year later in 2015-16, Nicholls said.  Electoral Wipeout  “This budget is another way point on our journey,” he
told parliament. “It supports the growth we need to pay off the
debts of the past while providing the jobs of the future.”  Queenslanders are proving more forgiving of Premier
 Campbell Newman , who ended 14 years of state Labor rule in 2012,
than the national government.  The Sydney Morning Herald  reported  today, citing an
unidentified senior Labor official, that Swan will probably lose
his federal district in Queensland at the Sept. 14 election, and
Labor may only retain one seat in the state -- that of former
Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd .  In contrast, Newman is recovering from a dip in the polls
and his LNP led Labor by 24 percentage points on a two-party
preferred basis in the most recent Newspoll at the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  