-- RBA’s Stevens Keeps Benchmark Interest Rate at 2.75% (Full Text)
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-06-04T04:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/rba-s-stevens-keeps-benchmark-interest-rate-at-2-75-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement published today on the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia’s website, after Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board
kept the overnight cash-rate target at 2.75 percent.  At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash
rate unchanged at 2.75 percent.  Information becoming available since the previous meeting
is consistent with global growth running a bit below average
this year, with reasonable prospects of a pick-up next year.
Commodity prices have declined from their peaks but, overall,
remain at high levels by historical standards. Inflation has
generally moderated over recent months and monetary policy has
been eased further in a number of countries.  Financial conditions internationally are very
accommodative. Despite the recent rise in sovereign bond yields,
funding conditions for sovereigns, well-rated corporates and
most financial institutions remain very favourable.  In  Australia , growth over the past year has been a bit
below trend. The outlook published by the Bank last month is for
a similar performance in the near term and recent data are
consistent with this. The  unemployment rate  has edged higher
over the past year and growth in labour costs has moderated.
Inflation has been consistent with the medium-term target and is
expected to remain so over the next one to two years.  The easing in monetary policy over the past 18 months has
supported interest-sensitive areas of spending and has been
reflected in portfolio shifts by savers and higher asset values.
Further effects can be expected over time. The pace of borrowing
has thus far remained relatively subdued, though recently there
have been some signs of increased demand for finance by
households. The  exchange rate  has depreciated since the previous
Board meeting, although, as the Board has noted for some time,
it remains high considering the decline in export prices that
has taken place over the past year and a half.  At today’s meeting the Board judged that the easier
financial conditions now in place will contribute to a
strengthening of growth over time, consistent with achieving the
inflation target. It decided that the stance of monetary policy
remained appropriate for the time being. The Board also judged
that the inflation outlook, as currently assessed, may provide
some scope for further easing, should that be required to
support demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  