-- Rhine River Barge Traffic May Resume This Week on Dry Weather
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-06-04T13:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/rhine-river-barge-traffic-may-resume-this-week-on-dry-weather.html
Oil product barge traffic on the
Rhine River may resume this week amid forecasts for drier
weather after rains caused flooding in Germany, the Czech
Republic and  Austria .  “The industry is hopeful that the water levels will
decrease again and that things will come back to normal in the
next few days,” Joachim Hessler, operations manager at  Maintank
Schiffahrtsgesellschaft mbH , a barge-owner based in Woerth near
 Frankfurt , said today.  German cities including Frankfurt, Cologne and Mannheim are
forecast to have sunny skies in the next two days, according to
data from CustomWeather Inc.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  began a tour of affected areas in
Germany as authorities battled to limit the damage from flooding
that is the worst on record in some parts of the country and
recalls the devastation in 2002, which submerged whole regions
in Czech Republic, Germany and Austria. The Rhine links
industrial sites including  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Gelsenkirchen oil refinery
and  BASF SE (BAS) ’s Ludwigshafen chemicals site to Rotterdam, Europe’s
busiest port. The waterway is also connected to  Poland , the
Czech Republic and Austria via canals.  The Rhine isn’t navigable upstream from Koblenz in Germany
because of high water levels, which means Frankfurt, Mannheim,
Strasbourg in France and Basel in Switzerland can’t receive oil
product shipments, Hessler said.  Barges Occupied  “Barges are occupied with their current trips and planned
consecutive trips have to be rescheduled,” he said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The water-level at Kaub,  Germany , which is about 200
kilometers (125 miles) south of Dusseldorf, rose to 7.14 meters
(23 feet) as of 10:30 a.m. Berlin time, the highest since at
least 2006, according to data from the German Federal Institute
of Hydrology.  “It makes no sense discussing new business because a lot
of capacity is being shut down as a result of this high water
level situation,” Pieter Kulsen, founder of Netherlands-based
researcher PJK International BV, said by phone from Breda.
“Basically, everything is on hold.”  Abundant oil product inventories in Germany will probably
cover any shipments that have been delayed during the river
closing, Kulsen said.  Barge freight rates haven’t been affected by the halt, and
may rise when traffic resumes and buyers replenish their
stockpiles, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  