-- RHJ Strategy and Pay Warrants Board Overhaul, Hedge Funds Say
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-06-04T09:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/rhj-strategy-and-pay-warrants-board-overhaul-hedge-funds-say.html
A group of  hedge funds  criticized  RHJ
International (RHJI)  SA’s acquisition strategy as “erratic” and
payments to managers as “egregious” as they repeated their
call for a board overhaul and return of capital to investors.  Several of the companies Brussels-based RHJ has bought
since its 2005 initial public offering have been sold at a loss
or filed for bankruptcy, Equilibria Capital Management Ltd.
wrote in a letter to RHJ shareholders today. Equilibria, which
said it’s working with four more funds, estimated RHJ Chief
Executive Officer Leonhard Fischer has been paid as much as 28
million euros ($36.6 million) since 2007 as the stock slid 73
percent and the company posted losses.  “The pay practices at RHJI are egregious, particularly in
the face of continued losses,” the Geneva-based hedge fund said
in the letter. The compensation is “further evidence of RHJI’s
dysfunctional structure and lack of adequate oversight.”  RHJ defended its strategy yesterday, including the planned
purchase of  Deutsche Bank AG’s (DBK)  BHF-Bank, after the hedge funds
first made their criticisms public May 28. Equilibria opposes
the BHF-Bank acquisition and wants resolutions put to a
shareholder vote at the June 18 annual general meeting that
would put stricter limits on executive pay, require RHJ to
distribute 1.75 euros a share to investors and appoint more
independent directors.  Duncan Heath, RHJ’s director of  investor relations , didn’t
return a telephone call or an e-mail seeking comment. RHJ is the
publicly traded investment company started by Timothy Collins,
founder of private equity firm Ripplewood Holdings LLC, and owns
U.K. private bank  Kleinwort Benson .  ‘Future Upturn’  RHJ, in a statement posted on its website yesterday, said
the BHF-Bank purchase and other investments would “position the
company effectively for a future upturn.” Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank and RHJ’s co-investors may also be in a position
to sue for damages if RHJ abandons the BHF-Bank purchase, the
company said in the statement.  The group of hedge funds, which includes Equilibria,  Polar
Capital Holdings Plc (POLR) , Mantra Investment, Alpha Plus and Overseas
Asset Management Ltd., said it owns about 4 percent of RHJ. 