-- Rights Group Says 147 Men Found Dead in Syrian River
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-06-04T09:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/rights-group-says-147-men-found-dead-in-syrian-river.html
The bodies of 147 people found
floating in Aleppo’s river were probably killed in Syrian
government-controlled areas,  Human Rights  Watch said in a report
today.  “The bodies floating down Aleppo’s river tell a grisly
tale,” Ole Solvang, emergencies researcher at the New York-based rights group, said. “It’s hard to see how 147 people
could have been executed and their bodies flung in the river in
government-controlled territory, as the evidence indicates,
without the knowledge of government forces operating in the
area.”  The human rights group said it counted the corpses of 147
males from boys as young as 11 to men of about 64 who were found
in the river between the end of January and March 14. Parts of
Aleppo, the nation’s commercial capital, and the broader
governorate of the same name fell into rebel hands last year.  This isn’t the first time bodies were found in the river.
At least 65 men where found on its banks with bullet wounds to
the head, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in
January. Another activist group, the Local Coordination
Committees, said 80 bodies were recovered from the scene.  Aleppo is set to become a battleground as more  4,000 
Hezbollah militiamen gather outside the city, Asharq Al-Awsat
newspaper reported, citing Free Syrian Army Spokesman Louay
Miqdad. Hezbollah, a Shiite group considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., fights with Syrian forces loyal to
Assad, whose Alawite sect is a Shiite offshoot. Many of  Syria ’s
rebels are  Sunni Muslims .  At least 80,000 people have been killed in Syria since the
uprising began in 2011, Vuk Jeremic, president of the  United
Nations General Assembly , said in May. U.S. Secretary of State
 John Kerry  on May 22 said “upwards of 100,000 people” may have
died.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  