-- Sweden’s Riksbank Buys Aussie Bonds to Flee Low-Yields
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-06-05T07:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/riksbank-buys-aussie-debt-as-low-yields-in-franc-to-yen-shunned.html
(Corrects name in 10th paragraph.)  Sweden’s central bank has added
Australian bonds to its reserve pile to gain access to higher
yields as it shuns securities from  Switzerland  and  Japan  where
 interest rates  are hovering near zero.  After selling Spanish bonds and most of its Italian debt to
shield itself from Europe’s fiscal crisis, Sweden’s central bank
has made the adjustments it deems necessary to its 408 billion
kronor ($62 billion) in reserves, Goeran Robertsson, deputy head
of asset management at the bank, said yesterday in a phone
interview from Stockholm.  Australia  represents “good risk diversification” since
the “economy looks a bit different than Europe and they also
have relatively high interest rates,” he said. “Switzerland
has had an extremely low interest rate for a very long time. For
the same reason we don’t own any Japanese securities because
there they have had a zero interest rate, so it has not been a
good place to invest money.”  Sweden ’s central bank has altered the risk profile of its
record-high currency reserves, which have almost doubled since
the outbreak of the global financial crisis five years ago.
Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, Sweden’s central bank provided emergency
liquidity to the nation’s lenders, peaking at $30 billion after
international funding markets shut down.  Boosting Reserves  The Riksbank sold the last 1.8 billion kronor ($275
million) of Spanish bonds last summer and has also cut almost
its entire Italian bond holding. At the same time, it nearly
doubled its Australian bond holding to 20.5 billion kronor, or
5.6 percent of the total currency reserve, as of the end of
April, from 10.4 billion kronor at the end of 2012.  The bank in December boosted its currency reserves by 100
billion kronor for a second time since 2009 to backstop Sweden’s
banking system. By the end of April, reserves had grown to 408
billion kronor, including 38.5 billion kronor of gold, from 217
billion kronor at the end of 2008.  “We saw a serious risk” in  Europe , which made the bank
start selling Spanish and Italian bonds in 2010, Robertsson
said. “At the beginning, we bought mainly  Germany  but lately we
have also added and bought more of Belgium and  Austria .”  U.S. Bonds  The Riksbank has cut its Italian bonds to 1.7 percent of
its euro area bonds from 18.7 percent at end of 2008, it said.
In 2008, Spanish bonds accounted for 9.7 percent of the
Riksbank’s euro-denominated assets. The Riksbank has this year
raised its share of Belgian and Austrian bonds to 5 percent and
39 percent of euro assets, respectively. German bonds accounted
for 66.4 percent of euro assets at the end of April -- up from
35.2 percent at the end of 2008.  The Riksbank had increased its U.S. bond holding to 52.8
percent of its foreign currency reserve at the end of April --up
from about 30 percent of all assets at the end of 2008, it said
yesterday. The share of euro nation bonds dropped to 35 percent
from about 50 percent in the same period.  “That has to do with lessons from the financial crisis,”
Robertsson said. “Swedish banks borrow a lot of dollars” and
“when things get messy in Europe, U.S. investors return their
money to the U.S. and there is then a dollar shortage in
Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  