-- Rinehart’s Hancock Will Correct Wrong Share Coding
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-06-04T04:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/rinehart-s-hancock-will-correct-wrong-share-coding.html
Gina Rinehart ’s Hancock Prospecting
Pty said it will correct a share code in documents that created
confusion following a stock transfer from a unit of a
multibillion-dollar trust.  The April 26, 2012, transfer of 51,584 Hancock Prospecting
D-class shares to a company named GH Rinehart as Trustee for the
Hope Margaret Hancock Trust was coded DRP in a May 29 filing,
suggesting it was a dividend reinvestment plan. The stock, moved
from HMHT Investments Pty, a unit of the trust, should have been
coded DPR, for D-class preference shares, said Jay Newby,
Hancock Prospecting’s chief financial officer.  “We will lodge a correction” on the typographical error,
Newby said in an e-mail today, after the  Australian Securities
and Investments Commission  said one was needed.  Rinehart,  Asia ’s richest woman, is being sued by two of her
children over control of the trust, which owns 23.5 percent of
Hancock Prospecting. Her son  John Hancock  questioned the concept
of a dividend reinvestment plan last week, saying it would be
against the interest of the beneficiaries, Rinehart’s children,
who haven’t received any distributions since the lawsuit was
filed in September 2011.  D-class shares are preference stock given priority for
repayment in the event the company is wound up, according to
Hancock Prospecting’s 2012 annual report. There were 51,584 D-class shares outstanding on June 30, 2012, the report showed.  Hancock Prospecting first changed the coding to DRP from
DPR in its 2002 annual report, Troy Daniel, a spokesman at the
commission, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Probably Typo  The change was “most likely a typo on their part,” Daniel
said. “If the class should still be DPR the company needs to
lodge forms to correct this.”  Hancock and his sisters Bianca and Hope Rinehart Welker
sued to remove their mother as trustee of the trust, claiming
she breached her duty and failed to act honestly. Welker pulled
out of the lawsuit earlier this year and is now named as a
defendant. Ginia, the youngest of the billionaire’s four
children, has sided with her mother since the suit was filed.  Based on current valuations, the trust holds almost a
quarter of Rinehart’s estimated net worth of $19.5 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , which ranks her
as the world’s 35th richest person.  The transfer of the D-class stock occurred a day before
Rinehart moved two shares of the trust to Hancock Prospecting, a
separate filing showed.  Both share transfers took place days before Rinehart
allowed the trust to vest on April 30, 2012 and less than a week
after a New South Wales Supreme Court judge ruled the family
dispute would be heard publicly.  John Hancock called it “strange timing” on the shifting
of the shares.  There is no dividend reinvestment plan with respect to any
shares in Hancock Prospecting, Newby said in an e-mail on May
31. “The funds remain in the trust -- there is no disadvantage
to the beneficiaries.”  The case is John Langley Hancock v. Gina Hope Rinehart.
2011/285907, New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  