-- Tronchetti Nears Pirelli Shareholder-Reorganization Deal
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-06-04T08:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/tronchetti-nears-pirelli-shareholder-reorganization-deal.html
  Pirelli & C SpA (PC)  Chairman Marco Tronchetti Provera is close to reaching an agreement with
partners on the reorganization of the chain of control of
Europe’s third-largest tiremaker.  Tronchetti with  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Unicredit SpA (UCG)  and
Clessidra SGR are finalizing a “transaction” on holding
company  Cam Finanziaria SpA (CMF)  “to restructure its ownership
structure,” they said today in an e-mailed statement.  The chairman controls Milan-based Pirelli through the
holding company, known as Camfin, supported by an agreement with
other investors including  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , Italy’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, according to national stock-market regulator Consob. As of May 31, Tronchetti’s ownership of
Pirelli totaled almost 26.2 percent of the stock via his control
of Camfin and other investment vehicles, according to  data 
published by Consob.  Tronchetti said today the reorganization of Camfin was
pushed also by the possible end of his partnership with
Malacalza Investimenti. Malacalza owns 12 percent of Camfin and
a 31 percent stake in a holding which controls Camfin.
Tronchetti and partners may bid for the rest of Camfin they
don’t own as a way out for Malacalza, Ansa reported June 2.  Pirelli is pushing sales of its high-end products to make
up for a drop in Europe’s mass-market car sales to a two-decade
low. First-quarter earnings before interest and taxes fell 16
percent to 179.8 million euros ($234 million) as revenue
declined 1.3 percent because of currency effects.  The tiremaker plans to focus on premium brands in Europe,
in addition to expanding into markets outside the home region,
Tronchetti said in an interview at the Geneva car show in March.  Pirelli stock fell as much as 2.6 percent in Milan trading
and was down 0.8 percent to 8.87 euros at 10:27 a.m., valuing
the manufacturer at 4.3 billion euros. Camfin was up 2.2 percent
at 87.4 euro cents in Milan trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  