-- Rupiah Forwards Gain Most in 8 Weeks on Rate-Rise Speculation
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-06-04T02:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/rupiah-forwards-gain-most-in-8-weeks-on-rate-rise-speculation.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah forwards advanced
by the most in eight weeks on speculation the central bank will
raise interest rates next week. Government bonds were steady.  Bank Indonesia has room to increase borrowing costs, and
raising the benchmark rate is the most credible way to respond
to inflation expectations, Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah said
in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday before the next policy
meeting on June 13.  Consumer-price (IDCPIY)  gains may quicken to 7.7
percent, from 5.47 percent in May, if the government lifts
subsidized fuel prices, he said.  “It will be very good if they raise rates at the next
meeting,” said Suriyanto Chang, the head of treasury at PT Bank
QNB Kesawan in Jakarta. “It’s really just a matter of time, and
that will see the rupiah strengthen further.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.4 percent, the
most since April 9, to 9,979 per dollar as of 9:09 a.m. in
Jakarta, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They could reach 9,950
today, Chang forecast. The contracts traded at a 1.7 percent
discount to the spot rate, which fell 0.1 percent to 9,813,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six
major counterparts, dropped by the most in almost five months
yesterday after the Institute for Supply Management’s U.S.
factory index fell to a June 2009 low. That eased speculation
the Federal Reserve will scale back its monetary stimulus that
has fueled fund flows to  emerging markets .  Stock Sell-Off  “The dollar declined against all emerging currencies,
which also helped the rupiah,” Bank QNB Kesawan’s Chang said.  Global funds sold $171 million more local stocks than they
bought yesterday, the most since August 2011, exchange data show.
The finance ministry sold 3.1 trillion rupiah ($313 million) of
government bonds at an auction yesterday, short of its 8
trillion rupiah target, according to a statement on its website.  One-month implied volatility in the rupiah, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.75 percent.  The yield on sovereign bonds due May 2023 was little
changed at 6.01 percent, the highest level since Sept. 27,
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  