-- Russia Joins Forces With Scandinavia to Finance Arctic Oil Rush
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-06-04T12:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/russia-joins-forces-with-scandinavia-to-finance-arctic-oil-rush.html
Russia , Finland and  Norway  are in
talks to create a fund that will help pay for investments in the
Arctic Barents region as part of a plan to gain access to
billions of barrels of oil and natural gas.  Talks between nations gathered for the 20th anniversary of
the Barents Euro-Arctic Cooperation agreement focused on “how
better to use the money or institutions we already have,”
Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said in an interview today
in the Norwegian city of Kirkenes, close to the Russian border.
“It could be a kind of common fund, where the money could come
from Russia” and lenders such as the  European Investment Bank 
and the Nordic Investment Bank, he said.  Russia, Finland and Norway, which already channels its oil
riches in the world’s biggest sovereign wealth fund, are
targeting the Arctic to replenish their oil and gas reserves.
The Nordic part of the Barents Sea alone is estimated to hold 6
billion barrels of oil and gas. Companies including  Statoil ASA (STL) 
will drill a least 12 wells in the Norwegian Barents this year,
matching the record number tapped in the past two years
combined.  The cost of finding and extracting resources in the Arctic
remain prohibitive. Statoil, which operates about 80 percent of
Norway’s oil and gas production, estimated it will spend more
than 80 billion kroner ($13.8 billion) with partners to develop
Skrugard and Havis, two finds in the Barents Sea. It plans to
build a 280-kilometer pipeline and an  oil terminal .  Handling Iceberg  Statoil and partners  Total SA (FP)  also shelved an expansion
last year of the Snohvit field because of a lack of gas.  In the Russian Barents,  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s Shtokman project in
iceberg-ridden waters 600 kilometers from land has been stalled
for years amid galloping costs and technical challenges. A
venture agreement with Statoil and France’s Total SA lapsed July
1, opening the door for talks with potential new partners.  Norway is opening an area in the south-eastern Barents that
may contain a further 1.9 billion barrels of oil equivalent,
according to the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate . The area had
been off limits for four decades because of a dispute with
Russia that was resolved in 2010.  The  Barents Sea  nations said today in a joint declaration
they support the continued development of their cooperation and
target managing the region’s natural resources in a
“sustainable manner.”  According to Katainen, the goal of sustainability will now
also encompass the financing. Nations in particular want to
explore how best to combine the firepower of various development
banks.  “We should have a more strategic view on what we want to
do and those banks should have kind of a special line for a fund
which would be common for all those investment banks,” Katainen
said. “Russian money and those European development banks’
moneys could be funded to one goal. We didn’t find any concrete
solutions but this is what we more or less talked about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  