-- Russia’s May Inflation Accelerated to Fastest Pace in 21 Months
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-06-04T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/russia-s-may-inflation-accelerated-to-fastest-pace-in-21-months.html
Russian inflation accelerated for a
second month in May, growing at the fastest pace in 21 months
and limiting scope for the central bank to cut  interest rates .  Consumer prices  increased 7.4 percent in May from a year
earlier after 7.2 percent in April and 7 percent in March, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today by e-mail. The
median forecast of 24 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was 7.3
percent. Prices rose 0.7 percent in the month.  Higher food costs are adding to price pressures as
inflation remains more than a percentage point above the top end
of the central bank’s 5 percent to 6 percent target. That’s
limiting policy makers’ ability to ease monetary conditions and
bolster an economy expanding at the weakest pace since a 2009
contraction. Inflation remains a key consideration for policy
makers, Sergey Ignatiev, the outgoing Bank Rossii chairman, said
at an economic-policy meeting with President  Vladimir Putin  and
senior officials on April 22.  “The cereal crop was bad last year, so prices rose for
grains and breads, as well as for imported vegetables and
fruits,” Alexey Devyatov, chief economist at UralSib Financial
Corp. in Moscow, said by phone before the data release. “The
central bank may delay a rate cut.”  The ruble weakened 2 percent against the central bank’s
target basket of dollars and euros in May. It traded 0.4 percent
lower at 36.3264 as of 3:40 p.m. in Moscow.  Food Costs  Food inflation accelerated to 9.2 percent in May from a
year earlier, compared with 8.8 percent in April and 8.3 percent
in March, according to the statement.  Core inflation , which
excludes volatile costs such as energy, was at 0.3 percent in
the month, down from 0.4 percent in April.  Price growth remains one of the three main concerns for the
majority of Russians alongside housing and utilities and low
quality of life, according to a poll published May 14 by the
state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion .  Policy makers kept their main rates unchanged for an eighth
month on May 15 and reduced by a quarter point the costs of some
long-term loans, including those backed by gold and non-marketable assets. The central bank will review borrowing costs
at a board meeting June 10, according to a  statement  published
today.  Russia’s economy  grew  1.6 percent in the first three months
from a year earlier, decelerating for a fifth quarter and
missing the medium-term target of 5 percent expansion set by
Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev . Economy Minister Andrei Belousov
partially blamed high rates for the economic slowdown, saying in
April that without stimulus, he didn’t rule out a risk of
recession later this year.  The central bank may cut the refinancing rate in the second
quarter by a quarter point to 8 percent, according to a the
median forecast of nine economists, surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Inflation probably peaked in May,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief
economist for Russia at ING Groep NV, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  