-- Russian Railways May Build $157 Billion of High-Speed Links
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2013-06-04T15:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/russian-railways-plans-to-build-157-billion-of-high-speed-links.html
OAO Russian Railways is planning more
than 5 trillion rubles ($157 billion) of high-speed rail links
as the world’s largest country by land mass plans to host the
2018 soccer  World Cup .  “Building high-speed rail links is a brand new trend for
the development of our economy,” Russian Railways Chief
Executive Officer Vladimir Yakunin said in Sochi, the Black Sea
city that will host the 2014 Winter Olympics. The plans are
drawing interest from large foreign companies including  Siemens
AG (SIE)  and  Alstom SA (ALO) , he said.  Russia ’s ambitions to hold world sporting events is forcing
the government to expand the national transportation system. The
country doesn’t have a single high-speed rail line, while  Japan 
introduced the world’s first service in the 1960s, according to
data from OAO High-Speed Rail Lines, a unit of RZD as the
Russian rail monopoly is known.  State-owned Russian Railways plans the routes from Moscow
to  St. Petersburg , Sochi and Kazan, with an extension to
Yekaterinburg near the border of Europe and  Asia . The company is
trying to start the pilot link to Kazan in time to race soccer
fans to stadiums in four of the 11 cities hosting World Cup
matches.  Astronomic Figure  “The 5 trillion rubles in spending is an astronomic figure
for Russian Railways as neither the company, nor the government
has money for this,” said Andrey Rozhkov, analyst at IFC
Metropol. “The project is unlikely to be implemented in full,
while some high-speed links such as Moscow-Kazan may be built.”  Train producers such as Siemens AG, Alstom SA and their
joint ventures with local partners in Russia may benefit from
this project as well as steelmakers  Evraz Plc (EVR)  and OAO  Mechel (MTLR) ,
which produce durable rail tracks, Rozhkov said.  Russian Railways may require another 1.5 trillion rubles to
build tracks for trains that can travel about 200 kilometers an
hour (124 miles an hour), Yakunin said in the May 31 interview.
High-speed trains can go twice that fast.  “If everything goes according to plan, we could be in time
for the World Cup,” Yakunin said. This year, RZD expects to
receive 16 billion rubles of budget funds for engineering under
the Moscow-Kazan project, after which it could start building
the railroad in late 2014 or early 2015, Yakunin said.  Cutting Travel Time  Moscow-Kazan is estimated to cost 928 billion rubles,
Yakunin said during a conference with President  Vladimir Putin 
last week. Transportation Minister Maxim Sokolov said the link
would span 800 kilometers, cutting travel time to 3 1/2 hours
from the current 11 1/2 hours.  In 2011, Siemens agreed on a contract with Russian Railways
to produce 1,200 wagons of its Desiro trains under local brand
Lastochka at its joint venture with Russian billionaire Dmitry Pumpyansky. Siemens may export these trains to other ex-Soviet
countries, according to an agreement signed by CEO Peter Loescher and Russian Railways’sYakunin.  Siemens is seeking to expand its footprint in Russia with
investments of about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), Loescher
told reporters in Moscow today.  Yakunin said the project should be 70 percent financed from
the budget, with the remaining 30 percent to be provided by RZD
itself and investors.  The government and RZD are discussing the possibility of
investing state funds in the construction, Yakunin said.  “The state, the Pension Fund and the National Wellbeing
Fund could all contribute to the implementation of global long-term projects,” Yakunin added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  