-- Russian Railways Wants Commodity Link to Freight Charges
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2013-06-04T14:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/russian-railways-wants-commodity-link-to-freight-charges.html
OAO Russian Railways is proposing the
government link freight rates to global commodity prices to
better balance payments for customers and counter a decline in
total rail volumes, a proxy for economic growth.  “We don’t see any positive signs in the economy yet,”
Chief Executive Officer Vladimir Yakunin said in an interview in
Sochi, a Black Sea resort town.  The Russian government is considering slowing annual tariff
increases for state-run monopolies to help rein in inflation and
revive the economy. Consumer prices jumped 7.4 percent in May
from a year earlier, the fastest pace in 21 months, while the
Economy Ministry has cut its 2013 growth forecast to 2.4
percent. The government’s proposal to slow tariff growth won’t
extend to Russian Railways, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei
Klepach  said on April 26.  Russian Railways’ freight volumes fell 3.4 percent in May,
the sixth month of decline, according to an e-mailed statement
on June 3. Volumes will probably drop 2.4 percent this year,
compared with a previously forecast increase of 0.7 percent, two
people with knowledge of the matter said May 6.  “We agree with a tariff formula that takes into account
global market conditions and the prices of the freight that we
carry,” Yakunin said. Rail transportation costs account for
more than 40 percent of the coal prices while their share in
crude and refined products is “too small,” Yakunin said.  The government should make a “balanced” decision on the
tariff policy, President Vladimir Putin said May 23 during a
meeting with entrepreneurs. The final decision will be “very
similar” to a proposal by billionaire Oleg Deripaska who asked
to keep tariffs from exceeding inflation, Putin said.  “If we increase tariffs today by 10 percent, it will
result in 0.1 percent inflation growth,” Yakunin said of the
possible tariff caps.  The company’s financial plan will be ready by the end of
October, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Denis Maternovsky at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net  