-- S. Africa Business Confidence Falls as Strikes Cut Output
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-06-04T10:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/s-africa-business-confidence-falls-as-strikes-cut-output.html
South African business confidence
slumped as strikes in the  mining industry  curbed output in
 Africa ’s biggest economy, two separate reports show.  The South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s
 business confidence index  fell to 90.4 last month from 92.4 in
the previous month, matching the lowest level in almost 10 years
reached in March. The  RMB/BER index , which the Bureau for
 Economic Research  compiles on behalf of Rand Merchant Bank from
surveys of businesses, slumped four points to 48 in the second
quarter, RMB said in an e-mailed statement today.  Mining strikes last year caused almost 15 billion rand
($1.5 billion) in lost output and shaved about 0.5 percentage
point off gross domestic product, according to the National
Treasury. Unrest has continued this year and may intensify as
unions seek to pressure companies into agreeing to wage
increases above the 5.9 percent inflation rate.  “In the context of continued labor unrest, warnings of
power outages and the sharp fall in the value of the rand, one
could easily have expected a decline bigger than the actual four
index points,” RMB, a unit of Johannesburg-based  FirstRand
Ltd. (FSR) , said in the statement.  A reading below 50 indicates more companies are pessimistic
about prevailing business conditions.  The rand has fallen 13 percent against the dollar this
year, making it the worst performer among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Japanese yen.  “Socio-political events, including on-going militant labor
action, are having a harmful impact on the business mood and
commercial and industrial activity levels,” the Johannesburg-based chamber said in an e-mailed statement. “Ill-disciplined
and lawless conduct by economic role players leads to
undesirable effects on growth, the rand and unemployment, which
could have been avoided.”  The chamber’s index is compiled from 13 economic
indicators, including retail sales,  inflation  and financial
gauges, such as a stock-market index and the currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  