-- S. Africa’s Labor Minister to Hold Talks After Lonmin Deaths
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-06-04T15:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/s-africa-s-labor-minister-to-hold-talks-after-lonmin-deaths-1-.html
South African Labor Minister Mildred Oliphant will extend talks with unions in a bid to stem violence
that has seen two organizers from rival groups shot dead in the
world’s largest platinum-producing area within a month.  Oliphant met union leaders yesterday and will arrange
further negotiations, said Musa Zondi, her spokesman. “The
shootings are tragic and law enforcement agencies should move to
ensure that perpetrators are brought to book,” Zondi said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “The minister yesterday called
on union leaders to show necessary leadership and deal with
inter-union issues.”  A local organizer for the National Union of Mineworkers was
killed and a second wounded yesterday in a shooting near  Lonmin
Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine northwest of Johannesburg. The latest
attacks precede wage negotiations in the platinum, gold and
coal-mining industries that are due to start this month.  Violence has surrounded competition between the NUM, an
ally of the ruling African National Congress, and the
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, which has
grown in the last year to represent the majority of employees at
Lonmin, the world’s third-largest platinum producer.  The government needs to take stronger action when violence
occurs at mines, including revoking the licenses of unions if
they’re linked to incidents and quicker prosecution, NUM General
Secretary Frans Baleni said in a phone interview. “You can’t
operate on the basis of violence and intimidation.”  Fragile Peace  Mawethu Khululekile Stevens, 46, an organizer for the AMCU,
was shot dead May 11 at a tavern near the Marikana mine, about
70 miles (120 kilometers) from Johannesburg, the union said last
month.  “Everyone is cognizant that this is a delicate and fragile
peaceful situation,” said Sue Vey, a spokeswoman for Lonmin.
The company is doing all it can to provide security for its
workforce, she said.  The killings of about nine NUM members since last year have
failed to lead to any arrests, Baleni said. He also criticized
safety steps taken by mining companies, following yesterday’s
shootings.  Jimmy Gama, treasurer for the AMCU and a spokesman, didn’t
answer calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  “Unions, mining houses should go into negotiations in good
faith,” Zondi said. The mineral resources department will be on
hand to help resolve deadlocks through the country’s Commission
for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration, he said.  Membership Deadline  The NUM has until July 16 to regain its majority among the
Lonmin workforce or lose its office and associated rights, a
Johannesburg labor court has ruled.  “The right to freedom of association is one that is
enshrined within the South African constitution and labor law --
we should all seek to protect that right and, should this
require the support of peace-keeping mechanisms as proposed by
Minister Oliphant, we would welcome that,” Elize Strydom, chief
negotiator for producers at the Chamber of Mines, said by e-mail.  Eight members of the NUM face disciplinary action by Lonmin
for altering the details of some employees’ union-membership,
according to Vey.  The AMCU represents 70 percent of workers in lower-skilled
jobs at Lonmin, while the NUM speaks on behalf of 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  