-- Salesforce to Buy ExactTarget for About $2.5 Billion
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-04T22:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/salesforce-com-agrees-to-buy-exacttarget-for-2-5-billion.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the largest
maker of customer-management software, agreed to buy  ExactTarget
Inc. (ET)  for about $2.5 billion, making its biggest acquisition ever
to expand in online marketing.  The cash offer of $33.75 a share is 53 percent more than
ExactTarget’s  closing price  yesterday, and shows Salesforce
Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff’s willingness to open the
company’s coffers to add services that help businesses promote
their wares on the Internet.  Benioff has spent at least $4 billion in five years on more
than 40 deals, including ExactTarget as well as social-media
marketing firms Buddy Media Inc. and Radian6 Technologies Inc.
Salesforce is buying ExactTarget, which helps companies run
advertising campaigns via e-mail, social networks and mobile
devices, as Benioff strives to take market share from Oracle
Corp. and  SAP AG (SAP)  in Web-based business applications and add more
tools for corporate marketers who work outside sales and
customer-service departments.  “He’s trying to bulk up with as many assets as he can to
embrace and extend what the marketer wants to get done,” said
Rob Tarkoff, CEO of Lithium Technologies Inc., a Salesforce
competitor whose software helps companies build online
communities of customers through social networks. “That’s where
Marc has it right. He has put a major premium on investing in
marketing technologies, and that’s a 10-year cycle.”  ‘Too Long’  With ExactTarget, Benioff is working to accelerate annual
revenue gains from online-marketing companies Salesforce has
bought. While sales from these acquired businesses are on track
to reach about $100 million a year, Benioff wants to achieve $1
billion, he said last month.  “We couldn’t just keep making these small acquisitions --
that strategy was taking, honestly, too long,” Benioff said on
a conference call with analysts today. “We need to work even
harder to become No. 1 in marketing.”  While San Francisco-based Salesforce posted annual revenue
increases exceeding 30 percent in the past two fiscal years,
analysts predict growth will fall below that level in each of
the next four years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors were bracing for a large deal,”  Brent Thill ,
an analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a note to clients. “With a deal
finally announced, the focus may shift to whether Salesforce can
accelerate growth back to above 30 percent.”  Salesforce Shares  Salesforce fell 7.9 percent to $37.80 at the close in New
York, leaving the shares down 10 percent for the year.
ExactTarget advanced 52 percent to $33.69, and the deal also
boosted stocks of other online-marketing companies -- Responsys
Inc. rose 8.8 percent, while Constant Contact Inc. increased 5.1
percent.  In ExactTarget, Salesforce gains a company with almost
2,000  employees  that helps businesses including Microsoft Corp.,
Toyota Motor Corp. and Molson Coors Brewing Co. deliver e-mail
marketing campaigns based on customers’ likelihood to respond to
them. The Indianapolis-based company was founded in 2000 by CEO
Scott Dorsey, who will join Salesforce.  “We needed to get stronger in key areas like e-mail,”
Benioff said. “We had some big pieces that were missing.”  Now, Benioff said he plans to take a break from deals for
the next year to 18 months.  ExactTarget had its trading debut in March 2012, after
scrapping its previous plan to go public in 2009 amid the
financial crisis. While ExactTarget hasn’t reported a profit
since 2008 and is  forecast  to post losses this year and next,
the company’s revenue has increased every year since at least
2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Very Competitive’  E-mail, mobile and social-media marketing technologies are
drawing customers at a time when traditional means of reaching
consumers -- newspaper, television and radio advertisements --
are becoming less effective. By 2015, consumer technology
businesses will have switched a third of their traditional
marketing budgets online, Salesforce said in a statement today,
citing market researcher Gartner Inc.  The bidding for ExactTarget was “very competitive,”
Benioff said.  ExactTarget may have been an attractive takeover target for
other companies, including Oracle Corp. and Microsoft,  Robert Breza , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said in an interview
with Bloomberg News in October.  SAP, IBM  SAP, the biggest maker of business-management software,
considered buying ExactTarget and then decided not to proceed,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be named because the process was private. An SAP representative
declined to comment. International Business Machines Corp. also
looked at ExactTarget, according to another person with
knowledge of the process. James Sciales, an IBM spokesman,
declined to comment.  “This is an excellent move and fit for Salesforce.com, and
we consider the price paid reasonable given ExactTarget’s
leading market position and growth profile,” Nathan Schneiderman, an analyst at Roth Capital Partners, wrote in a
research report today. He has a buy rating on the shares.  ExactTarget gets 80 percent of total revenue from e-mail,
filling a “huge hole” in Salesforce’s current offerings, he
said.  Salesforce’s ExactTarget purchase would be the biggest
online-marketing takeover since 2008, when Google Inc. completed
its acquisition of DoubleClick Inc., according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Salesforce is paying about 7.6 times revenue,
compared with the median of 1.9 times revenue in a survey of
more than 70 similar deals, the data show.  Earnings Impact  The ExactTarget acquisition will reduce fiscal second-quarter  earnings  by 5 cents a share, excluding some items,
Salesforce said. Directors of both companies unanimously
approved the transaction, which is expected to close by the end
of July.  Bank of America Corp. advised Salesforce, while JPMorgan
Chase & Co. provided financial guidance to ExactTarget.  The deal creates a $258.4 million one-day windfall for
ExactTarget’s top venture backers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Greenspring Associates, a firm that invests in
venture funds, gained $116.2 million today from the increase in
value for its 10 million shares. Technology Crossover Ventures
earned $81.6 million, while Battery Ventures’ holdings rose by
$40.4 million. Scale Venture Partners saw its stake grow by
$20.2 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  