-- SAP Says Internal Successor to CFO Brandt Is Likely
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-06-04T13:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/sap-says-internal-successor-to-cfo-brandt-is-likely.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business-management software, said it will probably name an
internal candidate to succeed Chief Financial Officer Werner Brandt when his contract expires next year.  The company will probably pick a candidate from near its
headquarters in Walldorf, southwestern  Germany , Chairman  Hasso Plattner  said at a shareholder meeting in the neighboring city
of Mannheim today. A recent appointment to SAP’s global managing
board points at who the most likely candidate is, he said.  SAP on May 24  nominated  Luka Mucic, 41, to that board and
tasked him with supporting Brandt, who is set to also assume
oversight of human resources when Luisa Deplazes Delgado steps
down next month. The contract of Brandt, who has been CFO since
2001, ends in June 2014 and he has said he will leave SAP after
that.  “While there is no final decision, it’s becoming clear
that an internal candidate will be chosen,” Plattner said.
“I’ve learned that it helps if we can observe people in
executive functions for a while before they become board
members.”  Mucic has a master’s degree in law from the University of
Heidelberg and a joint master’s degree in business
administration from Mannheim Business School and  France ’s  Ecole
Superieure des Sciences Economiques et Commerciales . The
executive joined SAP in 1996 and his roles have included
overseeing the finances of the company’s German unit.  Plattner also said SAP will be run more globally,
addressing shareholder concerns that the company will shift its
emphasis ever more to the U.S. and  China . There are no
intentions to move the headquarters away from Walldorf, Brandt
said at the shareholder meeting.  SAP, which aims to increase sales to more than 20 billion
euros ($26.2 billion) by 2015, has a market capitalization of
about 72 billion euros. Its shares  advanced  1.2 percent to 58.58
euros at 3:30 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  