-- HSBC Sued by New York Over Alleged Foreclosure Violations
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-05T16:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/hsbc-sued-by-new-york-over-alleged-foreclosure-violations.html
HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s largest
bank, was accused in a suit by New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  of violating the state’s foreclosure law and
putting homeowners at increased risk of losing their property.  A state investigation found that  HSBC  failed to give
homeowners the legally required chance to negotiate loan
modifications, leaving them languishing in foreclosure
proceedings, according to Schneiderman, who sued HSBC yesterday
in New York state Supreme Court in Buffalo.  “Companies like HSBC are brazenly ignoring state law,
leaving homeowners across New York stuck in a legal limbo where
they can’t even get the legally required settlement conference
that could help them keep their homes,” the attorney general
said.  The suit underscores Schneiderman’s continuing scrutiny of
banks’ foreclosure practices after all but one of the nation’s
attorneys general reached a $25 billion settlement last year
with five mortgage servicers including  Bank of America Corp.  and
 Wells Fargo & Co.  HSBC wasn’t part of that accord.  Schneiderman said in May he was prepared to sue Bank of
America and  Wells Fargo  for allegedly violating terms of the
nationwide settlement, which set requirements for servicing
mortgages and provided financial relief for homeowners.
Schneiderman said the lenders have failed to comply with
standards for processing applications from homeowners for loan
modifications.  ‘Applicable Laws’  “HSBC is committed to compliance with all applicable laws,
which includes those related to foreclosure,” HSBC said in a
statement. “We will respond appropriately to the state AG in
this matter.”  New York’s law governing foreclosures requires court-supervised settlement conferences where homeowners can try to
work out alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications
that cut monthly payments.  Lenders and servicers who sue to foreclose in New York must
file a request for judicial intervention at the same time they
file proof of service on the foreclosure action. A settlement
conference is supposed to take place within 60 days.  The attorney general’s office doesn’t believe HSBC is
“just some rogue actor” violating state foreclosure law,
Schneiderman said today at a press conference.  “If other banks are engaged in that conduct and refuse to
correct themselves, then other cases will come,” he said.  Required Paperwork  The state found HSBC failed to file the required paperwork
in hundreds of foreclosure cases in New York, putting off the
request for judicial intervention in some instances for more
than two years, Schneiderman said. A sample of foreclosure
filings in Bronx, Erie, Monroe and Suffolk counties found almost
300 cases in which HSBC failed to comply with the filing
deadline, according to Schneiderman.  HSBC continued to charge interest and fees, increasing the
homeowners’ balance on their mortgages and making it less likely
they could qualify for a loan modification, according to the
state.  Schneiderman cited as an example Rebecca Karm, an Erie
County resident who lost her job and is suffering from health
issues. Karm waited more than 500 days for a settlement
conference after HSBC filed proof of service in November 2010
while failing to submit a request for judicial intervention
until June 2012. That added about $23,000 in accrued fees to
Karm’s principal balance, the attorney general’s office said.  Damages, Restitution  Schneiderman is seeking damages for homeowners “injured by
HSBC’s illegal practices” and to force HSBC to file the
required papers in pending foreclosure actions and future cases.  In cases where HSBC hasn’t filed requests for judicial
intervention, he asked the court to order the bank to waive all
interest charges, penalties and fees that accrued 60 days after
proof of service was filed and to pay restitution.  “For homeowners facing foreclosure, time is their greatest
enemy,” Schneiderman said.  The case is New York v. HSBC Bank USA, 1660/2013, New York
State Supreme Court, Erie County (Buffalo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 