-- Sebelius Called J&J, Kaiser, Ascension for Enroll America
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-04T15:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/sebelius-called-j-j-kaiser-ascension-for-enroll-america-1-.html
U.S. Health Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said she talked with health-care companies she
regulates, including  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , about helping a
nonprofit group publicize the 2010 Affordable Care Act.  Ascension Health, a Catholic health care system, and the
nonprofit hospital and insurance company  Kaiser Permanente  were
also urged to lend support, though no financial contributions
were requested, Sebelius told lawmakers at a hearing today in
Washington. All three companies are subject to oversight by
Sebelius’s agency, the Health and Human Services Department.  J&J, the world’s biggest maker of health-care products,
falls most under her thumb as the Food and Drug Administration
section is responsible for approving the New Brunswick,  New
Jersey  based company’s medicines and devices.  “I have promoted and discussed outreach activities not
only around the partnership with Enroll America but dozens of
organizations for a very long time,” Sebelius said in response
to questions from Republican members of the House Education and
the Workforce Committee.  HHS had previously acknowledged that Sebelius phoned two
organizations her agency doesn’t regulate, the Robert Wood
Johnson Foundation and  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  to ask for financial
contributions to the nonprofit, Enroll America. Congressional
Republicans are exploring whether it’s appropriate for the
health secretary to solicit companies she oversees.  The efforts to help Enroll America don’t differ from work
by health secretaries under former President  George W. Bush  to
promote the 2003 law that created a drug benefit in Medicare,
Sebelius said. Sebelius said she has the authority under a 1976
law to solicit help from companies, including those her
department regulates, for the promotion of public health
programs including the Affordable Care Act.  “This is not a statutory line,” she said. “This is a
chosen line that I made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  