-- SEC Money Fund Rule Changing $1 Share Faces Less Opposition
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-06-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/sec-money-fund-rule-faces-less-opposition-as-1-shares-debated.html
Some of the largest U.S. providers of
money-market mutual funds have sought a compromise on new
regulation, making adoption of tougher rules for the $2.6
trillion industry more likely if far from a sure bet.  A U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission proposal,
scheduled to be voted on today, would require the riskiest
funds to end the longstanding practice of pricing shares at a
fixed value of $1 and instead force them to float. The vote will
kick off a months-long burst of lobbying from investors, fund
companies and other stakeholders before SEC commissioners
consider a final version.  “This is going to be a long, drawn-out rulemaking
initiative,” said Barry P. Barbash, a former director of
 investment management  at the SEC. “The SEC staff and commission
recognize you have to start somewhere.”  The proposal is the SEC’s second phase of response to
vulnerabilities exposed by the 2008 financial crisis, when the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund collapsed and money funds
temporarily required a U.S. government guarantee.  U.S. regulators have long warned that money funds, which
are commonly considered a safe, stable place to keep cash,
aren’t insured deposits and could pose systemic risk to the
financial system. The Financial Stability Oversight Council, an
umbrella group of U.S. regulators including the Federal Reserve,
said last year that money funds remain vulnerable to runs
because shareholders are likely to flee if a fund’s share price
drops below $1.  ‘Fire Sales’  “Wholesale funding markets remain vulnerable to runs that
could, in turn, trigger destabilizing fire sales,”Tobias Adrian , vice president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York ,
warned the council members in a public meeting in April. “To
address such concerns, the council recommends that the SEC
consider regulatory action to improve the loss absorption
capacity of money-market funds and mitigate run risk associated
with those funds.”  Jeffrey N. Gordon, a professor at  Columbia Law School  and
director of its Richman Center for Business, Law and Public
Policy, expressed concern that the SEC proposal wouldn’t go far
enough. He said the SEC should require funds to hold capital
because the failure of single large issuer of debt could cause
shares to fall below $1 and spark a run.  “I think it’s a missed opportunity,” Gordon said in a
phone interview. “With the SEC, we are risking political actors
trying to protect an industry.”  Long Deadlock  The SEC’s proposal, whose details have not been released,
has divided the money-fund industry and faces additional
resistance from investors concerned about potential tax
liabilities. New money-fund regulation has also split the five-member commission, which deadlocked over the issue last year
before the effort was revived. Several commission members have
indicated support for the new proposal, which could be revised
before a final vote.  The SEC’s proposal would impose the floating-share value
only on “prime” funds that buy corporate debt and cater to
institutional clients, according to two people familiar with the
plan, who asked not to be identified because the proposal wasn’t
public. Corporations that use the funds like cash accounts say
the new regulations risk harming a convenient, highly liquid
cash-management product.  ‘Breaking the Buck’  A floating share value is intended to make funds more
stable by signaling to investors that the value of the shares
can fall below $1 -- known as “breaking the buck” -- without
the fund collapsing.  “Breaking the buck should no longer be a significant event
because  money market funds  would simply fluctuate in value in
the same manner as other mutual funds,” FSOC wrote last year
when it issued recommendations for further regulation of money
funds.  The  Investment Company Institute , the fund industry’s trade
group, has argued a floating share value won’t stop a run on
money funds. Even so, the ICI has adopted a wait-and-see
approach, saying last week that it “expects this proposal will
reflect the extensive research and discussion among
commissioners and staff since last summer.”  The ICI has insisted funds should retain their fixed share
value. Instead, the institute has proposed that fund boards be
allowed to suspend withdrawals when weekly liquid assets fall to
between 7.5 percent and 15 percent of total fund assets, or half
the required level. After putting down such “liquidity gates,”
funds would be able to charge a fee equal to 1 percent of
redemption proceeds to investors who wanted to cash out shares,
under the ICI proposal.  Fewer Funds  The SEC’s current floating-share proposal would affect
fewer funds than a concept former Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
championed in late 2011 and 2012, which envisioned changing the
accounting standard for all money funds, including those that
invest only in  government securities  or municipal bonds. The new
proposal doesn’t include recommendations made by FSOC last year
and opposed by money funds, including requiring them to hold
capital against potential losses.  The U.S.  Chamber of Commerce , which opposed the 2011 and
2012 proposals, expects “liquidity gates” to be part of the
current proposal, said Alice Joe, the executive director of the
Chamber’s Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness.  ‘Careful Thought’  “This time around, there seems to be more careful thought
into putting out a proposal and more of an openness of the staff
and commissioners to listening to the views of the
stakeholders,” Joe said in an interview.  SEC Chairman Mary Jo White said last month that the goal of
new regulation is to mitigate the systemic risk posed by some
money funds while preserving the product’s value to investors.  The Chamber, which has sued the SEC over other regulations,
lauded a recent commission analysis for rigorously studying the
issue. The report found that SEC reforms passed in 2010 wouldn’t
have prevented the Reserve Primary Fund from breaking the buck
and being liquidated. Those rule changes included new minimum
liquidity levels, shorter average maturity limits, tougher
credit quality standards and new disclosure requirements.  The SEC has held talks with the  Internal Revenue Service 
over the tax implications of a floating-share value for money
funds, since investors could owe taxes if they recorded a
capital gain when selling shares. The proposal considered
tomorrow isn’t expected to indicate the IRS’s decision on
whether to waive the tax rules.  Congressional Action  “I am not quite sure they can just wave their magic wand
and at a the drop of a pin, give relief to it,” Joe said. “It
may require congressional action to solve that problem.”  The $2.6 trillion money fund industry includes 580 funds,
according to the  Investment Company Institute . The top 10 fund
families, including those run by  Fidelity Investments ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , and Federated Investors Inc., control 75 percent of
assets, according to Crane Data LLC, a research firm in
Westborough,  Massachusetts .  The largest U.S. money-fund providers shifted their
lobbying this year away from all-out opposition to limiting the
scope of potential new rules.  A proposal limiting rule changes to prime institutional
funds would be a victory for companies including Fidelity,
Vanguard and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  All three called for exempting
funds that invest only in government debt or municipal bonds, as
well as all funds that serve only retail investors. They pointed
to data showing that withdrawals in the weeks following Reserve
Primary’s demise were concentrated in prime institutional funds.  BlackRock Ideas  The proposal also appears to favor ideas championed by
asset manager  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which called for allowing funds to
maintain their $1 share value while imposing a 1 percent fee on
withdrawals when a fund’s weekly liquidity dropped below half
the required level.  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the third-largest manager of U.S.
money-market funds, said last year it would sue to block changes
contemplated by the SEC. Federated has said a floating net-asset
value would destroy the value of money funds and lead to a
substantially smaller industry.  Meghan McAndrew, a Federated spokeswoman, said the
Pittsburgh-based fund company believes the SEC’s 2010 reforms
were sufficient to improve the transparency and strength of
money funds.  “You have a lack of consensus about whether there is an
issue that needs to be resolved and how it needs to be
resolved,” said Barbash, co-chairman of the asset management
practice at Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP. “That is what makes
this an extraordinarily difficult environment in which to do a
rule.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  