-- Serb Central Bank to Refrain From Rate Cut After Dinar Plunges
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-06-04T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/serb-central-bank-to-refrain-from-rate-cut-after-dinar-plunges.html
Serbia ’s central bank will probably
refrain from lowering borrowing costs after the dinar weakened
as the government slipped on fiscal targets.  The Narodna Banka Srbije in Belgrade will leave its  one-week repurchase rate  at 11.25 percent, according to 14 of 24
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Eight predict a quarter-point
cut and one forecasts a reduction to 10.75 percent. The bank
will announce the decision on tomorrow at about noon in the
capital Belgrade.  The National Bank of Serbia lowered its benchmark rate by a
half-point to 11.25 percent on May 14 for the first time in 16
months, citing a strong currency. Investors sold off the dinar
and the country’s bonds since the  International Monetary Fund  on
May 22 said the  budget deficit  may reach 8 percent of economic
output, more than double the initial target of 3.6 percent of
GDP, unless the government takes steps to narrow it.  “They should leave the key rate unchanged because of the
weakening dinar and deteriorating  market sentiment  after the IMF
report, which cast doubt on the feasibility of the planned
budget gap,” Jasna Atanasijevic, chief economist at Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank AD in Belgrade, said by phone today. Any “rate cut
at this point” may further spoil market sentiment while a
“rate increase would be a sign of panic.”  The dinar traded at 113.4550 to the euro at 4:28 p.m. in
Belgrade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on Serbia’s
dollar bond maturing in 2021, fell to 5.53 percent, from 5.61
percent on June 3.  Fiscal Consolidation  The central bank should relax monetary conditions only
“when fiscal consolidation firmly takes hold, provided that
there are no adverse shifts in capital flows,” the IMF said.  The pace of future interest rate cuts will depend on Prime
Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s 11-month old Cabinet ability to cut
spending significantly and achieve fiscal consolidation, the
Serbian central bank said on May 22.  Last month’s reduction echoed cuts across eastern  Europe ,
where central banks sought to bolster economic growth. Rather
than battling last year’s recession with rate reductions,
Serbian central bankers tightened policy eight times in nine
meetings through February as regulated price increases and
rising dinar liquidity drove the inflation rate to a 12.9
percent peak in October.  The central wants to bring inflation to 4 percent plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points by December, with the consumer-price
index falling to the upper end of the target band by October,
central bank governor Jorgovanka Tabakovic said on May 15.
Inflation quickened to 11.4 percent in April from a year
earlier, fueled by vegetable prices.  Policy Change  The central bank, which was buying euros earlier this year
to slow dinar gains, was forced to change policy as the currency
dropped to the lowest level against the euro in five months.
That was a sign that the dinar is no longer immune to global
developments, Societe Generale SA’s emerging-markets strategist
 Benoit Anne  said in an e-mail on June 4.  The bank sold 65 million euros in three straight trading
sessions between May 30 and June 3 to defend the dinar.  The National Bank “seems to be defining a tight range”
buying euros at levels of around 110.50 dinars per euro when the
currency was firming and selling euros at around 113.20 dinars
when it was sliding, Anne said.  “It has to be seen whether the intervention flows” at
levels of around 113 dinars to the euro “will stop the tide for
the dinar,” Anne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  