-- Sevilla Accepts Manchester City’s Offer for Spain Winger Navas
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-04T01:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/sevilla-accepts-manchester-city-s-offer-for-spain-winger-navas.html
Sevilla said it accepted an offer
from English Premier League soccer club Manchester City for
Spain international winger Jesus Navas.  Navas, 27, who has spent his entire career at the La Liga
club, will undergo a medical exam with City, Sevilla said in a
 statement  last night, without giving financial details. The Sun
newspaper reported yesterday that City may pay 25 million pounds
($38 million) for Navas.  Should he complete the move, Navas would join his  World Cup 
and European Championship-winning national teammate  David Silva 
at City and become the club’s first major signing since it
failed to win a trophy last season.  “Navas wants to continue his successful sporting career in
English football, more precisely at a club at which he can
continue to develop as a footballer, as he has publicly stated
on various occasions in recent months,” read the statement on
Sevilla’s website.  City is yet to appoint a successor to  Roberto Mancini , who
was fired as manager on May 13. Former Malaga and Real Madrid
coach Manuel Pellegrini is the bookmakers’ favorite to get the
job.  Everton, meantime, reached an agreement with Wigan Athletic
over compensation for  Roberto Martinez  to succeed  David Moyes  as
manager, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported, citing Wigan
Chairman Dave Whelan.  Everton Chairman “Bill Kenwright and myself have agreed a
deal,” the  BBC cited  Whelan as saying. “He can now talk to
Everton, so he is free to do a deal if he wants.”  Everton, which has been seeking a new manager since Moyes
signed a six-year contract with  Manchester United  on May 9, said
in a  statement  late yesterday that it is “continuing
discussions with regards to the vacant managerial position.”  “Whilst positive moves are being made, the club will
officially announce details as and only when they are agreed and
completed,” Everton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  