-- Sharif Readies for Third Turn at Pakistan Helm With Energy Focus
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-06-04T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/sharif-readies-for-third-turn-at-pakistan-helm-with-energy-focus.html
Nawaz Sharif is set to be sworn in as
 Pakistan ’s prime minister for a record third term today as the
nuclear-armed nation struggles to reverse an economic slump and
defeat a decade-old insurgency.  Sharif, 63, will return to power more than 13 years after
his second period as premier was cut short by a 1999 army coup.
Winning almost half of the seats contested in a May 11 general
election, Sharif’s Pakistan Muslim League-N party will be able
to govern without a major coalition partner.  The new administration will need to bridge a budget gap
that’s at the highest in almost two decades and spur  economic
growth  from an annual average of 3 percent as a record energy
shortage shuts the grid for as long as 18 hours a day.
Nationwide attacks by Taliban insurgents have killed 40,000
people since Pakistan decided to support the U.S. war in
 Afghanistan  after the September 11, 2001 attacks.  “It is going to be tough for Sharif to turn things
around,” said Raza Rumi, director of policy and programs at the
Islamabad-based Jinnah Institute, which does research and
advocacy on public policy. “To fix the economic crisis, certain
tough decisions will have to be made. Riding a popular wave, it
is highly unlikely that Sharif would annoy the electorate,
especially his support base comprising the business class.”  Sharif is poised to win today’s vote for prime minister in
the 342-member lower house of parliament, with his nominee for
speaker, Sardar Ayaz Sadiq, securing 258 of the 313 votes cast
by lawmakers on June 3. President Asif Ali Zardari’s Pakistan
Peoples Party, which has 39 members in the house, plans to put
up a candidate for prime minister, as does the party of former
cricket star Imran Khan, which means there will be a procedural
ballot.  Power Shortages  Sharif’s speech today to parliament will focus on
Pakistan’s chronic energy shortages that have shut hundreds of
factories and led to nationwide riots.  “In the short-run, we will have to write a cheque to pay
off a big pile of debt that has choked the whole system,”
Miftah Ismail, an energy adviser to Sharif, said in a phone
interview from Karachi. “That’s more likely to be done by
selling rupee bonds to local banks. After getting rid of this
debt, we will have to stop power theft, improve efficiencies and
end subsidies for consumers who can afford higher costs.”  Energy dues, known as circular debt in Pakistan, amount to
$5 billion, as companies struggle to get customers to pay their
utility bills on time, delaying payments to fuel suppliers and
refiners.  First Priority  The former premier said on May 27 that ending the power
outages, which the Planning Commission estimates sliced 2
percentage points off growth in the year to June 2012, is his
first priority.  His party’s election manifesto outlines plans to rid the
power sector of some of its debt, switch from oil to coal-fired
plants, cut losses from power theft and add 10,000 megawatts of
new capacity by encouraging $20 billion in investment in the
next five years.  Sharif may also have to negotiate a bailout with the
International Monetary Fund after foreign exchange reserves
plunged 40 percent from a year ago, to less than two months of
imports, according to central bank data.  “We are in a dilemma,” Sharif told supporters on May 27
in a speech broadcast by television channels. “Should we pay
off our debt, or spare money to fix the electricity crisis? The
situation is very critical. There are no quick fixes to these
problems.”  Combating Insurgency  Sharif has previously pledged to invite Taliban chiefs
orchestrating the insurgency based in Pakistan’s mountainous
tribal regions along the Afghan border to peace talks. The
Taliban, which had earlier released a video saying it was open
to negotiations, scrapped the offer May 30 after the killing of
its No. 2 commander in a U.S. drone missile strike.  Sharif’s “biggest challenge is to get the military
establishment on his side to make bold decisions regarding peace
with the Taliban, and improve ties with  India ,” said Mehdi
Hasan, dean of the School of Communications at Lahore’s
Beaconhouse National University, in an interview. Without that
“you can’t attract foreign investment and see a sustainable
improvement in the economy.”  Territory Control  The army in 2009 extended its offensives into the Taliban
stronghold of South Waziristan. It has lost nearly 4,000
soldiers in fighting since and may be reluctant to support
initiatives that buy the guerrillas time to rearm or assert
their control over territory, according to Talat Masood, a
retired army general and independent political analyst.  Sharif spoke to Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh after
his election victory and vowed to improve ties. While the two
neighbors have eased restrictions on commerce and restored talks
suspended after the 2008 attack on Mumbai, their rivalry fuels
insecurity on the subcontinent.  Sharif’s election win kicks off a year of transition in
Pakistan’s top offices. Zardari is scheduled to leave office in
September, while General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani’s three-year
extended term as army chief ends in November. Chief Justice
Iftikhar Chaudhry will complete his term in December.  The eldest son of a wealthy business family, Sharif entered
politics under the military government of General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq. He became finance minister of Punjab in 1983 and later
its chief minister, according to the PML’s official website.  Bloodless Coup  After Zia’s death in a plane crash in 1988, Sharif
alternated two terms as prime minister with his main rival,
Benazir Bhutto of the Peoples Party, before being ousted in a
bloodless coup by General Pervez Musharraf, who went on to rule
the country for most of the next decade.  Last month’s election marked the first time a civilian
government completed its term and transferred power to a
successor. Pakistan has been ruled for half its history by the
military.  Sharif, whose family owns steel and sugar mills, ended
state monopolies in shipping, airlines and telecommunications
during his two terms as prime minister in the 1990s.  The South Asian nation recorded the highest budget deficit
in two decades in the fiscal year through June as it missed its
tax target. The fiscal deficit may be 7.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year, wider than the government’s target
of 4.7 percent, the IMF said in January.  Sartaj Aziz, who served as finance minister under Sharif in
the 1990s and is now an adviser, said the new government may not
approach the IMF immediately.  “Our deficits are very large. If you go to the IMF
straight away then the level of adjustments will be very large
and the strings attached to the program will be very tough,”
Aziz said in a May 27 interview from Lahore, the capital of
Punjab province. Sharif may decide “to first take economic
remedial measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  