-- Shipping Faces $500 Billion Environment Costs as Rates Slump
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-06-04T14:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/shipping-faces-500-billion-environmental-costs-amid-rates-slump.html
Shipping faces $500 billion in extra
costs to meet environmental legislation at a time when a rout in
rates has become so severe that some owners are struggling to
maintain vessel safety.  The industry will need $50 billion a year between 2015 and
2025 to meet sulfur-emission rules and other regulations,
Masamichi Morooka, chairman of the International Chamber of
Shipping, representing most of the world’s  ship operators , said
at a conference in Oslo today. Some shipping companies already
aren’t earning enough to maintain their fleets, said Andreas Sohmen-Pao, chief executive officer of BW Group Ltd., a
Singapore-based owner.  Owners are contending with the biggest fleet surplus since
the early 1980s while rates across the industry were the lowest
in at least 22 years in 2012, according to Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker.  Oil tankers  and vessels hauling iron
ore aren’t making enough to cover running costs including crew
and repairs, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “As many companies struggle to survive during the
difficult years ahead, we must persuade governments to avoid
placing more straws that risk breaking the ship owner’s back,”
Morooka said. “Many of the expensive environmental regulations
that are about to enter into force were conceived in a different
world, at a time when shipping markets were booming.”  A global 0.5 percent cap on sulfur emissions is planned for
2020, in addition to a 0.1 percent limit in parts of  Europe  and
 North America , Morooka said. Rules governing ballast water,
which is used to stabilize ships when they don’t have cargoes,
will also add to owners’ costs, according to an e-mailed
statement accompanying his speech.  Worst Losses  Owners of oil tankers may struggle to retain crews and
maintain ships after losing $27 billion since 2009, the most in
in four decades, the International Association of Independent
Tanker Owners, or Intertanko, said last month.  Rates for very large crude carriers, the biggest oil-transporting ships, averaged $4,207 a day this year, according
to Clarkson. They need more than double that to cover running
costs, according to Moore Stephens LLP, a London-based
accountant.  Rates for Capesizes hauling 160,000 metric tons of  iron ore 
and coal averaged $5,607 a day this year, according to the
 Baltic Exchange , the London-based publisher of shipping costs.
They require $7,758 to meet their daily operating expenses,
according to Moore Stephens.  The total capacity of the VLCC fleet expanded by 63 percent
since 2005 and more than doubled for Capesizes, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from IHS Fairplay, a Redhill,
England-based maritime research company.  “Another problem with overcapacity is that it forces
people to cut corners,” Sohmen-Pao said. “We’ve seen this time
and again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in Oslo at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  