-- Ship Rates Rally Seen in Chinese Drive for Cleaner Coal: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-06-04T11:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/ship-rates-rally-seen-in-chinese-drive-for-cleaner-coal-freight.html
Rates for the biggest coal carriers
are poised to rebound from their worst-ever start to a year as
 China ’s drive for cleaner coal doubles voyage distances, easing
a record glut of shipping capacity.  China, the largest importer of the fuel, plans to buy coal
with less sulfur and a higher heating value, a draft law
obtained by Bloomberg News shows. That will mean fewer imports
from Indonesia and more from South Africa and  Australia ,
according to Oslo-based Pareto Securities AS. Rates for
Capesizes will average $11,500 a day this year, 40 percent more
than 2012, according to the median of nine analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Traders may profit by buying freight
swaps, which anticipate an average of about $7,500.  The world’s most-populous nation has 16 of the 20 most
polluted global cities, according to the World Bank. It accounts
for 49 percent of global coal consumption,  BP Plc (BP/)  estimates.
While Capesizes will also benefit from record trade in iron ore,
their biggest cargo, the rates predicted in the survey would
still be less than owners need to break even.  “The Chinese will have to go to at least Australia or
further afield, and that would be a big boost,” said Nigel Prentis, the head of consultancy at Hartland Shipping Services
Ltd., a London-based shipbroker. “Capesizes are much more
dependent on iron-ore trade, so to have positive drivers from
the coal market, that’s got to help.”  Maritime Routes  Rates for the 1,000-foot-long ships averaged $5,607 since
the start of this year, the worst since at least 1999, according
to the Baltic Exchange, the London-based publisher of costs on
more than 50 maritime routes. Capesizes need about $16,700 to
break even, Pareto Securities estimates. The biggest owners are
 Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) ,  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107)  and Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd., according to shipbroker  Clarkson Plc. (CKN)   China may ban purchases of coal with a heating value below
about 4,540 kilocalories a kilogram, a sulfur content above 1
percent and ash above 25 percent, the draft National Energy
Administration regulation obtained by Bloomberg News shows.
There is no timespan for when the plan will be implemented.  Indonesian brown coal, also known as lignite, wouldn’t meet
the specifications in China’s draft law, according to Macquarie
Group Ltd. China bought 55.8 million metric tons of the fuel
from Indonesia in the past year, or enough to fill about 350
Capesizes, government data show.  The anticipated switch away from  Indonesia  will also
benefit Capesizes because the vessels dominate trade from
Australia and South Africa, according to Prentis. They are too
big to dock in Indonesia, which typically uses smaller Panamaxes
to haul its coal cargoes.  Export Center  A voyage to Qinhuangdao in northeast China from Australia’s
Newcastle is about 5,800 miles and from South Africa about 8,600
miles. That compares with 3,100 miles from the Indonesian coal-export center of Balikpapan.  About 60 million tons a year of Indonesian coal that
previously went on Panamaxes to China will be displaced,
boosting demand for Capesizes, Herman Billung, chief executive
officer of Golden Ocean Management AS, said on a May 28
conference call. It operates vessels for  Golden Ocean Group
Ltd. (GOGL) , chaired by John Fredriksen, the richest shipping investor.  China is also the biggest coal producer and may be able to
replace some imports with domestic supply. Its output has grown
for 14 consecutive years, reaching 3.65 billion tons in 2012,
according to government data. Spare port capacity and railroad
improvements will ease bottlenecks in getting fuel from fields
in the north to industrial regions in the south, Macquarie says.  IMF Forecast  The nation will buy 18 percent of all seaborne coal cargoes
this year, from 2.2 percent in 2008, according to London-based
Clarkson. The International Monetary Fund cut its forecast for
China’s economy on May 29, projecting growth of about 7.75
percent this year and next. In April, it estimated 8 percent
this year and 8.2 percent in 2014.  Exporters are curbing expansion plans as prices retreat.
Coal at Newcastle fell 4.2 percent to $86.80 a ton this year,
data from McCloskey Group Ltd. show. Australian mining and
energy projects valued at about A$150 billion ($147 billion)
have been delayed or canceled in the past year, according to the
government’s Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics.  The fuel accounted for 88 percent of spot Panamax bookings
in the past year, Morgan Stanley estimates. That compares with
31 percent for Capesizes, according to Fotis Giannakoulis, a New
York-based analyst at the bank.  Excess Capacity  Freight rates have slumped across merchant shipping. The
industry had 20 percent more capacity than cargoes in March, its
biggest glut since the early 1980s, according to Clarkson. The
Capesize fleet almost doubled since 2008, when rates peaked at
$234,000 a day, as trade expanded 30 percent.  Golden Ocean, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based owner of six
Capesizes and 12 smaller carriers, will report  net income  of
$37.1 million for this year, more than triple its 2012 profit,
according to the mean of 12 analyst estimates. Shares of the
company rose 70 percent to 6.68 kroner this year in Oslo
trading.  Nippon Yusen, Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha and Mitsui O.S.K. also
control oil tankers, container ships, gas carriers and other
vessels. Kawasaki Kisen’s Capesizes represent about 36 percent
of its shipping capacity, the highest proportion among the three
companies, according to Clarkson.  Chinese coal imports will rise 11 percent to 197.7 million
tons this year, Clarkson estimates. The figure includes thermal
grades used in power plants and coking coal used in steel mills.
World trade in the cargoes will expand 5 percent to 1.11 billion
tons, the shipbroker predicts. Coal is the third-largest
seaborne commodity after crude oil and iron ore.  “We’ll see more imports from long-haul distances like
Australia and South Africa, and those will favor Capesizes,”
said Eirik Haavaldsen, an analyst at Pareto in Oslo. “We do see
an improving balance for the Capesize market. They’ve been
through the worst.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  