-- Singapore Says Web Licensing Does Not Curtail Online Freedom
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-06-05T09:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/singapore-says-website-licensing-does-not-curtail-online-freedom.html
The Singapore government’s regulation
introduced last week to license news websites does not impede
individuals’ freedom of expression online, a minister said.  The regulation, an extension of the rules governing print
media, is aimed at managing content of news sites mostly run by
the same parent companies, Tan Chuan-Jin, Singapore’s acting
manpower minister, said yesterday in a televised panel
discussion on Channel NewsAsia, the city’s biggest broadcaster.  The city-state’s  Media Development Authority  said certain
websites including one run by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  must get a license and
pay a S$50,000 ($40,000) bond to be forfeited if it publishes
“prohibited content” that “undermines racial or religious
harmony.” The move has drawn the ire of opposition groups who
said it could impede the free flow of information and
development of media in the country.  “A lot of the public concern revolves around not just
regulations, but is my space being constrained and can I
continue to say what I want to say,” Tan said. “My message is
that you should carry on and we would be poorer for it if we
deprive Singaporeans of that space.”  The regulation won’t include the social media or blogs
unless they become news sites, he said.  Redundant Regulation  Singapore  dropped 14 places in a 2013 press freedom index
published by Reporters Without Borders, ranking 149 out of 179
countries. The MDA said 10 websites will fall under the new
licensing rules from June 1, and that others will be notified
when they meet the criteria.  Yahoo said it’s already bound to comply with the
authority’s Internet rules before the annoucement last week.  “Further regulation is redundant,” Alan Soon, Yahoo’s
Singapore country manager and managing editor for  Southeast
Asia ,  said  on the company’s news site for the city. “And as the
past few days have shown, it creates confusion and unsettles
both users, as well as the  media industry  that Singapore has
tried so hard to cultivate.”  Other  sites  on the list include those run by  Singapore
Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH)  and MediaCorp Pte, the country’s two biggest
media companies. Singapore Press Chairman Lee Boon Yang was a
former information minister, while MediaCorp, the operator of
Channel NewsAsia, is owned by Temasek Holdings Pte, the state-owned  investment company .  Online news sites must have individual licenses if they
report an average of at least one weekly article on the island’s
news and current affairs over a period of two months, and have
at least 50,000 unique visitors from Singapore each month over
that period, the MDA had  said .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  