-- Smithfield Execs May Get $48 Million in Retention Bonuses
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-06-04T22:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/smithfield-executives-may-get-23-9-million-in-retention-bonuses.html
Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  said executives
and other “key” employees are set to get paid $47.9 million in
retention bonuses following the hog producer’s acquisition by
Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd.  CEO C. Larry Pope will get $8.3 million in four
installments, the Smithfield, Virginia-based company said in a
filing yesterday. He and the other employees will get their
final payments on the third anniversary of the completion of the
deal, provided they’re still employed at Smithfield, according
to the filing.  The senior managers, among the best-paid in their industry,
will stay on after the $4.7 billion takeover, the company said
May 29 when it announced the deal. The top five executives are
also set to get paid at least $85.4 million on their Smithfield
stock and share options, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  That’s despite Smithfield posting a negative return of 18
percent in the five years through May 28, the second-worst
performance of any U.S. food company with annual sales of $10
billion or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Grain
and sugar trader  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  was the worst in the period.  Smithfield Chief Financial Officer Robert W. Manly stands
to get a retention bonus of $3.8 million, according to
yesterday’s filing. George H. Richter, chief operating officer
of the pork group, may get $4.5 million; Executive Vice
President Dennis Treacy $2 million; Executive Vice President
Dhamu Thamodaran $2.4 million; and Smithfield Europe President
Dariusz Nowakowski $2.9 million.  Chinese Demand  Smithfield also said there’s an aggregate amount of $24
million in retention bonuses for “other officers and key
employees,” without giving further details.  The deal to buy the world’s largest hog and pork producer
is the biggest Chinese purchase of a U.S. company and is
expected to close this year, Hong Kong-based Shuanghui and
Smithfield said May 29.  Shuanghui, which counts CDH Investments Fund Management
Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., New Horizon Capital,  Kerry Group
Plc (KYG)  and Temasek Holdings Pte. among its shareholders, is buying
Smithfield as a growing middle class in  China  boosts pork
consumption.  Smithfield had been under pressure from one of its biggest
shareholders for lagging behind competitors  Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL) 
and  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  Continental Grain Co. said in March that
Smithfield should appoint new managers and break itself into
three businesses as rising animal-feed costs made its hog-production unit unprofitable.  Continental said June 3 that it supports Shuanghui’s bid
and will exit its shareholding.  Smithfield fell 0.2 percent to $32.90 in New York
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  