-- Sohu Leads Drop as Trina Gains on Tariff: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-04T20:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/sohu-leads-drop-as-trina-gains-on-tariff-china-overnight.html
Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  led Chinese equities
traded in  New York  lower on speculation Internet companies’
gains over the past few weeks were excessive, as  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL)  rose after the European Union announced tariffs that were
smaller than analysts expected.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid 0.3 percent to 90.37. Sohu,
owner of China’s third-largest Web portal, sank to a two-week
low and search-engine operator  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU)  slipped
for a third day. Trina, China’s third-largest panel maker,
advanced as Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. fell to the lowest price in
four years after its rating was cut to sell by Bank of China
Ltd.  Sohu surged 25 percent in May, the best monthly advance
since October 2011, amid reports it may buy a Chinese video
website. Qihoo jumped 28 percent last month. The EU decided to
impose tariffs on solar panels from  China , with an initial rate
of 11.8 percent taking effect tomorrow. The levies will rise to
an average 47.6 percent after two months unless an accord is
reached, EU Commissioner Karel De Gucht said yesterday.  “It’s not a surprise for us to see some consolidation in
Internet names because they had nice big rally over the past few
weeks,” Henry Guo, a senior analyst at ABR Investment Strategy
LLC in  San Francisco , said in a telephone interview. “It looks
like Qihoo’s share of the online search market has stabilized,
as some data showed today, and the growth rate may not be as
fast as some investors had expected.”  ETF Retreats  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., slid 1 percent in New York to
$36.18, after surging 1.5 percent the previous day. The Standard
and Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6 percent to 1,631.38 as economists
said the  Federal Reserve  may scale back its stimulus efforts as
early as September.  Shares of Sohu slipped 3.1 percent to $61.59 amid trading
volumes that were 49 percent higher than the daily average over
the past three months. The Beijing-based company is looking to
buy larger video websites to provide content, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Charles Zhang said in an interview last month.  A deal “may come soon, and I expect its video business to
seek a partnership to survive the fierce competition in the
sector,” Guo said.  Qihoo, based in Beijing, China, slipped 2.3 percent to
$42.21. Its stretch of declines is the longest in two months.  The company’s browser saw a slight loss in market share in
May, 86Research Ltd., a Hong Kong-based equity-research firm,
said in a note to clients yesterday.  Coal Mining  Yanzhou, the fourth-biggest coal mining company in China,
retreated 2.6 percent to $9.95, the lowest price since May 2009.
The company was removed from the FTSE China A50 Index and was
cut to sell from hold by equity analyst Lawrence Lau on June 3.  Trina’s American depositary receipts climbed 2.2 percent to
$6.13 in the second day of advances.  “The EU tariff was better than expected, as the starting
11.8 percent was less than previous rumors, which had anywhere
between 40 percent to 60 percent,”  Gordon Johnson , an analyst
at Axiom Capital Management Inc. in New York, said by phone. “I
actually think the tariffs will be kept the same because the EU
has far more trade exposure to China than China has to the EU.
If the EU would implement significant restrictions on China’s
solar industry, there definitely would be retaliations from
China, and China has the upper hand in the discussion.”  Price Curbs  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ) , a real estate agency based in
 Shanghai , slid 2.5 percent to $4.77, extending its slide to a
second day.  China’s new home prices jumped in May by the most since
they reversed declines in December, Beijing-based SouFun said in
a June 3 statement after a survey of 100 cities. The prices
surged 6.9 percent from a year earlier and rose 0.8 percent from
April, the 12th month of gains on a month-on-month basis,
SouFun’s data showed.  The city of Beijing will need to adopt further property
tightening measures as officials struggle to meet this year’s
target of keeping prices unchanged from last year, said Bacic &
5i5j Group, the city’s second-biggest property broker.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
sank 1.2 percent to 2,272.42, retreating the most in a month.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in  Hong Kong  fell 0.1
percent to 10,537.49, the lowest price since April 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  