-- Tsonga Hands Federer ‘Crushing’ Defeat at French Open
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-04T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/tsonga-hands-federer-crushing-defeat-at-french-open.html
Two missed smashes, trouble with the
wind, unforced errors and no aces. Nothing seemed to work for
 Roger Federer  in his  French Open  quarterfinal loss to Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.  The sixth-seeded French player beat the second-seeded
Federer of Switzerland, 7-5, 6-3, 6-3, yesterday on the main
Court Philippe Chatrier to reach his first semifinal at Roland
Garros in Paris.  “This is obviously a crushing loss and I am disappointed
about it,” Federer, the 2009 champion, told reporters. “He was
in all areas better than me today. That’s why the result was
pretty clean. No doubt about it. I was impressed by the way he
played.”  The serve that had helped the 31-year-old Federer win a
men’s record 17 major singles championships deserted him. He was
broken six times, served three double faults and didn't produce a
single ace. Federer made 34 errors, 12 more than Tsonga, and 25
winners, one less than the 28-year-old Frenchman -- who hasn’t
dropped a set in the tournament.  “For me, it’s just maybe one of the best victories,”
Tsonga said in a news conference. “Here at Roland Garros, in
 France , on a big court with a lot of people in the middle of the
afternoon, and I just beat Roger Federer.”  Big Four  Tsonga’s win guaranteed that, for the first time since
Wimbledon in 2010, someone other than Federer,  Novak Djokovic ,
 Rafael Nadal  or  Andy Murray  will be in a major final. Tsonga
plays  David Ferrer  of  Spain  in one semifinal, with the top-seeded Djokovic and Nadal playing quarterfinals today.  Tsonga also is the first Frenchman in the semifinals since
Gael Monfils in 2008. Yannick Noah was the most recent Frenchman
to win the title, 30 years ago.  In the remaining men’s quarterfinals, Djokovic of  Serbia 
faces  Tommy Haas  of Germany and Nadal, the seven-time champion
from Spain, plays Switzerland’s second-best player,  Stanislas Wawrinka , seeded ninth. At 35, Haas is the tournament’s oldest
male quarterfinalist since 1971.  Today’s quarterfinals among the women feature defending
champion  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  against former No. 1-ranked
Jelena Jankovic of Serbia, seeded 18th, and third-seeded
 Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus playing 12th-seeded Maria Kirilenko
of Russia.  Serena Williams  and  Sara Errani  already have advanced
to the semifinals.  The French sports newspaper l’Equipe put Federer and Tsonga
on yesterday’s front page with the headline, ‘The Hour of Jo.’
It took Tsonga just 45 minutes longer to dismantle Federer’s
game.  Blown Lead  Federer was a point away from a 5-3 first-set lead before
Tsonga came back to tie at 4-4 and then take the set when
Federer shanked a forehand.  “Should have never gotten broken,” said Federer, who
tried to unsettle the hard-hitting Tsonga in the first set with
serve-and-volley tactics. “In hindsight, now that’s obviously a
huge game for me.”  Tsonga took a 4-1 lead in the second set with help from two
one-handed backhand passing shots. Tsonga, who normally strikes
his backhand with two hands, took a two-set lead on a return
error.  Federer handed Tsonga an opening-game break in the third
set with a double fault. He broke back in the next game with a
forehand return winner played at full stretch. Then, in a
swirling wind, Federer missed two smashes, at 2-2 and at 3-2.  “I have played so good in the wind in the past that it
shouldn’t be a problem,” said Federer. “Missing smashes goes
hand in hand with missing so many other things. Sometimes you
get the overhead and you get a bit anxious and things just don’t
go your way. Sometimes you start missing that stuff as well.”  Match Winner  Tsonga broke again for 4-3, drilling a running backhand
into Federer as the Swiss player stood at the net. Serving to
stay in the tournament down 5-3, Federer rushed to the net only
to miss a backhand volley and give Tsonga two match points. A
smash that landed on the baseline saved the first, before Tsonga
won on a backhand long.  Tsonga also beat Federer at Wimbledon in 2011, coming back
from two sets down.  “Sports, it’s beautiful because you can always do
something,” Tsonga said. “Even if you play the best player in
the world or anybody, you have a chance. Because the guy in
front of you has two legs, two arms, one head. That’s it.”  Tsonga will play Ferrer, the No. 4 seed, for a spot in the
final. Ferrer advanced past another Spaniard, Tommy Robredo,
6-2, 6-1, 6-1.  Women’s Play  Earlier yesterday on Court Suzanne Lenglen, women’s top
seed Williams managed to dig herself out of a hole against
 Svetlana Kuznetsova  of Russia, winning 6-1, 3-6, 6-3. Williams
trailed two games to love in the final set before winning the
next four games.  “She never gives up,” Williams said about the 2009
champion, who broke her serve four times. “Like when I had my
match point, I was thinking, ‘I’ve got to just stay so focused
because she probably plays this like it’s 15-all.’”  Williams will play last year’s runner-up, Errani, in the
semifinals after the Italian beat fourth-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland, 6-4, 7-6 (8-6). Williams, who won her lone
French Open title in 2002, has never lost to Errani in five
previous matches.  “It will be big surprise if somebody can beat her here,”
Kuznetsova said in a news conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  