-- South Africa GDP Growth Forecast May Be Cut: Central Bank
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-06-05T07:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/south-africa-gdp-growth-forecast-may-be-cut-central-bank.html
South African central bank Governor
 Gill Marcus  said policy makers’ core mandate is to control
inflation even as economic growth forecasts are set to be
lowered because of mining strikes.  “If you have higher inflation, you’re going to have higher
prices, and you’re going to have higher wage demands,” Marcus
told economists and business executives in  Pretoria , the
capital, yesterday. “As far as we’re concerned the core mandate
of the central bank is  price stability .”  The  Reserve Bank  said in its Monetary Policy Review
released yesterday it may lower its economic growth forecast
again as mining strikes threaten production. On May 23, Marcus
cut this year’s projection to 2.4 percent from 2.7 percent,
while keeping the benchmark  interest rate  at 5 percent, the
lowest in more than 30 years. The economy expanded an annualized
0.9 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace since a 2009
recession.  “The risks to economic growth lie to the downside as a
result of the potential for further job and output losses,
particularly in the mining sector,” the central bank said in
its report. “The risks to inflation remain persistently skewed
to the upside.”  Economic growth has come under pressure this year because
of weak demand for exports from  Europe  and as union rivalry and
wage demands raise the risk of strikes in the  mining industry .
Wildcat strikes this year have disrupted output at mines owned
by  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , Glencore Xstrata Plc and Impala Platinum Holdings
Holdings Ltd.  Price Stability  The central bank’s monetary policy has “continued to
provide stability through a period of both global and domestic
uncertainty,” it said. “The unchanged repo rate at 5 percent
per annum, and the modest negative real repo rate are expected
to foster price stability and support the economic recovery.”  Business confidence has slumped as labor unrest worsened.
The RMB/BER index dropped four points to 48 in the second
quarter, Rand Merchant Bank said in an e-mail yesterday, while
the  South Africa Chamber of Commerce and Industry  said its index
fell to 90.4 last month, matching the lowest level in almost 10
years reached in March.  “With the latest data releases” the growth forecast “may
need to be revised down at the next meeting” of the Monetary
Policy Committee, the bank said.  The  inflation rate  was unchanged at 5.9 percent for a third
month in April. The bank forecasts inflation to peak at an
average of 6.1 percent in the third quarter, breaching the
bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target band.  Rand Weakness  Marcus yesterday dismissed suggestions to raise the target.  “Right now inflation expectations are reasonably anchored
around the upper level of the band,” she said. “I wouldn’t
look to changing it at this point in time.”  Inflation may be spurred by a weaker rand, which has
declined 13 percent against the dollar this year, the worst
performer of 16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg after
the Japanese yen.  “The current level of the  exchange rate , if sustained,
poses a significant upside risk to the inflation outlook,” the
bank said. “The depreciation of the rand has already affected
petrol prices and poses a risk in terms of second-round
inflationary effects.”  The rand fell 0.6 percent to 9.8719 against the dollar at
9:03 a.m. in Johannesburg today. The currency also weakened 0.6
percent after the report was released yesterday.  Capital Inflows  The prospects for capital inflows in South Africa are
“less certain” than in recent years, increasing the risks of
funding the  current-account deficit , the central bank said.  South Africa relies mainly on foreign investment in stocks
and bonds to help finance the current-account gap, inflows that
have fluctuated this year as investor sentiment deteriorated.
The shortfall reached 6.5 percent of gross domestic product in
the fourth quarter.  “A reduction in the pace of capital inflows to  South
Africa  will affect the value of the currency and sustainability
of the current-account deficit, with potentially serious policy
implications,” the bank said.  The currency’s slump to below 10 to the dollar last week
followed expectations that the U.S. will curb its policy of
quantitative easing, Marcus said. Emerging-market policy makers
are watching developments closely and currency moves tend to be
“overdone,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  