-- Spain May Registered Jobless Drops as Peak Tourism Season Starts
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-06-04T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/spain-may-registered-jobless-drops-as-peak-tourism-season-starts.html
Spain ’s  registered unemployment 
dropped in May as its peak tourism season started, lending
support to the government’s prediction of an economic recovery
this year.  The number of people registering for jobless benefits fell
by 98,265 from April to 4.89 million, the Labor Ministry in
Madrid said today in an e-mailed statement. Spain, battling with
an unemployment rate of 27 percent, is home to almost a third of
all jobless people in the euro region.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
last week forecast unemployment in the Iberian country will
surge to 28 percent next year. With the toughest austerity
measures in the nation’s democratic history depressing domestic
demand, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is counting on exports to
spark a recovery.  “Competitiveness is the key element to survive in the  euro
zone ,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said during an
interview with Al Jazeera television on June 2. The Bank of
Spain last week said more flexibility is needed for the economy
to recover after Rajoy’s government last year changed labor
rules to help companies cut costs.  Spain registered its first  trade surplus  on record in March
and tourism helped its current account swing back to a surplus
from a deficit in February.  The country is regaining competitiveness compared to
France, Jean-Dominique Senard, chief executive officer at
Michelin & Cie said yesterday. Europe’s largest tiremaker, based
in Clermont-Ferrand in central  France , intends to implement new
labor rules at its French plants in response to a sixth straight
annual decline in the region’s car market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  