-- Staley Says Europe Bank Debt Mispricing to Present Opportunity
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-06-04T19:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/staley-says-europe-bank-debt-mispricing-to-present-opportunity.html
Debt of  European banks  will offer
investment opportunities as new rules about resolving troubled
lenders are written, said James E. “Jes” Staley, a managing
partner at hedge-fund firm BlueMountain Capital Management LLC.  “As those rules get clarified, so you can force a
recapitalization of the banking industry without going to the
sovereign, there’s going to be tremendous mispricing between the
different levels of the capital structure in these banks,”
Staley said today at a Bloomberg Link conference in New York.  The European Central Bank has advocated a single mechanism
and centralized funds to wind down failing banks as soon as next
year, when it assumes responsibility for supervising the
region’s lenders. That will lead to a more “clearly defined
capital structure,” said Staley, 56.  Staley, who was head of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment
bank until last year, was joined on the panel by Victor Khosla,
founder and chief investment officer of Strategic Value Partners
LLC. Khosla, 54, said “bloated” European banks with tens of
trillions of dollars in combined assets offer a wide range of
opportunities for hedge funds between the lenders’ own debt and
equity and as they sell assets and exit businesses.  “I’m hard-pressed to think of any other opportunity today
globally where there is a $50 trillion balance sheet and where
there is this much tumult and this much change going on,”
Khosla said. “With the number of players who are not ready for
this and with relatively few people in here who are really
qualified to do this stuff, I said, ‘My God, this is El
Dorado,’” a reference to the mythical lost city of gold that
eluded treasure-hungry Spanish conquistadors.  Reza Ali, founder and chief investment officer of Prosiris
Capital Management, offered the example of Dutch lender SNS
Reaal NV as a cautionary tale of betting on European banks right
now. The Dutch government’s expropriation of SNS Reaal’s bonds
this year exposed investors to losses, fueling concern that
credit-default swaps offered inadequate protection.  That helped prompt the International Swaps & Derivatives
Association to propose changing rules governing swaps so the
contracts explicitly insure against debt writedowns, exchanges
or conversions into equity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  