-- Steelers’ Mike Adams Is Out Up to 8 Weeks After Stabbing
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-04T17:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/steelers-mike-adams-is-out-up-to-8-months-after-carjack-attempt.html
Pittsburgh Steelers offensive tackle
 Mike Adams  will need about two weeks to recover from stab wounds
sustained in a carjacking, then another four to six weeks of
rehabilitation, coach  Mike Tomlin  said.  Adams, 23, was stabbed in the abdomen and forearm when
three men attempted to steal his truck in Pittsburgh on June 1,
police said. A second-round pick in the 2012 National Football
League draft, Adams has said he was fortunate he wasn’t more
seriously hurt.  “He’s very blessed to be in the position he’s in, in that
we expect a full recovery from him,” Tomlin said. “I visited
with him a couple days this weekend. He’s got great team support
and family support. He realizes, of course, how fortunate that
he is. We’re just glad that he’s going to be OK. We’re just
taking it day by day. They expect a full recovery.”  Adams may be able to rejoin the Steelers for the start of
training camp, which typically opens in late July.  The Pittsburgh Bureau of Police said they’ve arrested two
suspects in connection with Adams’s stabbing: 25-year-old
Michael Paranay and 26-year-old DeQuay Means, both of
Pittsburgh.  Paranay was arrested on charges of criminal attempted
homicide, aggravated assault and criminal conspiracy, police
said in a statement. Means, arrested after a foot chase with
police, was charged with criminal attempted homicide, aggravated
assault, attempted carjacking, possession of a firearm by a
former convict, terroristic threats, criminal conspiracy and
attempting to escape from  law enforcement .  Suspect Sought  Police said they’re looking for a third suspect in the
attack, in which Adams was confronted by three men who attempted
to carjack him. One of the men had a handgun and the other was
armed with a knife, police said. Adams said he didn’t have his
car keys at the time and told investigators that one man pointed
a gun in his face when the situation escalated, while the other
stabbed him twice, according to the police report. The suspects
then fled.  Adams started six of the 10 games in which he played in
2012 and was the winner of the Joe Greene Great Performance
Award, given to the outstanding Steelers rookie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  