-- STMicro CEO Says Weaker Euro to Lift Europe Manufacturing
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-06-04T13:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/stmicro-ceo-says-weaker-euro-to-lift-europe-manufacturing.html
Europe’s efforts to revitalize
manufacturing by bringing production back home would get a boost
from a weaker euro, according to the chief executive officer of
 STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , the region’s biggest semiconductor maker.  “We like to see coherence, but today there is an important
divergence in macroeconomic policy between Japan and the U.S. on
one side, and Europe on the other,”  Carlo Bozotti , who has
headed Geneva-based STMicroelectronics since 2005, said in an
interview. “Japan and the U.S. printing currency doesn’t help
when you have an important cost base in Europe.”  STMicroelectronics is at a disadvantage to competitors such
as  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , Bozotti said in Paris
today. With most of its costs incurred in euros even though the
major chip customers are  outside Europe , an  exchange rate  closer
to $1.20 to the euro, compared with $1.30 used in
STMicroelectronics’ financial forecasts, would help bring more
manufacturing to Europe, the CEO said. The spot euro-dollar rate
was $1.31 at 3:20 p.m. in Paris.  STMicroelectronics has 20,000  employees  in France and
Italy. About 8,000 people work on manufacturing sites in France,
Italy and Malta. Keeping factories in  Europe , close to the
company’s research centers, allows STMicroelectronics to get
more sophisticated products to the market faster, Bozotti said.  European Chips  In March, STMicroelectronics and Ericsson AB agreed to
split up their unprofitable wireless chip venture, cutting about
1,600 jobs as they divide the assets.  STMicroelectronics jumped 4.9 percent to 7.50 euros at 3:55
p.m. in Paris, bringing the stock’s gain this year to 40
percent. The company has a market value of 6.8 billion euros.  As Europe looks for ways to stimulate growth to lift it out
of an economic slump, debates have emerged over how the region
can grow manufacturing and convince companies that have moved
production abroad to make more of their products at home.  Regulators and politicians have posed the question of re-industrialization, particularly focusing on the electronics
industry.  Neelie Kroes, the commissioner responsible for setting
digital policy within the European Union, last month unveiled
plans to stimulate innovation in semiconductors, arguing that
growth there could spur a broader economic boost and create jobs
in industries ranging from automotive to energy.  Doubling Production  Kroes set the goal of doubling European chip production by
2020, to around 20 percent of global production.  “Others are aggressively investing in computer chips and
Europe cannot be left behind,” Kroes said in a May 23
 statement . “I want Europe to produce more chips in Europe than
the  United States  produces domestically. It’s a realistic goal
if we channel our investments properly.”  STMicroelectronics also competes with Japan’s  Renesas
Electronics Corp. (6723)  and  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  of Germany. The
French and Italian governments together own almost 28 percent of
the chipmaker’s capital.  “Your state shareholders have been right standing by your
side as long-term partners,” French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said in Paris today. “You are proof that it’s
possible to produce electronic products in Europe, proof that
production, as well as R&D, can stay in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  