-- Stocks in Switzerland Climb, Rebounding From Six-Week Low
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-06-04T15:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/stocks-in-switzerland-climb-rebounding-from-six-week-low.html
Swiss stocks  climbed, after the Swiss
Market Index dropped to its lowest level in six weeks yesterday,
as a Federal Reserve official said the bank remains committed to
buying assets to stimulate the economy.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food company, rallied the
most since September 2011. Aryzta AG increased 2.4 percent after
the owner of bakery businesses including Delice de  France  and
Otis Spunkmeyer posted third-quarter sales.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest banks, each climbed more
than 1 percent, following a gauge of European lenders higher.  The SMI rose 1.2 percent to 7,875.68 at the close of
trading in Zurich, its first advance in five days and the
biggest in almost three weeks. The equity benchmark posted a 2.7
percent drop last week, its largest since November. The gauge
still rose 0.5 percent in May, completing its longest streak of
monthly gains since 1997. The Swiss Performance Index added 1.1
percent today.  “The comments made yesterday calmed investors down a bit,
at least for the next couple of days,” said  Markus Wallner , an
equity strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The focus
will continue to be on U.S. economic data, especially if they
are better than expected. Then we could see the fear returning.
Markets find themselves in a volatile sideways movement.”  U.S. stocks erased their losses yesterday after European
markets closed as Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said recent reports suggest the American economy remains too
weak to justify reducing the central bank’s bond-buying program.  Bond Buying  “The data we’re receiving are still very mixed,” Lockhart
said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview in  New York .
“The ISM report this morning is a good example. I’m not getting
a clear picture of an economy that really is tracking with
considerable momentum.”  The  Institute for Supply Management  released its  factory
index  yesterday. The measure fell to 49 in May from 50.7 in
April, missing the median forecast of economists of 51.  Nestle, the maker of KitKat chocolate bars and S.
Pellegrino sparkling water, increased 3.2 percent to 63.95 Swiss
francs, contributing the most to the  SMI (SMI) ’s gain.  Aryzta gained 2.4 percent to 55.85 francs. The company
reported third-quarter revenue of 1.18 billion euros ($1.5
billion), compared with the 1.19 billion euros that analysts had
estimated. The company also said it expects to return to double-digit underlying earnings-per-share growth in its financial year
ending in 2014.  Aryzta’s Revenue  “Aryzta’s having reiterated its profitability figures
despite the weak top-line figures is reassuring,” Andreas von Arx, an analyst at Helvea AG in Zurich, wrote in a note to
clients today. “Aryzta offers an attractive long-term story
based on the transformation strategy and has an excellent
management team with a strong track record.”  UBS and Credit Suisse added 1.3 percent to 17.08 francs and
1.3 percent to 28.23 francs, respectively. A gauge of lenders
contributed the most to the Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s advance.  Addex Therapeutics Ltd. (ADXN)  slumped 12 percent to 3.97 francs,
extending its two-day decline to 38 percent, the biggest since
December 2009. The biotechnology company said on May 31 after
markets closed that it had fired 17 of its 19 employees
including Chief Executive Officer Bharatt Chowrira and all its
executive managers.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 9.8 percent less than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  