-- Swiss Airlines CEO Sees Expanded Role for Bombardier CSeries Jet
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-04T08:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/swiss-airlines-ceo-sees-expanded-role-for-bombardier-cseries-jet.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s Swiss
Airlines may use  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s new CSeries narrow-body
airliner to eventually replace some of its Airbus SAS jets as
the Canadian manufacturer prepares for the model’s first flight.  A stretched version of the CSeries could be a suitable
replacement for the Airbus A320, Swiss Chief Executive Officer
Harry Hohmeister said in an interview in Cape Town. Still, the
the Montreal-based manufacturer should first focus on
development of the two models now being created, he said.  Swiss will operate at least 10 CS100s, the smaller version
due to fly for the first time this month, and will also take the
larger CS300 as part of its 30-jet order. The exact mix remains
to be decided, Hohmeister said.  Swiss is buying the new planes to cut its operating costs,
with the CSeries promising to burn 25 percent to 30 percent less
fuel and offer cheaper maintenance than the Avro jets the
airline now flies on short routes, Hohmeister said. The airline
also is buying six  Boeing Co. (BA)  777s to replace less fuel
efficient Airbus jets used in long-range travel.  Hohmeister said he’s satisfied with the progress that
Bombardier is making with the new plane and expects no further
delays beyond those already incurred. The CS100, seating about
120, should enter service at Swiss in 2015, while the CS300
would follow about a year later, he said at the International
Air Transport Association annual general meeting.  Swiss will use the CSeries to serve some airports that are
difficult to fly into such as London City, although only after
more routine operations are proven, he said.  The first 777s are due starting in 2016, with a decision on
how to replace the rest of the Airbus A340 long-haul fleet not
due for some time, with the Airbus A350 also a candidate, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in Cape Town at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  