-- U.K. Energy Bill Advances as Pollution Goal Rejected
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-04T18:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-k-energy-bill-advances-as-pollution-goal-rejected.html
Legislation to spur the next
generation of power plants in the U.K. advanced in Parliament as
the government defeated a proposal by rebel lawmakers that would
have required more immediate steps to curb pollution.  Lawmakers in the House of Commons voted 267-290 to reject
an amendment to the Energy Bill that would have required Prime
Minister David Cameron to set a goal by April 1 for removing
most carbon emissions from power generation by 2030. The
government wanted to postpone making such a target until 2016.
The bill cleared its third reading today and is due to move to
the House of Lords tonight.  The Energy Bill marks the biggest change to Britain’s
energy policy in two decades and is designed to encourage 110
billion pounds ($168 billion) of investment for aging power
plants and the electric grid. Renewable energy companies pushed
for a decarbonization target, saying the lack of one left them
less incentive to invest.  “The Commons has missed an opportunity today to provide
more clarity for investors on the future direction of energy
policy,” said Tim Yeo, a lawmaker from Cameron’s Conservative
Party who was pushing for the carbon target. “This could mean
that urgently needed investment in our energy infrastructure
will be slower and the risk of a capacity crisis greater.”  The Labour opposition joined with some members of the
Liberal Democrats and Conservatives in the coalition government
in backing the amendment. All parties supported the bill at its
third reading, its final hurdle in the House of Commons.  Environmental groups Greenpeace and WWF said they were
disappointed the target was rejected.  ‘No Excuse’  “The size of this rebellion means Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  now has no excuse not to fight for a stronger Energy Bill
that will actually reduce pollution from Britain’s power sector,
and secure investment that could create thousands of new green
jobs,” Greenpeace Executive Director John Sauven said in a
separate statement.  Manufacturers including Danish wind turbine maker  Vestas
Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and  France ’s nuclear reactor builder  Areva SA (AREVA) 
say the target is needed to send a signal to investors that the
government is committed to developing low-carbon power beyond
2020. Yesterday, 55 organizations and companies, including  SSE
Plc (SSE) , one of the nation’s top six generators, called on lawmakers
to support the proposal.  The U.K. already has a legally binding target to cut
greenhouse gas emissions 80 percent by 2050 through a series of
carbon budgets in addition to European Union renewables goals.
Those measures already offer certainty to investors, Business
and Energy Minister Michael Fallon, a Conservative, said in
Parliament before the vote.  ‘On a Limb’  Energy Secretary Ed Davey told Parliament after today’s
vote that while he understood the argument for an early
decarbonization target, there was “logic” in waiting until
2016, the year when government decides its fifth carbon budget.  “By encouraging this amendment we’d make sure the U.K. got
even further out on a limb,” said John Redwood, a Conservative
who spoke against the proposal. “The American economy is now
getting itself back into order. They are doing things to have
competitive energy that we are clearly not prepared to do.”  Recommended Target  The target was recommended by the government’s own adviser
on carbon policy, the Committee on Climate Change. It recommends
ministers set a goal to reduce carbon from power output by 90
percent to 50 grams of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour in 2030.  Davey also reiterated that draft strike prices determining
what power generators will receive for producing renewable power
such as offshore wind under so-called contracts for difference
will be published in July.  He said June 2 the Energy Bill, would lead to “massive”
emissions cuts even without a 2030 target in place. Davey, a
Liberal Democrat, originally pushed for a decarbonization target
before reaching an agreement with Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne to delay setting the measure until at least 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  