-- U.K. Lords Reject Move to Scupper Same-Sex Marriage Bill
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-06-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-k-lords-reject-move-to-scupper-gay-marriage-bill.html
The U.K. House of Lords rejected a
move to scupper Prime Minister David Cameron’s bill to allow
same-sex marriage.  The upper, unelected chamber voted by 390 to 148 in  London 
last night against a motion to deny the bill a second reading
after two days of preliminary debate. The legislation has
already been passed by the lower chamber, the House of Commons,
amid opposition from more than 100 lawmakers from Cameron’s
Conservative Party.  It would have been very unusual for the House of Lords,
which focuses on revising legislation, to vote the bill down at
this stage. Some opponents of gay marriage abstained yesterday
on the grounds that they were concerned about the
constitutionality of rejecting the bill without first
considering it in detail in committee, the next step in the
legislative process.  “If this vote defeats the bill, it will probably return
next year,” Elizabeth Berridge, a Conservative member of the
Lords who opposes the proposal, told the chamber, explaining why
she planned to abstain in the vote. “In those circumstances
this flawed bill, as it stands now, would become law. Do I want
to vote against this bill? Yes. Should I? No.”  The plan to introduce gay marriage has pitted Cameron
against many in his own party. Activists say it is driving
Conservative voters toward the U.K. Independence Party, which
made gains in local elections last month at the expense of the
Tories and their Liberal Democrat coalition partners.  The prime minister was only able to get the legislation
through the Commons with the support of the opposition Labour
Party. After that vote last month, Cameron used a radio
interview to pledge that he would return to a focus on “the big
picture” and issues such as the economy and welfare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  