-- U.K. Recovery Signs Mount From Builders to Retailers: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-04T10:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-k-construction-unexpectedly-resumes-expansion-on-homebuilding.html
U.K.  construction  unexpectedly
returned to growth last month and retail sales increased, adding
to indications of a tentative economic recovery.  An index of building activity rose to 50.8 from 49.4 in
April, Markit and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply said today in London. This is the first reading above 50,
which divides expansion from contraction, since October. A
separate report from the British Retail Consortium showed  like-for-like retail sales  increased an annual 1.8 percent in May.  Recent economic data have suggested some signs of strength
in the economy, with Markit’s  factory index  climbing to a 14-month high in May. Still, the recovery has not yet fully taken
hold and Bank of England Governor Mervyn King, who will lead his
last policy meeting this week before retiring, has said that
growth is not as strong as he would like.  “The May data reinforced further the trend seen in recent
months of a stabilization in construction activity,” said
Blerina Uruci, an economist at Barclays Plc in London. Still,
“much of the recent increase in activity seems to rely on just
residential construction, which leaves the index prone to
further volatility should the recent housing contraction
improvement fizzle out.”  Economists had forecast that the construction index would
increase to 49.8, according to the median of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Homebuilder  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  said
last month that the market backdrop “is the most positive we
have seen for five years.”  Homebuilding Reliance  Markit said construction output was led by a “robust
expansion” of homebuilding, while commercial and civil
engineering activity declined. The industry is “worryingly
reliant on residential building for thrust,” said Markit
economist Tim Moore.  The BRC and KPMG report showed that total retail sales rose
3.4 percent in May from a year earlier, with growth helped by
furniture demand and discounting by stores. In the quarter
through May, same-store retail sales rose 0.7 percent from a
year earlier. Food sales also gained 0.7 percent.  “While sales didn’t soar through the roof, this is still a
very creditable performance,” said David McCorquodale, head of
retail at KPMG. “Promoting the right product at the right price
made the difference in May.”  As with Markit, the BRC also sounded a note of caution on
the outlook, saying that while customers are “responding well”
to discounting, “volatile economic conditions mean that this
will remain a delicate balancing act for some time.”  BOE Meeting  The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee begins its two-day
meeting tomorrow in  London . It will keep  quantitative easing  at
375 billion pounds ($575 billion) on June 6, according to the
median of 43 forecasts in a Bloomberg News poll. The MPC will
also keep its key interest rate at 0.5 percent, another survey
showed.  Markit’s manufacturing index climbed to 51.3 in May from
50.2 in April, which was revised from 49.8. A gauge of service
companies probably rose to 53.1 from 52.9, economists said
before another report tomorrow.  King said in an interview broadcast on June 2 that there
are “signs now of a recovery.”  “The economy is growing,” he said. “Not as fast as we
would like it to grow, but no one can foretell the future.”  Markit said today the  increase in construction output  in
May was supported by the first improvement in new business
volumes for 12 months. However, the rate of order growth was
“marginal” and employment was broadly unchanged, it said.  Euro-Area Inflation  In the euro area today, data showed  producer prices 
unexpectedly declined in April from a year earlier, the first
drop since February 2010, giving the European Central Bank scope
to add to stimulus if needed.  Factory-gate prices in the 17-nation economy fell 0.2
percent after a 0.6 percent annual increase in March, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said.
Economists had projected a 0.2 percent gain. The ECB will keep
its benchmark rate at a record low of 0.5 percent when it meets
on June 6, according to a survey of economists.  Spain’s  registered unemployment  dropped in May as its peak
tourism season started. The number of people registering for
jobless benefits fell by 98,265 from April to 4.89 million.  In  Australia , the central bank said it still has room to
cut the benchmark rate from its record-low level.  Governor Glenn Stevens and his board kept the Reserve Bank
of Australia’s overnight cash-rate target at 2.75 percent today.
“The inflation outlook, as currently assessed, may provide some
scope for further easing, should that be required,” Stevens
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  