-- U.K. Stocks Climb as FTSE 100 Rebounds From One-Month Low
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-06-04T15:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-k-stocks-climb-as-ftse-100-rebounds-from-one-month-low.html
U.K. stocks  climbed, with the FTSE
100 Index rebounding from a one-month low, after a Federal
Reserve official said the U.S. economy isn’t strong enough to
justify a reduction in stimulus measures.  Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO)  rose the most in almost eight weeks
after a report that private-equity investor Clayton Dubilier &
Rice LLC is considering combining the company’s office-maintenance unit with that of Balfour Beatty Plc. Cobham Plc
dropped 4.6 percent as a shareholder sold a 3.6 percent stake in
the maker of defense and aerospace equipment.  The FTSE 100 advanced 33.46 points, or 0.5 percent, to
6,558.58 in  London . The gauge yesterday declined to the lowest
level since May 3 amid speculation the Fed would start to taper
its bond-buying program if the economy improved. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index also also added 0.5 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ gained 0.4 percent.  “The market is perhaps too quickly discounting an end to
quantitative easing,” Johan Jooste, chief market strategist at
Merrill Lynch Wealth Management in London, said. “Although the
U.S. economy is improving, both unemployment and inflation
remain below Fed targets. The growing market belief in a
continued economic recovery -- however stuttering in some
regions -- should continue to provide enough impetus to equity
markets.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  was 26 percent lower than the average of the past
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stimulus Adjustment  In the U.S., Fed Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart,
who doesn’t hold a policy vote this year, said officials at the
central bank are committed to continuing stimulus measures.  “To the extent that the markets are seeing mixed messages,
it simply reflects the debate that’s going on among the
colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee,” Lockhart said
in a Bloomberg Television interview. “The bigger picture is
that any adjustment is not a major policy shift.”  U.K. construction returned to growth last month, for the
first time since October, a  report  showed today. An index of
building activity rose to 50.8 from 49.4 in April, Markit and
the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply said.
Economists had forecast a reading below 50, the dividing line
between expansion and contraction.  Separately, UBS AG raised its year-end target for the FTSE
100 to 7,000, from its earlier prediction of 6,300, according to
a note to clients.  “An improving growth backdrop should help cyclical sectors
to outperform, especially in the context of more attractive
valuations and improving relative earnings momentum,”
strategist Matthew Gilman wrote.  Rentokil Deal  Rentokil rose 2.6 percent to 90.75 pence, for its biggest
increase since April 10. Clayton Dubilier & Rice is considering
buying the pest-control provider’s Initial Facilities unit and
combining it with Balfour Beatty’s WorkPlace, the Financial
Times reported, citing four people familiar with the matter.  GKN Plc rallied 5.1 percent to 313.4 pence, the largest
advance since July 2012. UBS raised its price estimate on the
stock to 350 pence, from 275 pence, reiterating a buy
recommendation for the supplier of parts to aircraft makers.  HSBC Holdings Plc advanced 1.9 percent to 731.9 pence, for
the  largest contribution  to the gains on the FTSE 100. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. reiterated its “conviction buy” rating for
Europe’s biggest bank. HSBC is poised to beat consensus
estimates for earnings through 2016, as well as increasing
dividend payments and share buybacks, Goldman Sachs said.  Cobham Plc (COB) , the world’s largest maker of airborne refueling
kits, tumbled 4.6 percent to 272.9 pence. An investor, who was
not named, was sold 39.1 million shares at 273.5 pence to market
price, according to terms obtained by Bloomberg News.  Wolseley Plc, the distributor of heating and plumbing
products, lost 6.3 percent to 3,145 pence, the biggest slump in
three years. Comparable sales in  France  dropped 9.2 percent in
the third-quarter from a year ago as construction remained weak,
the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  