-- U.S. Woman Gang Raped in Indian Town as She Hitchhiked to Hotel
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-06-05T06:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-s-woman-gang-raped-in-himalayan-resort-of-manali-police-say.html
An American woman was gang raped
while hitchhiking back to her hotel in an Indian tourist town in
the Himalayas, renewing concern over female travelers’ safety in
the country.  The 30-year-old woman was attacked early yesterday morning
in Manali after visiting a friend, local police officer Neel
Chand Sharma said by phone. The men offered to drop her at the
hotel and instead took her to a secluded spot to rape her,
Sharma said.  The rape follows the December assault in  New Delhi  of a
female student who later died and an attack on a Swiss tourist
in March. The Delhi rape, in which the woman was left naked at
the side of a road near the city airport with a male friend,
triggered street protests and drew attention to the scale of
sexual violence in the world’s largest democracy.  Safety concerns among women travelers were partly to blame
for a 35 percent drop in foreign female tourist arrivals in the
first three month of this year, according to an April study by
the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry in  India .  Police haven’t arrested anyone in yesterday’s rape so far,
Sharma said, adding road blocks have been set up to try to catch
the perpetrators. The U.S. Embassy in New Delhi is in contact
with authorities and has no further comment because of privacy
concerns, it said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. and the U.K. issued travel advisories urging their
citizens to be cautious or avoid traveling to India following
the attacks.  Sexual Violence  A 2011 survey by the Thomson Reuters foundation listed
India as the fourth-worst place in the world to be a woman,
after  Afghanistan , the  Democratic Republic  of Congo and
 Pakistan . The report cited abortions of girl fetuses, human
trafficking, sexual violence and poor education.  The December  rape  in New Delhi set off a debate in a
country where a woman was raped every 22 minutes in 2011,
according to the National Crime Records Bureau. In the two-hour
assault, the woman was allegedly raped several times before she
and a male friend were dumped naked along a road near the city’s
airport.  Passersby ignored the couple and police argued over where
to take them as they lay bleeding on the ground, according to
televised comments by the man who survived the attack. The woman
died from her injuries two weeks later at a Singapore hospital.  A 39-year-old Swiss woman was raped in  Madhya Pradesh  state
in March, while a British woman jumped out of the window of her
hotel room in Agra that same month to flee an assault by staff,
she later told police.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  