-- Treasury Yields at Almost 14-Month High Amid Wagers on Jobs, Fed
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-06-04T21:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-s-treasuries-decline-with-10-year-yields-rising-to-2-14-.html
Treasury 10-year yields approached a
14-month high before reports this week forecast to show
employers stepped up hiring, adding to signs of recovery and
boosting speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls swelled by 167,000 jobs last month,
beating April’s gain, a Bloomberg survey estimated before a June
7 Labor Department report. ADP Research Institute will say
tomorrow that companies added more workers, a separate Bloomberg
survey forecast. Investors in Treasuries bet for a seventh
straight week prices of the securities will fall, a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. survey showed.  “The employment number will shape near-term expectations
and determine the near-term path of  interest rates ,” said Dan Mulholland, head of U.S. Treasury trading in the capital-markets
unit of BNY Mellon Corp. in New York. “If we get a number over
200,000, that would lead to speculation the Fed could taper
purchases as early as September. Realistically though, you need
several months of that.”  The U.S. 10-year note  yield  rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.15 percent at 4:59 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of
the 1.75 percent security due in May 2023 declined 7/32, or
$2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 96 15/32.  The benchmark  yield  climbed to 2.23 percent on May 29, the
highest since April 2012, after reaching a 2013 low of 1.61
percent on May 1. The average yield for the past 10 years is
3.58 percent.  Bonds pared losses earlier as U.S. stocks fell, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropping as much as 1 percent before
trimming the loss to 0.6 percent.  Volatility Climbs  Volatility as measured by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
MOVE index climbed to 82.79, the highest level since June 2012.
Volatility has averaged 62.47 in the past year.  Trading  volume  dropped by 22 percent to $362 billion, from
$464 billion yesterday, according to ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt . Volume surged to
$662 billion on May 22, the highest level in data going back to
2004. The average daily volume this year is $303 billion.  “It’s not about what we’re seeing today,” said  David Ader , head of U.S. government-bond strategy at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The big event is going to prove
to be Friday’s nonfarm payrolls number. This is the calm before
the potential storm.”  The Labor Department will report the  unemployment  rate held
at a four-year low of 7.5 percent in May and nonfarm-payrolls
gain surpassed April’s 165,000 jobs, a Bloomberg survey showed.  U.S. companies added 165,000 workers in May, after hiring
119,000 in April, ADP Research Institute will say tomorrow,
another Bloomberg survey said.  Cheap Level  Treasuries due in a decade or more are at the cheapest
level relative to global peers with comparable maturities since
July 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
Yields on  U.S. debt  were 60 basis points higher than those in an
index of other sovereign debt for the two trading days ending
yesterday, the cheapest level since July 31, 2011.  Investors in Treasuries maintained bets the prices of the
securities will drop, according to a survey by JPMorgan. The
 proportion  of net shorts was at 21 percentage points in the week
ended yesterday, according to JPMorgan. The figure is down from
23 percentage points in the previous week.  The percent of outright longs, or bets prices will rise,
was at 11 percent, while outright shorts slipped to 32 percent
from 36 percent, the survey reported.  ‘Too Long’  Kansas City Fed President Esther George said the central
bank should reduce its asset purchases as U.S. economic growth
accelerates and record-low interest rates prompt investors to
take on more risk. George has dissented against continuing
monthly purchases.  “Waiting too long to acknowledge the economy’s progress
and prepare markets for more-normal policy settings carries no
less risk than tightening too soon,” George, 55, said today in
the text of a speech in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . She was unable to
speak because of illness.  John Williams , chief of the San Francisco Fed, said
yesterday the purchase program may end this year. Atlanta Fed
President  Dennis Lockhart  said that while he wouldn’t rule out a
reduction of asset purchases in the next few months, recent data
suggest the economy remains too weak to justify a reduction.  An industry report yesterday showed U.S.  manufacturing 
shrank in May at the fastest pace in four years.  The Fed buys $85 billion of government and mortgage-backed
securities each month to support the economy by putting downward
pressure on borrowing costs. It purchased $3.33 billion today in
Treasuries maturing from May 2021 to February 2023.  Gross’s Outlook  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, wrote today in his monthly
investment outlook the Fed’s zero-bound interest-rate policy and
quantitative-easing are becoming more of a problem for an
economy that needs structural reforms.  In a posting today on Twitter, Gross said “30 years of
bond bull markets have raised returns and spirits. Now there are
doubts. We’re sticking with bonds as long as Fed does.”  JPMorgan Asset Management boosted its Treasury holdings to
take advantage of higher yields and on the expectation the Fed
will maintain an accommodative monetary policy to spur growth.  “You’ve got an ambiguous growth picture,” said Nick Gartside, international chief investment officer for fixed
income in  London  at JPMorgan Asset Management, which oversees
about $1.5 trillion. “That’s Treasury-supportive because it
means the risk is that central banks keep monetary policy looser
as opposed to tightening it.”  The firm increased its holdings of Treasuries to “neutral-ish” from underweight “a week or so ago,” Gartside said. An
underweight position means it owns fewer securities than
recommended in the benchmark index it uses to track performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  