-- U.S.-Japan Yield Gap Widens on Speculation Policies Will Diverge
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-04T05:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-s-japan-yield-gap-widens-on-speculation-policies-will-diverge.html
Investors demanded the highest yield
in two months to hold 10-year government debt in the U.S.
instead of Japan as traders speculate when the  Federal Reserve 
will reduce its bond-buying program.  The  spread  was 1.28 percentage points, after reaching 1.30
points yesterday in  New York , the most since April 4, and up
from 1.05 points on May 21. Two Fed officials renewed concern
the central bank may end its debt purchases this year. Japan’s
yields fell over the past week and a half as domestic stocks
tumbled and the nation’s central bank maintained its own debt-purchase program.  “Tapering is the story in the U.S. bond market,” said
Hajime Nagata, who helps oversee the equivalent of $100.7
billion as an investor in Tokyo at Diam Co., a unit of Dai-ichi
Life Insurance Co. “In Japan, the stock market has fallen and
the money has moved back into Japanese bonds.”  U.S. 10-year  yields  were little changed today at 2.13
percent as of 6:52 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 1.75 percent security maturing in
May 2023 was 96 19/32.  Diam bought Treasuries in the latter part of last month,
Nagata said. The 10-year yield climbed to 2.23 percent on May
29, the highest since April 2012. That was still less than the
average of 3.58 percent for the past decade.  The difference between 10-year yields in the U.S. and  Japan 
was as much a 1.4 percentage points in March, which was the
widest since August 2011.  Japan’s 10-year yield increased five basis points to 0.855
percent. It was as high as 1 percent on May 23, the most in more
than a year.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  finished a policy meeting
today by holding its main  interest rate  at a record low of 2.75
percent.  Fair Value  The U.S. 10-year  term premium , a model that includes
expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation, was minus
0.41 percent yesterday, also the most since April 2012. The
figure has risen from the record low of minus 1.02 percent set
in July. A negative reading suggests investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday he
wouldn’t rule out a reduction of asset purchases in the next few
months.  John Williams  of the San Francisco Fed said the purchase
program may end this year. Lockhart and Williams do not vote on
the central bank’s policy-setting committee in 2013.  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt a
month to support the economy by putting downward pressure on
borrowing costs.  Record Accommodation  A Fed advisory panel of bankers said last month it expects
record accommodation to last from one to three years. An
industry report yesterday showed  manufacturing  in the U.S.
shrank in May at the fastest pace in four years.  Inflation is in check, and that will give the Fed time to
continue its bond purchases, said Kei Katayama, who buys non-yen
debt in  Tokyo  for Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which manages the
equivalent of $49.5 billion.  “Inflation is clearly decreasing,” Katayama said. “I’m
not confident in a shorter duration” debt portfolio, he said.  Duration is a measure of a bond’s sensitivity to changes in
interest rates. Katayama said he holds a position that is less
than that of the benchmark he uses to gauge performance in case
yields rise, though he’s not prepared to reduce it further.  The Fed’s  measure  of traders’ forecasts for costs in the
economy for the period from 2018 to 2023, known as the five-year
five-year forward break-even rate, was 2.63 percent as of the
latest figure available May 30. It was the lowest level in six
months and compares to the average of 2.75 percent for the past
decade.  BOJ Operations  In Japan, the BOJ plans to increase the frequency of its
bond purchases starting this month after market participants
asked for the move to curb volatility in debt prices. The
central bank said it will purchase debt about 8 to 10 times a
month, compared with 8 purchases previously. The purchases will
total more than 7 trillion yen ($70.2 billion) a month, it said.  The Topix  index  of Japanese shares has fallen more than 10
percent from a 4 1/2-year high set May 22, based on closing
levels.  Bob Rice , a managing partner at Tangent Capital Partners in
New York, cautioned against long-duration bonds.  “At these particular rates, when rates are this low, even
medium-term instruments have a great deal of volatility in their
pricing if rates tick up,” Rice said yesterday on the
“Bloomberg Surveillance” radio program with  Tom Keene  and
 Michael McKee . “That is what you are starting to see right
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  