-- U.S. IBD/TIPP June Economic Optimism Index (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2013-06-04T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-s-ibd-tipp-june-economic-optimism-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the June
economic optimism index as released by TechnoMetrica Market
Intelligence and Investors Business Daily.  U.S. Consumer Confidence Brightens in June  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index improved by 3.9
points, or 8.6%, in June, posting 49.0 vs. 45.1 in May. The
index is 1.6 points above its 12-month average of 47.4, 4.6
points above its reading of 44.4 in December 2007 when the
economy entered the recession, and 0.7 points below its all-time
average of 49.7.  Note: Index readings above 50 indicate optimism; below 50
indicate pessimism.  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index has a good track
record of foreshadowing the confidence indicators put out later
each month by the  University of Michigan  and The Conference
Board. IBD/TIPP conducted the national poll of 858 adults from
May 28 to May 31. The margin of error is +/-3.4 percentage
points.  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index has three key
components. This month, two components advanced and one did not
change.  The Six-Month Economic Outlook, a measure of how consumers
feel about the economy’s prospects in the next six months,
improved 8.1 points, or 18.8%, to 51.2. The sub-index was 32.1
when the economy entered the last recession in December 2007.  The Personal Financial Outlook, a measure of how Americans
feel about their own finances in the next six months, gained 3.6
points, or 6.7%, to 57.6.  Confidence in Federal Economic Policies, a proprietary
IBD/TIPP measure of views on how government economic policies
are working did not change and remained at 38.3.  “Rising home prices and strong performance of the stock
market boost Americans’ confidence.  Despite the improvement,
one-half think that the U.S. is in a recession. While 55% feel
the economy is improving, 41% think the economy is not
improving. Twenty-six percent of households have at least one
person looking for full-time employment,” said Raghavan Mayur,
president of TIPP, a unit of TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence,
IBD’s polling partner.  “For many Americans, personal finances are improving
modestly, along with the economy,” said  Terry Jones , associate
editor of Investor’s Business Daily. “That said, confidence in
government continues weak, and despite gains in the overall
sentiment our Economic Optimism Index, at 49 in June, still
remains in pessimistic territory. The stock market has become
more volatile and choppy, so that continues to be an area to
watch.”  The Breakdown  This month, seven of the 21 demographic groups that
IBD/TIPP tracks were above 50 on the Economic Optimism Index.
Sixteen groups improved and five declined.  On the Economic Outlook component, thirteen of the 21
groups that IBD/TIPP tracks scored in optimistic territory.
Eighteen groups improved and three declined.  On the Personal Financial component, twenty of the 21 of
the groups IBD/TIPP tracks scored in optimistic territory.
Seventeen groups improved on the component and four declined.  On the Federal Policies component, only one of the 21
demographic groups tracked was above 50. Ten groups advanced on
the component and 11 declined.  ABOUT THE IBD/TIPP POLL  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index is the earliest take
on  consumer confidence  each month and predicts with 80%
reliability monthly changes in sentiment in well-known polls by
The Conference Board and the University of Michigan. The
IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index is based on a survey of 900-plus adults chosen at random nationwide. The poll is generally
conducted in the first week of the month.  For more information, go to www.tipponline.com. To license the
IBD/TIPP Poll, please contact:  Licensing@Investors.com   SOURCE: TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence and Investors Business
Daily  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  