-- U.S. to Renew Exemptions for Nations Importing Iran Oil
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-06-05T19:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-s-said-to-renew-exemptions-for-nations-importing-iran-oil-1-.html
The U.S. extended waivers for nine
nations that import oil from Iran, exempting them from sanctions
aimed at thwarting the Tehran government’s nuclear program.  The State Department today announced the exemptions
covering China, India, Malaysia,  South Korea , Singapore,  South
Africa ,  Sri Lanka , Turkey and  Taiwan .  A December 2011 law cuts off access to the U.S. banking
system for foreign financial institutions that settle oil trades
with Iran’s central bank, unless their home countries get an
exemption from the sanctions by significantly reducing purchases
of  Iranian oil .  Each country’s buying patterns are reviewed every 180 days
to determine whether they’re eligible for renewal of the
exemptions.  The U.S. has been increasing sanctions on Iran in an effort
to pressure its leaders to abandon illicit aspects of its
nuclear program. The U.S. and Israel say Iran is secretly
pursuing a nuclear weapons capability. Iran says its nuclear
program is strictly for civilian energy and medical research.  Oil is Iran’s main source of revenue. Diminished  oil
exports  due to international sanctions cost Iran between $3
billion and $5 billion a month in lost revenue, Wendy Sherman,
under secretary of state for political affairs, told the Senate
Banking Committee in testimony yesterday.  West Texas Intermediate crude for July delivery increased
43 cents today to $93.74 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, the highest settlement since May 28.  Sanctions on oil, trade, banking and other elements of
Iran’s economy are hitting that nation hard,  David Cohen , the
Treasury’s under secretary for terrorism and financial
intelligence, told the same Senate committee.  Iran’s Economy  The Treasury Department assesses that in 2012 Iran’s gross
domestic product fell by about 5 to 8 percent -- the largest
drop since 1988 and the first contraction in 20 years, he said.  “We believe Iran’s GDP will continue to shrink in 2013 in
the face of reduced government and  consumer spending  and
declining oil exports, as well as the ramping up of additional
sanctions,” Cohen said in written remarks.  Iran’s economic plight is also reflected in the performance
of its currency.  One  U.S. dollar , which purchased 16,000 rials in the open
market at the beginning of 2012, now buys about 36,000 rials, he
said. The open-market value of the rial has lost more than two-thirds of its value in the last two years, he said.  The U.S. officials said the economic pressure hasn’t yet
forced Iran to yield on its nuclear program in negotiations with
the five permanent members of the UN Security Council -- the
U.S., U.K.,  China , France, and Russia -- plus Germany.  “Despite our success in increasing pressure on Iran, we
have yet to see the regime change its fundamental strategic
calculus regarding its nuclear program,” according to Cohen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  