-- AB InBev Judge Rejects Bid to Block Modelo Buyout
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-06-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-s-judge-refuses-to-block-ab-inbev-modelo-buyout.html
A group of consumers who claimed
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s $20 billion acquisition of  Grupo
Modelo SAB (GPMCF)  will lead to higher beer prices lost their bid
for a court order blocking the deal.  It would be “difficult and awkward at this point to set
aside the transaction” completed yesterday morning, U.S.
District Judge Maxine Chesney said at a hearing yesterday
afternoon in  San Francisco . She considered a request for a
temporary restraining order by  Joseph Alioto , attorney for nine
consumers who filed an antitrust lawsuit to block the deal on
grounds that it will reduce competition.  Budweiser-maker AB InBev, the world’s largest beer company,
agreed as part of the merger to sell Mexico City-based Modelo’s
stake in their joint U.S. distribution venture to  Constellation
Brands Inc. (STZ)  for $1.85 billion. Constellation “will be in no
position to maintain lower prices in the face of ABI constant
pressure to increase prices,” Alioto said in a June 3 court
filing.  “The plaintiff would have to show that it is not a
legitimate transaction, that it’s a sham,” Chesney said. “I do
not find that the plaintiff has made that showing by this
time.”  The U.S. said its agreement with Leuven, Belgium-based AB
InBev to turn Victor, New York-based Constellation into a
competing brewer could save beer drinkers almost $1 billion a
year because of lower prices.  Alioto has sued to block other deals, including the one
that created United Continental Holdings Inc. and the merger of
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and AirTran Holdings Inc.  The case is Edstrom v. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, 13-cv-01309, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  