-- U.S. Seen Renewing Sanction Waivers on Iran Oil Importers
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-06-04T18:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-s-seen-renewing-sanction-waivers-on-iran-oil-importers.html
The U.S. plans an announcement
tomorrow on waivers exempting nine nations that import oil from
Iran from U.S. sanctions aimed at thwarting Tehran’s nuclear
program.  China , India, Malaysia,  South Korea , Singapore,  South
Africa ,  Sri Lanka , Turkey and Taiwan have waivers, which were
last renewed in December and are subject to review every six
months. State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell confirmed
that his agency would make an announcement tomorrow.  “I would expect that the administration will grant these
oil exceptions,” said  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the
Washington-based Foundation for Defense of Democracies, who has
advised the Obama administration and Congress on Iran sanctions.  A December 2011 law cuts off any foreign financial
institutions from the U.S. banking system if they engage in oil
trade with Iran if their country hasn’t been granted a waiver.  The law is meant to curb Iran’s oil revenues, part of a
broad effort by the U.S. and the European Union to pressure Iran
to give up a nuclear program they charge is meant to build
weapons. Iran insists its nuclear program is for medical
research and civilian energy.  In the last round of renewals, Dubowitz pointed out that a
waiver for China came a little later than exemptions for other
countries. While other nations have reduced their Iranian oil
imports sharply, in part thanks to surplus in the energy
markets, Dubowitz said China hasn’t cut back as much.  “I’d be very surprised if the administration didn’t give
China an exception as well,” Dubowitz said. He cited the
premium the U.S. places on unity within the group of countries
negotiating with Iran on its nuclear program, a group that
includes China.  President  Barack Obama  is set to meet with Chinese
President Xi Jinping later this week in California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  