-- U.S. Jets May Stay in Jordan on Syrian Implosion Threat
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-06-04T15:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-s-jets-may-stay-in-jordan-on-syrian-implosion-threat.html
F-16 combat aircraft and Patriot
missile batteries deployed to  Jordan  on exercise may remain in
the country, according to the U.S., as Secretary of State  John Kerry  said Syria faced “complete and total implosion.”  The aircraft and missiles were being sent to Jordan for
annual war games with the country’s armed forces, State
Department spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said in  Washington 
yesterday. Jordan has not decided whether the U.S. military
equipment should remain in the kingdom after this month’s drill,
Media Affairs Minister Mohammad Momani said in a telephone
interview today.  “Given our strong alliance with Jordan and in light of
circumstances in the region and escalating violence along
Jordan’s borders, if requested” some missiles and planes “may
remain,” Psaki said.  While Kerry and his Russian counterpart  Sergei Lavrov  are
seeking to organize a peace conference in Geneva to end the two-year civil war, the U.S. politician yesterday described this as
“a very difficult process” that aimed to stop the country
sliding “into a complete and total implosion where it has
broken up into enclaves, and the institutions of the state have
been destroyed.”  The drill, called Eager Lion 2013, will involve about
15,000 personnel from countries including the U.K.,  France ,
 Canada ,  Iraq , Lebanon, Qatar,  Turkey , the  United Arab Emirates 
and  Saudi Arabia , Defense News reported on May 25. The exercise
will last about a fortnight, according to a military official
quoted on its website.  Military Aid  Outside powers are “pumping foreign weaponry into a
volatile region,” Russia’s Foreign Ministry said on its website
today, commenting on the possible U.S. deployment in Jordan.  Britain and France plan to arm the Syrian rebels if the
Geneva meeting fails to make progress, according to unnamed U.K.
officials cited by the Financial Times on May 31. The same
officials said London and Paris expected the U.S. to send
weapons too if the talks failed.  Without the threat of outside nations increasing military
aid to rebel forces, the Syrian regime appears unwilling to
revise its calculus that it’s winning the war and President
Bashar al-Assad isn’t likely to make concessions, said a State
Department official who briefed reporters on May 23 on condition
of not being identified.  Troops Mass  Thousands of troops loyal to Assad along with Hezbollah
militia allies from neighboring Lebanon are preparing to enter
the province of Aleppo, a rebel stronghold close to the Turkish
border, the U.K.-based pro-opposition Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights  said this week.  Hezbollah is already engaged in an attempt to recapture the
the key central city of Al-Qusair. Rebels have threatened the
Shiite group with retaliatory attacks inside Lebanon, raising
the specter of a trans-national conflict, and there have since
been reports of engagements between Syrian rebels and Hezbollah
in Lebanon’s Bekaa Valley.  Turkish tanks and other armored vehicles took up position
on hillsides overlooking Syria near the town of Suruc in
Sanliurfa province today as part of an exercise, the state-run
Anatolia news agency reported. The muzzles of the Turkish guns
pointed toward Syria, it said.  About 80,000 people have died in Syria’s civil war, the
 United Nations  estimated last month.  Both government and rebel forces are increasingly engaging
in human rights abuses including summary executions, according
to a UN report published today.  Soldiers Beheaded  Syrian opposition forces recruited a 14-year-old boy from
Homs as a fighter and had a child take part in beheading two
government soldiers, according to the report presented in Geneva
to the UN Human Rights Council.  Mass executions are publicly carried out in locations such
as Daraa and Aleppo, where the rebels have established judicial
and administrative authority, the 29-page report said. The
number of extra-judicial killings and kidnappings by the
opposition has risen, and about 86 child soldiers have been
killed during combat, it said.  Commenting on the report, the Syrian National Coalition,
the main opposition group, said in an e-mailed statement it
rejects any violations of the law and would punish anyone
involved in such crimes. “Still, there’s no comparison between
those who use tons of explosives every day against an unarmed
people” and those carrying light-to-medium weapons to defend
themselves, the statement said.  With Assad barring access to  Syria  by outsiders, the report
is based on 430 interviews with victims and firsthand witnesses
to atrocities.  As reports alleging use of nerve gas multiply -- with at
least six possible incidents reported to the UN so far -- the
human-rights panel said it “is possible that anti-government
armed groups may access and use chemical weapons.” Each side in
the conflict has accused the other of chemical attacks and
denied its own involvement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  