-- U.S. 10-Year Note Repo Shortage Drives Lending Rates Negative
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-06-04T18:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/u-s-10-year-note-repo-shortage-drives-lending-rates-negative.html
A shortage of U.S. Treasury 10-year
notes in the government debt funding market has traders willing
to pay to borrow the securities in exchange for loaning cash for
the most actively traded maturity.  The overnight repurchase agreement, or repo rate, for the
1.75 percent note due in May 2023 opened at negative 2.95
percent and closed at negative 3 percent at 10 a.m.  New York 
time, according to data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
inter-dealer broker. The overnight general collateral Treasury
repurchase rate closed at 0.12 percent.  Repos “provide the oil and the grease to the financial
market,” Jerome Schneider, head of the short-term strategies
and money markets desk at  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a telephone
interview. “And dealers don’t have the collateral. As the
Fed goes and purchases more and more collateral in the
marketplace, there is less to supply to the repo market.”  Traders often short, or sell securities they’ve borrowed in
the repo market before a Treasury sale of new debt of similar
maturity, to profit if prices of the notes fall after the
auction. Typically, lenders of cash receive interest on those
loans, represented by a positive repo rate. The Treasury will
auction 10-year notes June 12.  Repo rates have traded below zero frequently since May
2009, when a 3 percentage point penalty for failing to meet
security delivery obligations was put in place. The fee,
instituted to reduce failed trades, means that at a repo rate
below negative 3 percent it is more economical for a
counterparty to fail to deliver than to obtain the needed
security in the repo market.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the  Federal Reserve ’s target rate, which is in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent, are called general collateral.
Those in highest demand have lower rates and are called
“special.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  