-- Hungary May Buy Stakes in Units of Foreign Energy Companies
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-06-04T14:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/hungary-may-buy-stakes-in-units-of-foreign-energy-companies.html
Hungary  may buy stakes in two local
units of foreign energy companies that are seeking an exit after
tariff cuts, Development Minister Laszlone Nemeth said.  Hungary, which imposed a 10 percent reduction in household
gas and electricity prices at the start of the year, has started
negotiations with companies that don’t want to suffer further
rate cuts, Nemeth said, without identifying them.  “Two companies have indicated so far that they want to
talk,” Nemeth said today in Budapest. “One of them said it is
willing to make alternative investments in Hungary if we buy
them out of the area in which they are unprofitable.”  Hungary agreed in March to buy German utility EON SE’s
domestic natural-gas business for about 870 million euros ($1.1
billion). The deal, which Nemeth said the government is seeking
to close by the autumn, is part of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
efforts to strengthen the state’s hold on strategic assets and
extend utility price reductions before elections next year.  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest utility, plans to cut
spending in Hungary as it considers business in the country a
“disaster”, RWE  East  Chief Executive Officer Martin Herrmann
said in an interview in April. French utilities  Electricite de
France SA  and  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  also have subsidiaries in Hungary.  The government plans to finance any purchases through a
possible sale of bonds by state asset manager MNV Zrt. and by
selling bonds exchangeable for MNV’s stakes in companies, Sara
Nemes Hegmanne, state secretary in charge of state assets, told
reporters today. The deals would be similar to a $1.2 billion
transaction in 2009 with the shares of Gedeon  Richter Nyrt .,
Hungary’s biggest drugmaker, Hegmanne said.  Further Round  The ruling Fidesz party has kept its lead in opinion polls
by imposing the 10 percent cut in utility prices from January
and pledging further reductions in household expenses. Hungary
is considering a further round of cuts in gas and electricity
prices in September or October, Orban said in an Inforadio
interview last week.  Investment in Hungary plunged 8.7 percent in the first
quarter from the same period last year, the biggest drop since
the fourth quarter of 2009, the statistics office said on May
31. That included a 31 percent drop in energy industry
investment, the data showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  