-- Turkey’s Arinc Appeals for Calm as Protests Continue
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2013-06-04T15:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/turkey-s-arinc-appeals-for-calm-as-protests-enter-fifth-day.html
Turkey ’s Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc sought to defuse protests that entered a fifth day today,
apologizing to victims of excessive police force and saying the
government has learned some lessons.  Initial rallies against plans to develop a park in Taksim
Square in Istanbul were “rightful and legitimate,” Arinc told
reporters in Ankara today. “The excessive use of force against
those who were acting with sensitivity on the environment was
wrong.” He also said, though, that his administration “won’t
bow to pressure that is coming from the streets,” and called on
people to withdraw so that the “extreme forces” behind the
violence can be dealt with.  The Istanbul park protest has escalated since May 31 into
nationwide unrest, as demonstrators throughout the country took
to the streets to condemn what they say is the autocratic style
of the Islamist-rooted government led by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Their grievances include alleged police
brutality, curbs on alcohol sales and restrictions on labor
unions.  Two of the main union groups, Disk and Kesk, called strike
actions today to support the protests. Thousands of Kesk members
marched to the park in Taksim, beating drums and calling on
Erdogan to resign. In Ankara, clashes continued with police
using tear gas and water cannons.  Istanbul Barricades  In both cities, barricades erected by the protesters on
central roads remain in place. Arinc didn’t say when or how
security forces plan to remove them. He said the damage from the
protests exceeds 70 million liras ($37 million) and warned that
prolonged unrest will damage Turkey’s economy and tourism
industry. Earlier, Basaran Ulusoy, chairman of a travel agency
association, said Turkey is losing bookings.  In a heated debate in parliament today, opposition
lawmakers blamed the government for the unrest. “We will end
your dictatorship,” said Mahmut Tanal, a lawmaker from the
Republican People’s Party.  Turkey’s financial markets pared losses today. The
 benchmark stock index  gained 4.9 percent at the close in
Istanbul after falling 10.5 percent yesterday, the most in more
than a decade. Yields on  two-year lira bonds  fell 75 basis
points to 6.03 percent, erasing yesterday’s 71 basis-point
surge, the biggest on record.  Arinc is standing in for Erdogan, who left the country
yesterday for a three-day trip to North Africa after telling
reporters that the protests were the work of extremist groups
backed by a political opposition unable to defeat him in
elections.  ‘Constructive’ Gul  Arinc spoke after meeting President Abdullah Gul, and he
praised the president’s “constructive” role in the crisis. Gul
yesterday said that the protest “message” had been received,
and that democracy wasn’t restricted to elections.  Gul and Erdogan are longtime political allies, though local
media have reported strains between them in recent years. While
the president’s powers are largely symbolic, his position above
party politics might enable him to play a mediating role.  Arinc said that 244 police and 64 protesters have been
injured nationwide during the demonstrations. He said a man in
Hatay earlier reported to have been shot dead during a protest
in fact died of other causes, which are still under
investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Istanbul at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  