-- Turkey Bond Yields Drop Most on Record as Stocks, Lira Rebound
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-06-04T08:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/turkey-bond-yields-drop-most-on-record-as-stocks-lira-rebound.html
Turkey ’s bonds rebounded, sending
yields plunging the most on record, while the lira and stocks
surged a day after nationwide protests against Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  trigered a market rout.  The  yield  on two-year lira notes tumbled the most in at
least eight years in percentage terms, plunging 67 basis points
to 6.11 percent at 10:53 a.m. in Istanbul. Yields surged 71
basis points yesterday, the biggest one-day jump since Bloomberg
began compiling the data. Turkey’s benchmark stock  index  rose 4
percent, its biggest advance in more than 16 months, after a 10
percent loss that was the steepest in a decade yesterday.  The protests continued in Turkish cities including Istanbul
and Ankara last night as Erdogan flew to  Morocco , the first stop
of a three-day regional tour. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc
is scheduled to hold a press conference in the capital at 12:00
p.m. today, after he meets President  Abdullah Gul .  “Hopefully, statements that would calm the people will
come at today’s press conference,” Ismail Erdem, the chief
executive of Taaleri Wealth Management in Istanbul, said in a
phone interview. “The protests are going on but at least they
have not escalated overnight. This helps calm down the
markets.”  The lira rebounded from a 17-month low, gaining 0.4 percent
to 1.8745 per dollar and snapping a five-day losing streak.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the nation’s biggest lender,
led index gains with a 4.8 percent advance, after slumping the
most in nine years yesterday.  Unrest  Political concerns will be “transitory,”  David Aserkoff ,
an equity analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , said in a
report e-mailed today. He maintains an overweight rating on
Turkish stocks.  Turkey’s unrest, which began on May 31, was sparked by
police tear-gassing a park in central Istanbul occupied by
people who opposed plans to tear it down for a redevelopment
project. By June 1, tens of thousands had poured into the Taksim
Square as demonstrations spread to other cities.  “Depending on statements from Arinc, equities may rise
further; we may see two-year yields dropping to below 6
percent,” Taaleri’s Erdem said. If the “global market
weakness” fueled by concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will scale
down its monthly asset purchases subsides, Turkey would
“continue to perform well,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  