-- VW Revs Up $20 Billion Truck Push After Years in Neutral
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-06-04T22:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/vw-revs-up-20-billion-truck-push-after-years-in-neutral.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  will look to jump-start
a stalled seven-year effort to forge  Europe ’s biggest truckmaker
tomorrow when it gains full control of struggling  MAN SE. (MAN)   So far, VW has little to show for the 15 billion euros ($20
billion) of shares it holds in MAN and  Sweden ’s  Scania AB. (SCVB)  A
vote at MAN’s shareholder meeting tomorrow will hasten
cooperation between the companies by eliminating the need for
arm’s length negotiations between VW and the German truckmaker.  As part of VW’s push to leapfrog  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  to
become Europe’s biggest truck producer, Chairman  Ferdinand Piech 
is taking a more active role in MAN. The outcome of the vote in
Munich is a formality since VW controls more than 75 percent of
MAN’s stock.  Slumping demand for new trucks in Europe and ill-fated
business decisions by the truck manufacturer have added urgency
to VW’s efforts to more closely link MAN, Scania and its own
commercial-vehicle operations.  “The truck cycle is much longer than the car cycle,” said
 Max Warburton , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein in
 Singapore . “Investments can take 20 years to pay off.”  The renewed push to cut combined annual costs by 200
million euros stands a better chance of gaining traction this
time as Piech, who also chairs MAN’s supervisory board, takes a
direct role in the process, according to four company officials
familiar with the matter. VW declined to comment.  Union Clout  Piech is enforcing closer cooperation between MAN and
Scania by using his clout with unions to overcome resistance,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private. The effort is focusing on better
utilizing MAN’s factories and lowering manufacturing spending,
the people said.  “MAN’s production network in Europe is geared toward
higher market volumes,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , a Warburg Research
GmbH analyst in Hamburg. “They will have to look at that.”  Volkswagen has been seeking a heavy-truck alliance since
buying a stake in MAN in 2006, a move that thwarted MAN’s own
effort to take over Scania, which VW partially owned.  VW, based in Wolfsburg,  Germany , gained a controlling stake
in Scania in 2008. Because of different rules in Sweden, VW
can’t push for similar control of Scania without further
boosting its stake, so the two companies will still need arm’s
length agreements. VW has no plans to invest the money needed to
take full control of Scania, based in Soedertaelje, one of the
people said.  Auto Success  Europe’s biggest automaker is seeking to replicate its car-making success in trucks. VW has cut costs by standardizing
parts across brands such as Skoda, VW and  Audi. (NSU)  That has helped
it boost profitability to fund an effort to become the global
leader by 2018.  The truck market is different -- prone to sharp swings in
demand because of the underlying economy and requiring long-term
planning to meet emissions regulations.  Daimler, the world’s biggest truckmaker, introduced a new
generation of the Mercedes-Benz Actros long-haul truck in 2011
after spending 2 billion euros on development and upgrading
factories. It was the first overhaul in 15 years, double the
normal lifecycle of a car. That gives fewer opportunities for
cost-saving joint development.  Bribery Scandals  MAN needs more immediate help. The company yesterday
forecast its return on sales to fall “significantly” this year
because of higher charges related to a power-plant deal,
“substantial” tax risks and weaker after-sales business for
its turbo and diesel unit. In the first quarter, MAN reported an
operating loss of 82 million euros, while Scania posted a profit
margin of 13.7 percent.  MAN has suffered bribery scandals in recent years. And last
year it had to write down the value of its stake in a Chinese
company, booked losses in a military-vehicle joint venture in
Germany, and absorbed unexpected costs for unwinding an Indian
partnership.  “MAN’s operating results reflect the difficult state of
the European truck sector, but they also lagged behind
competitors,” said Sascha Gommel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt .  Demand for trucks over 3.5 tons in the European Union
tumbled 14 percent in the first four months of 2013, according
to industry association ACEA. More trouble is looming for
freight haulers on MAN’s home turf as the German government
considers expanding road charges.  European Potential  The market woes don’t detract from the potential. McKinsey
forecasts average profit margins for truckmakers in Europe of
about 7 percent in 2020, compared with 6 percent in the U.S. and
1.5 percent in  China . The region will likely account for 35
percent of global truck-industry profit over the long run, even
as demand in China and other  emerging markets  drive volume
growth, according to the consultancy.  To push the cooperation, Piech last year promoted Leif Oestling, who had run Scania for more than two decades, to
Volkswagen’s management board. He takes over truck integration
from Jochem Heizmann, who struggled to boost cooperation between
MAN and Scania in two years in the role.  Following the MAN shareholder meeting, VW will offer to buy
the company’s remaining stock for 80.89 euros a share. Investors
who don’t accept the cash offer, which is about 5 percent below
the company’s  current price , will receive a guaranteed annual
dividend of 3.07 euros per share.  As VW seeks to become the world’s biggest automaker, it
“also needs a strong commercial-vehicle business,” VW Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said at his company’s
shareholder meeting in April. With the MAN and Scania alliance,
“we’ve laid the groundwork for this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  