-- Websense Board Sued Over $906 Million Sale to Buyout Firm
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-06-04T21:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/websense-board-sued-over-906-million-sale-to-buyout-firm-1-.html
Websense Inc. (WBSN) ’s directors didn’t get
the best price for the website-filtering company in a
$906 million sale to a private-equity firm and structured the
deal to unfairly bar competing bids, an investor said in a
lawsuit.  Websense’s board didn’t get enough for the firm and unduly
favored  Vista Equity Partners ’ $24.75-a-share bid last month,
shareholder Shelley Willner said in her  Delaware Chancery Court 
suit. The San Francisco-based buyout firm plans to take San
Diego-based Websense private after the deal closes.  “The board unduly focused on reaching a quick deal with a
financial buyer rather than taking the time to engage in
substantive negotiations with all interested parties,”
Willner’s lawyers said in the suit filed May 31.  Websense officials are seeking to transform the company,
best known for making software that blocks inappropriate
websites in the workplace, into a provider of broader online-security services. Vista, a $6 billion fund, is known for
 investing  in software- and technology-based businesses.  Patricia Hogan, a spokeswoman for Websense, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment today on the suit.  Content Security  Websense is refocusing on content security, including
services that protect e-mail and other data. That market is
worth about $5 billion to $6 billion, compared with less than
$1 billion for Web-content filtering, John McCormack, the
company’s chief executive officer, said at a JMP Securities
conference last month.  That transition helped Websense post record fourth-quarter
earnings and positioned the company for “future growth,”
Willner’s attorneys said in the suit.  After several private-equity firms, including Vista,
approached Websense’s board about an acquisition, company
directors hired  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s  Merrill Lynch  unit to
serve as its financial adviser, according to the suit.  Directors hired Merrill Lynch even though the financial
firm had done more than $30 million in business with Vista over
the last two years, Willner’s lawyers said. The board dismissed
claims that Merrill Lynch had a conflict in connection with the
buyout, they added. Neither Bank of America nor Merrill Lynch
are named as defendants in the case.  Other Bids  Websense’s directors rebuffed other bids for the company
and “rushed to sign” the Vista agreement after the private-equity firm agreed to keep current management in place,
Willner’s attorneys said.  The board also loaded the agreement with so-called “deal-protection devices,” such as a ban on soliciting bids other
than those outlined in the agreement and imposing an almost
$35 million termination fee if Vista’s offer is topped, the
lawyers said in the suit.  Willner is asking a judge to bar Websense and Vista from
proceeding with the buyout or to award damages if the
acquisition is completed.  The case is Willner v. Websense Inc., CA No. 8614, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  