-- Wells Fargo Expands Prime Brokerage Unit With Thomas, McCooey
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-06-05T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/wells-fargo-bolsters-prime-brokerage-unit-with-thomas-mccooey.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the bank building
a securities business to challenge  Wall Street , promoted Dan Thomas to help clients clear trades and manage collateral and
hired Deutsche Bank AG’s Eamon McCooey to run hedge-fund
services.  The moves detailed in a Wells Fargo statement yesterday are
the firm’s latest bid to round out its investment bank and move
into activities dominated by competitors.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
which runs the biggest U.S. business dedicated to serving hedge
funds, known as prime brokerage, also is expanding as post-crisis regulations force traders to comply with new rules on
clearing derivatives and post more collateral.  After credit markets froze in 2008, “a lot of people woke
up and realized there were a lot of risks and issues in the
system, and that’s forcing market-structure changes,” Thomas
said in an interview. “It became clear to us that we needed to
reconsider how we are helping clients, and that we need to be
able to provide them the funding, collateral management and the
technology that they need.”  Prime brokers help  hedge funds  and other investment firms
run their business by making it easier to borrow money or
shares, clearing trades, holding assets in custody and keeping
records. In years leading to the financial crisis, pretax profit
margins were estimated at 40 percent to 50 percent.  McCooey worked at Deutsche Bank for the past 13 years and
most recently led the Frankfurt-based company’s U.S. prime
brokerage, according to Wells Fargo, which ranks fourth by
assets among the nation’s lenders. He’ll join San Francisco-based Wells Fargo in September and report to Thomas.  Services Offered  Thomas, 48, joined Wells Fargo in its 2008 purchase of
Wachovia Corp. and was head of interest-rate and commodities
sales before yesterday’s announcement. He reports to Walter Dolhare and Tim Mullins, co-heads of the markets unit. They, in
turn, report to John Shrewsberry, head of Wells Fargo
Securities.  Thomas’s operation will bring together clearing
capabilities for over-the-counter derivatives and futures, prime
brokerage for hedge funds and other services such as securities
lending and repos, or  repurchase agreements , he said. The bank
is also building its own clearing capabilities.  The group will help customers with collateral
transformation, a process that allows them to swap lower-rated
securities for higher-quality holdings that can be used to back
derivatives trades with central clearinghouses. New rules
require investors to post top-rated assets for more transactions
and send them through clearinghouses to prevent a repeat of the
2008 market meltdown.  Competitive Field  At least seven other banks including JPMorgan are seeking
to assist customers with transformations, a practice that some
investors and academics say could obscure risks to the banks and
the financial system.  Wells Fargo has focused on prime brokerage since its plans
to build the investment bank got started. In April 2012, the
bank said it would purchase Merlin Securities LLC, which has
since been rebranded under the Wells Fargo name. While that
allows the bank to introduce clients to third parties that can
clear trades and hold assets, McCooey will be charged with
building those capabilities in-house, Thomas said.  “The first priority, provided the new owners can maintain
the prime broker and custodian-neutral approach, is to add the
execution, collateral and risk-management services of the bank
to the Merlin offering,” according to a Global Custodian report
published last year after the deal was disclosed.  Short Sales  The expansion is part of Wells Fargo’s larger push into
equity trading. While hedge funds manage $2.4 trillion globally,
according to Hedge Fund Research Inc., a fraction of the almost
$14 trillion the  Investment Company Institute  says are managed
by U.S. mutual funds, they trade more frequently and in a wider
variety of instruments. Most mutual fund managers, by contrast,
are restricted from engaging in short sales and hold onto their
stocks and bonds for months or years.  Prime brokerage helps drive other equities-trading revenue
as clients are more apt to trade with the firm,  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat has said. Equity trading at
the market leaders benefited from having the biggest prime-brokerage units, according to 2012 rankings from hedge-fund
magazine Absolute Return & Alpha.  McCooey takes over a role recently held first by Stephan Vermut and then his son Aaron Vermut. They sold Merlin to Wells
Fargo and then departed this year for Prosper Marketplace Inc.,
a peer-to-peer lender based in San Francisco.  Wells Fargo named four co-heads for equity sales and
trading last month. The bank hired former UBS AG trader Michael Riley, naming him and Matthew Brown co-heads of equity trading,
and added Patrick Neal, tapping him to oversee equity sales with
Geoff Snyder.  Wells Fargo had trading revenue last year of $1.71 billion,
the least among the six biggest U.S. banks. Revenue from
underwriting debt and equity sales and advising on mergers
climbed 33 percent in 2012 to $1.29 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  