-- What Does China Really Want?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-06-04T22:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/what-does-china-want-from-a-bilateral-relationship-world-view.html
For those Chinese paying attention to
Xi Jinping’s four-country tour of the Americas this week, one
question stands out: Why would their president want to spend two
informal days, more or less one-on-one with U.S. President
 Barack Obama   in the middle of the desert ?  This isn’t just a matter of protocol -- though there are
plenty of questions about that -- but rather a deeper inquiry
into what precisely China wants from a bilateral relationship
with the U.S.  Varying answers in Chinese media suggest the ruling
Communist Party hasn’t become accustomed to, or embraced,
China’s role as a “ great power ,” despite three-and-a-half
decades of economic and military growth. The party -- via its
official media channels -- has spent the last week softly but
explicitly damping expectations that the June 7-8 “summit” at
the Sunnylands desert estate in Rancho Mirage,  California , will
lead to a bilateral global future.  No doubt, some of the party’s discomfort with such a future
is the legacy of almost four decades of Chinese foreign policy
built on the belief (and the dictums of  Deng Xiaoping , the
architect of China’s economic resurgence) that  China’s interests
are best-served  by maintaining a low profile in international
relations. But as Jin Canrong, a professor and dean at the
School of International Studies at Renmin University in Beijing,
 wrote on May 27  for the Hong Kong-based China & U.S. Focus
website, this reticence is out of tune with the prevailing
global perception of China’s economic and political standing:  “Since China became the second largest economy with its GDP
exceeding that of  Japan  in 2010, the international community,
including the  United States , has changed views and attitude
toward China to a varying degree. . . . Back in China, the
academia and media have generally failed to put in perspective
what the second largest GDP figure holds for  China . . . .
However, the prevailing public opinions in favor of
underestimating China’s strength have prevented us from fully
understanding the reaction of the outside world.”  This gap between China’s perception of itself, and the
foreign view of the country, has the potential to create
profound misunderstandings. Jin’s focus is primarily on
foreigners’ misperceptions of China’s foreign-policy motives.  A similar argument could be made that China’s image of
itself as a low-profile, developing country has also distorted
the way its leaders view the U.S. On June 4, the nationalist,
Communist Party-owned Global Times newspaper published  an essay 
by Zhang Jiangang of the Guangdong Oceanic University, which
compares the strategic conduct underlying U.S. and Chinese
foreign policy (not necessarily in relation to each other) to a
game of chess and to the ancient Chinese board game,  Go . It’s a
simplistic, even silly, narrative, but such short-hand analogies
aren’t uncommon in Chinese foreign-policy circles. “Westerners
like to play chess,” Zhang notes. “And Chinese like to play Go.”
That’s all fine and good, but Go is “a game of cooperation and
mutual benefits instead of a game of life-or death struggle.”
Chess, on the other hand, “aims at the death of the rival” and
reveals “the western law-of-the-jungle.”  These aren’t the mere musings of a renegade, game-loving
academic. On June 2, two days before the 24th anniversary of the
military-led Tiananmen Square massacre, General Qi Jianguo, the
deputy chief of staff to the  People’s Liberation Army , told a
high-level meeting in  Singapore  that “in the past 30 years all
of the major powers have used military force to varying degrees,
with the exception of China,”  according to the Beijing Times .
His stark statement is deeply tied to the Chinese -- and
Communist Party -- narrative of having accomplished a peaceful
rise over the last several decades.  Accurate or not, that narrative has deeply influenced the
outlook of senior Chinese leaders and affects how they view
themselves in relation to what they perceive as an aggressive
U.S. that is disruptive to the international order (and thus, a
potential threat to China’s stability).  On May 31, as Xi was en route to  Trinidad and Tobago , the
People’s Daily, the mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party,
ran  a lengthy editorial on foreign policy . The goal, the
editorial declares, is to create a peaceful environment for the
rejuvenation of China, economic globalization and “multi-polarization.” Stable and respectful relations with the U.S. are
described as a long-term aim but occupy a relatively short and
platitudinous portion of the editorial.  Far richer is what comes next: “The Sino-Russian
relationship is the world’s most important bilateral
relationship, and is the best relationship between large
countries.” These words, unattributed in the editorial, are a
direct quotation of a speech that  Xi gave in Moscow in March 
during his first international visit.  The Moscow statement generated chatter on China’s Internet
at the time,  especially among those accustomed  to hearing the
“most important bilateral relationship” tag attached to the
Sino-U.S. relationship; it was largely overlooked both inside
and outside of China. That’s too bad, because what came next in
the speech provided Xi’s justification for upgrading his
relationship with  Russia  while tacitly downgrading ties with the
U.S. That explanation, too, found its way -- word-for-word and
unattributed -- into the People’s Daily editorial: “The high-level, strongly powerful Sino-Russian relationship not only
benefits both China and Russia but is also an important
guarantor of protecting the international strategic balance and
the stability of world peace.”  The U.S. isn’t mentioned, but it’s clearly cast on the
opposite side of the balance, across from Russia and China,
which are both undergoing “revivals,” according to how the
editorial labels them. None of this is news, but it’s notable
that People’s Daily and its masters felt the need to insert a
reminder of which really is China’s most important bilateral
relation in advance of a visit to the country that most of the
world believes should hold that mantle.  Perhaps Xi and his team were sending a message to their
Russian partners. Just as likely, they were sending a reminder
to their Chinese audience of where they envision themselves
standing. Whatever the meaning, one thing is certain: Xi and
Obama might become better friends during the informal meetings
at Sunnylands, but it’s unlikely that their respective
governments will follow suit.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 