-- Wheat Bear Market Worsens as U.S. Farms Lose Share: Commodities
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-06-04T21:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/wheat-bear-market-worsens-as-u-s-farms-lose-share-commodities.html
U.S. wheat farmers are enduring
torrential spring rain after last year’s drought, reducing their
share of worldwide exports to a near-record low at a time when
rising global supply is driving prices into a bear market.  Shipments will fall to 17.6 percent of global exports in
the 12 months through May 2014, compared with 20.3 percent in
2013 and the all-time low of 17.5 percent in 2010, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates. The domestic crop is
contracting for the fourth time in five years, and expanding
harvests from Canada to  Russia  are curbing the dominance of U.S.
growers, who accounted for half of sales in 1974.  Prices tumbled into a bear market in January and ample
supplies will send futures traded in  Chicago  down an additional
12 percent to $6.25 a bushel in six months, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. predicts. That will threaten farmers’ profit in the U.S.,
where winter wheat in the southern Great Plains was damaged by
the worst drought since the 1930s Dust Bowl before too much rain
delayed northern spring-wheat planting. U.S. farm income rose 14
percent to $128.2 billion last year as prices surged and
insurers made record payouts for ruined fields.  “It’s not as rosy as it was last year,” said Gary
Millershaski, who saw drought destroy about 450 of the 2,800
acres of hard, red winter wheat he grows 21 miles west of Garden
City,  Kansas . “We don’t get to set our prices. We just take
what the market delivers. Worrying about prices would eat you
up. It’s hard enough worrying about the weather.”  More Supply  Prices tumbled 25 percent on the Chicago Board of Trade
since reaching an almost four-year high of $9.4725 on July 23.
The July contract closed today at $7.09. This year’s 8.9 percent
drop compares with a 4.1 percent retreat in the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight commodities. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities gained 8.1 percent, and a
Bank of America Corp. index shows Treasuries lost 1.1 percent.  Global wheat  production  will jump 6.9 percent to a record
701.1 million metric tons in the year that began on June 1,
exceeding the 3 percent expansion in demand to 694.1 million
tons, the USDA said May 10. A 6.6 percent increase from  Canada ,
the second-largest exporter, and gains of 48 percent in Russia
and 40 percent in Ukraine compare with a 9.4 percent drop in the
U.S.  Combined  exports  from all suppliers will rise 4.3 percent
to 143.32 million tons, even as U.S. shipments contract for a
third year, down 9.8 percent to 25.17 million tons, according to
the USDA.  Hedge funds and other large speculators held  bearish bets 
on prices every week this year, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. As of May 28, the net-short position was
36,167 futures and options, 31 percent more than the average
since the start of January.  Crop Damage  The risk of further crop damage may revive prices. While
the drought is over in most of the U.S., winter-wheat fields
sown in October remain parched in western Kansas,  Oklahoma  and
Texas, where farmers may begin harvesting by the end of June.
Production of winter varieties, which accounted for 72 percent
of the crop in the past season, will drop 10 percent this year
to 1.486 billion bushels, including a 23 percent plunge in hard,
red winter wheat grown in the Plains, USDA data show.  As of May 28 in Kansas, 48 percent of the state was in
extreme or exceptional drought, meaning crop losses are
inevitable or already occurred, compared with less than 0.1
percent a year earlier, the Lincoln, Nebraska-based U.S. Drought
Monitor reported. Oklahoma was at 27 percent, compared with 3.5
percent a year earlier.  Rain Delays  Spring-wheat planting has been delayed by rain, with about
80 percent of the anticipated acreage sown by June 2, compared
with 100 percent a year earlier, according to the government.
Rainfall in North Dakota, the largest grower, was six times the
average in the past month, National Weather Service data show.
The harvest is mostly in September. Iowa had its wettest April
and May in records going back to 1873, according to Harry Hillaker, the state climatologist.  The International Grains Council in  London  raised its
forecast for global wheat production to 682.1 million tons on
May 31, 2.2 million tons above its April estimate. The agency
predicted bigger stockpiles and said world trade will shrink as
importers and exporters harvest more grain.  Lower wheat prices are helping to contain global  food
costs , which the United Nations says have risen for three
consecutive months, the longest expansion in about a year. The
Rome-based Food & Agriculture Organization estimated the annual
worldwide food-import bill at $1.14 trillion in November.  Locked Costs  Costs for some buyers may not drop immediately because they
usually lock in future supply. Grupo Bimbo SAB, based in  Mexico 
City and the largest bread maker, hedged its wheat purchases
through September, Chief Financial Officer Guillermo Quiroz Abed
said on a conference call April 26. While overall commodity
expenses for Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. franchisees will be flat
to lower this year, wheat will be unfavorable, Chief Supply
Officer Scott Murphy told investors May 7.  Improving weather conditions and more planting after last
year’s jump in prices are boosting supplies from Canada,
Australia and Russia, the three biggest exporters after the
U.S., according to the USDA. The 27-nation European Union will
probably reap 138.8 million tons when the harvest starts in
July, 5.1 percent more than last year. Nations in the former
Soviet Union, including Ukraine and Kazakhstan, will boost
exports by 43 percent, the USDA predicts.  Wheat exports from Russia, where output will jump to 56
million tons from 37.7 million, fetched $270 a ton on May 31,
less than the $330 for U.S. grain at ports in the Gulf of
Mexico, according to Matt Ammermann, a London-based analyst at
INTL FCStone. U.S. export  prices  dropped 11 percent this year.  Genetically Modified  Importers also may avoid U.S. wheat after a farmer in
 Oregon  found an unapproved, genetically modified strain growing
in his field.  Japan , the biggest buyer behind Mexico, suspended
imports of western-white wheat and feed wheat from the U.S.,
while South Korea increased import inspections. Scientists said
the rogue grain was a strain tested from 1998 to 2005 by
 Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s top seedmaker.  Record  corn  and soybean crops also may keep prices in check
by reducing demand for wheat in livestock feed. After wheat’s
premium to corn surged to $1.685 a bushel on May 23, the most
since February 2011, the spread probably will narrow to 70 cents
in the next several months, said Frank Cholly, a senior
commodities broker at RJO Futures in Chicago.  Good Rain  While rain delayed spring crops in the U.S., they helped
improve winter-wheat varieties grown east of the Mississippi
River. Production of soft, red winter wheat will jump 19 percent
to a six-year high of 500.9 million bushels (13.6 million tons),
the government predicts. North Carolina, the biggest producer of
the variety, had 70 percent of its crop rated  good or excellent 
on June 2 by the USDA. That compares with 7 percent in  Texas  and
11 percent in South Dakota.  The extra production will only partly compensate for the
slump in futures because not all farmers locked in prices. CBOT
futures for December delivery, after the harvest, closed today
at $7.3175 after having peaked at $9.13 in November.  “There will be some fields that will be the best we’ve
ever had,” said Jeff Scates, 42, who helps farm 1,200 acres of
soft-red winter wheat near Shawneetown,  Illinois . “I could’ve
sold wheat for $8. Now I’ll be lucky to get $7.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  