-- Williams Overcomes Serve Woes and Kuznetsova in Paris
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-04T15:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/williams-overcomes-serve-woes-and-kuznetsova-in-paris.html
Women’s top seed  Serena Williams 
overcame losing her serve four times as she beat  Svetlana Kuznetsova  in three sets to move to the French Open semifinals.  Williams of the U.S. defeated the unseeded Russian, 6-1,
3-6, 6-3 on a gusty Court Suzanne Lenglen at Roland Garros in
Paris.  “It was difficult match today, I am so tired,” the 2002
champion said in a courtside interview in French after she won
the match with a forehand volley drive. “I’m not surprised she
played so well, because she has won here before. I’m just so
happy to win a quarterfinal here, it hasn’t happened in a few
years.”  Williams plays  Sara Errani  in the semifinals. The No. 5
seed from Italy earlier today beat fourth-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska of  Poland , 6-4, 7-6 (8-6) on the main Court Philippe
Chatrier.  “Sara is such a great fighter, she was a finalist last
year,” Williams said.  Switzerland ’s No. 2 seed  Roger Federer  is playing  France ’s
No. 6 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in a men’s quarterfinal, while No. 4
 David Ferrer  meets fellow Spaniard Tommy Robredo.  Williams took control at the start of the match, winning
the first set in 28 minutes as she twice broke serve and fired
15 winners.  The momentum shifted in the second set, with the 2009
champion breaking the American’s serve for the first time in the
tournament in the opening game after she’d gone off court for a
few minutes with the trainer for a medical timeout. Kuznetsova
went up a double break as Williams’ first-serve win percentage
dipped to 50 percent in the second set from 74 percent in the
first, causing her to shout at friends and family in her seats.  Second Set  After clawing back one break, Williams dropped serve for a
third straight time as Kuznetsova took a 5-1 lead. Spraying
errors from the baseline, Williams swore at herself before
regaining her composure and breaking serve for the second time.  Serving for the set at 5-3, Kuznetsova fended off four
breakpoints. She forced the match into a final set with a
backhand drop shot, which Williams got to on time, yet dumped in
the net.  In the third set, Williams rallied from 0-2 down to 4-2 as
her intensity increased. She clenched her fist and shouted
“Come On” to her box with her mother Oracene Price and
coaching consultant Patrick Mouratoglou as she broke for 3-2
with a forehand winner deep in the corner. Williams moved to her
first semifinal in Paris in a decade with her 37th winner of the
match. Kuznetsova had 19 winners.  Williams, at 31 the oldest top-ranked woman, had entered
Roland Garros as the 5-4 favorite to win her second French Open
title, according to U.K. bookmaker  William Hill Plc. (WMH)  That means
a successful $4 bet will return $5 plus the original wager.
Today’s victory extends her career-best win streak to 29
matches, included victories on red clay in  Madrid  and Rome.  Williams’ opening loss in Paris last year to then 111th-ranked Virginie Razzano -- her earliest in a Grand Slam --
triggered a run back to the top spot in women’s tennis.  Since then, Williams lifted her Grand Slam single
championship tally to 15 by winning Wimbledon and the  U.S. Open ,
added the season-ending WTA Championships, and took gold medals
in singles and doubles at the London Olympics. She’s only lost
three matches in the past twelve months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  