-- Won Climbs Most in Seven Weeks as Fed Concern Eases; Bonds Gain
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-06-04T01:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/won-climbs-most-in-seven-weeks-as-fed-concern-eases-bonds-gain.html
The won rose the most in seven weeks
after U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly shrank, easing concern the
 Federal Reserve  will taper asset purchases that have fueled
demand for emerging-market assets. Government bonds gained.  The South Korean currency led gains in Asia after the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to the
lowest since June 2009, a report showed yesterday. Data tomorrow
may show the pace of hiring in the U.S. quickened. Uncertainties
are increasing amid a possible U.S. exit from stimulus measures,
Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok and Bank of Korea Governor Kim
Choong Soo said in a joint statement today. They agreed to
support economic growth while ensuring  price stability .  “The U.S. ISM data was worse than expected, easing
speculation about the Fed’s policy,” said Sun Sung In, an
analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. in  Seoul . “Investors are
awaiting the U.S. jobless data this week, and the won’s rise may
be limited depending on the timing of the Fed’s policy shift.”  The won rose 0.6 percent to 1,121.15 per dollar as of 10:11
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency climbed as much as 0.7 percent, the biggest gain since
April 15. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 30 basis
point, or 0.30 percentage point, to 8.94 percent.  The ADP Research Institute will probably say tomorrow the
pace of hiring in the U.S. quickened by 46,000 jobs to 165,000
in May from the previous month, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  ‘Mixed Message’  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview yesterday that policy makers are committed
to record stimulus measures even as divergent views of when to
reduce bond purchases create a “mixed message.” The won fell
2.5 percent last month on concern an improving U.S. economy will
prompt the central bank to scale back its $85 billion in monthly
debt purchases.  External conditions may change unexpectedly and the country
needs to respond flexibly to the changes, BOK Governor Kim said
today. South Korea’s bond market volatility may increase in the
second half of the year and the government aims to ensure
stability “in a predictable way,” Gwak Bum Gook, director
general at South Korean Finance Ministry’s treasury bureau, said
in a speech in Seoul yesterday.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent  government bonds 
due March 2018 fell two basis point to 2.88 percent, prices from
Korea Exchange Inc. show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  