-- WTI Futures Rebound as U.S. Crude Inventories Decline
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-06-05T13:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/wti-crude-advances-as-u-s-stockpiles-decline-by-most-this-year.html
West Texas Intermediate advanced in
 New York  amid signs of a reduction in U.S. crude inventories.  Futures gained as much as 1 percent in New York. A
government report today will show supplies declined by 800,000
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The  American
Petroleum Institute  said yesterday that crude stockpiles shrank
7.79 million barrels last week, the most since Dec. 28. The U.S.
will today extend waivers from sanctions for nine nations that
import Iranian oil, a U.S. official said.  “The big drop in crude inventories in the API report is
supporting things,” said Andy Sommer, a senior oil analyst at
Axpo Trading AG in Dietikon,  Switzerland , who predicts that
Brent, the European benchmark, will trade from $100 to $105 a
barrel this month. “The market is going to tighten going into
the third quarter.”  WTI for July delivery climbed 83 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
to $94.14 a barrel at 9:08 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The price reached $94.23 at 9:03 a.m. The volume of
all futures traded was 28 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for July settlement was 40 cents higher at $103.64 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $9.50 to WTI. The
spread was $9.93 yesterday, the widest based on closing prices
since April.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline stockpiles fell 1.3 million barrels in the
week ended May 31, the API said. An Energy Information
Administration report today is projected to show supplies rose  1
million barrels , according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
in the Bloomberg survey.  Distillate inventories, including heating oil and diesel,
increased  241,000 barrels , according to the API data. The EIA,
the Energy Department’s statistical arm, will probably report a
1.4 million-barrel gain, the survey shows.  Crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for WTI contracts and the biggest oil storage hub in the U.S.,
dropped  454,000 barrels  last week, according to the API data.
That was the first decline in four weeks.  The API in Washington collects supply information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the EIA for its weekly survey.  Iran Sanctions  Sanctions exemptions on Iranian oil imports for China,
India, Malaysia,  South Korea , Singapore,  South Africa ,  Sri
Lanka , Turkey and Taiwan will be extended, according to the U.S.
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
decision hasn’t been made public.  A December 2011 law cuts off access to the U.S. banking
system for any foreign financial institutions that handle oil
trading with  Iran , unless their home countries have earned a
waiver by significantly reducing imports. The measures are
intended to pressure the Persian Gulf nation to abandon aspects
of its nuclear program, which the U.S. and  Israel  say are aimed
at developing atomic weapons.  Employment data from the U.S. and trade figures from China
are scheduled this week.  U.S. employers probably added 167,000 workers last month,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before Labor
Department data on June 7.  China  is scheduled to release May
import and export figures on June 8.  WTI’s rebound may stall along its middle Bollinger Band, at
about $94.40 a barrel today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Futures yesterday halted an intraday advance near
this indicator for a fourth day, signaling where sell orders may
be clustered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  