-- Yellow Syndrome Found in Australian Sugar Cane as Harvest Starts
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-06-04T06:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/yellow-syndrome-found-in-australian-sugar-cane-as-harvest-starts.html
Australia ’s sugar industry is
investigating a new condition that causes cane leaves to turn
yellow amid concern it may curb production as the harvest begins
in the world’s third-biggest exporter.  Yellow canopy syndrome has been found in fields in the
Burdekin, Herbert, Tully and Mulgrave regions in north
Queensland, said Andrew Ward, professional extension and
communications unit manager at BSES Ltd. The Brisbane-based
 group , funded mainly by a voluntary levy paid by sugar cane
farmers and millers, is the principal provider of research and
development to the industry, according to its website.  The country’s sugar cane crush starts this week, according
to the Australian Sugar Milling Council. The harvest will total
about 30.5 million tons, down from expectations of 33 million
tons, because of the yellowing condition and flooding in
southern growing regions, it said May 30. Global sugar prices
have slumped 53 percent since reaching a three-decade high in
2011 on increasing global production. The cause of the syndrome
has not been identified, according to Ward.  “In some fields that are exhibiting stress from other
causes, it seems to really exaggerate that stress and leads to
stalled growth and poor production,” Ward said by phone from
Brisbane today. “But there’s also fields that are exhibiting
symptoms that have very high yield potential and appear to be in
all other senses unaffected by it.”  Sugar Output  Australian farmers harvested about 30.4 million tons of
cane last year, according to producers’ group Canegrowers. Sugar
output may total 4.5 million tons in the year starting July 1
from 4.3 million tons a year earlier, the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences  said  in March.  Yellow canopy syndrome was first found in a couple of
fields in the Mulgrave region around Cairns early last year,
Ward said. “This year, the scale of the problem has grown very
significantly,” he said.  Sugar for July delivery lost 0.7 percent to 16.43 cents a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  yesterday. Sugar is the
fourth-worst performer on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
 commodities  this year. Australia will be the third-largest
exporter in 2012-2013, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  