-- Dollar Gains as Investors Bet on Faster Growth: Aussie Declines
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-04T21:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/yen-declines-as-stocks-advance-on-fed-outlook-aussie-weakens.html
The  Dollar Index  advanced from an
almost one-month low amid speculation faster U.S. economic
growth will bolster investors’ risk appetite and increase demand
for higher-yielding assets.  Japan’s currency depreciated to more than 100 per dollar
after climbing to the strongest in three weeks yesterday.
Australia’s dollar declined versus all of its 16 major
counterparts after the nation’s central bank said the inflation
outlook provided some scope for further monetary easing. April’s
 U.S. trade deficit  widened, reflecting a rebound in imports that
point to gains in spending, after a report yesterday showed the
nation’s manufacturing shrank last month.  “I don’t think one weaker U.S. number changed a lot of
minds here about the overall stronger dollar story, and in
particular the stronger dollar-yen view,”  Vassili Serebriakov ,
a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview.  The dollar gained 0.5 percent to 100.03 per yen at 5 p.m.
New York time. Japan’s currency appreciated to 98.87 yesterday,
the strongest since May 9. The yen declined 0.5 percent to
130.84 per euro. The dollar was little changed at $1.3081 per
euro.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, rose 0.1 percent to 82.769, after adding as much as
0.4 percent. The gauge depreciated 0.9 percent yesterday,
touching the lowest level since May 9.  Options Volume  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $31 billion, compared with $37 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  was $6.9 billion, the largest share
of trades at 22 percent. Dollar-Chinese  yuan  options were the
second most-actively traded, at $6.6 billion, or 21 percent.  Yen-dollar options trading was 12 percent less than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day.
Dollar-yuan options trading was 106 percent more than average.  Deutsche Bank AG’s G-10 FX Carry Basket index fell 3.3
percent last month, the biggest decline since May 2012, reducing
its gain this year to 1.1 percent.  “With growth slowing globally, there are concerns about
these higher-yielding currencies, commodity-oriented
currencies,” Robert Sinche, the global strategist at Pierpont
Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Julie Hyman. “Its
best days are behind it and it’s going to be more of a trading
market, rather than just a long-term positioning market.”  Carry Trade  While Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  made the
dollar ideal for funding the carry trade -- borrowing in low-interest-rate currencies to buy higher-yielding assets -- by
keeping  interest rates  at a record low and buying bonds, his
signal last month that extraordinary stimulus could be pared if
there’s a sustained economic improvement pushed up borrowing
costs and volatility.  The widening of the U.S. trade deficit in April to $40.3
billion from a more than three-year low reflected a rebound in
imports of  consumer goods  and business equipment that eases
concern about the degree of slowing in economic growth.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares gained 0.9 percent
and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.3 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained as much as 0.4 percent before
dropping 0.6 percent.  Japanese Deflation  “If U.S. equities do well, more investors want to hold
U.S. assets,”  Geoffrey Yu , a senior currency strategist at UBS
AG in  London , said in a phone interview. “In a positive-risk
environment right now, clearly the dollar is responding
favorably.”  Japan’s currency weakened against the majority of its most-traded peers. Wages in the country rose by the most in a year in
April, in a gain that supports Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
campaign to reflate the world’s third-biggest economy after 15
years of falling prices.  “The market is giving back some of its recent moves, with
the yen weakening,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The performance
of the  U.S. economy  and Fed policy direction will be important
for the yen.”  Japan’s currency will weaken toward 110 per dollar over the
next 12 months, Hardman said.  Stability Mechanism  The euro fell as much as 0.3 percent versus the dollar amid
reports that  Germany  has secured French support to delay rules
on direct bank aid from the euro area’s firewall fund, calling
into question when the tool will be available, according to two
European officials.  Euro-area finance ministers had aimed to reach political
agreement this month on when and how the European Stability
Mechanism could help banks so that the new program is ready next
year when common supervision starts within the currency bloc.  “Euro has been on the defensive since headlines broke
about ESM,”  Daragh Maher , a London-based currency strategist at
HSBC Holdings Plc., said in an e-mailed message.  The Aussie weakened as the central bank held its benchmark
interest rate at a  record-low  2.75 percent.  The exchange rate “remains high considering the decline in
export prices that has taken place over the past year and a
half,”  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in
a  statement .  Australia’s dollar fell 1.2 percent to 96.50 U.S. cents
after jumping 2.1 percent yesterday.  The Aussie has declined 3.9 percent this year, the second-worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen posted the
biggest drop, falling 10.9 percent, while the dollar gained 4.4
percent and the euro added 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  