-- Yuan Gains a Second Day as Central Bank Sets Record Fixing
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-06-04T08:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/yuan-gains-a-second-day-as-central-bank-sets-record-fixing.html
The  yuan  advanced for a second day
after the People’s Bank of  China  strengthened the currency’s
reference rate to a record.  The central bank will not intentionally depreciate the yuan
to boost competitiveness, People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  was cited as saying by China Central Television
yesterday. Yuan positions at Chinese financial institutions
stemming from foreign-exchange transactions, a gauge of capital
inflows, surged 294.4 billion yuan ($48 billion) in April after
a first-quarter increase of 1.22 trillion yuan that was more
than four times the gain a year earlier, official data show.  “There are still capital inflows coming in and that
continues to put appreciation pressure on the  renminbi ,” said
Khoon Goh, a senior strategist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “The PBOC is accommodating
that appreciation because if they don’t then the PBOC will be
forced to intervene in the market and accumulate foreign-exchange reserves that are already at a high level.”  The yuan advanced 0.05 percent to 6.1286 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to China Foreign Exchange Trade System
prices. It reached 6.1210 on May 27, the strongest level since
the government unified official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993. The monetary authority boosted the yuan’s  reference
rate  by 0.11 percent to a record 6.1735 per dollar.  The spot rate is allowed to diverge from the fixing by a
maximum 1 percent and China intervenes in the currency market to
prevent a breach of the trading band. The nation’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest, climbed $131 billion in
the first quarter to a record $3.44 trillion.  Offshore Yuan  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan rose 0.08 percent
to 6.1320 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed at
6.2502, a 1.9 percent discount to the onshore exchange rate.  Investors should bet on a retreat in the yuan as the real
effective exchange rate has surged rapidly, eroding the
competitiveness of China’s exporters, Credit Agricole CIB said
in a note yesterday.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, held
at 1.93 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  