-- Zloty Gains Most in 2013 on Pro-Stimulus U.S. Data, Polish Rates
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-06-04T15:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-04/zloty-gains-most-in-2013-on-pro-stimulus-u-s-data-polish-rates.html
The zloty strengthened the most since
December as an unexpected decline in U.S. manufacturing tempered
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will slow the pace of asset
purchases, boosting demand for emerging-market currencies.  Global  market sentiment  improved after the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index fell to 49 in May, the
lowest reading since 2009, according to a report yesterday. The
zloty also advanced as derivative traders pared expectations
over the scope of Poland’s interest-rate cut tomorrow.  “The fear of the Fed winding up quantitative easing passed
after weaker U.S. manufacturing data yesterday, supporting the
zloty alongside other  emerging markets  currencies,” Sebastian Cichy, foreign exchange trader at BNP Paribas SA in Warsaw, said
in an e-mailed comment to Bloomberg questions today. “We are
seeing some speculative purchases as the currencies have reached
attractive levels.”  The zloty jumped 1 percent to 4.2238 against the euro at
4:14 p.m. in Warsaw, rising for the third day from an 11-month
low reached last week. It was the second-best performer among
emerging markets currencies tracked by Bloomberg, behind South
Africa’s rand, which surged 1.4 percent.  Bernanke Trigger  Even after today’s gain, the zloty is 1.1 percent weaker
against the euro since Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22
the Fed “could take a step down” in its pace of purchases in
the next few months if it saw sustained improvement in the  U.S.
economy . That is the fourth-best performance among the more than
20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The  yields  on the Polish government’s two-year bonds were
little changed at 2.66 percent before the Monetary Policy
Council’s decision on  interest rates  tomorrow.  The rate panel, led by central bank Governor Marek Belka,
will reduce the  main reference rate  by 25 basis points to a
record 2.75 percent, according to 38 out of 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Overnight index swaps show a 99.5 percent
chance of a quarter-point cut in the bank’s  reference rate  this
week and a 0.5 percent probability of a half-point cut. A week
ago, the instruments showed a 53 percent probability of a 50
basis-point reduction.  “There is no chance for a cut by 50 basis points,” Marek Kaczor, head of fixed income and derivatives at Poland’s largest
lender PKO Bank Polski SA, said by e-mail. “The most rational
scenario is two cuts by 25 basis points, in June and July.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  