-- Taiwan Considers Luxury Tax Rule Change to Curb Property Prices
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-07-27T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/taiwan-considers-luxury-tax-rule-change-to-curb-property-prices.html
Taiwan (TWGDCONY)  is considering changes in
luxury tax rules to narrow the gap between property prices and
incomes amid slower pace of economic expansion.  “Current rules have flaws, for example, we are unable to
tax those deep-pocket investors, who can wait for more than two
years to sell properties,” Finance Minister Chang Sheng-ford
said in a briefing on July 26. Changes may include a levy on
buyers of properties, he said. Sellers are already taxed.  The move comes amid an increase in prices of properties in
Taipei City, the country’s capital, and a widening in the gap
between  home prices  and incomes.  Taiwan , which imposed luxury
tax from June 2011, may extend the current levy on investment
properties sold within two years of purchase, Chang said.  A 15 percent tax applies to commercial and residential
investment properties sold within a year of purchase and 10
percent to those sold within two years. A 10 percent tax applies
on sales of  luxury goods  such as yachts and airplanes worth at
least NT$3 million ($100,328), and furs and furniture valued at
NT$500,000 or more.  Taiwan in May lowered its official forecast for gross
domestic product  growth  this year to 2.4 percent from 3.59
percent amid weakening global recovery.  The changes in taxation will focus on real estate rather
than other luxury items, Chang said. The  finance ministry  will
discuss with the industry and experts next month before drawing
a blueprint, he said. The administration may seek approval in
the Legislative’s next session starting September.  Taiwan’s overall house price-to-income ratio increased to
8.9 in the first quarter this year from 8.2 a year earlier,
according to  data  on Ministry of the Interior’s website. Taipei
City saw its residential property price index rise 6.7 percent
in April this year from August 2012, the city government said in
a  statement .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  