-- Mali Is Ready for First Round of Presidential Election, EU Says
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   F r a n c o i s   R i h o u a y
-- 2013-07-27T15:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/mali-is-ready-for-first-round-of-presidential-election-eu-says.html
Mali  is ready for the first round of
its presidential election and its winner will have an
“unquestionable legitimacy,” the head of the European Union’s
observation mission said.  Mali’s 6.9 million eligible voters go to the polls tomorrow
to elect a president after an ethnic Touareg uprising in the
north prompted underequipped soldiers to overthrow the
government more than a year ago.  “Even if it’s not perfect, the preparations have gone
beyond the expectations,” Louis Michel said today in an
interview in Bamako, the West African nation’s capital.  After the Touaregs linked up with Islamist militants in an
offensive that almost split the nation in half, former colonial
ruler  France  started in January an air and ground campaign to
drive them out of the main northern cities.  Frontrunners among the 27 candidates are ex-prime minister
Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, 68, and 64-year-old Soumaila Cisse, a
former finance minister and ex-commission chairman of the West
African Monetary Union. Mali is  Africa ’s third-biggest gold
producer.  As many as 85 percent of the voting cards were distributed
yesterday evening, according to Gamer Dicko, head of
communications at the Ministry of Territorial Administration.  “Malians have understood the importance of the vote,”
Mamoutou Diabate, head of the Forum of Civil Society
Organizations, said today.  He expects the turnout to be at least 37 percent compared
with 17 percent for the last election in 2007. If a run-off is
necessary, it will be held between the top two candidates on
Sunday, Aug. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Francois Rihouay in Bamako at 
 frihouay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  