-- Maruti to Add Small Goods Carrier Amid Competitive Intensity
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-07-27T12:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/maruti-to-add-small-goods-carrier-amid-competitive-intensity.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker by volume, said it plans to introduce
a light commercial vehicle amid intensifying competition in the
passenger vehicle segment.  The board of the local unit of  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  decided
two days ago on the new vehicle, which will compete in the lower
end of the market, Maruti Chairman R.C. Bhargava told reporters
in  New Delhi  today. The vehicle will be offered in both gasoline 
and diesel engine options, he said without providing a date for 
the introduction.  Maruti is facing increasing competition as automakers such
as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  unveil new models in a market where
industrywide car sales in the year ended March posted their
biggest decline since 2001, while the light-commercial goods
carrier segment expanded 16 percent. The carmaker’s revenue in
the June-ended quarter missed analyst estimates after its local
deliveries in the period dropped 6.8 percent.  “There is a promising outlook for the light commercial
vehicles,” said Bhargava. “Maruti will grow its passenger
vehicles business separately, but growing another segment
provides for inbuilt de-risking.”  The company will probably use technology available with its
parent Suzuki to develop the new vehicle, Bhargava said without
elaboration.  Maruti will compete with  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , India’s biggest
truckmaker, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. and Ashok Leyland Ltd. for
a share of the small goods carrier market. Local deliveries of
light goods carriers increased to 476,734 units in the year
ended March, according to the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers .  “Maruti, because of its deep penetration and understanding
of the market, will have an advantage and they can get a good
market share,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst with BRICS
Securities in Mumbai. “The retail segment will drive LCV sales
because urban markets are dependent on the hub-and-spoke
model.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  