-- Barclays Said to Favor CoCos Over Shares to Meet Rules
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-27T15:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/barclays-sais-to-favor-cocos-over-shares-to-meet-rules.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank by assets, is considering plans to bolster capital
by selling contingent convertible bonds, according to two people
with knowledge of the talks.  The lender, under pressure by the the country’s Prudential
Regulation Authority, favors issuing CoCos instead of new stock,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the bank
is still in talks and no decision has been reached. London-based
Barclays received shareholder approval at its annual meeting on
April 25 to sell CoCos, which become shares if its core Tier 1
equity ratio drops below a set level.  Barclays, which holds the least  capital  as a proportion of
its assets of Britain’s four biggest banks, must either raise 7
billion pounds ($11 billion) in equity or cut 240 billion pounds
of assets to meet a 3 percent leverage ratio set by the Bank of
 England ’s PRA if it’s forced to comply this year, analysts
estimate. The lender, which is eliminating 3,700 jobs to cut
costs, will report second-quarter results on July 30.  “CoCos would be attractive to Barclays as they’re cheaper
than raising equity,” said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore
Capital in Liverpool, England, who recommends buying the stock.
Still, that could mean “there’d be little future motivation for
equity holders to put money into a struggling bank, waiting
instead for CoCos to trigger.”  ‘Quite Happy’  Barclays is the second-best performer of Britain’s five
largest banks after  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , having gained 22
percent this year. The shares closed at 320.15 pence yesterday,
down 0.7 percent, leaving them little changed in the week.  The bank has held talks with investment banks in recent
weeks about a potential stock offering, according to the Wall
Street Journal. Officials at Barclays declined to comment.  Barclays is seeking to persuade regulators that contingent
capital would be sufficient to make it safer, said one of the
people. Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  told investors in
February the bonds would be part of the capital plan.  “Equity holders are now quite happy for banks to be well-capitalized and safer,” said Cormac Leech, a London-based
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. with a hold rating on the stock.  Basel Guidelines  The bank may opt for additional Tier 1 bonds, which are
likely to be priced more expensively than CoCos and convert to
shareholder funds to absorb losses rather than shares, said
Christopher Wheeler, an analyst at Mediobanca SpA in London,
with an outperform rating. They could count as core Tier 1
capital in a similar way shares do under Basel rules, he said.  The Basel committee published a draft leverage ratio in
2010 as part of a general overhaul of its capital standards. The
group is working on the details of the measure, which is
scheduled to become binding from 2018. It would require banks to
hold Tier 1 capital equivalent to 3 percent of their assets,
with no scope for these assets to be risk weighted.  Paul Tucker and Andrew Bailey, deputy governors of the Bank
of England, have said that the leverage ratio should be imposed
immediately, bringing Basel guidelines forward.  Jenkins, 52, said last month the Barclays can meet the
requirement quicker than planned “with minor income effects.”
The CEO announced in February that the bank will trim 1.7
billion pounds in annual expenses by 2015 and cut costs to about
55 percent of income from 71 percent in the first quarter.  Leverage Ratio  The bank could reduce the size of its 177 billion-pound
repo-financing business, where securities such as Treasuries and
mortgage bonds are sold with an agreement by the borrower to buy
them back later,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analyst Huw van Steenis wrote in
a note to clients. Barclays may also cut loans to other banks or
reduce its liquid asset buffer, he said.  The 3 percent leverage ratio, which aims to limit the risks
to the taxpayer in a repeat of the financial crisis, would force
banks to hold 3 pounds of equity for every 100 pounds of assets.
Both Barclays and Nationwide Building Society, the U.K.’s
largest customer-owned lender, fell short of the goal at 2.5
percent and 2 percent respectively.  The PRA gave Nationwide until 2015 to comply, allowing the
mutual to avoid issuing capital that could have forced its
member-owners to cede control. Jenkins suggested last month that
bringing forward the leverage ratio may choke off lending.  ‘Pessimistic Scenario’  Even if given until the end of 2014, Barclays may still
need to sell as much as 6 billion pounds of stock because the
bank, which acquired the North American business of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, may be required to hold more
capital by U.S. regulators, said  Mike Trippitt , a London-based
analyst at Numis Securities Ltd. with a sell rating on Barclays.  “Recent history suggests that the pessimistic scenario may
well become the realistic scenario,” wrote Trippitt, adding
that Barclays may be reticent about raising equity as the stock
is trading at a discount relative to its book value.  The lender trades at 0.79 times its book value, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Out of Britain’s five biggest
banks, Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is the
only other lender to trade below its net asset value.  With RBS trading below the government’s 407-pence break-even price, Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne may
struggle to meet his 2010 election pledge to offer the shares to
voters. The bank, which is 81 percent owned by the government,
closed at 328 pence in  London  yesterday.  By contrast, Lloyds has increased 43 percent this year,
trading above the 61-pence break-even price the government has
set to start reducing its 39 percent stake in the lender. While
the preference is to wait until September or October, the
process could start after the lender reports first-half results
on Aug. 1, according to a person familiar with the talks.  Officials at Lloyds and U.K. Financial Investments Ltd.,
which oversees the government stake, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  