-- Canada Dollar Holds Weekly Gains for Longest Streak in 10 Months
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-07-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/canada-dollar-holds-weekly-gains-for-longest-streak-in-10-months.html
The Canadian dollar rose for a third
week, the longest winning stretch since September, after the
biggest gain in retail sales in three years sparked bets for
faster economic growth this year.  Canada  will report May gross domestic product figures next
week forecast to show the economy grew 0.3 percent in May
following a 0.1 percent expansion in April. Federal Reserve
policy makers convening next week are expected to maintain
monetary stimulus that has tended to depress the  U.S. dollar .  “We’ve had somewhat better-than-expected data and weakness
in the U.S. dollar, which have combined to continue to give the
Canadian dollar a boost,” said  Adrian Miller , director of
fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in  New York . “The
focus is going to turn to the Fed and U.S. data next week as
Canadian dollar performance is increasingly being held hostage
by trends outside of Canada.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, climbed 0.9 percent this week to
C$1.0278 per U.S. dollar at in Toronto. One loonie buys 97.30
U.S. cents. The Canadian currency touched C$1.0255, the
strongest level since June 19. It has risen 0.2 percent in the
past month, and 0.1 percent this year against nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Index.  Speculators Less Bearish  Futures traders  decreased  their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
16,758 on July 23, compared with net shorts of 20,043 a week
earlier.  Retail sales jumped 1.9 percent in May to a record C$40.4
billion ($39.1 billion),  Statistics Canada  said July 23 in
Ottawa. The gain almost doubled the highest projection in a
Bloomberg survey of 20 economists, which had a median forecast
of 0.4 percent.  The gain in retail sales follows other signs of resilience
in  consumer spending  such as stronger  home construction , which
counter warnings by policy makers about the threat posed by
record household debt loads. Bank of Canada Governor Stephen
Poloz said last week cited evidence of a “constructive
evolution” in household finances and has said the expansion
must rotate to one led by exports and business investment.  Moving Averages  “The retail sales data really put some strength back into
the Canadian dollar,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro-strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities, said by phone from
Toronto on July 24. “We’re still expecting deceleration in
growth, but maybe not as soft.”  Canada’s dollar has traded stronger than its 50-day average
since July 22. Breaching moving averages signal to some traders
a move has momentum to continue.  The Canadian dollar has rallied since touching C$1.0609 on
July 5, the weakest level in almost two years. Much of the gain
has stemmed from higher  oil prices  linked to temporary factors
such as political turmoil in the  Middle East  and seasonal
increases in U.S. oil demand, according to a note from Citigroup
Inc. analysts led by Josh O’Byrne.  The end of transient forces elevating oil prices could push
the loonie lower against the U.S. dollar, according to the
analysts.  Fed Chairman Ben. S. Bernanke is expected to maintain the
current level of monetary stimulus at a meeting of the Open
Market Committee on July 30-31, according to a Bloomberg survey.
The Fed will probably start trimming $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases in September, according to economists.  “There are a lot of questions that will dictate what comes
next for us this upcoming week,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at TD Securities, a unit of Toronto-Dominion Bank,
said by phone from Toronto. “We’ve had a stronger run, but
there is a lot of uncertainty to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  