-- Cohen, SAC Capital Sought ‘Edge,’ Prosecutors Say
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-07-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/cohen-sac-capital-sought-edge-prosecutors-say.html
Steven Cohen  used to woo potential
investors to his hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors LP, by
promising in marketing materials to give them an “edge.”  Now that four-letter word, used 14 times in the  insider-trading  indictment of the $14 billion hedge fund he founded, has
come back to haunt him.  In the 41-page indictment filed July 25, prosecutors
alleged that Cohen and his top managers sought to hire traders
and analysts who had the ability to deliver any kind of “edge”
over the market.  Take Richard Lee, who joined the  Stamford , Connecticut-based hedge fund from Citadel LLC in April 2009 even though
prosecutors claim SAC had been warned by one of Lee’s former
colleagues that he was suspected of insider trading at Citadel.
Lee pleaded guilty on July 23 to two counts of insider trading,
both of which occurred at SAC in 2009.  The latter of those took place on Nov. 11, 2009, according
to court filings. Three weeks prior to that,  Raj Rajaratnam , co-founder of the Galleon Group of  hedge funds , was arrested and
charged with insider trading, a headline-producing event that
put  Wall Street  on notice that the U.S. attorney’s office had a
major effort going to punish insider trading.  Horvath, Martoma  The SAC indictment also cites the examples of Jon Horvath,
a former research analyst at SAC who pleaded guilty to insider
trading last September, and Mathew Martoma, who has pleaded not
guilty to charges that he engaged in insider trading.  In an e-mail cited in the indictment, Horvath justified his
recommendation that SAC invest in Sun Microsystems Inc. in
October 2007 by saying, “My edge is contacts at the company and
their distribution channel.”  As for Martoma, whose trial is scheduled to begin in
November, SAC hired him, according to prosecutors, in part
because of his “industry contacts beyond management” in the
pharmaceutical field.  He’s accused of using tips from a doctor who had access to
information on drug trials to recommend Cohen sell his stake in
two drug companies, helping SAC make $276 million. It’s the
biggest insider trading case in U.S. history, prosecutors said.  “The relentless pursuit of an information ‘edge’ fostered
a business culture within SAC in which there was no meaningful
commitment to ensure that such ‘edge’ came from legitimate
research and not inside information,” the indictment says.  ’Over the Edge’  U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , in announcing the charges,
said “SAC deliberately encouraged the no-holds-barred pursuit
of an ‘edge’ and literally carried over the edge into corporate
criminality.”  SAC said in a statement that it “has never encouraged,
promoted or tolerated insider trading and takes its compliance
and management obligations seriously.”  The way prosecutors saw it, according to the indictment,
was that in pursuing that edge, “The predictable and
foreseeable result, as charged herein, was systematic insider
trading by the SAC entity defendants resulting in hundreds of
millions of dollars of illegal profits and avoided losses at the
expense of members of the investing public.”  Through 2008, at the least, SAC used to tout its funds to
potential investors by promising an “edge” on the marketplace,
according to promotional materials.  By 2011, Cohen himself had soured on the word, according to
a deposition given in a civil case. Asked whether he used the
word “edge” at SAC, Cohen replied: “I hate that word.”  After reading how many times it’s used in his indictment,
he may hate it even more.  The case is U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-00541, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  