-- Dollar Drops for Third Week on Fed Stimulus Outlook; Kiwi Climbs
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-27T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/dollar-drops-for-third-week-on-fed-stimulus-outlook-kiwi-climbs.html
The dollar fell for a third week
against most major peers as U.S. economic data failed to
convince investors the Federal Reserve will decide next week to
reduce stimulus by slowing its bond-buying program.  The yen rose versus all 16 of its most-traded counterparts
amid higher demand for refuge assets. New Zealand’s dollar had
the biggest daily jump in more than a year versus the greenback
after central-bank Governor Graeme Wheeler signaled he may raise
interest rates next year. The Federal Open Market Committee
starts a two-day policy meeting July 30. Data showed sales of
U.S. new homes rose last month, while existing-home sales fell.  “We saw mixed news on the U.S. economy, and that further
clouded the outlook for Fed taper plans,”  Joe Manimbo , a market
analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western
Union Co., said yesterday by telephone from  Washington . “The
market still hasn’t quite received that knock-out punch for a
September taper.”  The dollar dropped 2.4 percent to 98.21 yen this week in
New York, the most since the five days ended June 14. The U.S.
currency declined 1 percent to $1.3279 per euro, and touched
$1.3297, its weakest level since June 20. Europe’s shared
currency weakened 1.4 percent to 130.42 yen.  The Bloomberg Dollar Index fell for a third week,
decreasing 1 percent to 1,022.85. The gauge monitors the
greenback against 10 other major currencies.  A measure of price fluctuations among Group-of-Seven
currencies fell for a fifth week, the longest stretch in a year.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7 Volatility Index declined to 9.45
percent after touching 9.11 percent on July 24, the lowest
intraday level since May 9.  Winners, Losers  New Zealand’s dollar was the biggest winner this week among
the greenback’s major counterparts, after the yen, with a 2
percent gain. The Mexican peso was the biggest loser, sliding
1.1 percent, while  Brazil ’s real dropped 0.2 percent in the
second-worst performance.  The kiwi, as the South Pacific currency is nicknamed,
climbed after the Reserve Bank of New Zealand said the pace of
future interest-rate increases will depend on the impact on
prices of the nation’s growing housing, while reiterating it
will keep borrowing costs at a record-low 2.5 percent in 2013.  The “Reserve Bank has told us that they’re going to
tighten explicitly, no ifs or buts,” said  Imre Speizer , a
markets strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Auckland. “The
pressure from the markets would be to the upside for the kiwi.”  The kiwi rose to 80.79 U.S. cents. It gained 1.9 percent on
June 25, the most in a day on a closing basis since June 2012.  Seeking Safety  The yen climbed as investors sought safety as Japanese
stocks posted the biggest weekly decline since June 7 amid
disappointing corporate earnings. The  Topix (TPX)  Index of equities
slid 3.7 percent.  The yen has been the biggest loser this year among the 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, dropping 9.4 percent as officials pushed to
stem deflation and spur growth. The euro has been the best
performer, rallying 4.9 percent, and the U.S. currency has
advanced 4.1 percent.  The dollar dropped this week on speculation the Fed won’t
be quick to taper its bond buying under the quantitative-easing
stimulus strategy, which tends to devalue the currency. The
central bank purchases $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage
debt each month. It has held the benchmark  interest-rate  target
at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 to support the economy.  ‘Under Pressure’  None of the 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg from July
18-22 predicted policy makers will begin reducing the purchases
at next week’s meeting. The central bank will start trimming in
September, the survey forecast, with a $20 billion reduction.  “The dollar remains under pressure,” BNP Paribas SA
currency strategists  Steven Saywell  and Michael Sneyd in  London 
wrote yesterday in a note to clients. “While the arguments for
a firmer dollar in the third quarter remain sound, risk-reward
is not attractive for new dollar longs heading into next week.”
A long position is a bet an asset will rise.  The greenback rose versus the yen on July 24 after the
Commerce Department reported U.S. sales of new homes increased
in June to the highest level in five years, bolstering the
argument for slowing stimulus. Sales climbed 8.3 percent to an
annualized pace of 497,000, the data showed.  A report two days earlier showed sales of existing homes
unexpectedly fell, dropping 1.2 percent to a 5.08 million pace.  Factory Index  The dollar fell July 23 after the Richmond Fed’s
 manufacturing index  unexpectedly slumped to negative 11 in July,
from 8 in June. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the mid-Atlantic region.  The U.S.  jobless rate  dropped to 7.5 percent in July, from
7.6 percent in June, according to economists in a Bloomberg
survey before a Labor Department report due Aug. 2. The Fed has
said it will consider raising its benchmark interest rate if
unemployment rate drops to 6.5 percent.  Bets that the greenback will gain versus eight peers
including the euro, yen and pound -- dollar net longs -- fell to
$28 billion as of July 23, a $1.3 billion decline to the lowest
since July 9, according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data compiled by Societe Generale SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 rburgess@bloomberg.net  