-- Egypt Warns Against Unrest as Brotherhood Presses Protest
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-07-28T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/egyptian-crackdown-on-mursi-supporters-leaves-dozens-dead.html
Egypt ’s interior minister, speaking
after dozens of people died in protests, said security forces
are determined to bring about stability, a veiled warning to
Islamists who want President Mohamed Mursi reinstated.  Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim’s comments signaled
impatience with demonstrations that have roiled the country
since the military deposed Mursi on July 3 after mass rallies
seeking his ouster. The pro-Mursi protests have led to fatal
clashes, undercutting hopes for national reconciliation.  “The police are determined to achieve security and
stability for the country, and are capable of doing so,”
Ibrahim said in a televised speech yesterday at a cadet
graduation ceremony. “We will vigorously and decisively
confront any attempt to undermine security.”  At least 72 people were killed in weekend clashes near a
pro-Mursi protest in Cairo, the Health Ministry said, the
highest toll in a single incident since his ouster. Eight others
died in violence in Alexandria, it said. Unrest flared again
since, with one person killed in fighting between Brotherhood
supporters and “residents” in Port Said, the state-run Middle
East News Agency reported yesterday. Similar violence left
another person -- a Brotherhood supporter -- dead in Egypt’s
Kafr el-Zayyat during the funeral of one of those who died in
the Cairo unrest, it said.  Death Toll  Ibrahim said on July 27 the government planned to act
“very soon” to disperse the Brotherhood encampment in Cairo’s
Rabaa El-Adawiya square, the center of the pro-Mursi protests.  He said the Brotherhood inflated the death toll and incited
unrest to undermine the interim government that is to guide
Egypt through elections early next year.  The Brotherhood, which says the military carried out a coup
against an elected leader, has rejected the transitional
military-backed government.  “We stand 4 democracy & against military coup,” Gehad El-Haddad, a Muslim Brotherhood spokesman, wrote on Twitter.
Egyptians can either stand with “us or remain passive” and
wait for more deaths, the posting said. He didn’t respond to a
phone call seeking comment.  The military has said it would use new tactics against
violence and terrorism, without providing details. Security
operations in the restive Sinai peninsula left 10 “terrorist
armed elements” killed in the past 48 hours, MENA said, citing
an unidentified security official. Authorities also arrested 20
“terrorist elements,” it said.  Human Rights  Pointing to recent attacks on security forces in Sinai and
other violence, Moustafa Hegazy, an adviser to the interim
president, said the state will work to protect Egyptians in
accordance with the law and human rights, according to MENA. The
new leadership is pushing forward with implementing the road map
for transitioning from Mursi’s rule, MENA cited him as saying.  He accused pro-Mursi protesters of trying to turn
themselves into “victims” to bolster their position in
negotiations, it reported. Those responsible for bloodshed will
be held accountable, MENA cited him as saying.  The weekend violence followed dueling protests by hundreds
of thousands of Egyptians who heeded Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi’s call to rally in solidarity with the military and by
tens of thousands of Mursi loyalists who demanded his
reinstatement.  The Brotherhood said it would continue the protests,
dubbing they July 27 violence a “massacre” and “crimes
against humanity.”  Police said they only used tear gas and that Brotherhood
supporters caused the clashes by trying to block a major bridge.
The Islamist group said protesters spilled over because the
square was full, and that uniformed police and “thugs”
operated side-by-side and opened fire on the crowds.  ‘Own People’  “We should make it clear in Egypt, as we made it clear in
Libya and in  Syria , that firing on your own people is
unacceptable by any government,” U.S. Senator Dick Durbin of
 Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, said yesterday
on ABC’s “This Week.”  “In this situation, if it’s established that this came
from government sources -- it appears it did -- then we’ve got
to make it clear to the Egyptians that’s unacceptable conduct,”
said Durbin, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton, who
was scheduled to a visit to Egypt late yesterday, is expected to
meet the country’s interim president, vice president, defense
minister as well representatives of the Muslim Brotherhood and
its political arm, according to MENA. Hegazy said her visit is
not a mediating mission, MENA reported.  ‘Excessive’ Force  Mohamed ElBaradei, the Nobel peace laureate who serves as
Egypt’s vice president in the interim government, denounced the
“excessive use of force” in a Twitter post and said he was
working to end the confrontation peacefully.  Despite the high toll, “it probably wouldn’t be smart for
the Brotherhood, from an organizational standpoint, to suspend
protests because it is very clear what happens afterward,” said
Shadi Hamid, director of research at the Brookings Doha Center,
which conducts policy analysis and research on the Middle East.
“The military would make its move and dismantle the
organization.”  During Mursi’s administration, critics accused the
Brotherhood of seeking to cement its power at the expense of the
nation’s welfare. Since he was deposed, authorities have cracked
down on Islamists with arrest warrants and asset freezes.  The military has been holding Mursi since his ouster. On
July 26, an investigative judge formally ordered him detained
for 15 days on suspicion he conspired with the Palestinian
militant group Hamas in murders, abductions, jailbreaks and
other attacks on security facilities, MENA reported.  Hegazy, the presidential adviser, said not announcing where
Mursi is held may be to protect national interests or “his
security and life,” according to MENA  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  