-- China-EU Solar Panel Deal Avoids Tariffs With Import Cuts
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-07-28T04:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/european-union-china-agree-on-solar-panel-shipment-deal.html
European Union and Chinese
negotiators reached an agreement to curb EU imports of solar
panels from  China  in exchange for exempting the shipments from
punitive tariffs.  The accord would set a minimum price for imports of the
renewable-energy technology from China. In return, Chinese
manufacturers would be spared EU levies meant to counter below-cost sales, a practice known as  dumping . The EU import taxes
target more than 100 Chinese companies including Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co., Wuxi Suntech Power Co. and Changzhou Trina
Solar Energy Co.  “We found an amicable solution in the EU-China solar-panels case that will lead to a new market equilibrium at
sustainable prices,” European Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht
said in a statement yesterday in Brussels. He didn’t disclose
China’s minimum-price offer, which must be accepted by the full
European Commission, or indicate whether the accord includes a
limit on the volume of imports from China.  The goal is to limit Chinese competition against European
manufacturers such as  Solarworld AG (SWV)  in the EU’s largest
commercial dispute of its kind, without resorting to anti-dumping duties. The case covers EU imports of crystalline
silicon photovoltaic modules or panels, and cells and wafers
used in them -- shipments valued at 21 billion euros ($28
billion) in 2011.  The pledged price will allow Chinese companies to continue
exports to the EU and “keep reasonable market share,”
according to a statement yesterday on the website of the China
New Energy Chamber of Commerce, which advises both the
government and companies.  Provisional Duties  In early June, the commission announced provisional anti-dumping duties as high as 67.9 percent on Chinese solar panels.
The commission, the EU’s Brussels-based executive arm, decided
to apply an initial lower rate of 11.8 percent for two months to
encourage the government in Beijing to negotiate a solution. As
of Aug. 6, unless the accord goes ahead, the provisional levies
will range from 37.3 percent to 67.9 percent, depending on the
Chinese company.  “After weeks of intensive talks, I am satisfied with the
offer of a price undertaking submitted by China’s solar-panel
exporters,”  De Gucht  said. “We are confident that this price
undertaking will stabilize the European solar-panel market and
will remove the injury that the dumping practices have caused to
the European industry.”  The commission said that it can’t give further details on
the price undertaking until it has formally approved the
agreement.  Minimum Price  The accord would fix a minimum price of 56 euro cents a
watt for annual imports from China of as much as 7 gigawatts,
said a trade official in Europe who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the information hasn’t been publicly announced
yet.  The pact would cover around 90 Chinese exporters that have
about 60 percent of the EU solar-panel market, according to the
official.  The case highlights EU concerns about the expansion of
Chinese solar companies, which have grabbed market share from
European rivals that were once dominant, and underpins a broader
crackdown by  Europe  on perceived unfair low pricing by China’s
exporters.  “Reaching a consensus is positive and has a quite good
outcome”, Lian Rui, an analyst at NPD Solarbuzz in Beijing said
today by phone. “The price is more beneficial for Chinese
solar-component manufacturers than higher duties.”  EU ProSun, which represents around 40 European solar-panel
producers including Solarworld of Germany, called the deal
unacceptable and vowed to file a lawsuit.  The group said the agreed minimum price matches that at
which Chinese exporters are selling solar panels in the EU and
the volume cap represents about 70 percent of the “expected”
solar market.  “This is essentially a guarantee of sales at that level
and more for China and an authorization to sell at dumped
prices,” Milan Nitzschke, president of EU ProSun, said in an e-mailed statement. “That is a clear violation of EU trade law.”  Creditor Protection  In Europe, which accounts for about three-quarters of the
global photovoltaic market, more than two dozen manufacturers
have sought protection from creditors since 2010 and many have
shifted production to lower-cost plants in  Asia .  Germany ’s Q-Cells SE, which was acquired last year by  South Korea ’s Hanwha
Group, has its largest factory in  Malaysia .  Chinese exporters increased their combined share of the EU
modules market to 80 percent in the 12 months through June 2012
from 63 percent in 2009, the commission said in June, when
introducing the provisional anti-dumping duties. The Chinese
industry expanded its share of the bloc’s cells market to 25
percent from 8 percent and of Europe’s wafers market to 33
percent from 6 percent over the period, according to the
commission.  Dumping Inquiry  The duties were the preliminary outcome of a dumping
inquiry that the commission opened in September last year and
that German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in May shouldn’t lead
to permanent levies against China. EU governments, acting on a
commission proposal, have until Dec. 6 to decide whether to
accept the draft agreement as a definitive measure. Such
arrangements usually last for a period of five years.  The EU is also threatening to impose a separate set of
duties on Chinese solar panels to counter alleged subsidies.
That’s the focus of a second investigation in which the deadline
for introducing any provisional anti-subsidy duties is Aug. 8
and for imposing any definitive measures is early December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  