-- EZChip Jump Swells N.Y. Premium to 5.3%: Israel Overnight
-- B y   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-07-27T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/ezchip-jump-swells-n-y-premium-to-5-3-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) ’s rally in
 New York  last week left the Israeli chipmaker trading at the
widest premium to the Tel Aviv stock in 11 weeks while  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  slumped after a court ruling.  EZchip surged 10 percent, the most in two months, after
Juniper Networks Inc. signaled a pickup in demand for routers.
Teva, the world’s biggest maker of generic drugs, slipped the
most in six weeks July 26 after losing patent protection for its
largest branded drug a year earlier than analysts forecast. The
Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the most traded Israeli
companies in New York dropped 0.7 percent last week.  Demand for routers will improve over the next several
quarters as clients ramp up spending to expand networks, Juniper
Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Johnson  told analysts last week.
EZchip, which sells its processors to Juniper, Cisco Systems
Inc. and ZTE Corp., will post a 5 percent increase in second-quarter sales when it reports Aug. 7, according to the median
 estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “With the service providers beginning to open their purses
again in terms of capex investments, that has to be good for
EZchip in terms of demand for their product,”  Jay Srivatsa , an
analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC in New York who raised
his rating for EZchip to hold from sell on July 24, said in a
telephone interview.  EZchip climbed 1.6 percent on July 26, leaving the U.S.
shares 5.3 percent above the Tel Aviv stock.  Teva Court Ruling  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  upheld four of Teva’s patents on its top-selling
multiple sclerosis drug, Copaxone. Other patent claims on the
drug were overturned July 26, including one that expires in
September 2015. The Petach Tikva, Israel-based company said it
will appeal the decision.  Two of Teva’s competitors, Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. and
 Mylan Inc. (MYL) , are developing generic versions of the drug. Mylan
Chief Executive Officer Heather Bresch said July 26 in a
statement the company plans to start sales of generic Copaxone
on May 25, 2014. Teva made $1.1 billion in sales in the first
quarter from Copaxone.  The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge fell to 95.57 last week,
snapping four weeks of gains. The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  rose 0.2 percent
last week to 1,229.24.  Teva dropped 1.3 percent to $40.73 on July 26, with trading
volume more than twice the daily average over the past three
months. The shares gained 1.6 percent for the week, closing at a
0.6 percent discount to the Tel Aviv stock.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd., the Israeli maker of equipment
that speeds electronic data transfers, posted the biggest weekly
retreat on the Bloomberg Israel-US measure, plunging 15 percent
to $45.61 in New York. Piper Jaffray Cos. cut its rating for the
stock to hold July 25 after Mellanox forecast third-quarter
sales of $104 million to $109 million, below analysts’
estimates. The shares closed at a 2.8 percent discount to the
Tel Aviv stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  