-- German Protests Against U.S. Spying Draw Thousands
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-07-27T15:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/german-protests-against-u-s-spying-draw-thousands.html
Thousands of protesters in cities
across  Germany  took part in demonstrations against spying by the
U.S. and other countries.  An organization called  Stop Watching Us , which describes
itself as a “conglomeration of concerned citizens,” had called
for protests in more than 30 cities across the country,
according to its website. Florian Waechter, who organized the
demonstrations, said in a telephone interview that his group
doesn’t yet know how many people participated.  In Frankfurt, protesters braved 36 degree-celsius (97
Fahrenheit) heat with banners that compared surveillance to a
vision of novelist George Orwell and the secret police of former
communist East Germany. As many as 1,000 people attended the
demonstration in the country’s financial capital, broadcaster
 Hessischer Rundfunk  reported on its website, citing the police.  More than 700 people demonstrated in Cologne, Koelner Stadt
Anzeiger  reported  on its website. About 500 people joined a
rally in Berlin, Berliner Zeitung  said  on its website.  Germany’s opposition Social Democrats stepped up attacks on
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s response to the U.S. surveillance
scandal this month to help turn around their electoral fortunes
before the country goes to the polls in September. Merkel’s
chief of staff was called before parliament this week to answer
questions about what the government knew about U.S. spying.  Joerg-Uwe Hahn, a lawmaker with Merkel’s Free Democratic
Party allies and Tarek Al-Wazir from the opposition Green Party
spoke at the rally in Frankfurt.  The protests aren’t affiliated with individual parties,
Waechter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  