-- Liberty Global Raises Stake in Netherlands’ Ziggo to 28.5%
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-07-27T13:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/liberty-global-increases-holding-in-netherlands-ziggo-to-28-5-.html
John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA) 
raised its stake in Dutch cable-television operator  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  to
28.5 percent from 18.2 percent, which it said was for strategic
reasons.  Liberty Global  bought 17.5 million additional shares in the
Utrecht,  Netherlands  based company in connection with a hedging
transaction related to existing Ziggo shares, according to an
SEC filing published late yesterday. It raised the stake in the
firm, with which it competes through its UPC Netherlands unit,
out of strategic considerations, Amsterdam-based spokesman Bert Holtkamp said by telephone today. He declined to comment on
whether Liberty Global plans to increase its holding further.  Malone’s cable giant has been acquiring European assets to
expand in the continent’s pay-TV market. The Englewood,
Colorado-based company agreed earlier this year to buy the
U.K.’s Virgin Media Inc. for $16 billion. This month, Malone
said he’s out of the race for Kabel Deutschland Holding AG and
will look to southern Europe for opportunities when the economy
there starts improving.  Ziggo said in a statement that it “will continue to act in
the best interests of its stakeholders in assessing steps made
by Liberty Global while continuing to focus on executing” its
own strategy. Martijn Jonker, a spokesman for Ziggo, declined to
comment further.  The purchase was financed through a loan linked to the
hedging transaction that is secured by Ziggo shares, Liberty
Global said in the  SEC filing .  Based on yesterday’s closing share price, Ziggo had a
 market capitalization  of 5.59 billion euros ($7.4 billion),
valuing Liberty’s stake at 1.59 billion euros. The shares have
risen 19 percent in the past 12 months.  Liberty Global first bought a 12.7 percent stake in Ziggo
in March. The Dutch company started trading in Amsterdam last
year after Warburg Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd. sold part of their
stakes. They disposed of their residual holdings in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  