-- Lindy Boggs, Who Succeeded Husband in Congress, Dies at 97
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-07-27T13:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/lindy-boggs-who-succeeded-husband-in-congress-dies-at-97.html
Lindy Boggs , the daughter of
 Louisiana  aristocracy who spent 18 years in Congress as
successor to her husband, House Majority Leader Hale Boggs, who
was presumed killed after his airplane vanished over  Alaska , has
died. She was 97.  Boggs died today of natural causes at her home in  Chevy
Chase ,  Maryland , her daughter, ABC News journalist Cokie Roberts, told the  Associated Press .  While neither the first nor the most powerful woman to
serve in the House, Boggs was celebrated for her half-century
association with Congress, first as a spouse, then as a member.
She also was the driving force behind efforts to memorialize and
commemorate the women of Congress.  A historic space in the U.S. Capitol reserved for female
House members was  dedicated to Boggs  when she retired in 1991 --
the only room in the Capitol named for a woman, according to the
Office of the House Historian. The Stennis Center for Public
Service Leadership, created by Congress in 1988 and located in
Starkville,  Mississippi , bestows an annual Lindy Boggs Award to
“a woman from the South who has demonstrated the ideals of
patriotism, courage, integrity and leadership.”  Boggs capped her own public-service career by serving as
U.S. ambassador to the Vatican from 1997 to 2001 under President
 Bill Clinton .  The family’s legacy in politics lived on through the three
children of Lindy and Hale Boggs.  Accomplished Family  Thomas Hale Boggs Jr., known as Tommy, is chairman of the
executive committee at Patton Boggs LLP, the Washington-based
powerhouse lobbying firm he joined in 1966. Cokie Roberts is a
longtime contributor to  National Public Radio  and political
analyst for ABC News.  Barbara Boggs Sigmund , who died in 1990,
was mayor of Princeton,  New Jersey . A fourth child, Billy, died
days after his birth.  Marie Corinne Morrison Claiborne, an only child, was born
March 13, 1916, on her maternal great-grandfather’s sugar
plantation, called Brunswick, in Pointe Coupee Parish,
Louisiana. Her lineage traced to William Claiborne, an early
English settler at Jamestown,  Virginia , in the 17th century, and
also included the first governor of Louisiana,  William Charles
Cole Claiborne .  She became “Lindy” after her father, Roland, an attorney
who died when she was 2. Her mother, the former Corinne
Morrison, remarried five years later.  First Dance  Boggs graduated from Catholic high school at 15 and entered
Sophie Newcomb College, then the women’s affiliate of  Tulane
University  in New Orleans. At a fraternity party, she was asked
to dance by another freshman,  Thomas Hale Boggs .  “He swirled me around for a moment, fairly awkwardly, and
said, ‘I’m going to marry you some day,’” she recalled in a
 1990 interview  with C-Span.  They did marry, in 1938, three years after graduating from
Tulane. Hale Boggs, who had started work in New Orleans as a
lawyer, won election to the U.S. House in 1940, lost his re-election bid in 1942, then won again in 1946. He served in
Congress until his death in 1972 at age 58.  In  Washington , Lindy Boggs built a close circle of friends
that included congressional wives Lady Bird Johnson, who would
become first lady, and Pauline Gore, whose son,  Al Gore , would
become vice president, according to a 2009 profile in The
Advocate newspaper of  Baton Rouge .  In January 1971, House Democrats elevated Hale Boggs to
majority leader, the second-ranking leadership post behind only
the speaker, Carl Albert. As a party leader, he campaigned often
for fellow Democrats, and in October 1972, he accompanied
Democratic Congressman Nicholas Begich on a trip back home to
Alaska to campaign for re-election.  Airplane Vanishes  Their twin-engine Cessna -- carrying a Begich aide and the
pilot, along with the two congressmen -- vanished after
departing Anchorage for a fundraiser in Juneau. A massive search
was called off after 39 days, and the four men were presumed
dead. When the new Congress convened on Jan. 3, 1973, it
declared the Boggs seat vacant, clearing the way for a special
election.  Sympathy for his widow morphed into a campaign. “I sort of
found myself running,” Boggs recalled in the C-Span interview.
“I never made a conscious decision to run.” She won the
special election and took office on March 20, 1973, representing
Louisiana’s 2nd congressional district, which includes  New
Orleans .  The redrawing of district lines in 1984 made Boggs the only
white member of Congress representing a majority-black
constituency. She continued winning re-election until stepping
down at the start of 1991.  Her successor, Democrat William Jefferson, was convicted in
2009 of accepting more than $450,000 in bribes and sentenced to
13 years in prison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net . 