-- J.J. Cale, Writer of ‘After Midnight,’ Dies at Age 74
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-07-27T15:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/j-j-cale-writer-of-after-midnight-dies-at-age-74.html
J.J. Cale, a musician who wrote two
of  Eric Clapton ’s biggest hits, has died at the age of 74.  The news was broken on Cale’s Facebook page. His official
website has now also been updated to say the singer and
guitarist died yesterday at Scripps Hospital in  La Jolla ,
 California , after having a heart attack.  Cale influenced Mark Knopfler and also Clapton, who covered
his songs “After Midnight” and “Cocaine.”  Cale also had hit albums in his own name, with a blend of
country, rock, boogie and folk very often said to be “laid-back.” The releases of the 1970s are especially fine, with
“Okie” in 1974 and its follow-up “Troubadour” his peak
performances.  The Oklahoma-born Cale worked with acts such as Delaney &
Bonnie before starting a solo career.  Cale was an understated figure whose Twitter account
followed nobody and had only 880 followers. His handle was
@slowerbaby and his sole post, in 2009, simply said “I make rock
n roll records.”  He was a guitar player who avoided show -- the underrated 
guitarists' underrated guitarist -- and yet crafted economical, 
outstanding rock solos, especially when dueling with his friend
Clapton.  Fans gave a warm reception to the duo’s joint album “The
Road to Escondido” in 2006 with songs such as “Danger.” The
album also featured the late keyboardist Billy Preston and now 
serves as a good way to remember Cale’s musicianship.  Cale’s  website  says that no services are planned.  “Donations are not needed,” it says, “but he was a great
lover of animals so, if you like, you can remember him with a
donation to your favorite local  animal shelter .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  