-- Japan, Philippines to Tighten Links as Maritime Disputes Fester
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-07-27T08:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/japan-philippines-to-tighten-links-as-maritime-disputes-fester.html
Japan and the Philippines agreed to
boost maritime cooperation and pledged to seek “responsible
action” on territorial disputes from other nations.  “We reviewed the security challenges that confront our
nations, and pledged to cooperate in advancing our common
advocacy for responsible action from international players,”
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  said in a briefing in Manila
today after meeting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  Both nations are embroiled in territorial disputes with
Asian neighbors including China, Taiwan and  Vietnam . Aquino is
boosting military ties with the U.S. and Japan as China
increases its presence in the fish- and gas-rich  South China
Sea . Abe backed his nation’s first increase in military spending
in 11 years, and his  Defense Ministry  is urging a buildup of
marine forces to counter Chinese moves around disputed islets in
the  East China Sea .  Japan will provide a yen loan to equip the Philippine Coast
Guard with 10 new patrol vessels, and a 10 billion yen ($102
million) standby credit for disaster response, Abe said today.
Both nations agreed to promote cooperation in terms of
transportation infrastructure in Manila, he said without
elaborating.  Japan and the Philippines support “upholding the rule of
law in international affairs, and finding just and peaceful
solutions to our territorial disputes and maritime concerns,”
Aquino said.  Japan wants summit meetings with both China and  South Korea 
and is prepared to discuss issues with China without conditions,
Abe said.  ‘Frank and Candid’  “It’s important that we have frank and candid
discussions” with China, Abe said. “I will instruct foreign
affairs authorities to proceed with dialogue without conditions.
Meetings at the foreign minister and leadership levels should be
held promptly.”  In response to questions on Japan’s budget, Abe said he
intends to complete the draft of a medium-term fiscal plan by
August, and will determine later this year the level of a
proposed increase in the nation’s consumption tax, a move aimed
at helping cut by half the primary balance deficit by fiscal
2015.  “We need to solidify economic growth, grow out of
deflation and address fiscal consolidation,” Abe said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in  Manila  at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  