-- JPMorgan Commodities Exit May Sap Liquidity Until Others Step in
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-07-27T00:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/jpmorgan-commodities-exit-may-sap-liquidity-until-others-step-in.html
A decision by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
to exit its physical commodities business would temporarily
reduce market liquidity before other companies quickly take its
place, according to analysts and traders.  New York-based JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank , said
yesterday that it’s “pursuing strategic alternatives,”
including the sale or spinoff of its commodities business, after
an internal review. The statement came three days after a
congressional  hearing  investigated whether deposit-taking banks
should be allowed to trade raw materials such as oil and
industrial metals.  JPMorgan owns and trades financial and physical commodities
including crude oil, natural gas and power, and  describes  itself
as “one of the world’s leading energy market makers.” The bank
may be the first to exit physical commodities, though others may
follow if regulations are changed, as suggested by Senator
 Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat whose subcommittee of the Senate
Banking Committee held the July 23 hearing.  “It looks like they want to get ahead of what appears to
be a new wave of regulation that will limit the activities of
the banks in the commodities sphere,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a  New York  hedge fund that focuses
on energy.  Regulators need to take a “long, hard look at the practice
of banks holding physical commodities,” Brown said in a
statement before the hearing. JPMorgan’s decision to consider
selling or spinning off its commodities business is “good news
for consumers and taxpayers,” he said in an e-mail yesterday.  Liquidity Drop  While the exit of JPMorgan and other banks may reduce
liquidity in the short term, they will be replaced by
commodities-trading firms such as Switzerland-based  Glencore
Xstrata Plc. (GLEN) , Kilduff said.  “Maybe JPMorgan is just getting ahead of the game a little
bit,” said Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund manager
at Tyche Capital Advisors. “Commodities have been part of their
business, but not a big driver of their revenue. If Goldman or
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  decides to get out of commodities, people will
definitely take more notice of that.”  The effect on the market of JPMorgan’s exit may depend on
whether the commodities business finds a new life, either on its
own or in the arms of a buyer.  “If JPMorgan were to sell or spin off the physical
commodities business and it became a new entity, the impact on
the market would be minimal,” said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “If JPMorgan were to just
shut it or sell to someone with the same business, that may sap
liquidity from the market.”  Metal Warehouses  The congressional inquiry came three weeks after the London
Metal Exchange said it wants to help unclog growing queues at
repositories, which companies ranging from beer makers to wire
fabricators say have reduced the availability of aluminum and
 copper .  At the same time, prospects for gains in commodity prices
may be dimming. Analysts at banks from Citigroup Inc. to Goldman
Sachs Inc. have said the decade-long commodity bull market is
ending after higher prices spurred expansions at mines, farms
and oil fields.  Increased regulatory scrutiny of banks and commodities,
along with the outlook for lackluster gains in many raw
materials, provides a “one-two punch,” to bank commodity
businesses,  John Stephenson , who helps oversee about C$2.7
billion ($2.6 billion) at First Asset Investment Management Inc.
in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  “The banks are saying ‘I don’t need the hassle, and
there’s no money to be made anyhow,” Stephenson said. “If it
was the only game in town, and you were printing money, and
there were just a few pesky regulators hanging around, that
would be another thing. But with the light being shone now, the
implications are very negative.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 