-- Kuwait Holds Parliament Elections in Face of Opposition Boycotts
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-07-27T11:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/kuwait-holds-parliament-elections-in-face-of-opposition-boycotts.html
Kuwaitis began voting in the third
parliamentary elections in 18 months amid a boycott by
opposition groups that is likely to produce an assembly more
amenable to the ruling family.  Polling stations will close at 8 p.m. local time, the
state-run  Kuwait News Agency  said.  Kuwait ’s opposition won elections in February 2012, then
refused to take part in a second parliamentary ballot in
December, objecting to changes in voting rules that sparked the
country’s most violent street protests.  The opposition, a mix of Sunni Islamists, liberals and
youth groups inspired by the Arab Spring uprisings, has called
for Kuwait’s rulers to share more power with elected
politicians. The electoral changes ordered last year by Emir
Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah were aimed at reducing the chance
of opposition victory and making it easier for candidates to buy
votes. The emir said they would bolster the democratic process
and safeguard unity in Kuwait, the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries’ third-biggest oil producer.  “This is an election without any soul,” Shafeeq Ghabra, a
political science professor at Kuwait University, said by phone.
“People have lost interest in overall results and mechanisms,
and are realizing that not much will come of it.” The result
will be “a fragmented set of individuals with no coherent
political program.”  No Stability  The elections were ordered by the  Constitutional Court  last
month, when it dissolved the parliament and upheld the emir’s
decree on voting procedures. About 440,000 Kuwaitis are eligible
to elect 50 lawmakers. During the boycott of December’s
elections, the turnout was 40 percent.  Kuwait’s ruling family appoints the cabinet, which must
contain at least one elected lawmaker, and retains the foreign,
defense and interior ministries for its own members. Political
disputes have led to repeated dissolutions of parliament and 11
governments since 2006, and slowed the country’s $110 billion
development plan to diversify its oil-reliant economy.  Kuwait’s gross domestic product is forecast to grow 2.8
percent this year, according to a Bloomberg survey. That
compares with 4.2 percent in  Saudi Arabia  and 3.4 percent in the
 United Arab Emirates .  “We won’t have stability as long as the formation of the
government stays as it is, and as long as ministers aren’t
accepted by the majority or elected by them,” said Ayed Al-Manna, a political analyst at Kuwait’s Public Authority for
Applied Education.  Some candidates have cited concern that the Muslim fasting
month of Ramadan, and summer temperatures of 50 degrees Celsius
(122 degrees Fahrenheit), are undermining voter engagement.  “The heat is terrible, and the repetition of so many
elections makes people bored,” Ghabra said. “It just looks
like we’re in a vacuum.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  