-- NBC Developoing Hillary Clinton Mini-Series to Fight DVRs
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-28T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/nbc-developoing-hillary-clinton-mini-series-to-fight-dvrs.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC broadcast
network is developing live-event programs and mini-series to
draw audiences when programs air as opposed to recording them to
watch later on DVRs.  NBC is developing four mini-series, including a four-hour
show based on  Hillary Clinton , who will be played by Diane Lane,
 Bob Greenblatt , chairman of entertainment, said yesterday at a
TV critic conference in Beverly Hills.  Broadcast networks are taking a page from cable channels
and developing dramas with 10 to 15 episodes, mini-series and
live stunts. Live events and high-profile mini-series draw more
live viewers than TV series, Greenblatt said. With DVRs now in
more than half of U.S. TV homes, the programs are a way to limit
viewing on the devices, which allow audiences to skip
commercials.  “We need to be in the event business,” Greenblatt said.
“Live events are very important these days when you’re trying
to fight the DVR.”  NBC is also developing “Plymouth,” a mini-series from
 Mark Burnett  about the Pilgrims landing in Massachusetts,
Greenblatt said. Other mini-series include an update of
“Rosemary’s Baby” and a new version of  Stephen King ’s
“Tommyknockers,” he said.  The network is looking for events such as Discovery
Channel’s live broadcast of Nik Wallenda becoming the first
person to cross the Grand Canyon on a tightrope, which drew 13
million viewers when it aired in June. NBC will air a game show
called “The Million Second Quiz” starting Sept. 9, and plans
to air a  live performance  of “The Sound of Music,” starring
Carrie Underwood, in December.  “We have to do everything we can to get as many people to
watch a show when it airs as possible,” Greenblatt said. “I
wouldn’t mind if people watched our shows three weeks later, but
that’s not the way our business works. What we do is driven by
advertising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  