-- Netanyahu to Free Palestinian Prisoners Ahead of Peace Talks
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-07-28T07:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/netanyahu-to-free-palestinian-prisoners-says-talks-important.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  will ask his cabinet today to agree to release 104
Palestinians convicted of attacking Israelis as a gesture to
start nine months of peace talks.  Leading members of Netanyahu’s governing coalition voiced
opposition to the release, which is to take place in stages
after talks begin. Regional Cooperation Minister Silvan Shalom
said negotiations are to begin Tuesday in  Washington  after a
three-year breakdown.  “From time to time, prime ministers are called on to make
decisions that go against public opinion -- when the matter is
important for the country,” Netanyahu said in a statement
yesterday. “At the present time, it seems to me that it is very
important for the state of  Israel  to enter into a diplomatic
process.”  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  spent four days this
month prodding Netanyahu and Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  to resume talks. He called Abbas this weekend to
emphasize President  Barack Obama ’s support of a prompt return to
negotiations, the Palestinian Wafa news agency said.  Upheaval in  Egypt , Syria and  Iran  as face Israel with both
challenges and “considerable opportunities,” Netanyahu said in
his statement.  The talks are “important both in order to exhaust the
chance of ending the conflict with the Palestinians and in order
to establish Israel’s position in the complex international
reality around us,” he said.  Elicits Opposition  The decision to free prisoners, some of them serving life
sentences for deadly attacks on Israeli civilians, is drawing
strong opposition from within Netanyahu’s government.  “Terrorists need to be killed, not freed,” said Economy
and Commerce Minister Naftali Bennett in a post on his Facebook
page. Bennett, whose Jewish Home party is the third-biggest
faction in the coalition, said he would vote against the deal.
His party has promised to bolt the government if it reaches an
agreement to create a Palestinian state.  Netanyahu will be supported by Finance Minister Yair Lapid,
whose Yesh Atid part is the second-largest coalition faction and
supports peacemaking. “It’s true that we made no promise that
the talks will succeed, it’s true that the continuous failures
of the past have been painful, but we can’t stop trying,” Lapid
said in an e-mailed statement.  Negotiations Impasse  Direct peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians have
been suspended since September 2010, when Netanyahu declined to
extend a partial settlement construction freeze in the  West Bank 
and Abbas refused to negotiate unless all building on land they
seek for a future state was halted.  The Palestinians say they want to build their state in the
Israeli-occupied West Bank, east Jerusalem and the Hamas-ruled
 Gaza Strip . They say continued Israeli settlement building on
lands they seek for a future state is a sign of bad faith, while
Netanyahu has said talks should not be subject to conditions.  The Israeli leader said that while he was “not prepared to
accept the Palestinians’ demand for withdrawals and freezes as
conditions for entering negotiations,” freeing the prisoners
was a “necessary decision.”  The cabinet is also scheduled today to discuss whether any
final peace agreement with the Palestinians will require
approval in a national referendum. “Every citizen must be
allowed to directly influence our future and our fate on such a
crucial issue,” Netanyahu said. Previous peace agreements were
ratified by the cabinet and parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  