-- Obama Says He Has Narrowed Decision on Next Fed Chairman
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-07-28T14:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/obama-says-he-has-narrowed-down-decision-on-next-fed-chairman.html
President  Barack Obama  said his
nominee for Federal Reserve chairman will be someone who
embraces the central bank’s dual mandate to promote  price
stability  and maximum employment, and he has narrowed his choice
“to some extraordinarily qualified candidates.”  “You can anticipate that over the next several months, an
announcement will be made,” Obama said in an interview with the
 New York  Times on July 24, according to a transcript published
today on the newspaper’s Website. Obama said he hasn’t made a
final decision.  Obama isn’t expected to nominate a successor to the current
chairman,  Ben S. Bernanke , until at least September, an
administration official said yesterday.  Bernanke, whose second four-year term ends on Jan. 31,
hasn’t indicated whether he would seek or accept a third term.
Last month, Obama said the Fed chairman has stayed in the post
“longer than he wanted.”  Obama declined to say who the finalists are, amid
speculation that former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  and
Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  are leading candidates.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said Summers and Yellen are
“both extraordinarily talented people” and that he has “great
admiration for both of them,” while declining to comment on
whether Obama may nominate either of them to lead the Fed.  Oval Office  “We will keep those discussions to the privacy of the Oval
Office,” Lew said on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” in an
interview airing today.  In the interview at Knox College in Galesburg,  Illinois ,
Obama said he wants a chairman who understands the Fed’s dual
mandate to promote maximum employment and price stability.  “And when unemployment is still too high, and long-term
unemployment is still too high, and there’s still weak demand in
a lot of industries, I want a Fed chairman that can step back
and look at that objectively and say, let’s make sure that we’re
growing the economy, but let’s also keep an eye on inflation,”
Obama said.  “If the markets start frothing up, let’s make sure we’re
not creating new bubbles,” he said.  About a third of the 54-member Senate Democratic caucus
sent a letter July 25 encouraging Obama to nominate Yellen.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a Democrat from California,
praised Yellen today on the CNN program “State of the Union,”
saying she is “well thought of. She knows the Fed. And she is
very highly qualified.”  Qualified Woman  The administration would benefit from appointing a
qualified woman to the job, Feinstein said. Yellen has been
“close to Bernanke,” and “Bernanke has done a very good
job,” she said.  Obama also discussed the Keystone XL pipeline project,
disputing Republican claims it would be a job creator. The
project that would connect oil production from Alberta to
refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast would initially create 2,000
jobs during the construction phase that would take a year or
two, Obama said.  “And then after that, we’re talking about somewhere
between 50 and 100 jobs in an economy of 150 million working
people,” he said.  The pipeline may benefit the U.S. by integrating energy
supplies with  Canada , Obama said. He added that he plans to make
his decision based on whether the project would significantly
contribute to carbon levels in the atmosphere. Canada could be
doing more to mitigate carbon release, he said.  Denied Permit  Obama in January 2012 denied a permit for Keystone because
of concerns over harming the ecologically sensitive Sand Hills
region in  Nebraska .  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  resubmitted a plan, with a
new route from the Canadian border to connect to a pipeline in
 Steele City , Nebraska.  The State Department has jurisdiction over the fate of the
$5.3 billion project that would carry heavy crude called bitumen
from Alberta to refineries along the U.S. Gulf Coast because the
pipeline crosses the U.S. border with Canada.  The Calgary-based company’s proposal is supported by labor
unions and the  energy industry  and opposed by environmental
groups fighting  climate change .  Obama last month said State Department shouldn’t approve
the pipeline unless the agency is confident the pipeline won’t
increase net greenhouse gas emissions.  In the interview, Obama also said he plans to be part of
the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington by civil rights
activists in 1963 when  Martin Luther King  gave his famous “I
Have a Dream” speech. A march has been organized Aug. 28 to
commemorate the original convergence on the capital.  “Obviously, after the Trayvon Martin Case, a lot of people
have been thinking about race, but I always remind people --
and, in fact, I have a copy of the original program in my
office, framed -- that that was a march for jobs and justice;
that there was a massive economic component to that,” Obama
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Rohner at 
 mrohner@bloomberg.net  