-- Obama Honors Korean Veterans, Proclaiming War ‘Was a Victory’
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-07-27T15:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/obama-honors-korean-veterans-proclaiming-war-was-a-victory-.html
President  Barack Obama  marked the
60th anniversary of the end to the Korean War, honoring veterans
of the “Forgotten War” fought where tensions continue today
over North Korea’s nuclear weapons program.  “Here today, we can say with confidence that war was no
tie,” Obama said in a speech at the Korean War Veterans
Memorial in Washington, along with a wreath laying and tributes
honoring U.S. and allied veterans. “That war was a victory.”  “Your lives are an inspiration, your service will never be
forgotten,” he told the veterans gathered on the National Mall.
“You have the thanks of a grateful nation and your shining
deeds will live now and forever.”  Obama said the Korean War “taught us the perils when we
fail to prepare.” As the U.S. wraps up a decade of war in
 Afghanistan , Obama said, “the United States of America will
maintain the strongest military the world has ever seen, bar
none. That is what we do.”  Twenty-two countries around the world contributed military
or humanitarian aid under the banner of the United Nations
during the Korean War, said Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel.
Nations can accomplish “many, many good things for the world
when we work together,” he said.  “Alliances and international institutions are extensions
of our influence not constraints on our power,” Hagel said.  Prosperous Peace  The Korean War “defined a generation and decided the fate
of a nation,” Obama said in a July 25 proclamation, and the
anniversary “commemorates the beginning of a long and
prosperous peace.”  “In six decades, the Republic of  Korea  has become one of
the world’s largest economies and one of America’s closest
allies,” the proclamation said. “Together, we have built a
partnership that remains a bedrock of stability throughout the
Pacific. That legacy belongs to the service members who fought
for freedom 60 years ago, and the men and women who preserve it
today.”  South Korea is the seventh-largest U.S. trading partner.
The two countries last year began a free-trade agreement aimed
at cutting about 80 percent of tariffs.  The U.S. and South Korea since February have been in a
standoff with North Korea, after the government in Pyongyang
defied UN sanctions and tested a nuclear weapon.  More than 36,000 U.S. troops died in the Korean War, which
lasted from 1950-1953 and pitted the south, backed by the U.S.
and United Nations, against the Soviet-backed north.  North Korea’s leader Kim Jong Un succeeded his late father
in December 2011. On April 8, protesting UN sanctions and U.S.-
South Korean military drills, North Korea withdrew workers from
the Gaeseong factory park jointly operated with the south. Talks
between negotiators for the north and south, aimed at reopening
the factory park, broke down July 25 with reported pushing and
shoving.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  