-- Pope Francis Tells Brazilians Dialogue Is Solution to Unrest
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-07-27T20:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/pope-francis-tells-brazilians-dialogue-is-solution-to-unrest.html
Pope Francis urged Brazilians to
rely on dialogue instead of violence, as the country with the
world’s biggest Catholic population grapples with its largest
street protests in decades.  Citizens face the choice of either coming together in a
climate of respect or losing out, Francis said today in Rio de
Janeiro. Francis also called for more humanist economic and
political systems to improve public participation and eradicate
poverty.  “Between selfish indifference and violent protests there
is always a possible option, dialogue,” Francis said during a
televised speech. Dialogue is the “capacity to give and
receive, remaining open to truth. A country grows when its
different cultural treasures talk in a constructive manner.”  A bus fare increase in Sao Paulo sparked the protests last
month. Unrest later spread to other cities including Rio de
Janeiro, as demonstrators expanded their grievances to include
corruption and poor public services. Since arriving in Rio last
week on his first major international trip, Francis has
attempted to address the causes of  Brazil ’s unrest without
embarrassing local leaders.  President Dilma Rousseff’s Workers’ Party, or PT, lifted 40
million people from poverty under her predecessor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. Even with recent strides, Brazil ranks 14th worst
in income equality, below Nigeria and  Russia , among 154
countries listed in the World Bank’s 2013  World Development
Indicators . In 2009, 21.4 percent of the population remained
below the poverty line, according to the World Bank.  “Take these words as an expression of my concern as a
pastor of the Church, and respect and affection that I have for
the Brazilian people,” Francis said today.  Francis is presiding over World Youth Day in Rio, which
organizers say may draw 2.5 million attendees. The week-long
event ends tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Sabo at 
 jsabo@bloomberg.net . 