-- San Diego Mayor Will Seek Therapy Amid Harassment Scandal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/san-diego-mayor-will-seek-therapy-amid-harassment-scandal.html
San Diego Mayor Bob Filner said
he’ll check himself into clinic for therapy amid allegations he
sexually harassed women, including a retired Navy rear admiral,
a state university dean and his former spokeswoman.  The 70-year-old Filner, elected to 10 terms in Congress,
took office in December as the first Democrat in 20 years to
lead America’s eighth-largest city. The mayor, under fire since
the accusations became public July 11, said he’ll enter a
behavioral counseling clinic Aug. 5 for two weeks.  “My failure to respect women, and the intimidating contact
is inexcusable,” Filner said yesterday in a news briefing at
city hall. “I apologize to the people of San Diego. And most of
all, I apologize to the women that I have offended.”  The San Diego scandal unfolded as another prominent
Democrat, disgraced congressman Anthony Weiner, resisted calls
to quit his campaign for mayor of New York, following
revelations that he sent lewd messages to women over the
Internet even after resigning from the House of Representatives
over similar behavior.  Filner said he’ll continue to run the city of 1.3 million
people, receiving daily briefings from his staff, while at the
clinic full-time. The  city charter  has no provision for the
mayor to hand over his duties to someone else. In that case, the
city council is responsible until a replacement is chosen in a
special election.  At least two separate campaigns are under way to hold a
recall election aimed at ousting Filner, KPBS-TV in San Diego
reported yesterday.  On July 11, three former Filner supporters, including ex-Councilwoman Donna Frye, who worked for the mayor earlier this
year, held a news briefing to call for his resignation, citing
sexual harassment without giving details. Filner responded with
a public apology.  Mayor ‘Embarrassed’  “I am embarrassed to admit that I have failed to respect
the women who work for me and with me,” he said.  On July 22, the mayor’s former communications director,
Irene McCormack Jackson, 57, sued Filner claiming the divorced
mayor suggested that she not wear panties to work and held her
in a headlock. Filner denied wrongdoing.  Four more accusers came forward in a KPBS-TV  interview  July
25, saying they had received unwanted sexual advances.  One of those women was Veronica Froman, a former admiral
who served as the city’s chief operating officer under Filner’s
predecessor, Mayor Jerry Sanders. Another was Joyce Gattas, the
dean of the College of Professional Studies and Fine Arts at San
Diego State University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  