-- Siemens to Replace CEO Loescher After Fifth Forecast Cut
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-07-28T13:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/siemens-to-replace-ceo-peter-loescher-after-fifth-forecast-cut.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  will replace Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  after Europe’s biggest
engineering company repeatedly missed profit targets and charges
mounted for failed power and train projects.  On July 31, Siemens’s supervisory board will decide on the
“early departure” of Loescher and the “appointment of a
member of the managing board as President and CEO,” the Munich-based company said yesterday. Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser
is likely to take the helm after supervisory board members met
yesterday to discuss the leadership, according to three people
familiar with the talks, who asked not to be identified because
the decision hasn’t been confirmed.  Loescher, 55, appointed in 2007 to clean up after the
biggest corruption scandal in German history, on July 25 cut a
profit forecast for the fifth time in his six-year tenure. The
Austrian native, who joined Siemens from drugmaker Merck & Co.
as the first CEO hired from outside the company, has presided
over a failed push into environmentally friendly energy that led
to spiraling costs. He also had to write down the value of
several acquisitions.  “It would make sense to pick an internal candidate, since
it will be very important that the new CEO knows the company,
its culture and peculiarities well already,” Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank AG analyst Ingo-Martin Schachel, who has an add
recommendation on the shares, said by e-mail. “The natural
choice, in my view, would be Kaeser.”  Kaeser Career  Kaeser, 56, joined Siemens in 1980, holding a series of
administrative and financial jobs in a career that took him to
Malaysia and  California . He became chief strategy officer in
2004 before being promoted to the top finance job in 2006.  Siemens said July 25 it no longer predicts an operating
profit margin of at least 12 percent of sales in the 12 months
through September 2014. The profit goal was set last November as
part of a 6 billion-euro ($8 billion) savings plan. Siemens had
a profit margin of 9.5 percent in 2012, when ABB Ltd. and
General Electric Co. had margins of 10.3 percent and 15 percent
respectively.  The forecast was abandoned after a majority of units said
in their internal predictions that they will probably miss their
goals, two people familiar with the matter said. The gap in so-called sector profit between the forecast and the actual numbers
is currently 1.5 billion euros, one person said. Loescher told
Sueddeutsche Zeitung in an interview reported on July 26 that he
won’t resign and that his contract runs until 2017. A Siemens
spokesman confirmed his comments.  Slow Reaction  Last year, Loescher acknowledged that he had been slow to
react to the economic downturn and the company pinned the latest
forecast cut on “lower market expectations.”  “I’m underweight on Siemens and am glad that I am,”
Carsten Hilck, a fund manager at Union Investment, which holds
less than 1 percent of Siemens shares, said before Loescher’s
departure was announced. The recent profit target cut was “not
unexpected. This sort of thing can always happen at Siemens and
it doesn’t seem to be getting any better,” he said.  Siemens shares on July 25 dropped as much as 7.6 percent,
the biggest decline since March 2009, erasing 4.4 billion euros
of market value.  By contrast, competitor GE reported second-quarter profit
that beat analyst estimates, as demand for jet engines and oil-and-gas drilling equipment drove the order backlog to a record.
The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company also affirmed its 2013
forecast.  Bribery Scandal  Loescher took over from Klaus Kleinfeld, who announced his
departure in April 2007 after 2 1/2 years following a bribery
investigation at the company.  The appointment of an outsider was heralded as a “cultural
revolution’ by German shareholder group DSW and marked a shift
at Siemens, whose reputation had been battered by the probe into
consulting contracts.  Loescher, who has an MBA from Harvard Business School and
has worked for drug companies most of his career, became
president of Merck’s Global Human Health Unit in April 2006. In
that role, he had overseen 35,000 employees and been responsible
for worldwide marketing and sales at the U.S. drugmaker.  At Siemens, which has 405,000 employees and manufactures
products from trains to power turbines to x-rays, Loescher also
faced criticism from his own workers. In anonymous postings on
Siemens’ internal discussion forum, employees on July 23 called
for CFO Kaeser to replace him, according to screenshots obtained
by Bloomberg News.  Profitability Efforts  Loescher told employees this year that it’s fair to judge
him on his efforts to improve profitability at Siemens, which
was  Germany ’s biggest company by market capitalization between
July 2009 and July 2012 before it was overtaken by software
maker  SAP AG. (SAP)   Thornburg Investment, which at the end of May had the 13th-biggest Siemens shareholding, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, sold its stake, according to Managing Director Bill Fries. “We changed our view,” he said by phone.  Siemens’s fiscal third-quarter profit through June has been
hurt by about 100 million euros in costs for faulty wind
turbines, people familiar with the matter said. Siemens is
scheduled to report earnings on Aug. 1.  The new charges add to provisions of 550 million euros for
offshore power transmission problems and delays in train
deliveries reported earlier this year. In June, Siemens said it
will close its solar power unit following losses of at least 784
million euros since 2011. The unit could erode earnings by 500
million euros this year, it said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  