-- Slain Tunisian Opposition Politician Brahmi Buried Amid Protests
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-07-27T14:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/slain-tunisian-opposition-politician-brahmi-buried-amid-protests.html
Thousands of Tunisians called for
the collapse of the government today as they buried opposition
politician Mohamed Brahmi, whose assassination triggered a new
political crisis in the Arab Spring uprisings’ birthplace.  Brahmi, secretary-general of the nationalist People’s
Movement party, was buried at the Jalaz cemetery. He was laid to
rest close to the grave of Chukri Beleid, who was assassinated
in February in a killing that brought down Islamist Prime
Minister Hamadi Jebali. Both politicians were shot using the
same weapon, the  Interior Ministry  said yesterday.  The disclosure the same weapon was used added to the
opposition’s anger against the moderate Islamist government,
which critics say has failed to bring under control hardline
Islamists looking to move Tunisia away from secular traditions.  Brahmi’s supporters chanted “Down with the party of the
 Muslim Brotherhood ,” a reference to the ruling Ennahda Party
that’s linked to the Islamist organization. They also revived
calls that helped drive autocratic President Zine Al Abidine Ben Ali from power in 2011: “The people want to bring down the
regime.”  Adding to the sense of disquiet in the country, a bomb
exploded under a car early today outside a National Guard center
in the capital, Interior Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Laroui
said by phone. The explosion did not result in injures.  Government Critics  Critics of the Ennahda-led government maintain it has
failed to revive the economy or bring stability since the mass
uprising. The nation, which was seen as the catalyst for the
Arab Spring uprisings that led to the ouster of  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  and  Libya ’s  Muammar Qaddafi, has been mired in one
political crisis after another, with most tied to a small,
although increasingly vocal and at times violent Salafi movement
seeking to impose Islamic law.  A group of over 50 opposition deputies announced yesterday
and today their withdrawal from the 217-member body charged with
drafting the country’s new constitution, the state-run TAP news
agency reported. The deputies are among those calling for a
national salvation government.  The Interior Ministry yesterday identified Boubakr Hakim,
who killed Beleid, as being Brahmi’s assassin. The opposition
leader was shot repeatedly outside his home on July 25,
triggering calls for a national strike and other protests that
also flared yesterday.  A political activist with the same opposition coalition as
Brahmi died after being hit in the head with a tear gas canister
during a protest in the city of Gafsa, the private Mosaique FM
radio station reported. Other protests against Brahmi’s death
were held in a number of cities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  