-- South Korea Urges Kim to End Nuclear Bid; North Marks ‘Victory’
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-27T07:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-27/south-korea-urges-kim-to-end-nuclear-bid-north-marks-victory-.html
South Korea repeated its call for
North Korea to abandon nuclear weapons as Kim Jong Un’s regime
displayed its military might in a parade marking the 60th
anniversary of the armistice that ended the Korean War.  Soldiers paraded through Pyongyang this morning in
celebration of North Korea’s self-declared victory in the war
that left the peninsula divided, according to the North’s
official Korean Central News Agency. South Korean President Park Geun Hye invited about 4,000 war veterans and diplomats to mark
the anniversary, expressing gratitude and respect to those who
fought for the nation, according to a government statement.  “It’s time to end confrontation and hostility and make a
new Korea Peninsula, opening an era of peace and hope,” Park
said in a speech transcript posted on  her office’s web site .
“North Korea must give up nuclear development and allow changes
to ensure their people’s living and freedom.”  Park said she will not tolerate any provocation that
threatens people’s lives and property. North Korea must refrain
from provocation and become a responsible member of the
international community, she said.  About 10,000 soldiers, dancers and veterans marched, goose-stepping alongside mobile rocket launchers and tanks, as Kim
reviewed the troops from Kim Il Sung Square, named for his
grandfather who founded the communist regime, Yonhap News
reported.  Millions Killed  The three-year war killed 2.5 million people and ended in a
stalemate, with the U.S. maintaining more than 40,000 troops in
the South. Since the conflict, the South has eclipsed the North
economically, while the North has become one of the world’s most
politically isolated and impoverished nations as it pursues
nuclear armament to counter the South’s alliance with the U.S.  Tensions on the peninsula escalated to the highest in years
after Kim tested an atomic device in February and threatened
pre-emptive nuclear strikes against the U.S. As relations
soured, the North pulled its workers from the joint Gaeseong
industrial park, shutting a site that provides Kim’s government
with $100 million a year in hard currency.  Today’s parade caps more than two weeks of festivities in
celebration of the leadership of former rulers and “great
brilliant commanders” Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il. This year’s
Arirang games, where more than 100,000 synchronized dancers make
mosaic displays with colored signs, was revamped to focus on
commemorating the war.  Foreign guests including Chinese Vice President  Li Yuanchao 
and representatives from various overseas communist parties are
attending the festivities in the North’s capital Pyongyang, KCNA
reported.  In  Seoul , about 200 kilometers south, Park today hosted
envoys from the 16 countries that participated in the allied
United Nations command, at a commemorative ceremony honoring the
fallen soldiers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net 
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ; 