-- Ackman Beats Gates With Canada Pacific Rail Investment: Chart of the Day
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/ackman-beats-bill-gates-with-canadian-railway-investment-chart-of-the-day.html
William Ackman’s campaign for a new
chief at  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  is pushing the stock to
bigger gains than the rival carrier he cites as a better-run
railroad -- and whose biggest investor is  Bill Gates .  The CHART OF THE DAY shows  Canadian Pacific ’s total return
of 23 percent since Oct. 27, the day before Ackman disclosed a
stake that made him the largest stockholder. That compares with
a 2.2 percent drop at  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNI) , in which
Gates controls 11.3 percent of shares.  Ackman, who founded Pershing Square Capital Management LP,
buys stakes in companies he deems undervalued and advocates
changes to improve returns. He’s seeking the ouster of Chief
Executive Officer Fred Green as Canadian Pacific trails peers’
profitability and wants to hire  Hunter Harrison , who more than
tripled earnings during seven years leading Canadian National.  “Canadian National is the best-run railroad, Canadian
Pacific is one of the worst,” said Brian Yarbrough of Edward
Jones & Co. in St. Louis, who recommends buying Canadian Pacific
stock. “While that may sound negative, that’s actually a
positive for Canadian Pacific if you can get the right
management team in there because it has the most opportunity.”  Ackman holds a 14.2 percent stake in Canadian Pacific.
Gates’ Cascade Investment LLC held 9.4 percent of Montreal-based
Canadian National’s  stock  as of Aug. 22, while the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation held 1.9 percent of shares on Sept. 30,
according to Bloomberg data.  Canadian National has gained more than sevenfold since
Gates disclosed his holding in October 2000, while Calgary-based
Canadian Pacific has climbed almost fourfold since the shares
were listed in  New York  in August 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ; 