-- Macy’s Legal Clash With Stewart May Foretell More Fights: Retail
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/macy-s-legal-clash-with-stewart-may-foretell-more-fights-retail.html
When  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  announced in
December that it had cut a deal to carry Martha Stewart-branded
home goods in its stores, it didn’t take Macy’s Inc. long to
say: Wait a minute, Martha.  More than five years ago, Macy’s signed its own exclusive
contract to sell bedding, towels, dinnerware, cookware and the
like from  Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia Inc. Under the terms,
Martha Stewart Living isn’t allowed to sell such wares at a
Macy’s competitor, including J.C. Penney, Macy’s says.  On Jan. 23, Macy’s, the second-largest U.S. department
store chain, sued Martha Stewart Living in New York State
Supreme Court, seeking to stop the deal and collect damages.
Martha Stewart Living, which has until Feb. 13 to respond to the
lawsuit, will argue that the deal doesn’t violate the contract
because it will operate its own stores inside J.C. Penney, a
person familiar with its strategy said.  Retailers increasingly will knock heads as they compete to
lock up celebrity designers in a battle for market share,
according to  Craig Johnson , president of consulting firm
Customer Growth Partners.  “The days of everyone offering the same-old, same-old
thing are over and there is a limited number of exclusive
vendors,” said Johnson, who is based in  New Canaan ,
 Connecticut . “Retailers are trying to ensure they have
different merchandise than the anchor they’re competing with 50
yards down the mall or on Amazon.”  Incremental Gains  Darcie Brossart, a spokeswoman for J.C. Penney, said the
company had no comment.  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for Macy’s,
said the company is not commenting beyond the lawsuit.  Martha Stewart, chief editorial, media and content officer
of Martha Stewart Living, declined to comment on the suit.  “We love Macy’s,” Stewart, 70, said yesterday at a
Staples Inc. store in  New York , where she was unveiling a home
organizing line of products. “They’ve been great partners.”  While department stores have been making incremental gains,
their share of the U.S. retail market in 2011 was less than half
the 7 percent they commanded 20 years ago, Johnson said.  Macy’s, which is based in Cincinnati, has outperformed J.C.
Penney, with a 5.4 percent gain in sales at stores open at least
a year in the 11 months ended Dec. 31 compared with J.C.
Penney’s 0.7 percent increase. Last year Macy’s shares advanced
27 percent; J.C. Penney rose 8.8 percent. Martha Stewart Living
fell less than 1 percent in 2011.  Martha Stewart Living approached  Macy’s (M)  about a deal in
2005, not the other way around, according to the complaint. The
previous year, Stewart was sentenced to five months in prison
after being convicted of obstructing justice in an insider
trading case. Tying up with a convicted felon was risky for
Macy’s because Stewart’s brand was “under pressure by very
public proceedings and their aftermath,” the complaint says.  Lucrative Merchandise  Still, Martha Stewart merchandise was “lucrative” and
generated “billions of dollars of sales,” according to the
complaint. The Martha Stewart Collection is one of Macy’s
biggest home goods brands. Household merchandise accounted for
15 percent of the chain’s 2010 sales of $25 billion.  “From Macy’s point of view, they obviously are upset,”
Johnson said. “They threw Martha a nice little lifeline. Macy’s
had invested a lot of money in it, promoting the brand.”  Macy’s had no idea Martha Stewart Living was talking to
J.C. Penney and found out about the deal one day before it was
announced on Dec. 7, according to the lawsuit.  Under the new partnership, J.C. Penney is buying a 17
percent stake in Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million and
opening home products mini-stores in hundreds of its locations
starting next February. According to the companies, the
partnership will generate more than $200 million in revenue over
10 years for Martha Stewart Living, which is trying to boost
growth after three years of falling revenue.  Needed Money  “Martha Stewart needed the money,” said Margaret Gilliam,
founder of an eponymous retail consulting firm in New York.
“Penney offered to buy a chunk of stock, and infuse a bunch of
money and gave a great opportunity to grow.”  For J.C. Penney Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson , who
previously ran  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  retail operations, the deal is part
of a strategy to revive sales at the Plano, Texas-based
department-store chain, which in November posted its first
quarterly loss in two years.  Representatives from Macy’s and Martha Stewart Living met
Dec. 15 to discuss the J.C. Penney deal, according to the
complaint. Macy’s said the Martha Stewart Living executives
didn’t address the most “critical question” Macy’s had posed:
Why it believed it could enter a deal with J.C. Penney.  Cold-Shouldered  Macy’s was “cold-shouldered,” said Harley Lewin, an
attorney who has defended such brands as  Christian Louboutin  and
Alexander Wang in trademark and other cases. Lewin is not
connected with the Macy’s-Martha Stewart Living case.  In a Feb. 2 statement, Martha Stewart Living said it was
“confident” it hadn’t breached the terms of the agreement.
“It’s good for our partners, our consumers and our brand to
have a wide range of Martha Stewart products available in a
variety of top retailers and we structure all our commercial
agreements with this strategy in mind,” the company said.  Martha Stewart Living’s interpretation of the Macy’s
contract is that it can sell goods through its own physical
stores and its own websites, according to the person, who is
familiar with internal deliberations. Under that theory, the
stores inside J.C. Penney would be Martha Stewart Living’s, said
the person, who declined to be identified because she wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly on the matter.  “The judge will blow through the argument like a hot knife
through butter,” said Lewin, a partner at McCarter & English in
New York.  Mini-Stores  In the meeting between the two sides, Martha Stewart Living
executives said the mini-stores would be operated by J.C.
Penney, according to the Macy’s complaint.  It’s unclear whether Martha Stewart Living will have any
counterclaims against Macy’s, Michael L. Sibarium, a partner
with the  law firm  Pillsbury, said in a telephone interview.  “And we don’t know what role if any yet J.C. Penney is
going to play, if they’re going to be completely left out of it
or at some point they might get dragged in,” said Sibarium, who
is based in  Washington .  Macy’s and Martha Stewart Living may settle out of court,
according to Lewin.  “My bet is Macy’s gets tens of millions of dollars in
damages in a settlement, Stewart begins her new relationship
with J.C. Penney and Macy’s moves on and gets a bigger and
better celebrity,” he said.  J.C. Penney probably calculated the risk and cost of a
Macy’s backlash, according to Gilliam, the retail consultant.  “They had to have thought that Macy’s would object and
maybe that is what Penney’s wants,” she said. “They probably
figured it would take a certain war chest to pay off Macy’s and
that is what they’re doing.”  The case is Macy’s Inc. v.  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc. (MSO) , 650197/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  