-- Madhvani of Uganda ‘Ready’ to Build New Sugar Plant After Ruling
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-02-08T09:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/madhvani-of-uganda-ready-to-build-new-sugar-plant-after-ruling.html
Madhvani Group, owner of  Uganda ’s
biggest sugar producer, said it’s “ready” to build a second
sugar plant for as much as $100 million after a court last week
ruled against an attempt to block it from buying land to expand.  Investment in the project in the northern Ugandan district
of Amuru will be decided on once Madhvani has studied the Feb. 3
High Court ruling, Koduvayur Parasuraman Eswar, the company’s
corporate affairs secretary, said by phone today from the
capital, Kampala.  Ugandan politicians including Simon Oyet, a former
lawmaker, accused Madhvani of trying to buy the land through
state authorities without directly negotiating with local
communities. The group announced plans for a second sugar plant
in the country in 2006.  The  High Court  in the district of Gulu ruled that the Amuru
Land Board, which was sued by politicians including former
lawmaker Livinstone Okello Okello in 2008, was entitled to
allocate the land to Madhvani, the Kampala-based New Vision
newspaper reported yesterday.  “We are waiting to see the copy of the judgment then we
decide on the way forward,” said Eswar. “We are positive, we are
ready and willing to go on with the project.”  Planned investment for the project has risen to as much as
$100 million from an earlier estimate of $70 million because of
delays caused by the court case, said Eswar. The company will
fund the project from internal resources and external financing,
he said, without providing further details.  Production by Kakira may climb 36 percent to 180,000 metric
tons this year, the Uganda Sugar Cane Technologists’ Association
said last month. Output by the nation’s three biggest growers of
may advance 28 percent to 346,000 tons in 2012, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 