-- Madoff Role Model Charles Ponzi Plots on Paris Stage: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-02-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/madoff-role-model-charles-ponzi-conspires-on-paris-stage-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Compared with  Bernard Madoff , he was
small fry.  Charles Ponzi’s scam blew up after a few months, and his
investors lost about $20 million. Those people who invested with
Madoff lost about $20 billion in principal, the trustee
liquidating his business in  bankruptcy court  has said.  Still, the scheme of robbing Peter to pay Paul bears his
name, and he now has been resurrected in a French play: “Le
Systeme de Ponzi,” which is directed by the author David Lescot
and is touring theaters across  France .  Lescot, who has already written six plays, has done his
homework. He unfolds the biography of the Italian immigrant who
arrived in  Boston  in 1903 with $2.50 in his pocket. After barely
surviving on menial jobs Ponzi discovered that honesty was not
necessarily the shortest way to get rich.  In 1919, he hit upon his big idea. He discovered that
international reply coupons had nominally the same value in
every country although they were much cheaper in Europe than in
the U.S.  He urged his relatives in  Italy  to buy them en masse and
send them to Boston where he would exchange them for stamps with
a handsome profit of 400 percent, or so he believed.  With these rosy prospects, Ponzi set up a “Securities
Exchange Company” and promised investors to double their
capital in 90 days. They responded in droves.  Burst Bubble  In August 1920, the bubble burst when Ponzi’s unsavory past
came to light -- he had spent time in prison -- and the U.S.
Post Office Department stated that it had no intention of
redeeming reply coupons in large quantities.  Ponzi spent three and a half years in federal prison for
mail fraud and another seven years on state larceny charges.  After his release, he was deported to Italy. He died in
1949 in  Rio de Janeiro  as poor as he had been when he arrived in
Boston.  Lescot knows his Brecht, the “Verfremdungseffekt,” or
distantiation, the cabaret style and the songs that, in the
German playwright’s works, comment on the action.  A faux Greek chorus relates Ponzi’s life in blank verse
interspersed with rapid dialogue and jazzy interludes. The 10
actors, including the author, impersonate about 50 characters
and play guitar, accordion, saxophone and other instruments.
Only Ponzi (Scali Delpeyrat) and his wife Rose (Celine Milliat-
Baumgartner) are exempt from the role swapping.  The main props on the bare set (designed by Alwyne de
Dardel) are a dozen or so desks constantly moved around by the
actors and piled up in various combinations.  It’s clever, lively and harmless.  In “The Threepenny Opera,” Brecht asked: “What is
robbing a bank compared with founding a bank?” It’s tempting to
imagine what the old class warrior would have done with the
Ponzi saga and how he would have denounced it.  Lescot is no agitator, and bankers can watch the show
without fearing for their  blood pressure .  Rating: ***.  “Le Systeme de Ponzi” is at the Theatre aux Abbesses in
Paris through Feb. 10 and then travels to  Nancy  (March 13-17),
 St. Etienne  (March 21-23),  Strasbourg  (April 11-26) and other
French towns. Information:  http://www.theatredelaville-paris.com 
or +33-1-4274-2277.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 