-- Madonna’s Disco Groove Thumps On, McCartney Sends Valentine: CDs
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-02-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/madonna-s-disco-groove-thumps-on-mccartney-sends-nostalgic-valentine-cds.html
Strip away Madonna’s relentless
publicity machine, Givenchy costumes and Super Bowl appearance
and what’s left is a single, “Give Me All Your Luvin,’” her
latest reprise of the 1980s dance music that has made her career
one long dance party.  Her latest 3-minute-22-second pop number is pumped up with
football-style chants and raps by Nicki Minaj and M.I.A., who
departed from script at the Feb. 5 Halftime Show in Indianapolis
by making a finger gesture: Doesn’t she know that hell hath no
fury like a Madonna upstaged?  “Give Me All Your Luvin’” is no better or worse than
Madonna’s last singles -- she has released more than 70 and has
been on a whirlwind of television and magazine interviews to
also promote her movie “W.E.”  Many people are already Madonna-ed out, even before she
orders, as she has done for decades, “give me all your love,
let’s forget about time and dance the night away.”  This banal lyric is on a par with “hey Mister DJ, put a
record on, I wanna dance with my baby,” though that
unremarkable line at least kick-starts her insidiously sexy
anthem “Music.”  Perhaps we should savor the ever-more unseemly spectacle of
Madonna getting raunchy in the hilarious video -- she’s sending
herself up in a clinch with hunky sportsmen -- because it’s not
an act she can keep up forever.  Pop Crown  The headlines are bound to say that, at 53, she’s back to
recapture her “Queen of Pop” crown. Young pretender Lady Gaga
was born in 1986, at which time Madonna had already enjoyed No.
1 hits such as “Crazy for You” and “Like a Virgin.” Still,
Madonna has never really been away, because her influence looms
large over many divas who have followed, from  Britney Spears  to
Rihanna.  She deserves credit for her strong-willed perseverance. Not
that it’s enough of a reason to add this slight yet fun download
to the 300 million records she already has sold. It puts down
the template for the album, set for release on March 26, that’s
titled “ MDNA ,” an abbreviation for Madonna, though it could 
easily be called “More of the Same” or “Going Round in Ever 
Decreasing Circles.”  By the time she starts her biggest-ever world tour in 
 Israel  in May, Madonna probably will be back at No. 1 in many 
countries. You have been warned. Rating: ***.  McCartney’s Inspiration  Paul McCartney ’s latest album is a collection of pop
standards that inspired him from his earliest days.  Revealingly, this is no homage to uptempo 1950s music like
 John Lennon ’s “Rock ‘N’ Roll.” Instead, it has the sort of
gently swinging jazzy numbers listened to by McCartney’s family
when he was growing up in the 1940s. The result is closer to
Ringo Starr’s “Sentimental Journey” from 1970, which also
covered the Dixon-Henderson composition “Bye Bye Blackbird”
and other sappy ballads liked by the drummer’s mom.  McCartney’s choices are brave, considering the criticism he
has faced for sentimentality and “Silly Love Songs.” Perhaps
the most daring thing is the  album’s  eyebrow-raising title,
“Kisses on the Bottom,” which comes from a line in the first
track, “I’m Gonna Sit Right Down and Write Myself a Letter,”
once a hit for  Fats Waller .  The recently remarried ex-Beatle’s cover of “Ac-Cent-Tchu-
Ate the Positive” shows him further lightening up after the
jaunty “Memory Almost Full” in 2007. This may be Paul’s year
as he joins Shirley Bassey andElton John to play at the Queen’s
London Diamond Jubilee concert in June.  Fortunately, one of the world’s most accomplished
songwriters offers two originals that fit in with the older
works. “Only Our Hearts” has a harmonica solo by  Stevie Wonder . “My Valentine,” with  Eric Clapton  on guitar, will
endure for longer. It inspires a red heart Feb. 14 gift sticker
on some copies of the  CD . If you are looking for an easy
listening Valentine’s Day gift, you’ve found it.  Rating: ***.  Download fees for Madonna’s single, on Interscope, and
McCartney’s album, on Hear Music, vary across services. “Kisses
on the Bottom” was released yesterday, priced from about $10 in
the U.S. and 9 pounds in the U.K. There is a deluxe edition
priced at about $12 or 11 pounds, adding two tracks and with an
added digital download. Information:  http://www.madonna.com  and
 http://store.paulmccartney.com/kissesonthebottom/usd.php   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 