-- Afghan War Coalition Braces for Renewed Fight Amid Troop Cuts
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-02-08T18:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/afghan-war-coalition-braces-for-renewed-fight-amid-troop-cuts.html
The NATO-led coalition in  Afghanistan 
faces “a tough fight ahead” as its shrinking forces take on a
weakened Taliban, the U.S. commander in charge of the allies’
day-to-day operations said.  After failing to retake the Helmand River Valley in the
country’s south last year, the insurgents will try again when
the fighting season resumes after winter’s end with ranks
replenished partly from havens across the border in  Pakistan ,
the commander, Lieutenant General Curtis Scaparrotti, told
reporters today at the Pentagon.  “They have a regenerative capability, particularly with
the Pakistan sanctuary,” Scaparrotti said. “So this is a tough
fight ahead.”  The 50-nation coalition, led by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, aims to solidify gains of the past two years and
strengthen the Afghan army and police to take over security
responsibility for the entire country by the end of 2014. The
U.S. and its allies will continue a planned drawdown of troops
that began with 10,000 American forces exiting last year and
23,000 more set to depart this year.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  set another marker for the
transition last week, saying Afghans will lead security
operations, with coalition advice and combat backup, by the end
of 2013.  As the coalition cuts its forces, the U.S. will bring in
security force assistance teams to further train and advise the
Afghan army and police. The teams will be connected with a
regional combat brigade and an Afghan army or police unit. Some
will be accompanied by rifle units for security, depending on
conditions in the area, Scaparrotti said.  ‘A Realist’  Scaparrotti, who is in the seventh month of his second tour
in Afghanistan, said the Afghans are significantly better
fighters than they were when he was there in 2009 to 2010. They
still need more work on leadership and logistics, he said.  “I’m optimistic about this, cautiously,” he said. “But
I’m a realist in how tough this is going to be.”  He rejected assertions by an Army lieutenant colonel,
published in the February edition of Armed Forces Journal, that
U.S. military leaders were deceiving the public by saying
conditions were improving and the Afghan army and police were
becoming more self-sufficient.  “What I saw bore no resemblance to rosy official
statements by U.S. military leaders about conditions on the
ground,” Lieutenant Colonel Daniel L. Davis wrote in the
commentary. He said he served 12 months in Afghanistan last year
with the Army’s rapid equipping force and traveled to multiple
provinces where U.S. soldiers served.  Ground Truth  “I’m hardly the only one who has noted the discrepancy
between official statements and the truth on the ground,” Davis
wrote.  Scaparrotti said he doesn’t doubt some of the anecdotes the
officer cites. Coalition leaders have more comprehensive
information to draw on and a broader view, he said.  “I take in a lot of data from many different places, to
include a very objective, detailed assessment we do every
quarter,” Scaparrotti said. “I’m confident in my personal view
that our outlook is accurate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  