-- Tai Chi Makes Parkinson’s Patients Steadier on Feet, Study Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-02-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/tai-chi-makes-parkinson-s-patients-more-steady-on-their-feet-study-shows.html
Tai chi, a Chinese martial art of
precise, gentle movements, helps patients with mild-to-moderate
 Parkinson’s disease  improve their balance, a study found.  Patients who did tai chi twice a week for six months had
improvement in steadiness that was 2.5 times greater than those
who engaged in resistance training and 4 times greater than
those who did only stretching exercise, according to research
published today in the  New England Journal of Medicine .  Doctors recommend exercise for patients with Parkinson’s
disease, a brain disorder that causes trembling, stiffness and
balance impairment and increases the risk of falls, the authors
wrote. Tai chi, known for its series of exact postures that flow
one into the next, requires concentration and weight shifting
that may have extra benefits for those with mild to moderate
Parkinson’s, said lead study author Fuzhong Li.  “We have clearly shown that tai chi has the potential to
help patients ease some of the movement disorder,”  Li , a senior
research scientist at the  Oregon  Research Institute in Eugene,
Oregon, said in a Feb. 6 telephone interview. “It will
definitely help people improve their balance. My recommendation
would be to build it into daily activity.”  The study is the first to show that an alternative form of
exercise can benefit Parkinson’s patients, Li said.  Tai chi  uses a set of slow, self-initiated movements to
move people away from their base of support in a controlled
fashion, he said. Resistance training is more like aerobics and
uses less conscientious movements, Li said.  10 Million Affected  About  60,000  Americans are diagnosed with Parkinson’s each
year and as many as 10 million people worldwide are living with
the disorder, according to the Parkinson’s Disease Foundation,
based in  New York . Men are more probable than women to have the
disease.  Researchers in the study included 195 patients with mild-
to-moderate Parkinson’s disease. The patients were assigned to
participate in tai chi, resistance training or stretching for 60
minutes twice a week for 24 weeks.  Those in the tai chi group improved in how far they could
shift their center of gravity without falling by 15 percent over
the course of the study, while those in the resistance group
improved 6 percent. Those who were in the stretching group had a
4 percent decline over the study period, Li said.  The research indicated that participants in the tai chi
group performed better on movement control, showing a 12 percent
improvement, while those in the resistance training group
declined 4 percent and the people in the stretching group
dropped 5 percent, Li said.  Better Than Stretching  The tai chi group performed better than the stretching
group in walking and strength. They also fell less than those
who stretched. There was no difference in falls between the
resistance group and the tai chi group, the paper showed.  The findings will receive a lot of attention in the
Parkinson’s community, said Blair Ford, medical adviser with the
Parkinson’s Disease Foundation and a professor of clinical
neurology at  Columbia University  in New York.  “Tai chi and probably equivalent methods are helpful at
improving balance and decreasing falls and that’s very, very
important for Parkinson’s disease,” Ford said in a Feb. 7
telephone interview. The study “might just get tai chi on the
map as a conjunctive treatment for Parkinson’s. Medications
alone don’t prevent falling.”  Andrew Feigin , a neurologist specializing in Parkinson’s
disease at the North Shore-LIJ Medical Group in Great Neck, New
York, said the findings give scientific backing to doctor
recommendations that patients try exercises like tai chi to
improve balance.  “Balance and gait are problems that people with
Parkinson’s disease have,” said Feigin, who wasn’t an author of
today’s paper, in a Feb. 6 telephone interview. “Things like
stretching and resistance aren’t really working on balance. Tai
chi really focuses on improvements in balance. It’s nice to get
some actual data that shows doing those things can be helpful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  