-- Thai Leader to Propose Constitution Overhaul
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-02-08T06:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/thai-leader-s-plan-to-redraw-constitution-threatens-discord.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s party will present a plan for overhauling a
constitution written after a 2006 coup that ousted her brother,
a move that threatens to reignite political discord.  Yingluck’s Pheu Thai party will present a proposal tomorrow
to parliament to create a Constitution Drafting Assembly
comprising 99 people that has 180 days to draw up a new
constitution, spokesman Prompong Nopparit said by phone today. A
nationwide referendum will be held after it’s completed, he
said.  “The Pheu Thai party sees that the 2007 constitution is
not democratic,” Prompong said by phone. “It weakens political
parties, weakens politicians and limits the freedom of people.
The constitution should be drafted by people for people.”  The rewrite represents the biggest challenge to a military
establishment that overthrew former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  six years ago since his sister took power in August.
Moves by Thaksin’s allies in 2008 to change the constitution
sparked violent street protests by his yellow-shirted opponents
that shut down parts of Bangkok and culminated in the seizure of
the city’s airports.  “The government thinks it is confident enough to make a
move that will certainly upset the military and anti-Thaksin
forces,” said  Michael Montesano , a visiting research fellow at
the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore . “I’d be
very surprised if the Yellow Shirts can bring out the numbers
they were able to bring out several years ago.”  Post-Coup Constitution  Thailand’s  SET Index ,  Asia ’s best performer over the past
three months, gained 1.2 percent as of 12:09 p.m. local time.
The baht strengthened 0.4 percent to 30.82 per dollar.  The proposal calls for the amendment of Article 291, which
specifies how the constitution can be changed. Right now
amendments require the approval of a joint sitting of the 480-
member House of Representatives and 150-member Senate.  The assembly would comprise 99 people, including a
representative elected from each of  Thailand ’s 77 provinces and
22 legal experts selected by the Parliament, Prompong said.
Members of political parties would be barred from sitting on the
assembly, he said.  Under a clause in the  post-coup constitution , a party can
be disbanded and its executive board banned from office for five
years if one member is found guilty of a crime. Since the coup,
courts have disbanded two parties composed of Thaksin’s allies
that won elections in 2005 and 2007.  Thaksin has lived overseas since fleeing a two-year jail
sentence in 2008 for abuse of power. After his allies won July
elections, the fifth straight victory by a party linked to him,
Thaksin said a new constitution was needed “to allow freedom
and justice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  