-- Taiwan’s CPC in Talks to Buy Stake in Woodside’s LNG Project
-- B y   Y u - H u a y   S u n   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-02-08T09:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/taiwan-s-cpc-in-talks-to-buy-stake-in-woodside-s-lng-project-1-.html
CPC Corp.,  Taiwan ’s state-owned oil
refiner, said it is in talks with  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  to buy
a stake of less than 10 percent of the proposed Browse liquefied
natural gas project in Western Australia.  The company is negotiating details of a multi-year LNG
supply agreement with Perth-based Woodside and wants to sign a
contract this year, Chen Ming-huei, a CPC spokesman, said by
telephone today. CPC said in 2010 it extended a preliminary
accord to buy the fuel from the Browse venture to continue
discussions aimed at completing a transaction.  Mitsui & Co. is also interested in buying a stake in the
venture, a spokesman for the Japanese trading company said by
telephone from  Tokyo . A decision is yet to be reached, said the
official who declined to be named citing company policy.  Woodside, which has a 46 percent stake in the planned LNG
venture, is assessing the potential sale of a “minority
portion” of the company’s holding, it said Jan. 27. Woodside
could fetch $1.6 billion selling 16 percent of Browse and
lowering its stake to 30 percent, Citigroup Inc. said Jan. 27.  Chief Executive Officer Peter Coleman said in August that
Woodside may sell stakes in its Browse and Pluto LNG ventures in
Western Australia to help fund the developments. Browse may cost
$36 billion to build, compared with an earlier estimate of $30
billion, Credit Suisse said in November.  Woodside,  Australia ’s second-largest oil producer, and CPC
reached an initial accord in 2007 for the sale of as much as 3
million metric tons of LNG annually. CPC said in January 2010
that it wanted to acquire as much as 10 percent of the project.  The Australian energy company may delay a final  investment
decision  on Browse until 2013 as costs to develop projects in
Australia climb, Woodside said in December.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, BP Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd. also hold stakes
in the Browse development.  Woodside said last month it intends to remain operator of
the venture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  