-- Making a Fatah and Hamas Partnership Work for U.S., Israel: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/making-partnership-between-fatah-and-hamas-work-for-u-s-and-israel-view.html
The news  that the mainstream
Palestinian group Fatah has agreed to form a unity government
with the militantly Islamist Hamas may move some to dismay.
Although there are ample reasons for that reaction, this
development may also present an opportunity.  Over the past year, the world has changed not just around
 Israel , but also around the  Gaza Strip  and  West Bank , the two
Palestinian territories ruled, respectively, by Hamas and Fatah.
That is especially true for Hamas. The Arab Spring has driven
one of the movement’s two most important sponsors --  Syria  --
 into turmoil . The crackdown by Bashar al-Assad’s regime on the
country’s Sunni majority has unnerved many inside Hamas, which
is also Sunni, and its chairman-in-exile, Khaled Mashaal, has
left his headquarters in Damascus. He also  recently announced  he
would not serve another term.  Meanwhile, Hamas’s main financial backer -- Iran -- faces
increasing economic constraints as a result of  international
sanctions . That relationship is strained, too, not least because
Shiite  Iran  is backing the Syrian regime. Just as important,
other Islamists that share Hamas’s roots in the Muslim
Brotherhood have come to power in Egypt and  Tunisia . More may
follow. As fraught with risks as those changes are, they also
have the potential of creating more moderate patrons and role
models for Palestinian Islamists.  Hamas remains a radical Islamist organization defined by
its implacable opposition to Israel. There is no reason to think
Hamas is about to sign up to all three principles that the
Middle East Quartet -- the U.S., the European Union, the United
Nations and  Russia  -- have set for the group to receive
international acceptance: namely, commitments to nonviolence,
recognition of Israel and assent to previous agreements.  There is evidence , however, that the movement is re-
evaluating its friends and options and that at least some of the
leaders in this fractious organization are experimenting with a
more pragmatic tone. Hamas’s agreement to share power with
secular rival Fatah is itself something of a concession.  All of this leaves policy makers in the U.S. and Israel
with two broad options: They can seize on these developments as
a moment of weakness for Hamas and seek to reinforce its
isolation, thereby preserving the status quo; or they can work
with governments that have open communications with Hamas, such
as Turkey, Qatar and Jordan, as well as the Muslim Brotherhood
in  Egypt , to encourage Hamas onto a more moderate path. At this
particular moment, the latter seems a policy worth exploring.  Isolation has succeeded in keeping Hamas militarily weak,
but on other counts the policy has failed. Notably, it ensured
that Hamas remained in the willing arms of Iran, and an economic
blockade failed to stir revolt inside Gaza. Hamas is  unlikely to
fold up and disappear  any time soon.  There are clear limits to what countries can or should do
to work with Hamas until it signs up to the three principles.
But  Washington , in particular, should look for ways to avoid
torpedoing the newly merged Palestinian Authority by cutting off
its funds, and instead wait to see whether the alliance has a
moderating effect.  The U.S. administration wisely  declined to criticize  the
preliminary deal announced Monday by both factions, while
repeating the Quartet principles for any future Palestinian
government to continue receiving U.S. support,  including about
$500 million in annual aid . The EU, already on Monday, said it
would continue its $600 million of aid.  The details of the Fatah-Hamas agreement have yet to be
worked out. If,  as billed , it produces a truly technocratic
government without parties, then the U.S. and other donors
should use this creative ambiguity to allow funding to continue.
The threat of losing money could then be used to influence
Hamas’s behavior.  This would represent a significant change in policy. The
U.S. lists Hamas as a terrorist organization and has worked hard
to isolate it. But at a time when so much in the  Middle East  is
changing and Hamas is under pressure to change with it, this is
a moment for the U.S. and Israel to open doors. Should Hamas
choose further confrontation, the door can always be slammed
shut.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 