-- Malloy Mimics Christie by Attacking Connecticut Teachers’ Tenure System
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-02-08T18:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/malloy-mimics-christie-by-attacking-connecticut-teachers-tenure-system.html
Connecticut (STOCT1)  Governor Dannel Malloy, a
Democrat elected in 2010, wants to overhaul rules for giving
public-school teachers tenure, introducing new standards for
evaluating their performance.  Malloy, who has contrasted his approach with New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie ’s attacks on public workers’ unions,
said in a speech to the Legislature that Connecticut needs to
join 31 states that since 2009 have revised the system for
granting lifetime job guarantees to educators. Christie, a
Republican, in November proposed a similar change, making
teachers more accountable for student performance.  “In this new system, tenure will be a privilege, not a
right,” Malloy, 56, said in his prepared remarks. “It will be
earned and retained through effective teaching, not by counting
years of service.”  Malloy has called himself the “anti-Christie” for his
conciliatory approach toward Connecticut state workers. Last
year, he contrasted his method of negotiating concessions with
the Republican’s attacks on unions.  Today he said the 45,000 teachers in  Connecticut  schools,
which are unionized, have to only “show up for four years to
get tenure,” and that they can lose that job protection by
being “rated incompetent.”  Earned and Re-earned  “Under my proposal, tenure will have to be earned and re-
earned,” Malloy said in the speech. “Not earned by simply
showing up for work -- earned by meeting certain objective
performance standards, including student performance, school
performance, and parent and peer review.”  He said he’ll propose an overhaul to the Legislature, which
is controlled by Democrats, that will “provide career
advancement opportunities and financial incentives as a way of
rewarding teachers who consistently receive high performance
ratings.”  The muted response from one of the state’s teachers’ unions
contrasted with the rhetoric that has characterized debate on
the issue in  New Jersey .  “Governor Malloy has given us the starting point and now
we need to work together and listen to the educators doing the
work to enact legislation that improves education for all
children,” Sharon Palmer, president of AFT Connecticut, said in
a statement. “Make no mistake, this will require give and take
from all stakeholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  