-- Ally’s ResCap Said to Seek Buyers for Prearranged Bankruptcy
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-02-08T18:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/ally-s-rescap-said-to-seek-buyers.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s mortgage unit
is talking to buyout firms including  Fortress Investment Group
LLC (FIG)  and Cerberus Capital Management LP about selling itself
through a pre-packaged bankruptcy, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  The unit, Residential Capital LLC, and its financial
advisers also have contacted Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC
and  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  to gauge their interest, said two of
the people, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private. A prearranged bankruptcy is among
options being explored as Ally, ResCap and their advisers aim to
craft a plan for the unit by the end of March, before ResCap
encounters financing and liquidity deadlines, said the people.  Ally is seeking to limit liabilities at ResCap, which faces
at least 22 mortgage-linked securities lawsuits that threaten to
wipe out profit at the Detroit-based parent. A pre-packaged
bankruptcy would allow ResCap to reach an agreement with
creditors and other stakeholders before filing. It’s seen as the
likeliest outcome inside the unit and is an option that has
gained momentum in recent weeks, said the people.  Payments Pending  ResCap, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thomas Marano, 50, will have bond coupon and interest payments in
April, the people said. Potential bidders are being told that a
pre-packaged bankruptcy filing would allow the buyer to leave
behind liabilities such as private-label securitizations that
have been the subject of litigation, said the people.  Spokesmen for Ally, Cerberus and Leucadia declined to
comment, and spokesmen for Centerbridge and Fortress didn’t
immediately respond to messages seeking comment. The buyout
firms, all based in  New York , had considered making bids in mid-
2010 in a failed auction, people familiar with the matter said
at the time.  Credit-default swaps on ResCap jumped 15.5 percentage
points to 57 percent upfront as of 11:47 a.m. in New York,
according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. That means the
upfront cost to protect $10 million of ResCap bonds from default
for five years jumped to $5.7 million from $4.15 million before
the report. The initial costs are in addition to $500,000
annually.  ResCap’s $2.12 billion of 9.625 percent notes due in May
2015 fell 3.3 cents to 78.5 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Bondholder Group  A ResCap bondholder group representing  John Paulson ’s
Paulson & Co.,  David Tepper ’s Appaloosa Management LP and
Boston-based Loomis Sayles & Co. called the company and its
advisers to express opposition to any plan placing ResCap in
bankruptcy, according to another person familiar with the talks.  The bondholder group holds $800 million in ResCap debt and
has said it would resist a bankruptcy filing. It may seek to
block any sale of the unit in bankruptcy by claiming that ResCap
wasn’t separate from Ally and therefore can’t be split through a
filing, the person said. The group also believes Ally has
stripped some assets from ResCap that should have stayed with
the mortgage unit, said the person.  The bondholders hired law firm White & Case LLP in January
to represent them and want Ally to finance a ResCap bailout,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the group’s
demands. Anthony Morro, an attorney for the group, declined to
comment.  Getting More Say  “If you are a ResCap bondholder, right now you want to
make sure your money doesn’t go to zero,” said Jody Lurie, a
corporate credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “They will put up as much of a fight as they
can.”  A pre-packaged option may be preferable for ResCap
bondholders because it gives them some say on the final solution
rather than a more traditional bankruptcy where they would have
less input, Lurie said.  Ally is pursuing an initial public offering to help repay
$17.2 billion in bailout funds after the U.S. Treasury
Department rescued the auto lender, originally known as GMAC, in
2008 because the firm was deemed crucial to the health of
automakers. The U.S. now holds a 74 percent stake.  A group of investors led by Cerberus owns 8.7 percent of
Ally after government bailouts diluted a 51 percent stake
acquired from General Motors Corp. for $7.4 billion in 2006.  Earlier this month, Ally posted a fourth-quarter loss after
absorbing a $270 million charge to cover expected penalties
stemming from faulty foreclosure practices. Ally CEO Michael Carpenter, 64, said he won’t take the company public until
legacy mortgage issues are resolved.  No ‘Blank Check’  “Realistically, until we’ve made some progress on the
mortgage issue, we’re not going to go out into the marketplace
and accept the kind of discounts that we would have to get in
order to go public in this environment,” Carpenter said Feb. 2,
during the company’s fourth-quarter earnings call. Ally halted
the IPO process last June amid turmoil in the equity markets.  Ally has sought to distance itself from ResCap to limit
liabilities it may face. That effort may have been made more
difficult by the fourth-quarter charge, which caused ResCap to
violate covenants on certain credit facilities and led Ally to
forgive $196.5 million of debt between the firms.  “Investors should not assume there is a blank check,”
said Carpenter, who added that ResCap is a separate legal entity
that files its own 10-K annual report with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. “It’s been an SEC registrant in its
own right, with its own 10-K, tons of disclosure, its own
securities. The contracts in the marketplace are contracts with
ResCap, not with Ally.”  ResCap hired Centerview Partners LLP last year to advise on
restructuring and negotiations with creditors, people familiar
with the matter said at the time. Ally is being advised by
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , while  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and Perella Weinberg
Partners LP are advising the Treasury.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 