-- Amazon Adds Viacom’s Dora, Betty White to Web Video Options
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-02-09T01:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/amazon-adds-viacom-shows-to-expand-streaming.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  added  Viacom Inc (VIAB) .,
the owner of the Nickelodeon and MTV cable networks, to the list
of partners providing shows and movies to its video-streaming
service, expanding the library by 15 percent to 15,000 titles.  Amazon Prime members, who get free two-day shipping and
access to an online streaming video service for $79 a year, will
be able to watch programs such as MTV’s “Jersey Shore” and TV
Land’s “Hot in  Cleveland ,” the Seattle-based company said
today in a statement. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  has bolstered the video
service with films and shows from studios including News Corp.’s
Fox and  Warner Bros . in part to spur sales of the Kindle Fire
tablet computer. Amazon spends about a third of  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s
$1 billion a year on content deals and needs to expand streaming
video rights to compete, according to Brian Nowak, an analyst at
Nomura Securities in  New York .  “You either have to build the device that everyone wants
or have a price point that excites people and an ecosystem that
goes around that,” said Kerry Rice, an analyst at Needham & Co.
in San Francisco who recommends holding Amazon shares. “Amazon
has built a great ecosystem, and this just adds to that.”  Amazon rose 0.7 percent to $185.48 at the close in New
York. The stock has gained 7.2 percent this year. Netflix, the
online video operator based in  Los Gatos ,  California , dropped 3
percent to $124.  Kindle Fire  Prime customers can watch 2,000 titles from Viacom starting
today, including “Dora the Explorer” and “The Real World.”  While Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, sells
the Kindle Fire at a loss, it may make $136 on each device after
sales of books, movies and music, according to Ross Sandler, an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  Videos bought or rented and the number of customers on the
Amazon Instant Video online streaming service more than doubled
in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, Amazon said last
month. Video streams almost quadrupled.  While more online video offerings will probably help profit
margins down the road by luring more consumers to pay annually
for Prime and buy more goods on Amazon’s site, such deals could
hurt earnings in the near term, Nomura’s Nowak said. Amazon’s
 operating margin  narrowed to 1.8 percent last year from 4.1
percent in 2010, and the company is forecasting an operating
loss of $200 million to a gain of $100 million in the first
quarter.  Video Binges  To compete with Netflix, Amazon would have to increase the
estimated $300 million to $400 million it spends on streaming-
video rights, Nowak said.  Users are showing more interest in bingeing on video -- or
watching a series from episode one to the end -- and Amazon will
be expanding content offerings as customer demand increases,
said Brad Beale, Amazon’s director of video-content acquisition.  “We’re going to continue working on adding more content to
Prime,” Beale said in an interview. “I can’t peg a particular
budget number, but I can absolutely tell you that there’s more
really good stuff to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  