-- Amgen Fails to Win Advisory Panel Backing for Expanded Use of Cancer Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-08T21:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/amgen-fails-to-win-advisory-panel-backing-for-expanded-use-of-cancer-drug.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s biggest
biotechnology company, failed to win the backing of a U.S.
advisory panel for its drug to delay tumors spreading to bones
in patients with advanced prostate cancer.  The panel voted 12-1 that the risks outweighed the benefits
of the drug, Xgeva.  Food and Drug Administration  staff
questioned in a Feb. 6 report whether the ability to delay tumor
growth in bones is enough to justify approval. The drug, known
chemically as denosumab, didn’t extend lives in a study.  Amgen, based in  Thousand Oaks ,  California , forecasts Xgeva
sales of $3 billion to $4 billion in 2015. If the company fails
to win approval to use the drug for preventing the spread of
prostate cancer to the bones, the lost potential revenue would
be about $1 billion, Jim Birchenough, an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in  New York , said today in a note to clients.  “This isn’t a question of whether this drug works,”
Wyndham Wilson, chief of the lymphoma therapeutics section at
the  National Institutes of Health  and chairman of the panel.
“It’s a question of when is the most effective time to give
it.”  Amgen fell 1.6 percent to $68.06 at the close of New York
trading.  Previous Approval  Xgeva was approved in November 2010 to prevent bone pain
and fractures caused by bone metastases. Amgen is seeking
approval in Xgeva for men who aren’t responsive to hormone
treatment and whose cancer hasn’t spread to the bone yet have an
increased risk based on testing, Sean Harper, Amgen senior vice
president of global development and corporate chief medical
officer, said in a telephone interview. The patient population
is about 50,000 in the U.S., he said.  Patients who take Xgeva are at higher risk for experiencing
a painful jaw condition, yet survival did not differ between the
groups who took the treatment to delay deadly bone metastases
and a placebo. The risk of the drug make it safer for patients
to continue only taking Xgeva when tumors already have spread to
their bones, Wilson said.  He also suggested that companies seeking to expand the use
of a drug that treats a condition into a prophylactic for that
condition conduct a study comparing the treatment’s use in both
situations.  The FDA is scheduled to make a decision whether to approve
Xgeva by April 26. The agency doesn’t have to follow the panel’s
recommendation.  Study Results  Patients who took Xgeva experienced bone metastases 4.2
months later on average than those who took a placebo, according
to a company-sponsored study published in November in The Lancet
medical journal. Survival didn’t differ between the groups.  Advanced prostate cancer often spreads to the bone and is
rarely curable once tumors reach the bone, according to the
 American Cancer Society .  Of the 1,432 patients studied, five percent developed
osteonecrosis of the jaw, which can cause jaw pain, tooth
infection and bone inflammation, according to the study in the
Lancet. The cancer society said bone metastases are one of the
most common causes of pain in people with cancer. Some patients
using Xgeva experienced as much as a 7.5-month delay in
developing bone metastases, Harper said.  FDA staff were also concerned the drug may “shift the
pattern of metastases to non-bony areas.”  Xgeva also known as Prolia in the treatment of osteoporosis
in menopausal women.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  