-- Man Fined for U.K. Airport Blast Twitter Post Appeals ‘Steamroller’ Ruling
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-08T11:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/man-fined-for-twitter-joke-about-airport-blast-appeals-verdict.html
A man fined 400 pounds ($636) for
joking on Twitter Inc.’s microblogging service that he would
blow a British airport “sky high” asked a judge to overturn
his conviction saying the punishment was too severe.  Paul Chambers, 28, was found guilty in 2010 of sending a
message of “menacing character” using a “public electronic
communications network” after a security manager at Robin Hood
airport in Doncaster saw his Twitter post, according to the
judge who sentenced him.  The comment was “a joke aimed at his girlfriend,”
Chambers’s lawyer Ben Emmerson said at an appeal hearing today
in  London . “Somebody planning to blow up an airport is hardly
likely to post and advertise their intentions on Twitter.”  Twitter, which has more than 100 million users, is
grappling with how to balance freedom of speech and the need to
regulate offensive content. The San Francisco-based company said
in January it would censor posts on a country-by-country basis
rather than globally to address, “different ideas about the
contours of freedom of expression.”  His post said “Robin Hood airport is closed. You’ve got a
week and a bit to get your s--t together, otherwise I’m blowing
the airport sky high!” according to an article by another of
his attorneys, David Allen Green.  He was arrested and pursued by the U.K. Crown Prosecution
Service even though airport staff and local police decided the
threat wasn’t serious, Allen Green said.  Emmerson said the conviction was “a steamroller to crack a
very small nut” and a “disproportionate response to any
legitimate public interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  