-- Tanzania’s Auditor General to Probe Orca Unit Over Payments
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-02-08T13:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/tanzania-s-auditor-general-to-probe-orca-unit-over-payments-1-.html
Tanzania’s Controller and Auditor-
General will investigate accusations by lawmakers that  Orca
Exploration Group Inc. ’s domestic unit failed to make payments
to the East African nation’s Treasury.  The probe is expected to establish whether PanAfrican
Energy Tanzania Ltd. failed to pay as much as $55 million to the
Treasury and advise what action should be taken, Energy Minister
William Ngeleja told lawmakers today in Dodoma, the capital, in
remarks broadcast on state television. PanAfrican is “happy to
receive” auditors to help clear up the matter, said Andrew
Brown, general manager of PanAfrican.  PanAfrican has production-sharing agreement with the state-
owned Tanzania Petroleum Development Corp. to produce gas from
the offshore Songo Songo field, about 200 kilometers (124 miles)
south of  Dar es Salaam , the commercial capital. The company
sells most of the gas it produces to the state-owned Tanzania
Electric Supply Co. for power generation. To date, it has paid
TPDC more than $35 million, Orca said Nov. 21.  The issue surrounding the funds “supposedly in question”
relates to an accounting error in 2009, PanAfrican General
Manager Andrew Brown said in a phone interview today.  “There was a miss-booking of $28 million to the cost-tool
instead of operational costs,” he said. “We realized it and
corrected, and explained to TPDC. We didn’t benefit from the
correction, but some people continue to think we took money.”  Sharing  According to the company’s revenue-sharing arrangement with
TPDC, investment is to be recovered in the early stages of
production and until that is done “any sharing will be in favor
of the developer, but PanAfrican has not taken anything that it
is not entitled to,” Brown said.  On Feb. 6, the company said it started a $133 million
investment plan to last over 12 to 18 months in which it will
drill production and exploration wells.  Tanzania,  East Africa ’s second-biggest economy after  Kenya ,
may have as much as 10 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves,
Ngeleja said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 