-- Apple Flourishes in Spain Where Pain Rages From European Debt Crisis: Tech
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-02-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/apple-flourishes-in-spain-where-pain-rages-from-european-debt-crisis-tech.html
As Spain enters its second recession
in as many years,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is flourishing.  Renovation on a 19th-century, seven-floor building with more
than 6,000 square meters (64,600 square feet) of floor space on 
Madrid’s central Puerta del Sol square is under way to house 
Apple’s new Spanish flagship store, according to the city mayor’s
office. Apple is in talks with the building’s owner to use three
floors as an outlet, said a person with knowledge of the matter,
asking not to be named because the discussions are confidential.  The lure of Apple’s products and retail stores helped the
world’s largest technology company by  market value  win consumers
even in markets where spending power is declining. With almost
half of young people out of work and 18 months of falling retail
sales, Apple sold more than 800,000 iPhones in  Spain  in the
first nine months of 2011, up 60 percent from a year earlier,
according to researcher Gartner Inc.  “The Apple evangelists will buy these products, with or
without an economic crisis,” said  Victor Conde , a marketing
professor at  Universidad Nebrija  in Madrid. “They may get by
without dining out much or going to the theater for a play as
long as they’re able to have the latest iPhone.”  Apple’s Spanish expansion is catching up with other
European markets. Its current five stores in Spain compare with
 33  in the U.K., nine each in France and  Italy , and eight in
 Germany .  European Push  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , is planning a
flagship store in Amsterdam, said Tanya Ridd, a London-based
spokeswoman. It’s also considering its first flagship in Berlin,
said two people with knowledge of the matter. Ridd declined to
comment on Apple’s German plans.  Underlining its intent to boost sales in markets outside
the U.S., Apple on Jan. 31 appointed 48-year-old John Browett
from the largest U.K. consumer-electronics retailer,  Dixons
Retail Plc (DXNS) , to lead its 361-store business.  As chief executive officer of Dixons, which is similar to
U.S. retailer Best Buy Co., Browett forged a close relationship
with Apple, including striking a deal to be able to sell the
iPad ahead of rival electronics retailers in the U.K. He also
implemented store formats and added service areas similar to the
Genius Bar at Apple stores to provide technical support and help
with repairs and upgrades.  Out of Apple’s 40 new locations this year, 30 will be
abroad, the company said in October. The location of its
flagship stores in the best retail spots is critical to their
success, said Alfredo Arahuetes, dean of  Comillas Pontifical
University ’s business school in  Madrid .  ‘Trend-Setter’  “They open stores in landmarks because they want to
improve their visibility and access for customers,” Arahuetes
said. “That type of store in Madrid will allow Apple to
strengthen its position as a trend-setter.”  The downtown building, nicknamed Tio Pepe after a brand of
sherry that has for decades advertised on top of the structure,
is being developed for use by Apple, according to a Dec. 29
 statement  by the Madrid mayor’s office.  The office has to give permission for the renovation
because the construction is a historic building in the downtown
area, said Maria Antonia Landero, a spokeswoman for the office.  After the basic renovation, scheduled to finish in April,
work on the interior design will start and Apple and the
building’s owner, real estate company Ana Maria Sol SL, are in
talks about the details, said the person with knowledge of the
matter.  Apple spokesman  Paco Lara  declined to comment on the
company’s plans in Spain, saying “it’s logical to think there
will be store openings this year as we had two openings in 2010
and three last year.” Ana Maria Sol also declined to comment.  Buzzing Store  “I’m very excited about the possibility of having an Apple
store in the downtown area,” Ignacio Galaso, a 26-year-old
intern at Gas Natural SDG SA, said at the Apple outlet in the
 Parquesur  shopping mall 15 kilometers (9.3 miles) south of city
center, where he spent 90 euros ($118) on an AirPort Express to
strengthen wireless signals at home. “I haven’t bought the new
iPhone yet. If I had 600 euros, I would buy it right away.  The Apple store inside the Parquesur shopping mall was
buzzing with people on Jan. 31 while the local Burger King and
Zara clothing store were almost empty.  Roberto Martinez , a 38-
year-old interior designer looking for a device to charge his
iPhone in his BMW 5-Series car, said he doesn’t like visiting a
mall on the city’s outskirts.  “Even as I live close to this shopping mall, it would be
better to have one closer to Madrid’s downtown,” he said.  Too Expensive  Apple opened its first Spanish outlet in Barcelona, in the
 La Maquinista  shopping mall, on Sept. 4, 2010. The same month,
Spain’s Aaa credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service
and the country’s workers disrupted transport and television
broadcasts in the first general strike in eight years to protest
cuts in  government spending .  Apple’s new store might struggle as the “economy in Spain
is certainly not ideal,” said  Carolina Milanesi , a research
vice president at Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner. “It’s
not a question of getting revenue from the store from day one.
But Apple always invests in stores for the long term.”  Spain fell back into a recession in the last quarter of
2011, its second since the end of 2009, and may contract 1.5
percent this year as the government accelerates spending cuts,
the Bank of Spain estimates. Spain’s unemployment rate rose to
22.9 percent, the highest in 15 years, in the fourth quarter
from 21.5 percent in the previous three months.  Jonathan Munoz, a 22-year-old engineering student, is an
example of why Apple’s investments in Spain may take time to pay
off. Speaking from his iPhone, he said he might sell his iPad as
the 260 euros a month he earns by selling pizza three hours a
day isn’t enough to pay for his tuition and transport expenses.  “I would love to buy even more Apple products if they were
less expensive,” he said. “But I doubt that will be the case
in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  