-- Apple Supplier Working Conditions to Be Targeted in Protest
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-02-08T21:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/apple-supplier-working-conditions-to-be-targeted-by-protesters.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and
iPhone, will face protesters tomorrow who want the company to
change its manufacturing practices to address criticism of
worker conditions at manufacturing partners operating in  China .  Customers plan to present a petition signed by more than
250,000 people asking the company to develop a worker-protection
strategy that prevents abuse at Chinese factories where its
gadgets are made, according to a statement from Change.org, a
 website  that helped facilitate the petition.  The petitioners want Cupertino, California-based Apple to
vow to make an “ethical” iPhone 5 at facilities with better
working conditions than those at Taipei-based Foxconn Technology
Group, Apple’s biggest  supplier . The New York Times documented
poor conditions at factories run by Apple partners, including
excessive overtime, deaths from suicide and factory explosions,
and overcrowded dormitories.  The signatures are scheduled to be presented to Apple at
locations in  Washington , New York,  San Francisco ,  London  and
Bangalore, according to Change.org’s statement.  Apple Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook has defended the
company’s labor practices. In an e-mail to employees last month,
he said the company is “attacking problems” with conditions at
factories that make its products and is committed to educating
workers about their rights.  “We care about every worker in our worldwide supply
chain,”Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, said in a
telephone interview. “We insist that our suppliers provide safe
working conditions, treat workers with dignity and respect, and
use environmentally responsible manufacturing processes wherever
Apple products are made.”  Partners must “live up to these requirements if they want
to keep doing business with Apple,” Dowling added.  Apple rose 1.7 percent to $476.68 at the close in  New York ,
 reaching  its 52-week high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  