-- Arabtec Drops on Speculation 7-Day Rally Overdone: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-02-08T12:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/arabtec-drops-on-speculation-7-day-rally-overdone-dubai-mover.html
Arabtec Holding Co. , the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest construction company, fell the most in more
than three weeks on speculation a seven-day rally was overdone.  The shares declined 1.5 percent, the most since Jan. 16, to
2.66 dirhams at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The stock had soared
 44 percent  in the seven days through yesterday, bringing its
gain this year to 67 percent. Arabtec was the most-traded stock
and second-biggest decliner on Dubai’s  DFM General Index , which
rose 0.6 percent.  “With no official news from the company’s management or
the market regulator on the reason for Arabtec’s share price, we
expect a correction to take place,” said Tariq Qaqish, deputy
head of asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital.  Arabtec climbed to a more than two-year high yesterday,
with the stock accounting for more than half the  value of shares 
traded in Dubai, on speculation the company may gain from
infrastructure spending in the  Middle East . Chief Financial
Officer  Ziad Makhzoumi  declined to comment on the share-price
move when contacted by Bloomberg News yesterday.  Arabtec said in November the value of a contract it won in
 Saudi Arabia  may rise to 1.5 billion riyals ($400 million) as it
expands in the biggest Arab market. The company last month won a
contract valued at 561 million dirhams ($153 million) to expand
the Dubai International Airport. One of its units got 256
million dirhams of contracts in  Abu Dhabi  last week.  Arabtec  may report  a 60 percent drop in fourth-quarter
profit to 22 million dirhams, according to the median estimate
of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Arabtec’s 14-day  relative strength index  rose above 70 on
Jan. 24 and reached 89.46 today. A reading above 70 indicates to
some investors that the stock may retreat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  