-- Argentina May Use Bank Reserves to Buy YPF, Barclays Says
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-02-08T21:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/argentina-could-tap-central-bank-reserves-for-ypf-takeover-barclays-says.html
Argentina has the cash reserves to
make a tender offer for  Repsol (REP)   YPF SA (YPFD) ’s local unit, the
country’s largest energy company, and will likely put further
pressure on the industry to boost output,  Barclays Capital  said.  “We are not in the camp of those that think that Argentina
cannot afford to make an offer to Repsol and the rest of the
shareholders,” New York-based analyst Sebastian Vargas said
today in a note to investors. Using central bank reserves to
make an offer for YPF SA “should also be considered,” he said.  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is
increasing pressure on oil companies to invest more after fuel
imports doubled to $9.4 billion in 2011. In October, the
government ordered oil and mining companies to repatriate export
revenues and in November opposed a dividend payment for Buenos
Aires-based  YPF (YPF) , as it seeks to stem capital flight. YPF was
also one of nine companies that lost financial incentives for
oil exploration and production, the government said Feb. 3.  “We think the administration will increase intervention in
the energy sector to guarantee an increase in production and
investment,” he said. “The conflict with Repsol YPF is just
the tip of the iceberg of a much more complex energy problem.”  YPF rose 11 percent to close at $35.90 in  New York , giving
the company a market value of $14.1 billion. The stock surged
after YPF said in a separate statement that it was boosting its
shale oil contingent resources to about 23 billion barrels.  The company’s American depositary receipts have slumped 29
percent in the past 12 months on concerns the government will
nationalize YPF. The government may pay book value of $11.7
billion for the asset and that might be enough to convince
Repsol to accept an offer, Vargas said.  ‘Sizeable Political Gains’  Argentina ’s government has discussed nationalizing YPF,
Pagina/12 newspaper reported Jan. 29, without saying where it
got the information. Pagina/12 regularly runs interviews with
top government officials such as Vice President  Amado Boudou ,
who did not rule out the possibility of nationalizing YPF,
Vargas said, citing recent media minister interviews.  Nationalization would have “sizeable political gains” for
Fernandez and would gain Congressional approval, Vargas said.
The nationalization of YPF would have a “very negative effect”
on credit markets, he said.  Antonio Brufau , chief executive officer of Repsol, met
Argentina’s planning and economy ministers on Feb. 6 to discuss
government criticism of YPF, Spanish news agency Efe reported,
citing people close to the meeting it didn’t identify.  Record Investment  The company invested a record 13.3 billion pesos ($3.1
billion) last year and added 137 million barrels of oil
equivalent to its reserves. That gave YPF a so-called reserve
replacement ratio of 160 percent, it said today in a regulatory
filing.  Argentine oil production dropped by 12 percent between 2003
and 2010 even as consumption gained 38 percent, according to
Vargas. Gas output dropped 2.3 percent in the period and
reserves fell to the lowest since 1980 as demand rose 25 percent
amid an expanding Argentine economy, Vargas said.  Argentina will have to increasingly rely on oil imports to
boost its economy, he said.  Repsol,  Spain ’s largest energy company,  owns  about 57
percent of YPF, while Argentina’s closely held Petersen Group
owns about 25 percent.  The Petersen Group, owned by the Eskenazi family, bought
into YPF in 2008 and became the operator of the company. Under
the terms of the acquisition agreement with Repsol, YPF pays 90
percent of its annual net income as dividends.  The dividend per share is the fourth largest in the world
among  oil companies  worth $10 billion or more, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  