-- Argentina Tightens Limits on Use of Cash Transactions in Financial Markets
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-02-08T15:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/argentina-limits-cash-transactions-in-financial-markets-2-.html
Argentina  limited the use of cash in
the country’s financial markets as President Cristina Fernandez
de Kirchner ramps up oversight of currency transactions.  The government will restrict daily cash transactions to
1,000 pesos ($231) per person, down from 10,000 pesos, according
to a  statement  today in the Official Gazette. The measure
affects activity in the stock and bond markets, investment funds
and in the  futures markets . Operations above the limit will have
to be done through Argentine bank accounts that are authorized
by the central bank.  “They are forcing a higher level of formality in the
economy, as cash transactions allow more irregularities,” said
Felipe Hernandez, an analyst at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford,
Connecticut. “This is in line with other measures to prevent
 money laundering , for which the government has been under a
great deal of pressure.”  The move is aimed at combating money laundering and
terrorist financing, according to the statement.  Since winning a second, four-year term in October,
Fernandez has ordered the tax agency to review all foreign
currency transactions, required pre-approval for the importation
of goods and raised  capital requirements  on banks in a bid to
limit dividends and slow capital flight.  Outflows totaled $18 billion in the first nine months of
2011, double the same period in the previous year, and
accelerated to the fastest pace in at least a decade in the
third quarter. Fernandez’s measures have slowed outflows,
allowing the central bank to rebuild its international reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  