-- Harper Said to Urge China for Manulife Investment Approval
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-02-09T02:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/harper-said-to-urge-chinese-approval-of-manulife-scotiabank-investments.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  urged his Chinese counterpart to approve proposed
investments by  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  and  Bank of Nova Scotia 
as part of a broader effort to win greater access for Canadian
companies in the Asian country.  Harper, on a trip to China, said he spoke to Chinese
Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday about specific cases where Canadian
investments weren’t being approved, without giving details. A
person familiar with the talks said Harper cited investments by
Manulife and Scotiabank.  “We have, I think, a pretty open regime when it comes to
Chinese investment in  Canada ,” Harper said at the end of the
first of his four-day visit to the country. “I’ve raised with
the Chinese certain cases where we’re concerned about non-
approval of existing investments by Canadians in  China  and that
we expect to see even-handedness.”  Harper, traveling to China for the second time since 2009,
is seeking to attract Chinese investment in Canada’s natural
resources and sell more oil to  Asia , while winning business for
Canadian companies such as Manulife.  Carl Vallee, a spokesman for Harper, declined to comment on
the specifics of the talks.  Bank of Guangzhou  Scotiabank, Canada’s third-largest bank, is seeking
regulatory approval on the purchase of a 19.99 percent stake in
the Bank of Guangzhou. The investment of about C$719 million
($723 million) would give the Toronto-based lender additional
branches and deposits in China. When Scotiabank announced the
purchase in September of last year, it said it expected to
complete the transaction by December.  “We’ve been operating in China for 30 years and expect
that this transaction will close in fiscal 2012,” Ann DeRabbie,
a Scotiabank spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We greatly appreciate the Prime Minister’s
support.”  Manulife Chief Executive Officer Donald Guloien has said he
expects business in China to eventually be as important as in
the U.S., where the company owns Boston-based John Hancock
Financial. Laurie Lupton, a Manulife spokeswoman, said it’s
“normal course” for the Canadian government to raise such
issues and that the company is “unaware of any problems.”  Canada and China yesterday also concluded talks on an
investment-protection agreement. The two sides will perform a
legal review of the deal before signing it, according to  a
statement  from Harper’s office.  ‘Practical Difference’  The pact includes an independent review process for
disputes, Harper said yesterday. It “ensures non-discriminatory
treatment in terms of national firms in application of the law
and it also provides additional dispute settlement mechanisms in
the event of difficulties,” he said. “This will make a very
practical difference.”  After saying he hoped the deal would be signed as soon as
possible, Wen called for discussions on a possible free trade
agreement, the Xinhua News Agency reported. He said China is
“ready to expand imports of energy and resource products from
Canada” and boost cooperation in areas including renewable
energy and the peaceful use of nuclear power, according to
Xinhua.  Canada’s stock of direct investment in China was C$4.8
billion in 2010, less than 1 percent of the country’s total, and
about one-third the level of investment by Chinese firms,
Statistics Canada data show. With 99 percent of oil exports
going to the U.S., Canada’s trade deficit with China was C$147.5
billion from 2006 to 2010,  Industry Canada  says.  At the same time, Chinese companies purchased more oil and
gas assets in Canada from 2005 to 2011 than those any other
country, according to Bloomberg Government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Beijing at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  