-- Arsenal Considers Move for Chelsea’s Forward Sturridge, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-08T10:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/arsenal-considers-move-for-chelsea-s-forward-sturridge-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Sturridge Interest  Arsenal is interested in signing Chelsea’s  Daniel Sturridge 
during the summer, the  Daily Mail  said.  The 22-year-old is Chelsea’s top-scoring forward with 10
goals this season but is unhappy at being used as a right wing,
the Mail said. He’s expected to remain in the role with players
such as Hulk and Edinson Cavani on the Blues’ shopping list, the
newspaper said.  Sturridge also wants an improved contract and Chelsea is
balking as his current deal has 2 1/2 years remaining, the Mail
said.  Falcao for Torres?  Chelsea is lining up a move for Atletico Madrid striker
Radamel Falcao and may offer  Fernando Torres  as bait, the  Daily
Star  said.  Torres has scored just five times since his 50 million-
pound ($79.5 million) move last year and is ready to spend big
again on Falcao, who set a Europa League record last season with
17 goals for Porto, the Star said.  Face-to-Face  Fabio Capello will today meet face-to-face with Football
Association Chairman  David Bernstein  for the first time since
 John Terry  was removed as England captain last week, the  Daily
Mirror  said.  Capello was told of the decision to drop Terry, who faces a
July trial for alleged racial abuse against QPR’s Anton Ferdinand, by telephone. He was critical of the move on Italian
television over the weekend and believes he’s been undermined by
the F.A. to the point he’s considering quitting, the Mirror
said.  Handshake  Liverpool’s  Luis Suarez  and Manchester United’s Patrice Evra will be expected to shake hands before this weekend’s match
after the F.A. decided not to do away with the pre-match ritual,
the  Daily Express  said.  It will be the pair’s first meeting since Suarez’s eight-
game ban for racially abusing Evra in an October match. The F.A.
scrapped the handshake before the recent F.A. Cup game between
Chelsea and QPR to defuse any tensions between Terry and
Ferdinand.  Villa Protest  Aston Villa fans will protest before this weekend’s game
against  Manchester City  and call for the removal of manager Alex McLeish, the Mirror said.  Villa is in 13th place with just 6 wins from 24 league
matches and fans don’t think McLeish, who joined from rival
Birmingham last summer, is the man to lead the club, the Mirror
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 