-- Harvard’s Voluntary Tax Spurs Providence to Press Brown
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-02-08T19:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/harvard-s-voluntary-tax-spurs-ailing-providence-to-press-brown.html
Brown University , the Ivy League
school whose endowment grew to $2.5 billion last year, may boost
voluntary tax payments to Providence, Rhode Island, after the
city said it was nearing bankruptcy.  Governor Lincoln Chafee last week intervened to restart
talks over the school’s so-called payments in lieu of taxes
after Mayor Angel Taveras, 41, said the city was about to run
out of cash. While Brown is tax exempt, it has been paying more
than $1 million a year since 2003 when the city sought help
after a recession. In May, Taveras sought a $5 million increase.  Providence is seeking to emulate  Boston , which is  on pace  to
raise collections in lieu of taxes from  Harvard University  and
other institutions by 25 percent to about $19 million this year,
city documents show. Mayor Thomas M. Menino is trying to double
the number of schools, hospitals and cultural institutions that
pay by pressing more than 20 that gave nothing last year.  “The issue is how do we move beyond where we are and do
something that is good for the city but not crippling for the
university,”  Ruth Simmons , Brown’s president, said Jan. 23 in
her campus office. “Five million dollars -- that’s at the level
of being crippling for the university and it’s completely out of
scale with what universities do.”  Talks Continue  Officials are “continuing discussions with the mayor at
this time and hope for a constructive and fair solution,”
Marisa Quinn, a Brown spokeswoman, said yesterday by e-mail.
Brown’s faculty voted yesterday to support the effort by Simmons
to reach an agreement with the city, Quinn said.  Since charities are exempt from most taxes, lawmakers from
 Palo Alto ,  California , to Pittsburgh turned to alternative
levies and fees as colleges, hospitals, and other nonprofits
expand, increasing demands for public services. More than 100
communities in 18 states have collected payments in lieu of
taxes since 2000, according to a report from the Lincoln
Institute of Land Policy, a nonprofit group in Cambridge.  Boston reported collecting $2 million from Harvard last
year in voluntary payments. Combined, the university, the
world’s richest, spent $21.3 million last year on voluntary
payments and property levies in Cambridge, where it’s based, in
Boston and in neighboring Watertown, according to Lauren
Marshall, a spokeswoman.  Court Rulings  “There are a lot of state  Supreme Court  decisions that
have upheld the exemption” from taxation for nonprofits, said
Evelyn Brody, a professor at the Chicago-Kent College of Law.
“That’s why the negotiations have shifted to the case-by-case
basis for voluntary payments.”  In  Rhode Island (STORI1) , municipalities are struggling as the
economy trails the national recovery.  Central Falls , its
smallest city, entered bankruptcy in August after being
overwhelmed by pension costs. In East Providence, the state took
fiscal control in November following persistent deficits.  Taveras, a Democrat, has closed schools, renegotiated union
contracts, and raised property taxes in an attempt to bridge a
$110 million gap in  Providence (1055MF) ’s budget. Last week he said Rhode
Island’s capital city is still short of cash and called on
nonprofits to contribute more and for the state to give him the
authority to suspend cost-of-living increases for retirees, a
change adopted for state pensioners in 2011.  Real Difficulties  “The fiscal storm we’re facing is real and it’s still
strong,” Taveras, a graduate of Harvard and of  Georgetown
University ’s law school, said last month in an interview.  Tax-exempt organizations such as Brown own more than half
the land in Providence, with 41 percent of the assessed value,
city figures show. Taveras says the city of 178,000 spends about
$36 million a year on services for its largest tax-exempt
institutions.  In 2003, Brown and three others --  Rhode Island School of
Design , Providence College and  Johnson & Wales University  --
agreed to contribute at least $48.5 million to Providence in
annual installments through 2023, with the city getting $1.9
million this year, including $1.2 million from Brown. The
university, as part of the accord, will also make $2.3 million
of property-tax payments on buildings it acquired since 2003,
plus almost $500,000 on leased properties, Quinn said.  Brown, started in 1764 and one of eight Ivy League schools
along with Harvard, owns more than 200 properties in the city,
with a value of more than $1 billion, according to the mayor’s
office. Most of the holdings are in the historic College Hill
section near downtown.  Rising Stakes  Taveras set a goal in his budget of collecting $9 million
of the voluntary payments in fiscal 2012, which ends June 30. He
met with Simmons in May to ask if Brown would increase its
contribution by $5 million. Last month he rejected an offer from
the university for $2 million a year for five years to be used
for public schools, plus a promise to keep talking about more in
connection with downtown development plans.  “I feel that our taxpayers have already borne a huge
burden,” Taveras said. “Everyone needs to be part of this. No
one is exempt. We’ve tried to be consistent with respect to
institutions so everyone sees there is some rhyme or reason for
it. We believe that Brown taking the lead can help us with the
others.”  David Ortiz , a Taveras spokesman, declined to comment on
the status of the negotiations with Brown. He said the city is
seeking increased contributions from all four schools that
agreed to voluntary payments in 2003 as well as three hospitals.  Turning to Legislature  Taveras said last month that barring a deal, he’ll seek
legislative authority to force nonprofit organizations to make
payments in lieu of taxes. He also wants the state to increase
local aid in recognition of the services the city provides while
permitting him to levy property taxes when nonprofits start for-
profit ventures. Governments in Connecticut and  Massachusetts 
have that power.  While  Rhode Island  has reduced local aid, it still gives
money to some municipalities to offset the cost of nonprofits,
allocating $23.1 million to Providence in August, Ortiz said.  Even with recent endowment gains, Brown is still recovering
from steep investment losses in 2009, said Simmons, who became
the school’s leader in 2001 and at 66 years old is stepping down
this year. The university also deserves credit for proceeding
with capital projects and holding down job cuts through the
financial crisis, she said.  Economic Engine  The school has more than 8,000 students this year and in
2009 employed almost 4,500 people in Rhode Island, according to
its  website . Brown was the state’s sixth-largest private
employer that year, with an estimated economic output of $660
million. The university said it spent $65 million with local
vendors for goods and services in 2009, supporting 690 jobs.  The  Corporation of Brown University , the 54-member board
that oversees the school and includes Bank of America Corp.
Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan, meets later this week.
Quinn, the spokeswoman, said yesterday there is no expectation
the group will approve any additional payments because there is
no proposal yet for them to consider.  “It was never our intention to not keep moving toward a
solution,” Simmons said last month. “We really have to think
about what’s reasonable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  