-- Lin Is 2-Game NBA Star as He Lifts Knicks in Asia
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-02-08T05:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/harvard-s-lin-boosts-knicks-interest-in-asia-with-record-setting-debut.html
Jeremy Lin has created a lot of work
for his agent and fresh broadcast opportunities for the  New York
Knicks  in  Asia  since a 28-point performance in his first
 National Basketball Association  start two days ago.  “I haven’t slept in three days,” Roger Montgomery said in
a telephone interview yesterday between calls and e-mails
offering congratulations and endorsement opportunities. “It’s
hard to find an agent that doesn’t know what to say but I’m kind
of speechless at how all of this is playing out.”  The only player from  Harvard University  to reach the NBA
since Ed Smith made 11 appearances for the Knicks in 1953-54,
Lin is boosting the appeal of the Knicks (10-15) in Asia. The 6-
foot-3, 200-pound (1.91 meter, 91 kilogram) point guard is the
first American-born player of Chinese or Taiwanese descent to
join the league.  Lin’s exploits in the past two games led NBA TV in Taiwan,
NBA Premium in the  Philippines  and BesTV Virtual Super Sports
Channel in China, where television ratings for the league have
surged 39 percent over last season, to decide to air tonight’s
game at the  Washington Wizards .  The 99-92 win over the  New Jersey Nets  on Feb. 4, in which
Lin came off the bench to contribute a career-high 25 points and
seven assists, will also be replayed by NBA partners in Asia.  The performance earned Lin, 23, a start two nights later
against the  Utah Jazz , in which he bettered his points tally by
three and had eight assists, making him the only player since
Isiah Thomas in 1981 to reach those numbers in his first career
start, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. That game, too,
will be shown again in Asia because of Lin’s play.  ‘Just an Opportunity’  “It’s not like I’m mad at anyone, it was just an
opportunity,” Lin told reporters after the Jazz game. “I don’t
think anyone, including myself, saw this coming.”  While some Knicks games already air in  Taiwan , the league
has received interest in adding more if Lin -- whose $788,000
contract will officially be guaranteed for the season as of Feb.
10 -- continues to excel.  It was 4 minutes, 54 seconds into his postgame news
conference before coach  Mike D’Antoni  was asked about All-Star
Carmelo Anthony, the Knicks’ leading scorer who left in the
first quarter against  Utah  with a groin injury. Most questions
focused on the new celebrity.  “I didn’t know he could play defense, I didn’t think he
could shoot well enough and I didn’t think he could go up and
finish,” D’Antoni said of Lin. “I wasn’t sure the first time I
saw it, but now he’s had the opportunity and he’s made the best
of it.”  Despite leading Palo Alto High School to an upset over
nationally ranked Mater Dei in the state championship as a
senior, Lin was not a highly touted college prospect.  Performs When It Counts  “The key thing about him, if you want to break it down, is
that Jeremy does things when it counts,” his high-school coach
Peter Diepenbrock said in a telephone interview. “When the
lights are the brightest, that’s when he performs.”  He played four years at Harvard in Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
where he became the first Ivy League player to record 1,450
points, 450 rebounds, 400 assists and 200 steals.  Still, he went undrafted in 2010 before signing with his
hometown  Golden State Warriors . Lin played in 29 games last
season, averaging 2.6 points and 1.4 assists in 9.8 minutes per
game. He was cut Dec. 9, picked up by the  Houston Rockets  and
then waived again on Dec. 24 because of roster space limitations
the day before the lockout-shortened NBA season began. He signed
with the Knicks three days later.  “The right place at the right time, at any level, is
critical,” said Tommy Amaker, Lin’s coach at Harvard. “But I’m
sure some people will look back and say, ‘What were we
thinking?’”  Stamina Building  Lin had eight turnovers against the Jazz, likely caused by
fatigue from having played a career-high 45 minutes, D’Antoni
said.  “I’m sure it is,” he said. “I’m riding him like
freaking Secretariat.”  The Knicks, who have been without point guard Baron Davis
this season because of back and elbow injuries, will benefit
from Lin’s stamina, Amaker said in a telephone interview.  “It’s part of his DNA that he can go harder, longer than
most people,” he said. “When you take a step back to take a
deep breath, he’s still coming hard.”  Videos of Lin’s highlights in the past two games generated
interest on social media websites.  Michael Zhao, the managing editor for the  Asia Society ’s
Center on U.S.- China  Relations in New York, doesn’t follow the
NBA closely and hadn’t heard of Lin before a friend posted a
video of game highlights on Facebook.  “I immediately clicked on the video and watched the whole
thing,” Zhao said in a telephone interview. “His performance
and future ones will draw a new audience in not only  Hong Kong 
and Taiwan, but probably the mainland, Japan and  Korea  as
well.”  The result is at least one weary believer in Montgomery.  “Jeremy just doesn’t look the part,” Montgomery said,
eventually finding the words to describe his client’s rise.
“It’s part of our world. People underestimate people a lot of
times. That’s what makes the story so good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 