-- As Super-PACs Rule, Obama Ducks Fight Over Their Future: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-08T00:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/as-super-pacs-rule-obama-ducks-fight-over-their-future-view.html
“Release the hounds.” That, in
effect, is what President  Barack Obama  said Monday night when he
affixed his presidential imprimatur to a Democratic super-PAC
called Priorities USA Action.  The political action committee, run by a former Obama White
House aide, has been falling behind a slew of Republican super-
PACs in the money hunt. Apparently the president concluded that
his aloofness was costing the Democratic group. By openly
embracing Priorities USA, Obama sent a message to its potential
donors that their efforts would be appreciated at the highest
level.  The only surprise here is that the president waited so
long.  Mitt Romney ,  Newt Gingrich ,  Rick Santorum  and even
comedian  Stephen Colbert  have all beaten Obama to the super-PAC
punch. (Super-PACs are independent committees that can raise
unlimited sums from corporations, unions and other sources.)  Romney personally appeared at an event for Restore Our
Future, the super-PAC run by a close aide. Gingrich’s campaign
would have been buried weeks ago in negative ads (many courtesy
of Restore Our Future) were it not for a $10 million rescue
package from Gingrich friend  Sheldon Adelson  to a super-PAC run
by a Gingrich aide. And Colbert continues to provide a public
service by blatantly  coordinating  with his “independent” super-
PAC in ways that are both comically awful and curiously lawful.  In a blog  post  announcing Obama’s move, his campaign
manager,  Jim Messina , offered the standard disclaimers. Obama
didn’t ask for this. He opposed the Supreme Court’s 2010
decision in  Citizens United , which opened the door to unlimited
corporate donations. He supported legislation to force
disclosure of all political contributions. He can’t afford to
disarm unilaterally while super-PACs aligned with Romney raise
tens of millions of dollars.  The arguments are as undeniable as they are predictable.
Yet there is one crucial area of campaign finance, unmentioned
by Messina, over which the president has genuine influence: the
 Federal Election Commission .  The FEC has never been a high-functioning operation. But in
recent years it has become at least as significant as the
Citizens United  decision  in aiding and abetting the degradation
of American politics. The commission is made up of three
Democrats and three Republicans. Like the Democrats, the
Republicans stay true to their school, using rulings to advance
partisan loyalties. In addition, however, the Republicans are
philosophically hostile to the regulation of campaigns, making
their job -- campaign regulation -- oxymoronic. As a result, the
commission has failed to produce rules that comply with even the
minimal expectations of the Citizens United decision or of laws
previously passed by Congress. Because violations of even
watered-down rules go unpunished by the FEC, campaign operatives
behave accordingly.  The commission’s downgrade of disclosure requirements, for
example, was a two-part process. First, a disclosure rule on
electioneering communications was narrowed. Then, in response to
a complaint about a political group’s failure to disclose, the
Republican commissioners narrowed the meaning of the rule
further, rather than impose a penalty. Deviance was defined
down.  So it’s significant that five of the six current FEC
commissioners are serving expired terms. In fact, the terms of
two commissioners, Republican Donald McGahn and Democrat Steven Walther, expired almost two years ago. Yet Obama has nominated
no one to the FEC.  Given the ardor with which Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  opposes campaign-finance regulations, any
Obama nomination would almost certainly be filibustered and die.
But it’s hard to believe Obama is doing all he can if he
continues to duck this fight. With the  Supreme Court  and
Congress effectively out of the picture, the FEC is the only
venue left for making reasonable adjustments to campaign-finance
law -- requiring a genuine degree of non-coordination between
PACs and campaigns, for example, and mandating the disclosure of
all political donors (preferably by electronic notification to
the FEC within 48 hours).  In the current polarized environment, it’s hard to imagine
an FEC battle would produce the desired change. But when paired
with Obama’s newsworthy embrace of super-PACs, it could
certainly produce a few weeks of vigorous public education.
That’s something. After all, Colbert must be getting tired of
carrying the weight of reason alone.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 