-- Stocks in U.S. Advance as Global Equities Are Set to Enter a Bull Market
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-08T21:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/asian-stocks-rise-on-toyota-profit-estimate-greek-debt-meeting-oil-gains.html
U.S. stocks rose and a gauge of
global equities entered a  bull market  as investors awaited the
outcome of negotiations on steps to tame Greece’s debt crisis.
The euro and Treasuries were little changed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.2 percent to a
seven-month high of 1,349.96 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The MSCI
All-Country World Index  climbed  0.3 percent, extending its gain
from last year’s low to 20 percent. The euro fluctuated near
$1.3260 after yesterday reaching an almost two-month high. Ten-
year U.S. Treasury yields climbed less than one basis point to
1.98 percent after earlier topping 2 percent for the first time
in two weeks. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities increased 0.3
percent as gasoline, copper and Brent crude led gains.  Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademosbegan negotiating with
political parties supporting his government on measures needed
to qualify for rescue funds after postponing the meeting
yesterday. Greece is promising to cut spending and sell stakes
in six companies to qualify for a second bailout, according to a
draft of the new financing deal.  “It seems as if everyone is holding their breath and
waiting for some kind of resolution in Greece to let us know
what direction to take next,” Michelle Gibley, senior market
analyst at San Francisco-based Charles Schwab Corp., said in a
telephone interview. Her firm has $1.68 trillion in client
assets. “A deal will be made ultimately, but policy makers have
already proven that deadlines mean little to them.”  Bull Market  The  S&P 500  has rebounded 23 percent from last year’s low
in October amid growing confidence in the economy and better-
than-forecast  profits . Profits have topped analyst estimates at
68 percent of the 301 companies in the index that have reported
results since Jan. 9. Earnings-per-share have increased 3.4
percent for the group on 6.6 percent growth in sales.  Gains in commodity, industrial and financial companies
drove  global stocks  into a bull market as U.S. economic data
improved and  Europe  moved closer to a solution to the region’s
debt crisis. Seagate Technology Plc, the world’s largest maker
of computer disk drives, and Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker
in the Americas, surged at least 171 percent since Oct. 4 to
lead the  advances  in the MSCI index.  January Rally  The MSCI gauge, which tracks equities in 45 developed and
emerging countries, rose 5.7 percent last month for the best
performance during any January since  1994 , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has rallied 9.2 percent so far this
year, almost wiping out its 2011 slump. The  Stoxx Europe 600
Index , which entered a bull market on Jan. 26, has climbed 7.6
percent in 2012.  Investor confidence improved after the  European Central
Bank  announced a three-year lending program for banks, the
 Federal Reserve  said it will keep benchmark  interest rates  low
through at least 2014 and reports showed a stronger U.S. labor
market and slower Chinese  inflation.   “Be 100 percent in equities,” Laurence D. Fink, chief
executive officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money
manager, said in a Bloomberg Television interview from Hong Kong
today. “I don’t have a view that the world is going to fall
apart, so you need to take on more risk. You need to overcome
all this noise and there are great values in equities.”  While geo-political risks have risen, including Iran’s
nuclear ambitions and Syria’s bloody crackdown, investors are
taking their cue from policy makers who are driving down
interest rates and flooding the world with cash to prop up their
economies. The  VIX (VIX) , a measure of equity volatility known as the
“fear index,” fell to 17.1 on Feb. 3, the lowest level since
July, according to the  Chicago Board Options Exchange .  Market Leaders  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  increased 5.75 points
today to 12,883.95, remaining at its  highest level  since May
2008.  Financial shares led gains among the 10 main industry
groups in the S&P 500 today, with Bank of America Corp. and
Citigroup Inc. climbing more than 3.5 percent. Energy stocks had
the  biggest decline  as Exxon Mobil Corp. and Schlumberger Ltd.
paced losses after oil pared an early gain. Oil settled up 0.3
percent at $98.71 a barrel after climbing as much as 1.7
percent.  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  fell 1.7 percent as the owner of the world’s
second-largest provider of credit ratings said fourth-quarter
profit fell 30 percent after Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
slowed bond sales around the world. Western Union Co. slumped 10
percent as the world’s largest money-transfer business forecast
earnings in 2012 will be no more than $1.75 a share, less than
the average analyst estimate of $1.81.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. climbed 7.6 percent
after billionaire  John Paulson  demanded action to boost the
stock performance and the insurer’s earnings topped estimates.
Hartford, founded in 1810, hired advisers to evaluate splitting
the life insurance and property-casualty businesses, the company
said today.  European Stocks  European stocks dropped for a third day, with the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index slipping 0.2 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  lost
2.3 percent in  London . Vestas Wind Systems A/S tumbled 14
percent, its biggest retreat in a month, as the company posted
an annual loss four times wider than analysts had estimated.  Portugal’s PSI 20 Index jumped 1.9 percent for the biggest
gain among 24 global developed markets. Banco Comercial
Portugues SA rose 5.1 percent in Lisbon on speculation the
planned leadership change at Portugal’s second-biggest bank is
prompting investors to exit trades betting on a decline. Banco
Espirito Santo SA and  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  all surged at least 13
percent.  European Bonds  Spanish 10-year bonds slid, driving the yield 15 basis
points higher as the nation plans to add to its outstanding
supply of the securities due in January 2022, according to a
banker involved in the transaction. The yield on the Greek 10-
year bond slid 134 basis points, or 1.34 percentage points, to
32.82 percent.  Greece will pledge permanent spending cuts, including lower
pension payments and a 20 percent reduction in the minimum wage,
as the economy contracts this year at a faster pace than
originally estimated, according to the draft of a new financing
deal with the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .
Greece also plans to sell stakes in six companies, including
 Opap SA (OPAP)  and the country’s biggest refiner Hellenic Petroleum SA,
in the first half of this year, according to the draft  Troika Meeting  Papademos last night held an unscheduled meeting with the
so-called troika, comprising the European Commission, the
European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, to
put the final touches on terms required for rescue package.  The Institute of International Finance will hold a meeting
tomorrow to go over technical matters so a debt swap can be
implemented quickly if an accord between Greece and the troika
is reached, said two people familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because talks are private.  “Regardless of all the deal making, in the final solution,
Greece, its leaders and its people are not going to agree to
anything unless there is a silver lining and a return to
growth,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in
New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. “It’s not credible to
think they’ll agree to measures that have recession as far as
the eye can see.”  The cost of insuring against a default on European
 government bonds  rose from the lowest in three months, with the
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-default swaps
on 15 governments climbing 4.1 basis points to 322.5.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.1 percent, heading
for the highest close since Aug. 4. The Shanghai Composite Index
advanced 2.4 percent and Taiwan’s Taiex Index jumped 2.1
percent.  Russia’s Micex Index (INDEXCF)  advanced for the first day this
week, increasing 0.4 percent, as UBS AG upgraded the country’s
equities to “overweight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  