-- Mass Refi Plan Would Hit Pensions While Easing Mortgage Payments
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/mass-refi-plan-would-hit-pensions-while-easing-mortgage-payments.html
Like many homeowners, Vicky Kovari
and her husband want to refinance their mortgage. A lower
 interest rate  would save them hundreds of dollars a month -- and
it would cost them, too.  That’s because like many Americans, Kovari also owns
mortgage bonds through her retirement savings, which could lose
value if the U.S government succeeds in getting millions of
homeowners to switch out of high-interest loans.  Kovari, 57, and her husband William O’Brien, 64, say
they’re willing to take that trade.  “Retirement is scary and it’s pretty much around the
corner for us. But I’m really desperate to get my house
refinanced,” Kovari said. “That right now is a lot more
important to me.”  A drumbeat of support for a large-scale federal refinancing
program has grown louder in recent months, with labor unions,
homeowners, civil justice groups and some economists touting the
idea as a way to roust housing from its doldrums.  Few proponents have addressed the flip side of the issue,
that rewriting the rules of the $6.6 trillion mortgage bond
market for the benefit of some U.S. homeowners could leave
millions of Americans among the losers.  “Bond markets are people, too,” said Jason Gold, a senior
fellow at the Progressive Policy Institute, a left-leaning
 Washington  think tank. “We’d all take a hit.”  Largest Bondholders  Mutual funds, pensions, insurers and real estate investment
trusts are the biggest holders of government-backed mortgage
bonds, known as agency bonds. Together they hold nearly $1.5
trillion, or more than 27 percent, of the $5.4 trillion total,
according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade publication based
in Bethesda,  Maryland .  The  Federal Reserve  energized the mass-refi cause on Jan. 4
when Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  noted that millions of borrowers
have failed to take advantage of record-low interest rates. In a
research paper, his staff said that policy “experiments”
including principal forgiveness or a government-triggered mass
refinancing “might be socially beneficial,” even if they come
at a cost to taxpayers and bondholders.  President  Barack Obama  has taken small steps in that
direction, most recently with a plan to help “responsible”
borrowers secure low-interest loans insured by the  Federal
Housing Administration  even if they owe more than their house is
worth.  “If you’re ineligible for refinancing just because you’re
underwater on your mortgage, through no fault of your own, this
plan changes that. You’ll be able to refinance at a lower
rate,” Obama said in a Feb. 1 speech.  ‘Chipping Away’  That plan, like others before it, won’t be a “game-
changer,” said  Mahesh Swaminathan , a Credit Suisse analyst who
described it as “chipping away at the margins.”  A big fix continues to elude Washington policy makers in
part because of the cost. Any large-scale plan would require the
cooperation of  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,  Freddie Mac  or the Federal Housing
administration, government-supported programs that stand behind
82 percent of all mortgage bonds.  In theory, the government could force all three to forgive
mortgage debt and shoulder the cost of the refinancings. If that
happens, taxpayers and many of the nearly 70 percent of U.S.
households with retirement savings or pensions would be paying a
large portion of the price.  At Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac alone, 14 million loans still
have interest rates of 5 percent or higher, even though the
current cost of a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage is less than 4
percent, according to the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which
oversees the companies.  Wealth Transfer  Refinancing those borrowers in bulk would benefit a portion
of homeowners at the expense of taxpayers, who already have
spent more than $153 billion on the companies, said Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the FHFA.  “The notion that  Fannie Mae  or Freddie Mac or FHFA could
wave a wand and reset the interest rates on mortgages should be
understood in its simplest terms as transferring wealth from one
group of people to another,” DeMarco said in an interview.  Moreover, any benefit could be short-lived, because a
government intervention is likely to spook investors, make
mortgages even harder to come by and drive up the cost of future
borrowing, DeMarco said.  For the homeowner getting a break on his payments, it’s a
blind bargain, said David H. Stevens, chief executive officer of
the  Mortgage Bankers Association  in Washington.  ‘Joe Homeowner’  “Joe Homeowner will wake up the next morning and not
realize he lost value in his retirement funds and that he’s
impacted the housing market of the  United States  for years to
come,” Stevens said. “It’s addressing short-term self-interest
against the ability of the U.S. to have a functioning mortgage
finance system.”  The losers also would include banks and savings
institutions, which hold more than $1.4 trillion in mortgage
bonds, about 27 percent of the total. Foreigners, led by  China ’s
central bank, which has helped finance the U.S. housing market
for at least a decade, hold $615 billion, or 11 percent. Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac own $568 billion of their own mortgage
bonds, also about 11 percent.  Kovari is a policy director for the Michigan Organizing
Collaborative, a group which promotes urban and economic
development. Her husband works at a social services agency. They
bought their Detroit home 12 years ago for $190,000, have made
their payments regularly and didn’t tap into the equity even
when property values were booming.  Falling Prices  The couple still owe $110,000 in principal, yet thanks to
falling home prices, the house is now worth just $100,000. So
far, they haven’t been able to refinance out of their 6.5
percent loan.  Some of their retirement savings are invested in Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac bonds through OppenheimerFunds Inc., in  New
York . A company prospectus warns that when interest rates fall,
mortgages are more likely to be paid earlier than expected and
“that money may have to be reinvested in other investments
having a lower yield.”  Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody’s Analytics and an
advocate of a far-reaching refinancing program, argues that the
pain to bondholders is offset by gains to borrowers and the
broader economy. Bond investors also have profited from
government intervention since the 2008 subprime collapse, he
said in an interview, including the bailout of Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac and the Fed’s purchase of $1.3 trillion of mortgage
bonds.  Investors Benefit  “Investors have been tremendous beneficiaries,” Zandi
said. “They’re going to lose on this particular policy
response.”  Zandi and others calculate that the economic stimulus of a
large-scale refinancing effort would outweigh costs.  One idea, which would target Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
borrowers with 30-year loans, could inject at least $36 billion
a year into the economy, said Alan Boyce, who with Columbia
University Business School Dean R. Glenn Hubbard and Professor
Christopher J. Mayer co-authored a widely circulated proposal.  Bondholders would pay the bulk of the costs, Boyce said,
while the plan could actually yield a profit of as much as $16
billion for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac through fees and lower
defaults. All sides would benefit from an improved economy.  “This whole idea that it’s a zero-sum game is incorrect.
There’s a net positive,” said Boyce, chief executive officer of
Absalon Project, a George Soros venture to develop a new housing
finance system.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
 Pacific Investment Management Co. (PTTRX) , said the cost of boosting the
housing market is probably worth it.  “I’d say that  Wall Street  has been favored enough over the
past year and a half,” Gross said. “Let’s give Main Street a
chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  