-- AT&T, Freeport Lead February Bond Offerings to Fastest Start
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-02-08T22:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/at-t-plans-benchmark-bond-sales-as-yields-hover-near-record-low.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S.
wireless-service provider, and miner  Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc.  led the fastest start on record for monthly bond
sales, stoked by yields at almost all-time lows.  AT&T and Freeport, the world’s largest publicly traded
copper producer, each sold debt worth $3 billion. Dallas-based
AT&T offered $1 billion each of three-, five- and 10-year notes.
The 10-year bond was priced at 105 basis points, or 1.05
percentage points more than similar maturity Treasuries.  Freeport’s three-part offering included $2 billion of 10-
year notes, and $500 million each of three-year and five-year
notes. Proceeds from the Phoenix-based company’s offering will
be used to redeem debt on its 8.375 percent notes maturing in
2017, the company said in a statement.  “Investors are taking this opportunity with a lull in the
European situation,” said Jody Lurie, a corporate credit
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “They
were nervous at the end of the year and didn’t want to spend
their money and now they can put the cash to use.”  Measures of corporate credit risk have eased as concerns
diminish that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis may spread. The Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index of credit-default swaps,
which typically falls as investor confidence improves and rises
as it deteriorates, touched 94.3 basis points on Feb. 6, the
lowest level since August.  Wells Fargo, HSBC  Wells Fargo & Co ., Aflac Inc. and HSBC USA Inc. also sold
benchmark bonds, which took the total debt expected to be raised
today to at least $17.8 billion. Including today’s sales,
corporate bond issuance this month will reach $66.1 billion, the
most for the first eight days of any month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg extending back to 1999.  Near Zero Fed  New issues have been on the rise since the  Federal Open
Market Committee  announced its decision on Jan. 25 to keep
 interest rates  near zero through at least late 2014. “If
investors take Mr. Bernanke at his word and believe rates will
remain low for an extended period, corporate bond yields,
particularly financials, offer an attractive pick-up versus
Treasuries,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at
Susquehanna International Group LLP in  New York  said in an e-
mail.  AT&T last issued debt in August 2011, selling $5 billion in
a three-part offering of five-, 10- and 30-year senior unsecured
notes, according to Bloomberg data.  Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds in the U.S. have
fallen to 3.54 percent, near the record low 3.45 percent reached
Aug. 4, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Investors are accepting coupons on new issues at all-time
lows, Bloomberg data show. On Feb. 1,  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  obtained a record interest rate of 0.55 percent
on its $1.5 billion of three-year notes, while  Procter & Gamble
Co.  sold 10-year notes at 2.3 percent.  T-Mobile Bid  AT&T is tapping the  bond market  for the first time after it
dropped a $39 billion bid to acquire Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-
Mobile USA in the face of opposition from the U.S. Justice
Department. The acquisition would have helped AT&T vault over
 Verizon Wireless  to become the largest U.S. wireless provider.  AT&T’s bond sale was managed by BNP Paribas SA, Credit
Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG. The company is rated A2 by
Moody’s Investors Service and A- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  