-- Payroll-Tax Cut Talks Move Behind Closed Doors to Avoid Lapse
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/lawmakers-move-to-private-talks-to-prevent-payroll-tax-cut-lapse.html
U.S. House and Senate lawmakers
negotiating an extension of a payroll tax cut will begin moving
their talks behind closed doors as they seek to resolve
differences with less than three weeks before the tax break
expires.  After four public meetings since Jan. 24, the 20-member
conference committee will begin meeting more in private
sessions, according to a Republican aide. The public sessions,
which featured some heated rhetoric, let lawmakers stake out
their positions while private talks may help them reach a deal
before the tax break’s Feb. 29 expiration date, said the aide,
who sought anonymity because of the talks’ sensitive nature.  Lawmakers on the negotiating panel are divided along
partisan lines over how to cover the $100 billion cost of
continuing the two percentage-point tax break for workers along
with expanded  unemployment benefits  and Medicare reimbursement
rates. Representative Renee Ellmers, a North Carolina Republican
on the conference panel, said some parts may be left out if an
agreement isn’t reached soon on paying for them.  “The Democrats really are not serious about putting any
pay-fors forward, which is leading us to believe that maybe we
shouldn’t extend unemployment benefits,” she told reporters.  Republicans have pressed to cover the cost of extending the
payroll measure by continuing a freeze on pay for federal
workers while Democrats have supported raising taxes for high
earners.  Warren Buffett  Senate Democrats met in Washington yesterday at a retreat
away from the Capitol where they heard billionaire investor
 Warren Buffett  speak about jobs and tax fairness, according to
 Brian Fallon , a spokesman for Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New
York . President  Barack Obama  also addressed the group.  Max Baucus , the Senate Finance Committee chairman, told
Camp Feb. 7 that he would soon offer a proposal on unemployment
compensation. Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat,
is working with Baucus on the proposal and said yesterday it may
be released as soon as today.  Levin said the Democrats’ plan would include a measure
affecting the maximum number of weeks that someone can claim
unemployment benefits. It also would address Republican
proposals that states be allowed to conduct drug tests for
unemployment recipients and require them to work toward a high-
school equivalency degree if they don’t have a diploma.  Paying the Cost  Baucus and Levin haven’t said whether the proposal will
include new suggestions for covering the payroll bill’s cost.  Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican on the
conference committee, told reporters yesterday he thought he was
making progress in talks with staff members for Democratic
lawmakers to sell spectrum allocations. That would generate
about $16.5 billion to help pay for the tax-cut extension, he
said.  “I think we’re getting close,” Upton said of the spectrum
talks.  Republicans are seeking to avoid a repeat of the December
impasse over extending the payroll tax cut, when the tax break
for 160 million Americans almost expired. Lawmakers agreed to a
two-month extension just before the holiday recess to give them
time to work on extending it for the rest of 2012.  Since then, public approval of Congress has continued to
decline. A Gallup poll released yesterday found a record-low 10
percent of Americans approved of the work Congress is doing.  Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican, likened the payroll
talks to navigating around an iceberg.  “For a little while, a lot of maneuvering is taking place
and you don’t see any results from it,” he told reporters
today. “Then at the end, everyone can come together. I hope
that’s the case but I’m not counting on it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  