-- Tax Breaks Considered to Improve Cybersecurity on Vital Networks
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-02-08T20:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/tax-breaks-considered-to-improve-cybersecurity-on-vital-networks.html
Tax breaks and liability protection
may spur banking, energy and telecommunication companies to
improve cybersecurity on their  computer networks , the chairman
of a House technology panel said.  Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon Republican, said
today he will consider taking up a bill offering incentives
instead of legislation creating regulations for owners and
operators of vital systems. He leads the House Energy and
Commerce Communications and Technology Subcommittee.  “We cannot legislatively, through mandates, ever get ahead
of those who seek to do us harm,” Walden said in an interview.
“If we do this in an incorrect way we actually hurt the ability
of the private sector.”  U.S. lawmakers and regulators are considering measures to
prevent spies, criminals and terrorists from harming economic or
national security with cyber attacks. Senators may introduce a
comprehensive cybersecurity bill as early as tomorrow that would
create a system for the Homeland Security Department to require
owners and operators of vital infrastructure to better protect
networks.  Offering companies federal incentives may lead to better
network security, industry officials told Walden’s panel today
during a hearing.  “We have a whole bunch of laws that were written for an
analog world and we are now in a digital world,” said Larry Clinton, chief executive officer of the Internet Security
Alliance, an Arlington, Virginia-based trade group. “We need to
provide a right mix of incentives and regulation.”  Tax Breaks  Companies could be awarded tax breaks for good
cybersecurity practices and liability protection from civil or
criminal lawsuits, said Robert Dix, vice president of government
affairs for Sunnyvale, California-based  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , a
computer hardware and software maker.  The government could also provide grants and loans to
companies that prove they are protecting their networks while
developing a federal seal of excellence for companies that
demonstrate proper cybersecurity, Dix said.  Dix also called for the government to create a national
warning system that gives companies timely information about
cyberthreats, similar to what the  National Weather Service  has
for storms and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
uses for illness outbreaks.  Outdated laws prevent Internet-service providers from
sharing threat information, said Phyllis Schneck, vice president
and chief technology officer for  Santa Clara , California-based
McAfee Inc.  Sharing Classified Data  Schneck, Dix and Clinton said they support a bill
introduced by Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican
who leads the House Intelligence Committee, that would let
government agencies share classified information on cyberthreats
with companies.  House Republican leaders haven’t said when the bill may be
brought up for a vote.  “We have a very real and present danger when it comes to
cyberthreats to our networks,” Rogers said during the hearing.
He said companies are losing $300 billion to $1 trillion a year
from computer-related theft of intellectual property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  