-- Tax Liens’ Returns May Be Cause for ‘Buyer Beware’
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/tax-liens-promising-18-returns-may-be-case-of-buyer-beware-.html
After Brian Finkelstein first heard
about tax-lien investments three years ago, the former bond
trader found the potential for 18 percent returns so compelling
he jumped into the business full-time.  Like other investors, Finkelstein, chief executive of  Broad
Financial LLC  in Monsey, New York, is hunting for yield as the
 Federal Reserve  indicates it may keep interest rates
“exceptionally low” through 2014. Yet high fees, illiquidity
and a lack of transparency are a few of the pitfalls investors
may encounter with private funds that buy claims to delinquent
property taxes, said Alan Zafran, a partner with Luminous
Capital.  “It’s caveat emptor: Buyer beware,” said William Waller,
a Washington-based real-estate lawyer who has worked on about
2,000 to 3,000 tax-lien cases, referring to the fact that
jurisdictions that sell the liens generally don’t guarantee the
condition or market value of the properties.  Tax liens, or tax certificates, generally are sold to
investors at auctions and are secured by claims on the
underlying real estate that take priority over mortgages.
Interest generally accrues on the taxes owed at rates set by
auction, which property owners must pay to clear up the debt. If
they don’t, an investor who bought the lien may foreclose on the
property.  Market Size  About $7 billion to $10 billion in delinquent property
taxes are sold to investors annually, according to estimates by
Trace Platform LLC, which provides clearing, transfer and escrow
services for tax-lien trades and isn’t related to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Counties and cities in 28 states and Washington, D.C., sell
the liens to investors, according to Brad Westover, executive
director of the Jupiter, Florida-based National Tax Lien
Association, a membership group for tax-lien investors and
servicers.  The certificates generally are regulated by the states,
Waller said. Rules on maximum interest rates, waiting periods
before a foreclosure may proceed, how fees and interest are
assessed on the debts and how auctions are conducted vary among
jurisdictions, said Tom McOsker, head of the tax-receivables
brokerage unit for New York-based  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , which runs a
secondary market for the certificates. Florida auctions the
certificates online, and the  District of Columbia  holds live
bidding. In  New Jersey  the maximum  interest rate  a lien may
accrue is 18 percent, and in  Iowa  it’s 24 percent.  New Jersey Auction  At an auction in December, bidders on a first-name basis
with one another chatted in the aisles and cracked jokes as they
trickled in to the second-floor courtroom of the municipal court
in West New York, New Jersey. In the hour leading to the auction
some bidders, a few wearing wireless headsets and hunched over
laptops, combed through lists of the more than 400 liens up for
sale with highlighters.  Kerri Tierney-Campen, the tax collector for the Town of
West  New York , began the auction by calling out liens that were
no longer available because they’d been paid off that morning.
The liens up for auction ranged in size from $189 in taxes owed
to one debt of $105,478. Once bidding started, potential
investors called out the interest rates they’d want to earn on
each lien, with bids starting at 18 percent and then moving
lower. About 20 people attended, including about 13 bidders.  Tax Treatment  Average returns for tax-lien funds aren’t available, GFI’s
McOsker said. A diversified portfolio of “quality” assets,
meaning liens that redeem before the waiting period is over and
before the buyer may foreclose, could return about 6 percent to
9 percent annually, he said. Most tax-lien funds sell shares
directly to investors, rather than going through a broker-
dealer, he said.  The tax treatment of profits and losses on tax-lien
investments varies, depending on several factors, said  Eric
Smith , a spokesman for the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  Investors may be better off buying shares in certain bond
mutual funds that invest in mortgage debt, such as  DoubleLine
Total Return Bond Fund (DLTNX) , said Zafran of Luminous Capital, which
manages about $4.7 billion for individuals and families, and
doesn’t own tax liens.  The DoubleLine fund had about 83 percent of assets in
mortgage-related securities as of December, according to the
fund’s website. It returned 9.2 percent in 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. High-yield corporate bonds, or those
rated below investment grade, returned about 4.4 percent in
2011, as measured by the  Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High
Yield Master II Index , Bloomberg data show.  ‘High Fees’  “You have limitations on when and if you can pull your
capital” from a private fund, Zafran said. “And you’re going
to be subjecting yourself to a high set of fees.”  Finkelstein, 52, who traded bonds and derivatives for 15
years prior to starting his company, now manages private
placements that invest in the liens. When buying into one of
Finkelstein’s funds, investors generally must commit to locking
up their money for a certain period of time, such as one year.
After that point the funds begin to distribute cash to investors
as liens are paid off, a process that may take about 1 1/2 years
to complete, Finkelstein said. Because the funds don’t liquidate
until the last lien or foreclosure in the portfolio is paid off
or resolved, there’s no precise certainty as to when investors
will get all of their cash back.  Accredited Investors  Finkelstein said after fees, which are 2 percent annually
plus 20 percent of gains, one of the funds he manages returned
about 8 percent in 2010. Returns aren’t yet available for 2011
and as of Aug. 1 the fund was on track to earn about 7 percent
for the year, he said. The funds are available only to
accredited investors, which generally means individuals with
assets of greater than $1 million, excluding a primary
residence, or earning more than $200,000 annually.  Finkelstein invests primarily in New Jersey and said he
mostly buys liens on single-family homes in more affluent areas,
where he said the certificates are backed by stronger collateral
and there’s less of a chance a lien will go to foreclosure.  “More than 99 percent of the time the bank will pay you
off,” rather than allow a foreclosure to proceed, if a
homeowner hasn’t paid the taxes and the property hasn’t
dramatically depreciated, he said. That’s because the lien can
wipe out a mortgage of greater value.  Distressed Properties  “If you have a $100,000 property and a $2,000 tax bill --
well good heavens -- no one’s ever going to walk away from a
$100,000 property for $2,000, if the value truly is $100,000 and
the property is still standing,” Westover, of the tax-lien
association, said.  One risk with purchasing liens on distressed properties is
that between the time an investor buys the certificate and the
date they could foreclose, additional taxes and assessments can
add up even as the value of the property may fall.  Some certificate buyers have seen their investments go
underwater, meaning the value of the liens exceeds the value of
the real estate, as property values have declined, said John
Reid, an attorney with Tobin, O’Connor & Ewing in  Washington .  “You’re investing today on a lien-to-value ratio and
hoping it either stays the same, or appreciates,” Reid said.  Nationally, lien-to-value ratios average less than 10
percent, McOsker said. Those ratios may afford investors a
margin of safety, yet tax-lien investors generally must pay off
additional liens that have accrued on a property, such as for
unpaid water bills, additional property taxes or related fees
from the county or municipality, to complete a foreclosure,
Waller said.  Bankruptcy Priority  Liens for taxes owed to the IRS generally take priority
over liens for property taxes in a bankruptcy, said Donald
Dinan, a partner with Roetzel & Andress in Washington and
general counsel for the association of lien investors. Homeowner
bankruptcies generally halt the progress of foreclosures and can
tie up investors’ money for years, Reid said.  If there are multiple tax liens and multiple investors
attached to a property, generally the buyer with the earliest
certificate has the right to foreclose first, with rules varying
by jurisdiction, Dinan said.  A certain portion of lien sales get voided after an auction
because the taxes were improperly assessed, Reid said. In some
areas, such as Washington, D.C., the jurisdiction pays the
purchaser interest owed on voided certificates and in some,
including most parts of  Maryland , they don’t, Dinan said.  Ruben Rodriguez, 37, who lives in West New York, attended
the December auction and said he was there to learn.  ‘Safe Investment’  “I definitely want to invest in my own neighborhood,” he
said. Rodriguez works in  New York City  as a billing manager for
the Mount Sinai Medical Center, he said in a telephone interview
after the auction. He said he’s attracted by the potential to
acquire properties for less than 10 percent of their values, if
the liens go to  foreclosure .  “If you know what you’re doing and you’re buying properly
it’s a relatively safe investment and gives you an outsized
yield, compared to what else would be available in the
marketplace,” said Albert Friedman, who manages about $60
million in a tax-lien fund for  Boca Raton , Florida-based Alterna
Capital Management, which bid at the West New York auction in
December. “You have to be big enough to attend a number of
auctions, buy a number of certificates and have people on the
ground,” Friedman said. He declined to comment on the fund’s
returns or redemptions policy, citing regulatory restrictions on
advertising by private placements.  EBay Store  When institutional investors want to unload a lien prior to
foreclosure they may sell it to a specialist such as Dan
Friedman, managing member of Elmhurst, Illinois-based Optimum
Asset Management LLC. In addition to managing about $15 million
in liens on behalf of family offices and other investors,
Friedman’s firm sometimes negotiates directly with homeowners to
come up with a payment plan, and in other cases forecloses and
then resells the properties.  “We move a fairly high volume of foreclosure properties
online,” through the firm’s store on the  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  website,
which on Feb. 7 had two properties listed for sale, including a
single-family home in  Cleveland  with a current bid of $920.  Investors considering putting money into a tax-lien private
placement should take precautions to ensure they’re not the
victims of fraud, said Andrew Altfest, executive vice president
of Altfest Personal Wealth Management, a New York-based
investment adviser that manages about $800 million on behalf of
individuals and families.  Investor Precautions  “You’re investing with a private fund that’s not going to
have the same amount of regulation,” as securities offered to
the general public such as mutual funds, Altfest said. Investors
should “make sure that the fund has a reputable auditor,” and
an administrator who signs off on every transaction, he said.  Investors should check the background of tax-lien fund
managers with their state securities regulator before investing,
said Jack E. Herstein, assistant director of the Nebraska Bureau
of Securities.  Since 2008 at least six individuals have pleaded guilty to
conspiring to rig bids at  New Jersey  and  Maryland  tax-lien
auctions, according to  press releases  from the  U.S. Department
of Justice . The  Justice Department  continues to investigate the
auctions, said  Gina Talamona , a spokeswoman.  “At an open outcry auction there’s always the possibility
of three guys hunkered around the water cooler talking about
what they’re interested in,” Westover said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s Xspand unit received a subpoena as
part of a Justice Department investigation in 2009, according to
a prospectus for New York City tax-lien bonds serviced by the
firm. The firm announced in July it would begin exiting the
business.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the New York-
based bank, declined to comment on the subpoenas.  “The beautiful thing I’ve learned over the years is:
Delinquent taxes never go away,” Westover said. “Even in a
good economy, there are still delinquent taxes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 