-- Bacon’s Moore Is Said to Invest $800 Million in Fund Run by Former Traders
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-02-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/bacon-s-moore-is-said-to-invest-800-million-in-former-traders-hedge-fund.html
Moore Capital Management LLC, the New
York firm founded by Louis Moore Bacon, invested $800 million in
a hedge fund begun last year by two of its former traders,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The investment allowed Stone Milliner Asset Management AG
founders Jens-Peter Stein and Kornelius Klobucar to start
trading last month with more than $1 billion, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the firms are private. Moore’s
assets are in a managed account, the people said.  “That’s a big number,” said  Michael Rosen , chief
investment officer of Angeles Investment Advisors LLC, a  Santa
Monica , California-based firm that helps clients invest in hedge
funds. “You don’t normally see investments of that size in a
startup. Having worked with the managers already, that might
give the investor extra comfort.”  Moore, which manages $15 billion, has a history of
investing in traders who leave the hedge fund to start their own
firms. Those who received allocations in recent years include
Bramshott Capital LLP’s Paul Findley and James Caird Asset
Management LP’s Tim Leslie.  Todd Edgar, a former commodities trader at Barclays Plc,
will start trading at his new hedge fund this year after
receiving as much as $200 million from the money-management unit
of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Morgan Sze, the former head of a
Goldman Sachs proprietary trading unit, started trading at his
hedge fund in April with about $1 billion.  Macro Strategy  Stone Milliner is a macro hedge fund, meaning the firm
invests in  interest rates , currencies, bonds and stocks based on
its traders’ views of global economic trends. Stein and Klobucar
founded the firm, which has offices in Zug,  Switzerland , and
 London , last year. Executives at Stone Milliner and Moore
declined to comment.  Stein and Klobucar joined Moore in 2006 from  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)  The traders produced annual investment returns of about
8 percent on average from 2006 to 2011 in the portfolio they
managed at Moore, according to the people. Their best year was
2007, when they gained 15 percent. Stein and Klobucar’s
portfolio rose 14 percent in 2008, which was the worst year ever
for the hedge-fund industry.  All of Stone Milliner’s seven investment professionals
worked at Moore, including Christopher Nicoll, Jana Benesova,
Ted Wright and Dheer Mehta and Timothee Bich. The firm continues
to try to raise assets, seeking minimum investments of $1
million, the people said. Like most  hedge funds , Stone Milliner
charges 2 percent of assets under management to cover costs plus
20 percent of any profits.  Findley and a team of European stock traders left Moore to
start London-based Bramshott last year. Leslie, a bond trader,
departed Moore in 2008 to start James Caird. He told investors
in December he was shutting down his $1.6 billion hedge fund
after suffering losses last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  