-- Bahrain Teenager’s Death Shows Tensions Persist Year After Popular Revolt
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-02-09T13:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/bahrain-teenager-s-death-shows-tensions-persist-year-after-popular-revolt.html
Mohammed Ibrahim Yacoub had a
haircut, took a shower and left home with a friend as police
clashed with Shiite Muslim protesters near his home in Sitra,
Bahrain on Jan. 25. That was the last time his family saw their
18-year-old son alive.  There are competing narratives of what happened to Yacoub.
His family, who are Shiites, say he was hit by two police cars
that were chasing him, then detained, tortured and taken to
hospital where he passed away. The government says he died as a
result of complications from sickle-cell anemia following his
arrest for vandalism.  Yacoub’s is one of several contested deaths in the run-up
to the Feb. 14 anniversary of last year’s mass anti-government
rallies. They were suppressed at a cost of at least 35 dead,
exacerbating divisions between Bahrain’s Shiite majority and
Sunni royals that may flare again as activists call for renewed
protests. Violence has hurt the economy and fueled the rivalry
between Saudi Arabia, which sent troops to help the crackdown,
and Shiite-ruled  Iran , accused by Bahrain’s authorities of
encouraging the unrest.  There are “tensions in Bahrain that do have the potential
of boiling over and creating economic instability,” Farouk Soussa, chief economist for the  Middle East  at Citigroup Inc. in
Dubai, said in a phone interview. “There are no illusions that
what happened over the past year was a one-off.”  Pearl Roundabout Demolished  Protesters say they will attempt to march to the former
Pearl Roundabout, the center of last year’s rallies. The
roundabout has been demolished by the government and the
surrounding area turned into a restricted military zone.
Demonstrators attempting to reach it in December were met with
tear gas, stun grenades and rubber bullets, according to the
Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights.  The opposition says several people have died after torture,
like Yacoub, or tear gas inhalation, allegations the government
denies.  Shiites represent about two thirds of the nation’s
population of 1.2 million, according to the U.S. State
Department. In demonstrations in February and March, they
demanded democratic representation and equal economic
opportunities, saying that they faced discrimination in jobs and
housing and that the elected parliament lacks power.  The ruling al-Khalifa family invited troops from  Saudi
Arabia  and other Gulf countries to help restore order. Thirty-
five people died in the two months from Feb. 14, according to
the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry.  ‘Blood and Martyrs’  Government measures to restore calm include the release of
some political detainees and the reinstatement of staff fired
for allegedly supporting the protesters. King Hamad convened
what he called a “national dialogue” and announced plans to
constitutional changes that he said would widen representation
in government.  Al-Wefaq , the largest Shiite group, rejected the
efforts, saying they don’t address the central issues of
majority rule and economic justice.  “After all the blood and the martyrs, people cannot go
back to the old system,” Abdul-Jalil Khalil, one of 18 Wefaq
lawmakers who quit parliament last year, said in a phone
interview.  Michael Posner , the State Department’s top human rights
official, urged restraint ahead of the Bahrain anniversary.
Speaking to reporters at the U.S. Embassy in Manama he condemned
violence against police, called for more reforms and said that
“there really is a need to turn the page on the events of last
year.”  Last year’s protests have hurt tourism, real estate and the
retail industries, contributing to an estimated $2 billion loss
to the economy in 2011, according to the Bahrain Chamber of
Commerce & Industry. That bill may climb with new protests.  Shift to Dubai  “Political unrest will continue to drag on the
attractiveness of Bahrain as a center for financial services,
conferences or tourism,” said Edward Bell, Middle East and
North  Africa  economist at the Economist Intelligence Unit.
“Other GCC countries look more politically stable,” and
companies may shift operations to Dubai or Qatar if instability
persists, he said.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  will continue operations in Bahrain, Jean- Christophe Durand, the Paris-based lender’s head for the Middle
East and Africa, said in a phone interview yesterday, denying
speculation that it may quit the country. Societe Generale SA
said last week it will move its private banking office in
Bahrain to the  United Arab Emirates  to help cut costs.  Bahrain’s  BB All Share Index (BHSEASI)  has slumped 23 percent in the
past year,  three times as much  as the Bloomberg GCC 200 Index of
regional stocks.  Shiite Majority  Bahrain, an island nation about four times the size of
Washington DC, is the only one of the six Sunni Muslim
monarchies in the Gulf Cooperation Council to have a majority-
Shiite population.  Tensions that have simmered in Shiite villages throughout
the past year are spreading to the capital, Manama, and
disrupting life for Bahrainis and expatriates who aren’t
directly involved in the political clashes.  Tear gas fired by police at the Shiite village of Sanabis
on a weekend last month drifted to a popular mall across the
highway, forcing customers to leave and diners at an outdoor
restaurant to move indoors. Protesters started using Molotov
cocktails in their confrontations with riot police, prompting
the U.S. Embassy to relocate staff. They burned tires early
today in Manama and several villages, disrupting traffic.  Burning Tires  Polarization has also disrupted commercial life. The
government has tried to maintain the appearance of business as
usual, holding a garden fair, an autumn festival and Bahrain’s
annual air show. Attendees at the latter event could see the
smoke rising from surrounding villages, where tires were lit in
protest.  Shiite and Sunni groups have demanded boycotts of
businesses belonging to members of the other sect. One of those
targeted was Jawad Business Group, owned by one of Bahrain’s
biggest Shiite families.  Faisal Jawad, the group’s chief executive, said he lost
“several millions” as a result of unrest. Jawad dismissed the
campaign against his food, fashion and restaurant retail
business as “childish,” and said he’s planning to expand
regardless.  “I will be finished if I stay at home,” Jawad said in a
Feb. 2 telephone interview. “I’m Bahraini. I belong here.”  Jawad said he believes  King Hamad  is “doing his best to
bridge these gaps” between Shiites and Sunnis, and Bahrainis
should “give him a chance.” Jamal Fakhro, first deputy
chairman of the king’s advisory body, the Shura Council, echoed
that view and said that opposition groups should take up their
grievances in parliament and dialogue, not the streets.  ‘No Reason’  “If they want to lead a change, they should put their
hands in the hand of the government and the ruling family,” he
said. “Unless their aim is to overthrow the ruling family.”  In Sitra, Yacoub’s family, struggling to come to terms with
their son’s death, say he was remote from such political
arguments, and never took part in protests. He hadn’t been
troubled recently by sickle cell anemia or seen a doctor for it
since the age of five, said his father, Ibrahim Yacoub.  “He died for no reason,” said his mother, Amina Abdul-
Wasi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  