-- Banks’ Addiction to ECB Cash May Stymie Bond Sales: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-02-08T10:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/bank-addiction-to-ecb-cash-may-stymie-bond-sales.html
The  European Central Bank  may be
making it harder for the region’s banks to revive bond sales by
giving them access to unlimited cheap cash.  Issuance of senior unsecured euro  debt by banks  fell about
35 percent to 51.4 billion euros ($67 billion) in the six months
ended Feb. 6 from the same period a year earlier, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The average relative yield on the debt is 307
basis points, up from about 200 before the region’s sovereign
debt crisis worsened in June, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s EUR Corporates, Banking index.  The ECB pumped 489 billion euros into the banking system in
December through the so-called longer-term refinancing operation
to head off a potential credit crunch. The central bank is
planning another injection of three-year loans on Feb. 28.
Participation by lenders may total a further 1 trillion euros,
according to Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London.  “The LTRO isn’t so much a backstop for the banks, it’s
more of a front-stop,” said Jonathan Cooper, a senior
consultant at  Finadium , a Concord, Massachusetts-based research
and consulting firm. “Three years is a long time and the risk
is that the banks will be pretty addicted by the time it ends.”  Unsecured debt is becoming less attractive to investors
because banks are having to pledge more assets as collateral for
ECB loans. An increase in issuance of covered bonds, notes
secured on mortgages or public-sector loans and guaranteed by
the issuer, is also depleting the collateral pool.  Covered Bonds  Benchmark issuance of covered bonds in the single currency
was 93.7 billion euros -- almost double the sales of senior
unsecured debt -- in the six months through Feb. 6, after
reaching 127 billion euros a year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  There are about 2.6 trillion euros of the securities
outstanding, backed by about 3.5 trillion euros of prime banking
assets, according to estimates by Jonathan Glionna, an analyst
at Barclays Capital in  London . Assets used as collateral for
central bank borrowings bring the total unavailable to unsecured
creditors in a default to about 4.5 trillion euros, he said.  “By putting on a lot of secured funding, you subordinate
everyone else and in the end you make it harder to issue senior
unsecured bonds,” said Roger Doig, an analyst at London-based
Schroders Plc, which manages about $58 billion in fixed-income
assets. “The ECB is between a rock and a hard place. If the
LTRO money wasn’t available, banks would be starting to fail.”  Taxpayer Bailouts  Governments racing to adjust the rules to favor depositors
and reduce or eliminate the role of taxpayers in bailing out
distressed lenders aren’t helping. The changes will lower
potential recoveries for unsecured creditors in a default,
probably to zero, according to Glionna at  Barclays Capital .  That means holders of senior unsecured debt will be pushed
further down the pecking order should a bank fail, resulting in
a narrowing of the yield difference between senior and
subordinated bonds, he said.  The difference in the cost of insuring banks’ senior and
subordinated bonds against default using indexes of credit-
default swaps has shrunk to 137 basis points, the lowest since
August, according to CMA. The spread between the two gauges
reached a record high of 256 basis points on Nov. 25.  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The spread in average yield between the two types of
securities in the cash market is 364 basis points, matching the
level at the end of October, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. The difference was 481 basis points, the most since
May 2009, on Dec. 31.  Assets Pledged  “Banks are pledging more and more of their assets to the
ECB and to covered bond buyers,” said  John Raymond , an analyst
at CreditSights Inc. in London. “For senior unsecured
bondholders, it all adds up to structural subordination.”  More assets will be removed from bank balance sheets in the
next LTRO, after the ECB said it will accept bank loans as
collateral for their borrowing.  “Asset encumbrance is already a big deal in certain
jurisdictions,” said Paul Smillie, who helps oversee about $43
billion of fixed income as an analyst at Threadneedle Asset
Management in London. “Claims of unsecured creditors are being
pushed way down the line.”  Unsecured funding is vital to banks because of the
flexibility it offers and because lenders’ business models are
based on charging borrowers a higher rate than they themselves
pay to borrow, according to James Ferguson, chief strategist at
Westhouse Securities in London.  “Senior unsecured borrowings more closely reflect the
maturities of bank assets,” he said. “If banks can’t raise
private-sector funding at acceptable prices, the central bank
has to step in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  