-- Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch Hires Goldman Sachs Former Partner Sinha
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-08T01:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/bank-of-america-s-merrill-lynch-hires-goldman-sachs-former-partner-sinha.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch
unit, ranked sixth among advisers on takeovers announced
globally last year, recruited former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
partner Ravi Sinha to help win more business.  Sinha, who retired in April 2010 after 21 years at Goldman
Sachs, will join in  New York  this week as an executive vice
chairman of the global corporate and investment-banking unit,
according to a memo to employees from Purna Saggurti, GCIB
chairman, and Tom Montag, the co-chief operating officer who
runs Bank of America’s corporate and institutional client
businesses. Sinha will report to Saggurti. John Yiannacopoulos,
a Bank of America spokesman, confirmed the memo’s contents.  Montag, who worked at Goldman Sachs for 22 years before
joining Merrill Lynch in 2008, told staff in a Jan. 19 meeting
that the global banking and markets business is preparing for a
“new game” after reporting two consecutive quarterly losses in
2011. Last week he promoted Christian Meissner, another Goldman
Sachs alumnus, to be sole head of global  investment banking .  “Ravi is widely respected as a top-notch investment banker
by both clients and competitors,” Montag and Saggurti said in
the memo. “He has extensive experience across multiple
industries, geographies and products and has been a senior
adviser to a number of CEOs and boards of directors.”  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,
regained the top spot last year among advisers on global mergers
and acquisitions that it had held every year from 2001 through
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Adviser  Since April 2010, Sinha has remained an advisory director
at Goldman Sachs. Advisory directors advise the firm on matters
related to their areas of expertise and aren’t employees.  He joined Goldman Sachs as an associate in mergers and
acquisitions in 1989, was promoted to managing director in 1998
and to partner in 2000, and founded and became co-head of the
team that advises industrial companies in the Americas in 2002.
In 2007 Sinha became co-head of the team that advises natural-
resources companies globally and a year later moved to  Hong Kong 
to help lead investment banking in  Asia  outside  Japan .  Sinha’s appointment was reported by the Wall Street Journal
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 