-- Barneys New York in Discussions With Lenders
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-02-08T21:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/barneys-new-york-in-discussions-with-lenders.html
Barneys New York , the luxury-goods
retailer controlled by a Dubai investment company, said it’s in
talks with lenders to improve its balance sheet.  “Barneys  New York  is actively engaged in discussions with
the company’s small group of lenders to improve its balance
sheet and further position Barneys New York for sustainable,
long-term growth and success,” the company said today in an e-
mailed statement. “We are focused on resolving this matter as
expeditiously as possible, and it will remain business as usual
at Barneys New York.”  Since the recession, Barneys has suffered from the absence
of so-called aspirational shoppers, said Candace Corlett,
president of WSL Strategic Retail, a New York retail consulting
firm. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Lee  has made no discernible
changes to the format in his 18-month tenure, she said.  “The aspirational shopper has sort of had her wings
clipped,” Corlett said. “In an era in which people are just
being more cautious even about their expensive buys, Barneys is
in a sticky situation. It’s fun, it’s high-energy, it’s trendy,
but it’s too frivolous for these times.”  Beth Orr, a Barneys spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return
a voicemail and e-mail seeking elaboration of the statement.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier today that the
store had hired Kirkland & Ellis LLP as restructuring and
bankruptcy counsel, citing people familiar with the matter. The
hiring doesn’t mean Barneys plans to file for bankruptcy or that
a restructuring is coming soon, the Journal said.  Burkle Investment  Kate Slaasted, a Kirkland & Ellis spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call and e-mail for comment.  Billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s investment firm Yucaipa, along
with hedge-fund manager Richard Perry, holds a large piece of
Barneys’ debt, the Journal reported.  Istithmar World PJSC bought Barneys for $942.3 million in
2007 from Jones Group Inc. Dubai World, a state-owned holding
company, controls Istithmar.  Barneys hired Lee, 48, in 2010 to become the first CEO
since Howard Socol resigned in 2008. Lee previously ran luxury
brands Gucci and  Yves Saint Laurent , where he was credited with
adding new retail outlets and increasing sales. He also worked
at Armani and Jil Sander.  There are nine Barneys New York stores and 17 Barneys New
York CO-OP stores. The luxury retailer sells fashions by
designers ranging from Givenchy to 7 For All Mankind.  Founded by Barney Pressman as a cut-rate men’s suit store
in 1923, the company began building up women’s lines in the
1970s. It exited  bankruptcy protection  in 1999 and was bought by
Jones for $294.3 million in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 