-- Batelco Sells India Stake After Supreme Court Cancels Mobile-Phone Permits
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-02-08T18:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/batelco-exits-india-after-supreme-court-cancels-phone-licenses.html
Bahrain Telecommunications Co. (BATELCO)  sold
its stake in an Indian mobile-phone operator after the nation’s
top court last week canceled licenses in a corruption probe.  Batelco, as the Manama, Bahrain-based company is known,
sold its entire 42.7 percent stake in STel Pvt. to Sky City
Foundation Ltd. for $174.5 million, it said in a statement
yesterday. The Middle Eastern phone company and Dubai-based
Millennium Private Equity invested $225 million in the Indian
venture when they entered the country in January 2009.  Batelco’s exit is the first by a foreign investor after
 India ’s  Supreme Court  on Feb. 2 canceled wireless permits won by
11 companies including STel in a 2008 sale, which is being
probed by federal auditors and investigators. The Indian units
of  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and Emirates Telecommunications Corp.,
the  United Arab Emirates ’ biggest phone company, are also
affected by the cancellation of permits.  “Smaller companies will just want to cut their losses and
exit,” said Romal Shetty, executive director of the
telecommunications division at KPMG’s Indian unit. “For large
players like Etisalat, it’s a catch-22 situation but quitting
India will be their last option.”  The Supreme Court ruling came 14 months after India’s chief
auditor said the sale at “unbelievably low” prices may have
cost the exchequer as much as $31 billion.  The court asked the  Telecom Regulatory Authority of India 
to recommend the next course of action, which could include an
auction for the permits.  ‘Wait and See’  Foreign investors “will probably wait to see the terms and
conditions of the spectrum rebid process” before deciding on a
course of action,  KPMG ’s Shetty said.  The Comptroller and Auditor General said in a report
submitted on Nov. 16, 2010, that the cut-price, first-come,
first-served sale four years ago to ineligible bidders was
“arbitrary and lacked transparency.” Jailed former
telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , bureaucrats and
company officials are facing charges that they conspired to
grant permits for personal benefit. All deny wrongdoing.  The court canceled all permits held by Uninor, the venture
between Telenor and Unitech Group, which owns India’s second-
largest  developer , and Etisalat DB Telecom Pvt., a partnership
between Emirates Telecommunications and DB Group.  It also canceled most permits held by Videocon
Telecommunications, Loop Telecom Ltd. and Russian billionaire
Vladimir Evtushenkov’s Sistema Shyam Teleservices Ltd.  Telenor will look at “all options,” including bidding for
spectrum licenses canceled by India, before it considers exiting
the country, Sigve Brekke, head of the company’s Asia
operations, said at a press conference in  New Delhi  on Feb. 6.  Sistema Shyam will contest the court order, according to a
Feb. 4 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  