-- Beating Germany Makes Poland Haven 20 Years After Relief: Riskless Return
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-02-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/beating-germany-makes-poland-haven-in-europe-riskless-return.html
Polish bonds beat German bunds and
U.S. Treasuries in risk-adjusted returns since Europe’s debt
crisis started three years ago, indicating the country that
restructured a $35 billion debt load two decades ago is becoming
a regional haven.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows the
Bloomberg/EFFAS  Poland  Government Bond Index of local-currency
returns increased the most among 25 countries in the three years
through Feb. 6. The Polish  gauge  advanced 8.3 percent after
taking into account price swings, compared with 4 percent for
German  bunds  and 3 percent for U.S. Treasuries. Polish debt,
ranked ninth in total return, had the second-lowest volatility
after  Japan .  Foreign investors boosted holdings of Polish bonds to a
record last year, lured by yields of about 5.3 percent on
average, more than double the rates in Germany and the U.S.
 Poland (POGDYOY) , the only European Union nation to avoid a recession in
2009, is less vulnerable to bond market  swings  because pension
funds are required to invest at least 95 percent of their assets
locally. UniCredit SpA and KBC Asset Management say the rally
will continue as Prime Minister Donald Tusk seeks to cut the
budget gap by almost half.  “Investors are switching out of U.S. Treasuries and into
Polish government bonds,” said  Gyula Toth , a Vienna-based
emerging-market strategist at UniCredit,  Italy ’s biggest bank.
“This is a sort of eastern European safe haven. We are still
pretty constructive.”  Debt Restructuring  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price-swing variation, giving a measure of income per
unit of risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset
can swing dramatically in a short period of time, increasing the
potential for unexpected losses compared with a security whose
price moves at a steady rate.  Poland has topped the risk-adjusted returns of the
countries tracked by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg since the index was started at
the end of 1999, and had the second-lowest volatility over that
period, after  Japan (JNGATR) .  Poland restructured about $35 billion of loans in 1991 owed
to the so-called Paris Club of creditor governments including
the U.S. and  Germany , after a stagnating economy and surging
inflation during the previous decade made the government’s
communist-era debt burden unsustainable.  Outpacing Germany  The country’s transition to a capitalist economy spurred
average growth in gross domestic product of 4.4 percent during
the past two decades, compared with 0.1 percent expansion during
the 1980s, as the government sold state-run companies, boosted
foreign-exchange  reserves  about 24-fold to $90 billion and tamed
inflation.  Poland, which paid the final installment of its Paris Club
debt in March 2009, plans to meet the fiscal criteria to adopt
the euro by 2015, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  told
reporters in Brussels on Jan. 30.  The nation deserves an increase in its  credit rating  this
year as economic growth helps boost investor confidence,
Krzysztof Kalicki, the chief executive of Deutsche Bank AG’s
local unit, said last month.  Poland’s local-currency debt is rated A2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, the sixth-highest grade and on par with
Italy. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings both have Poland at
A, the sixth-highest rating. Germany boasts the highest-possible
grade from all three ratings companies.  ‘More Stable’  Poland’s combination of resilient economic growth and
stable monetary policy has helped reduce swings in the country’s
502 billion zloty ($159 billion)  bond market , according to  David Hauner , the head of EEMEA economics and fixed-income strategy at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research in  London .  The EU’s biggest eastern economy maintained an annual
expansion of at least 0.5 percent in every quarter during the
depths of the global financial crisis in 2009. The euro zone
shrank as much as 5.3 percent and the U.S. contracted by as much
as 5 percent.  Poland’s gross domestic product increased 4.3 percent last
year, the fastest pace since 2008, as companies increased
investment and a weaker currency boosted exports, the government
said on Jan. 27. Germany expanded 3 percent and U.S. GDP
increased 1.7 percent, according to government reports.  “Poland has had positive growth numbers for a long time
and it seems more stable than other” emerging economies in
 Europe , said Hakan Aksoy, who helps oversee about $4 billion as
an emerging-markets and high-yield bond  fund manager  at Pioneer
Investments in Dublin.  ECB Rates  Poland’s central bank, led by Governor Marek Belka, has
kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4.5 percent since
June after raising it four times in the first half of last year,
from a record-low of 3.5 percent.  By contrast, the  European Central Bank (EURR002W)  announced two
interest-rate increases of 0.25 percentage point each in April
and July, then reversed course and cut rates back to a record
low in two steps at the end of last year. Brazil’s central bank,
which raised its main  rate  five times between January and July
of last year, has since cut borrowing costs four times.  In Poland, “you’ve had for a long time pretty steady
expectations for the policy rate, which anchors the yield
curve,” Bank of America’s Hauner said.  Forward contracts on Polish borrowing costs signal
expectations that the rate may be unchanged during the next six
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Holdings  Low volatility has lured bond investors to Poland at a time
when slowing economic growth and rising debt burdens have roiled
the bond markets of southern European countries including
 Greece , Portugal, Italy and Spain. Foreign investors lifted
their holdings of Polish  government bonds  to 157 billion zloty
in October, a record high, and held 152 billion zloty of the
debt at the end of December, according to data compiled by the
 finance ministry .  Bond purchases by local pension funds have helped stabilize
the market, said Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief economist at Warsaw-
based BRE Bank SA, Poland’s third-biggest lender. Pension funds
had about half of their 225 billion zloty under management in
government bonds as of December, according to data compiled by
the country’s financial regulator and the finance ministry.  While Poland’s economy has weathered Europe’s debt crisis
so far, the country’s financial links to the region make it
vulnerable to a retrenchment by foreign  lenders , according to
Pablo Cisilino, who helps manage about $30 billion in emerging-
market debt at Stone Harbor Investment Partners in  New York .  Currency Risk  About 63 percent of the total credit extended to non-bank
borrowers in Poland as of June came from foreign lenders in the
euro area, according to the Bank for International Settlements.  “Eastern Europe is most affected by the deleveraging of
European banks,” said Cisilino, who has “underweight”
holdings in Poland.  Currency swings may add to risks for investors outside
Poland. The zloty weakened 11 percent against the euro last year
and depreciated 14 percent against the dollar as the European
debt crisis intensified. That wiped out last year’s 6.1 percent
gain in the Bloomberg/EFFAS Poland Government Bond Index for
investors in the U.S. and euro zone who sold the debt and
exchanged the proceeds back into their home currencies.  The zloty has rallied 9.5 percent against the U.S. currency
so far this year, and dollar-based returns from the Polish bond
market are the third-biggest among 25 countries after Hungary
and Ireland, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank Lending  Emerging-market currencies rallied after the ECB announced
a three-year lending program for banks, the  Federal Reserve  said
it will keep benchmark  interest rates  low through at least 2014
and reports showed a stronger U.S. labor market and slower
Chinese inflation.  The ECB’s lending program has reduced “tail risks” for
European markets, Agnes Belaisch, a former  International
Monetary Fund  economist who helps manage about $2.5 billion in
emerging-market debt at Threadneedle Asset Management in London,
said in an e-mail. “Local currency bonds have become attractive
again.”  Economic reforms by Prime Minister Tusk, the first Polish
leader since the collapse of communism to win a second
consecutive term, may help extend the rally in bonds, according
to Dieter Van De Voorde, a fixed-income fund manager at KBC
Asset Management in Luxembourg, which oversees about $209
billion.  ‘Strong Government’  Tusk has raised employers’ disability contributions,
announced plans to cut tax incentives and pledged to introduce a
tax on metals extraction to narrow the  budget deficit  to within
the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP this year from an estimated 5.6
percent in 2011. If the government meets its deficit target, the
country may win a credit-rating upgrade next year, said BRE
Bank’s Pytlarczyk.  Poland’s public debt was less than 54 percent of GDP at the
end of last year, below the country’s legal ceiling of 55
percent, the finance ministry said on Dec. 30. The debt-to-GDP
ratio in the euro area was about 88 percent in 2011, compared
with 102 percent in the U.S., according to January estimates by
the International Monetary Fund.  Polish debt is “still a nice pick,” said KBC’s Van De
Voorde, who has “overweight” holdings of the bonds. “It’s a
strong government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  