-- Bernanke Holds to 2014 Low-Rate Pledge Even as Unemployment Rate Declines
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-02-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/bernanke-holds-to-2014-low-rate-pledge-even-as-unemployment-rate-declines.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is holding to his pledge to keep borrowing costs close
to zero at least through late 2014 even after unemployment
unexpectedly fell to a three-year low.  Bernanke told the Senate Budget Committee in Washington
yesterday that the decline in the jobless rate to 8.3 percent in
January veils weaknesses in the U.S. labor market. Fed officials
last month said they didn’t expect such progress until the
fourth quarter.  “It is very important to look not just at the unemployment
rate, which reflects only people who are actively seeking
work,” Bernanke said in response to a lawmaker’s question
during his testimony. “There are also a lot of people who are
either out of the  labor force  because they don’t think they can
find work” or who have taken part-time jobs.  The comments suggest Bernanke won’t alter his 2014 rate
pledge until he sees faster economic growth, strong employment
gains over many months or a risk that what he calls “subdued”
inflation may speed up, said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at
Barclays Capital Inc. The Fed chairman has held the benchmark
federal funds rate at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “Bernanke did not give any indication that the Friday job
market report is changing the fundamental way they are viewing
the economy,” Maki, who is based in New York, said of the Feb.
3 release by the Labor Department. “It is going to take a
number of favorable reports before their view on monetary policy
shifts.”  Growth Estimates  Fed officials last month estimated that the world’s largest
economy will grow 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent this year,
according to the central tendency estimate, while the
 unemployment rate  will average 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent in the
fourth quarter.  “The 8.3 percent no doubt understates the weakness of the
labor market in some broad sense,” Bernanke said, while noting
that some job indicators are improving.  “We still have a long way to go before the labor market
can be said to be operating normally,” he said in his prepared
remarks.  The central bank’s forecast suggests the economy will grow
fast enough to absorb new entrants into the workforce, while
“not making sharp improvements on the unemployment rate,”
Bernanke said.  Stocks rose yesterday as  Greece ’s government made progress
on measures to secure international aid. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,347.05 in  New York . The yield
on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.97 percent from 1.91
percent on Feb. 6.  Five Months  While the jobless rate has dropped for five consecutive
months, it remains above the 5.2 percent to 6 percent that Fed
officials say is consistent with maximum employment. The
percentage of the unemployed who have remained without work for
27 weeks or more rose to 42.9 percent in January from 42.5
percent in December, the Labor Department said.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics said in a report yesterday
that the number of unemployed persons per job opening was 3.9 in
December 2011. That’s an improvement from 6.1 when the recession
ended in June 2009, yet still above 1.8 when the downturn began
December 2007.  The number of job openings climbed by 258,000, the biggest
gain since February 2011, to 3.38 million. Excluding government
agencies, work opportunities at private employers climbed to the
highest level since August 2008.  Speaking on fiscal policy, Bernanke urged lawmakers to
avoid sudden tightening while securing a long-term program that
balances spending and revenue. Congress should develop a
“credible, strong plan, but one that phases in over a period so
that the economy will not hit a huge pothole,” he said.  Deficit to Shrink  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said last week
it expects the  deficit  to narrow to $1.1 trillion this fiscal
year from $1.3 trillion last year. The gap would reach $1.5
trillion by 2022, the CBO estimated, and the debt would rise to
levels unseen since the government was paying off its World War
II expenses.  Rising government debt threatens to crowd out private
capital formation and raises the risk of a fiscal crisis,
Bernanke told the committee.  “It is very clear” that “on current, reasonable
expectations about policy that the U.S. federal deficit will be
unsustainable within 15 or 20 years at the most,” Bernanke said.
Congress should clarify the nation’s fiscal plan “as soon as
possible.”  “As we have seen in a number of countries recently,
 interest rates  can soar quickly if investors lose confidence in
the ability of a government to manage its fiscal policy,” he
said.  Spending Cuts  The central bank chief also said lawmakers risk slowing the
economic rebound if they let spending cuts and tax cuts take
hold next year without some counteracting measures.  “There will be a very sharp change in the stance of the
federal government, which by itself -- with no compensating
action -- would slow the recovery,” Bernanke said. “As we get
closer to Jan. 1, and Congress has not given a clear road map
for how it plans to proceed, that would certainly affect
planning business decisions, household decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  