-- Bernanke-Led Economy Proving Critics Clueless About Federal Reserve Policy
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/bernanke-led-economy-proving-critics-clueless-about-federal-reserve-policy.html
The numbers are proving Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s critics wrong.  More than a year after Republicans from House Speaker John Boehner of  Ohio  to presidential candidate Ron Paul of  Texas 
warned that the Fed’s second round of asset purchases risked a
sharp acceleration in prices, the surge has failed to
materialize. The personal-consumption-expenditures price index
rose 2.4 percent for the 12 months ending in December, near the
central bank’s 2 percent target.  “The statements were politically motivated,” said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in New
York. With unemployment stalled  above 8 percent  for three years,
“I don’t see how anybody in their right mind could form a
strong argument for persistent, rapid inflation in the  United
States  without the participation of the labor market.”  Even though the economy is showing signs of strengthening
and inflation appears in check, Republicans  Mitt Romney  and  Newt Gingrich , who also are running for president, have said they
wouldn’t keep Bernanke, 58, when his second four-year term as
Fed chairman expires on Jan. 31, 2014. Gingrich said in
September that Bernanke was “the most inflationary, dangerous
and power-centered chairman” in the central bank’s history.  “The criticism about the Fed being inflationary is not
fact-based,” said  Mark Gertler , an economics professor at New
York University who has co-written research with Bernanke. “In
terms of an inflation record, the facts are the Fed has been as
close to impeccable as you can possibly get.”  During Bernanke’s tenure, the U.S. consumer price index has
risen an average of 2.4 percent, lower than the 3.1 percent
average for  Alan Greenspan  and 6.3 percent for  Paul Volcker .
Greenspan was chairman from 1987 to 2006; Volcker was Fed chief
from 1979 to 1987.  Sacrifice Inflation Goal  Bernanke last week defended his commitment to  price
stability  before Congress in  Washington , rejecting suggestions
that he would sacrifice his inflation goal to boost employment.  “Over a period of time, we want to move inflation always
back toward 2 percent,” Bernanke said Feb. 2 in response to
questioning from Republican Representative Paul Ryan of
Wisconsin, chairman of the House Budget Committee. “We’re
always trying to bring inflation back to the target.”  Bond traders predict the Fed will come close to achieving
that goal. The break-even rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the yield difference between the
inflation-linked debt and comparable-maturity Treasuries, was
 1.91  percentage points yesterday. The rate, a measure of the
outlook for consumer prices over the life of the securities, has
fallen from 2.47 points on April 29 as commodity prices have
declined.  Inflation ‘Misinformation’  “There’s been an extraordinary amount of misinformation
about inflation circulating,” Gertler said. “We have not had
any sign of sustained inflation.”  In January, Fed officials lowered their projections for
price acceleration, with inflation ranging from 1.4 percent to
1.8 percent this year, and 1.4 percent to 2 percent in 2013. In
November, they predicted inflation of 1.4 percent to 2 percent
in 2012, and 1.5 percent to 2 percent next year.  Bernanke deflected a question from a reporter at his Jan.
25 press conference about whether he’d resign if a Republican
were elected president in November and asked him to do so.  “I’m not going to get involved in political rhetoric,”
Bernanke said. “As long as I’m here, I will do everything I can
to help the  Federal Reserve  achieve its dual mandate of price
stability and maximum employment.”  Exit Tools  The test on inflation will come when the central bank must
withdraw its record stimulus, said  Peter Hooper , chief economist
at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York. The policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  said last month it plans to keep
its benchmark  interest rate  “exceptionally low” until at least
late 2014. Hooper said Bernanke has the tools to contain
inflation when it comes time to exit.  “If it looks like the economy is going to overheat, the
Fed has a tremendous amount of ammunition,” such as selling
assets or raising the interest rate on excess reserves, Hooper
said. “Right now the emphasis is on, ‘Hey, the economy is still
weak. Let’s focus on getting that back to the norm.’”  The Fed has taken unprecedented measures to spur growth in
the aftermath of the worst recession since the Great Depression,
leaving the federal funds rate banks pay each other on overnight
loans  near zero  since December 2008 and buying $2.3 trillion of
bonds in two programs of so-called quantitative easing.  Harshest Political Backlash  The second round of asset purchases, which ran from
November 2010 through June 2011 and was dubbed QE2 by analysts
and traders, sparked the harshest political backlash against the
U.S. central bank in three decades. 2008 Republican vice-
presidential candidate Sarah Palin called it a “dangerous
experiment” in November 2010, saying it wouldn’t “magically
fix economic problems.”  In September of last year, the FOMC voted to replace $400
billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term
Treasuries in an effort to further lower borrowing costs. The
yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was  1.97  percent
yesterday, down from 2.13 percent on Sept. 1.  This move and QE2 help “to explain why some of the recent
news on U.S. economic activity has been better than
anticipated,” Lonski said.  The  unemployment rate  fell to  8.3 percent  in January, the
lowest since February 2009, according to a Labor Department
report last week. Payrolls rose by 243,000, exceeding the most
optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The  U.S. economy 
is forecast to grow at a 2.3 percent rate this year, up from 1.7
percent in 2011, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 70
economists last month.  Under Control  Meanwhile, prices appear under control, according to
Deutsche Bank’s Hooper. So-called  core inflation , stripped of
energy and food costs, climbed 1.8 percent in the 12 months
ending in December, the personal-consumption-expenditures price
index shows.  “It just doesn’t look like there’s any evidence right
now” of an inflation surge, Hooper said. “There are no alarm
bells going off in terms of the current picture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  