-- Bharti Slumps as Profit Misses Estimates on Lower Phone Use: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-02-08T11:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/bharti-airtel-profit-misses-estimates-as-customers-curb-calls-shares-drop.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest
wireless operator, slumped the most in more than 1 1/2 years in
Mumbai trading after unexpectedly reporting a  profit  decline
because of lower mobile-phone use by customers.  The shares slid 6.5 percent, the most since May 2010, after
New Delhi-based Bharti said third-quarter  net income  fell 22
percent to 10.1 billion rupees ($205 million). Profit was
expected to rise to 13.9 billion rupees, according to the median
of 25 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Bharti’s Indian customers cut phone usage 7 percent in the
quarter after the company raised call rates 20 percent in the
country, where a price war sparked by the entry of Telenor ASA
and NTT DoCoMo Inc. pushed tariffs to less than a penny a
minute. Billionaire Chairman  Sunil Mittal  is rolling out third-
generation wireless services and has expanded Bharti into  South
Asia  and  Africa  to revive growth amid competition in the world’s
largest wireless market after  China .  “The minutes growth wasn’t very good -- it was actually
bad,” said Naveen Kulkarni, an analyst at MF Global Securities
Pvt. in Mumbai. “They will have to rejig their plans a bit, the
kind of tariff hikes they’ve been looking at, and the reduction
of promotional activities.”  Usage Decline  Bharti dropped to 354 rupees at the close in Mumbai
trading. The stock was the biggest  percentage loser  on the
benchmark Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , which gained 0.5 percent.  Average monthly minutes of use per user in  India  fell 7
percent to 419 minutes in the three months ended Dec. 31, from
449 minutes a year earlier. The company’s India customer base
increased 15 percent to 175.7 million, Bharti said.  Average revenue per user, a key metric of performance in
the telecommunications industry, fell 6 percent in India to 187
rupees a month from 199 rupees a year earlier.  As many as 15 operators, including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  compete
to offer wireless services in India, which had a total of 894
million mobile-phone users as of December.  Earlier this month, India’s highest court canceled 122
mobile-phone licenses, including all the permits used by
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. and  Norway ’s  Telenor (TEL) , saying
the licenses, sold in 2008, weren’t acquired by legal means.  Intense Competition  Bharti could benefit from the reduction in competition and
a greater availability of spectrum in auctions.  “Competition is still very intense,” Chief Executive
Officer Sanjay Kapoor told reporters in  New Delhi . “We need to
make sure the right price is offered to the customer, and the
right choices are available to the customer.”  Third-quarter  revenue  rose 17 percent from a year earlier
to 184.8 billion rupees. That matched the 184.6 billion-rupee
median of 27 analysts’ estimates. Earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, rose 19 percent to
59.6 billion rupees.  “Bharti’s subscriber additions are lower because they’re
not in growth mode anymore, so incremental minutes growth is
lower,” said Unmesh Sharma, an analyst at Macquarie Capital
Securities in Mumbai. “It’s a sign of their maturity in the
market.”  The mobile-phone carrier expanded into  Kenya  and other
countries with its purchase of the African assets of Kuwait’s
 Mobile Telecommunications Co. (ZAIN)  to offset slowing growth at home.  Wireless Licenses  The average revenue per user for Bharti’s Africa operations
fell to $7.10 a month, from $7.30 a year earlier.  The company started third-generation wireless services in
India last year that will allow it to boost its revenues if data
use and smartphones catch on among mobile phone users. The
company paid the government 123 billion rupees for 3G wireless
permits in 13 of India’s 22 telecommunication zones in May 2010,
and another 33 billion rupees for licenses to offer broadband
wireless service in four regions.  Bharti and Vodafone’s Indian unit raised prepaid call rates
by 20 percent in some regions in July, their first tariff
increases for the Indian market in two years.  Bharti has extended those rate increases to all regions in
India, Kapoor said in a phone call with analysts on Nov. 4.
Customers will be moved to the new price plans as their old
plans expire, so the “full impact” of the price increase won’t
be visible until the three months ending March 31, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  