-- BHP to Produce More Shale Oil in U.S. After Slump in Gas Prices
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-02-08T02:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/bhp-to-produce-more-shale-oil-in-u-s-after-slump-in-gas-prices.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. ,  Australia ’s
largest oil and gas producer, expects to produce more petroleum
liquids from its onshore acreage in the U.S. after natural gas
prices slumped to the lowest in a decade.  “In the current environment of depressed gas prices, we
will continue to focus our efforts on the most productive areas
of our high-quality acreage,” the Melbourne-based company said
in its first-half earnings statement today. Liquids such as
shale oil will account for 20 percent of its onshore U.S. output
by 2015, BHP said without providing a comparative figure.  BHP, also the world’s largest mining company, said it plans
to more than double full-year spending on petroleum exploration
to $1.4 billion after buying U.S. shale assets last year. BHP
bought Petrohawk Energy Corp. for $12.1 billion in cash and
purchased assets from Chesapeake Energy Corp. for $4.75 billion.  First-half underlying profit before interest and tax for
the oil and gas division, led by Chief Executive J. Michael Yeager, climbed 38 percent to $3.94 billion on an increase in
 oil prices , BHP said today. The average realized natural-gas
price was “largely unchanged” at $3.85 per thousand standard
cubic feet, according to the company.  “What Mike wants to do is probably less gas activity than
he planned and probably on balance slightly more oil activity,”
BHP’s Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  told reporters on
a conference call today.  U.S. natural gas prices have dropped to a 10-year low,
while oil prices gained 40 percent in the past two years. Royal
Dutch Shell Plc,  Europe ’s largest energy company, will shift its
investment focus to oil-rich shale in the U.S. because of lower
natural-gas prices, the company said Feb. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  