-- Biggs Says Low Volume Means Bull Run May Last: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-08T22:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/biggs-says-low-volume-means-bull-run-may-last-chart-of-the-day.html
Stock trading  around the world fell
to the lowest level since at least 2006 even as global equities
entered a bull market, a sign to  Barton Biggs  that the rally has
further to go.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the combined value of shares
traded on the New York Stock Exchange, along with bourses in
Shanghai, Tokyo, London,  Hong Kong , Toronto, Paris, Sao Paulo,
Mumbai and Frankfurt. About $79 billion of shares changed hands
each day on average during the past 100 days, the least since
Bloomberg began compiling the data six years ago.  “There’s a huge amount of money that has been caught on
the sidelines in a market that continues to creep its way
higher,” Biggs, the founder of hedge fund Traxis Partners LP in
 New York , said in a phone interview yesterday. “I interpret it
as a positive sign that not much of the potential buying power
has been consumed by the advance so far.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index has climbed 20 percent
from its Oct. 4 low as better-than-estimated reports on global
manufacturing and the American job market signaled the world
economy may weather Europe’s debt crisis. Investors have pulled
about $75 billion from U.S. equity mutual funds during the
rally, data compiled by the Investment Company Institute show.  Biggs, who increased bets on stocks in December, said his
net-long position in equities is currently about 70 percent. The
former chief global strategist at Morgan Stanley said he favors
Chinese shares and U.S. technology companies.  “It’s very painful for the money that’s on the sidelines
that did not perform well last year and now they’re getting four
or five hundred basis points behind the indexes,” he said.
“There’s just a lot of money that has gone out of equities, and
in the long run that money is going to come back.”  Louise Yamada , an analyst who uses patterns in price graphs
to make forecasts, said yesterday that the Nasdaq Composite
Index has entered a  bull market  and stocks may continue to rally
through the end of March. In December, she said that equity
charts were signaling further losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  