-- Fink: Investors Should Be 100% in Equities
-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-02-08T14:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/blackrock-s-fink-says-investors-should-be-100-in-equities-take-more-risk.html
Investors should have 100 percent of
investments in equities because of valuations and higher returns
than bonds, said Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager.  Investors who seek the safety of treasury bonds will have
minimal returns and will not be able to meet their needs with
the U.S. Federal Reserve expected to keep  interest rates  low,
said Fink, who in 1988 co-founded the New York-based manager
with $3.5 trillion of assets. By contrast, equities are trading
at the lowest valuations in 20 or 30 years.  “I don’t have a view that the world is going to fall
apart, so you need to take on more risk,” he said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong today. “You
need to overcome all this noise. When you look at dividend
returns on equities versus bond yields, to me it’s a pretty easy
decision to be heavily in equities.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last month pledged they
would keep borrowing costs low through at least late 2014 to
boost the economy and put more Americans back to work, extending
a previous end date of mid-2013. Investors pulled money from
mutual funds that buy U.S. stocks for a fifth year in 2011, the
longest streak in data going back to 1984, according to the
 Investment Company Institute  in  Washington .  Fink’s recommendation is at odds with investment-management
guidelines that urge investors to diversify their holdings by
putting 60 percent of their money in stocks and 40 percent in
bonds.  Investment Guidelines  Investors tend to reduce their dependence on stocks as they
get older, to cut volatility in their investments. Investors in
their twenties had 73 percent of their 401(k) retirement assets
in equities, while those in their sixties had 48 percent of
their 401(k) assets in equities, according to research conducted
by  Investment Company Institute  and the Employee Benefit
Research Institute at year-end 2009.  Fink, who co-founded BlackRock in 1988 as mainly a fixed-
income manager, was a pioneer in the mortgage industry earlier
in his career at First Boston, which was later acquired by
Credit Suisse Group AG. There, he traded bonds in the 1980s, and
helped slice and pool mortgage bonds that were then sold to
investors as collateralized mortgage obligations. About $1.25
trillion of BlackRock’s assets were in fixed-income as of Dec.
31, compared with $1.56 trillion in equities.  Stocks Versus Bonds  Fink said in a May 31 interview he’s more bullish on U.S.
equities than bonds because companies are benefiting from the
weak dollar and have surplus cash to invest for growth. While
equities around the world were off to the best start in 18
years, the  S&P 500 Index  gained just 1.2 percent since Fink’s
prediction last year, compared with the 6.8 percent return in
Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  rallied 5.8 percent last
month, topping gains in  commodities  and handing investors
January’s best returns in almost two decades, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The measure, which rose 0.2 percent as of
1:38 p.m. in Hong Kong, is trading at 13.6 times earnings, less
than half its  valuation  of 32.4 times at the end of 2009,
according to the data.  Fink said the Greek debt crisis will be resolved as it’s
not in anyone’s interest to have a blowup now.  Greece  is trying
to win a 130 billion euro ($172 billion) second aid package to
prevent the country’s collapse, strike a deal with private
creditors and remain in the euro area. European leaders in
recent days stepped up pressure on Greek politicians to meet the
conditions of the rescue.  ‘Very Bullish’  “I’m very bullish on the market,” he said, citing the
increased liquidity from the U.S. and European central banks.
“I think the market is focusing too much on noise like Greece.
And yet we’re going to have a lot of volatility and we’re going
to have to live with it.”  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  was scheduled to meet
late yesterday with representatives from the so-called troika of
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  again to put final touches on terms
required for the rescue package that Finance Minister Evangelos
Venizelos said would determine the country’s ability to stick to
its plan to remain in the euro zone.  The European Central Bank would be able to provide
liquidity to stabilize the European markets this year, Fink
said. In the U.S., he doesn’t see another round of quantitative
easing for at least a year.  Quantitative Easing  “The only reason that I would think we would do a
quantitative easing three is if the dollar gets too strong,” he
said. “I think the ECB is going to bring down the value of the
euro. I think the euro will break $1.20 this year.”  A weak euro is going to stimulate a recovery in parts of
 Europe , jeopardizing some of the U.S. economic growth, he said.
The U.S. did “particularly better than our estimates” because
of the weakening of the dollar, driven in part by the
quantitative easing, he added.  Asked if he would become the next Treasury Secretary should
President  Barack Obama  win re-election, Fink said: “A, it’s
eight months, nine months away; we have to see if the president
will be re-elected. B, we’re going to see if the president would
want me. And C, I have to ask my wife would she ever let me. Put
those all together, I would say it’s pretty foggy, uncertain if
that would ever happen.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in an interview
on Jan. 25 he doesn’t expect Obama to ask him to stay in office
if the President is re-elected later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  