-- Blindness-Busting Gene Therapy Works in Second Eye, Study Finds
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-02-08T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/blindness-busting-gene-therapy-works-in-second-eye-u-s-researchers-say.html
Four years ago, an experimental  gene
therapy  improved vision in blind patients treated in one eye.
Now sight has been restored to the second eye of the previously
treated individuals, researchers reported today.  Three adults with a form of Leber congenital amaurosis, a
rare inherited disease of the retina that appears at birth and
can progress to total blindness, now have vision in dim light
and can distinguish faces, researchers said. The results are
published today in the journal  Science Translational Medicine .  The procedure, which uses a virus to deliver a gene to
offset a defective one, didn’t cause an immune response, an
effect that has hampered previous gene therapy attempts, said
 Jean Bennett , a professor of ophthalmology at the  University of
Pennsylvania  and a lead author on the study. The second
treatment also led to a surprise benefit of improving the
previously treated eye, since the two eyes could now coordinate
with each other in focusing on an object, researchers said.  “After the treatment, their vision is by no means 20/20,
but it’s improved to the point where they can see the faces of
their children, see the teacher at a school conference, or see
their child hit a home run in a baseball game,” said Bennett,
who is also a scientist at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia,
in a telephone interview.  The study was a follow-on to a clinical trial conducted at
Children’s Hospital whose initial data were reported in 2008 and
2009. Twelve patients, including children, were treated with an
injection into the eye that had the worst vision. Each had
improvements.  Retina Disorders  Leber congenital amaurosis  is a collection of disorders
that lead to loss of cells in the retina in the first few
decades of patients’ lives, the study said. The condition
affects about 3,000 people in the U.S. One of the most-common
forms, LCA2, is caused by a mutation in a gene linked to
generation of a vitamin A derivative necessary for capturing
light and stimulating vision. About 500 people have that form of
LCA, Bennett said.  The researchers were concerned about repeating the
treatment in patients’ other eye because they feared the initial
therapy may have primed their immune systems to react against a
second dose.  “We were concerned about the possibility that
readministering might activate an immune response,” Bennett
said. “Analogous to what you’d see in a vaccine, where
delivering something back into the body would develop an immune
response, you go back a second time and it might limit the
effectiveness and cause damage in the eye that had initially
received the injection.”  Obstacle Course  The study, done in three adult patients before the therapy
would be administered to the rest of the 12 participants in the
initial trial, showed no serious side effects. The patients got
the second treatment 1.7 to 3.4 years after the first. The
patients’ vision in dim light improved, and two of them were
able to find their way through an obstacle course they
previously hadn’t been able to navigate.  The trial was funded in part by Children’s Hospital of
Philadelphia. The researchers have started treating the rest of
the patients in the initial part of the study, and are planning
a trial for later this year in the third and final phase of
tests generally required for regulatory approval, Bennett said.
The program is an academic one, without involvement from any
companies.  The treatment doesn’t make patients’ vision perfect. “They
can’t read books or drive a car,” Bennett said. “But the
improvements mean a huge amount to somebody who is blind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  