-- Bloomberg Says Opening Sept. 11  Memorial On Time Avoided ‘Embarrassment’
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-02-08T22:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/bloomberg-says-opening-sept-11-memorial-on-time-avoided-embarrassment-.html
New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
said that failure to open the Sept. 11 memorial in time for the
10th anniversary of the terrorist attacks would have been an
“embarrassment around the world.”  Bloomberg, chairman of the National September 11 Memorial
and Museum, made his comment a day after an audit by the Port
Authority of New York and  New Jersey  found that rushing to meet
that deadline led to cost overruns.  “Can you imagine if America couldn’t have come up with a
memorial by the 10th anniversary?” Bloomberg, 69, said today at
a news conference in East Harlem. “New York had to deliver. The
Port Authority had to deliver.”  The  Port Authority , which is rebuilding the World Trade
Center, said auditors found that the cost of the project has
grown to $14.8 billion from about $11 billion in part because
the expedited schedule increased costs at an adjacent mass-
transit hub and the memorial.  The audit also found “a challenged and dysfunctional
organization suffering from a lack of consistent leadership, a
siloed underlying bureaucracy, poorly coordinated capital
planning process, insufficient cost controls and a lack of
transparent and effective oversight” of the trade center.  ‘Dropped the Ball’  Governors  Andrew Cuomo  of New York and  Chris Christie  of
New Jersey ordered the financial review in August, when they
backed a Port Authority plan to raise tolls $4.50 over five
years for the bridges and tunnels it operates.  “The people who were in charge of this thing dropped the
ball and didn’t give a complete picture of how much it was going
to cost,” Christie said at a news conference today. He said he
discussed the audit with Cuomo last week and that the two
governors will recommend changes, which he didn’t specify.  The Port Authority said it expects to recover $1.6 billion
for work it is doing for other public agencies and private
entities, including the national memorial. The September 11
Memorial and Museum has raised $400 million in private money,
Bloomberg said today. The museum hasn’t opened yet.  ``I don’t think the costs for the memorial or the museum are
higher than what was originally envisioned,” Bloomberg said.
“They asked us to raise some more money and we did that.”  Lynn Rasic, a spokeswoman for the memorial and museum,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  On Hold  The Port Authority won’t continue building the museum
“unless it’s clear” that the agency will be reimbursed, said
Scott Rechler, an agency board member, in a telephone interview
today.  Bloomberg and Cuomo have clashed over money that each says
the other owes to finish work on the memorial and museum. The
dispute will probably postpone the museum’s scheduled Sept. 11,
2012, opening, the mayor has said.  Cuomo says the memorial foundation owes the agency $300
million for infrastructure work. The mayor says the Port
Authority was responsible and owes the foundation $140 million
for construction delays.  The Port Authority has spent about $500 million of the $1.6
billion on work it estimates it will perform for third-parties,
Rechler said.  In addition to reimbursements from the museum, the Port
Authority is seeking $500 million from the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , which runs the city’s subways. The
authority said it needs assurances that it will be reimbursed
for $300 million in security spending and $200 million for a
planned performing arts center. The Port Authority hasn’t spent
any money on the performing arts center yet, Rechler said.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Esme Deprez in New York at 
 Edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  