-- Boehner Oil Plan Seen by CBO Raising 5% of Needed Transit Funds
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-02-08T15:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/boehner-oil-plan-seen-by-cbo-raising-5-of-needed-transit-funds.html
A Republican plan boosting U.S. oil
production in the  Gulf of Mexico  and  Alaska  to pay for mass
transit would generate 5 percent of the funds lawmakers say are
needed, according to Congressional Budget Office estimates.  Adding production would raise $2.06 billion for the U.S.
budget by the end of 2016, and total $4.28 billion by 2022, the
CBO said in reports yesterday. Republicans are seeking $40
billion for U.S. mass-transit needs through 2016.  The House Natural Resources Committee, led by
Representative Doc Hastings, a Washington Republican, last week
approved three measures that would boost energy production, as a
part of House Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan to fund transportation
projects and create U.S. jobs.  The  trust fund  that finances road and bridge projects
through vehicle-fuel taxes may become insolvent before the
November election unless lawmakers find additional funding.  Opening U.S. waters off the coast of Florida and  Virginia 
to oil and gas production would bring  $1.78 billion  by 2022,
while permitting energy companies into a small part of the
 Arctic National Wildlife Refuge  would add  $2.5 billion , the CBO
said. The plan to expand leasing in the Rocky Mountain oil-shale
region wouldn’t have any impact through 2022, according to
calculations posted on the agency website with yesterday’s date.  House Republicans have proposed no longer using vehicle-
fuel taxes to pay for mass-transit projects. Instead, they seek
a one-time transfer of $40 billion from the U.S. general fund
for transit needs over four years. To do that, lawmakers would
need to find new revenue to offset a transfer. The oil leases
would be used to partially offset the transfer, Boehner has
said.  House Republicans ’ oil plan has no similar bill in the
Senate. The bills are H.R. 3407, 3408 and 3410.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  