-- BP Won’t Face Some E-Mails in Gulf Spill Trial, Judge Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-02-08T19:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/bp-won-t-face-some-e-mails-in-gulf-oil-spill-trial-judge-says.html
Lawyers suing  BP Plc (BP/)  and other
defendants over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill won’t be able
to use several internal e-mails in the trial over fault for the
incident, a judge said.  One e-mail includes a comment from a BP geologist two
months before the April 2010 well blowout referring to a “s----
y cement job” at the project.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided
cementing services, asked that the e-mail be barred from trial,
saying the communication was a joke and the geologist didn’t
create it as a business activity.  The comment about the cement job isn’t a business record
and “is not admissible,” U.S. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan
said in a ruling today in  New Orleans . “It must be demonstrated
that the e-mail at issue was not sent or received casually, nor
was its creation a mere isolated incident.”  Shushan also excluded an e-mail from a Halliburton employee
who called tests before the blowout unsuccessful. London-based
BP and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig that
exploded, asked the judge to exclude the June 2010 e-mail,
calling it hearsay.  In the e-mail, Ryan Haire of Halliburton told another
company employee: “I read some report that stated that the two
negative tests we did were considered successful? I stated that
I found them to unsuccessful and I was checking to see if maybe
you knew why Transocean and BP were calling them successful?”  ‘No Evidence’  “There is no evidence that Haire possessed personal
knowledge that BP and Transocean called the two negative
pressure tests successful,” Shushan said today.  She also barred use of several e-mails between managers at
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , BP’s partner in the well, written in
2009 over storm damage to another deepwater drilling rig. The
material “is hearsay, and it is not admissible,” Shushan said.  The explosion of the BP well killed 11 workers and caused
the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. It also spurred
hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its partners, including
Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean, Houston-based Halliburton
and The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko, which owned 25 percent
of the well.  The nonjury trial begins Feb. 27 in federal court in New
Orleans before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier . Shushan’s
decisions on evidence must be approved by Barbier before trial.
She gave the parties until tomorrow to make any objections.  The case is In Re:  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  