-- Brazilian IPO Pipeline at $28 Billion, Guardia Says
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2012-02-09T21:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/brazilian-ipo-pipeline-as-high-as-28-billion-reais-bovespa-s-guardia-says.html
(Corrects currency in headline, first and second paragraphs
in story published Feb. 8.)  Brazilian companies are lining up to
complete initial public offerings totaling as much as $28
billion as foreigners resume buying stocks from the country
after demand plunged last year, said Eduardo Refinetti Guardia,
BM&FBovespa SA’s chief financial officer.  IPOs in 2012 will probably exceed last year’s 6.51 billion
reais ($3.79 billion) as investors return to  Brazil  after
withdrawing funds in 2011 amid concern that global economic
conditions would deteriorate, Guardia said in an interview in
London yesterday. About 40 companies are ready to go public with
IPOs averaging $600 million to $700 million as market conditions
improve, he said. BM&FBovespa is the operator of  Latin America ’s
biggest securities exchange.  “We saw investors beginning to return to Brazil,” said
Guardia. “January was a very good month with net inflows every
day, so it’s an indication of investors’ increasing confidence
in increasing their risk exposure.”  International investors’ demand for emerging-market stocks
has increased as  Greece  moves closer to a bailout package and
the  U.S. economy  show signs of improvement. Greek Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos  will meet today with political leaders to
negotiate terms required for 130 billion euros ($172 billion) of
aid. U.S. unemployment fell unexpectedly to 8.3 percent in
January and the  Federal Reserve  estimates the world’s largest
economy will grow 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent this year.  The last IPO to be priced in Brazil was Abril Educacao SA
in July. At least 11 companies, including sugar-trading
cooperative Copersucar SA and soybean producer Los Grobo SA,
postponed or canceled equity offerings in Brazil last year.  Foreign Purchases  Net foreign purchases of Brazilian equities soared to 7.2
billion reais in January, compared with 401 million reais a year
earlier, according to data from  BM&FBovespa. (BVMF3)  In 2011, overseas
investors withdrew 1.4 billion reais from Brazilian stocks,
leading to an 18 percent slump in the Bovespa index, the third-
worst performance out of 18 major global gauges tracked by
Bloomberg.  “The valuations are very attractive” in Brazil as a
result of last year’s decline, Guardia said. “That’s one of the
reasons investors are coming back to Brazil.”  Seabras Servicos de Petroleo Ltd., the Brazilian unit of
Bermuda-based oil-rig operator Seadrill Ltd., said last month
that it plans to raise as much as 1.7 billion reais in an IPO in
April. Brasil Travel Turismo & Participacoes SA and its
shareholders plan to raise as much as 1.42 billion reais in an
IPO, according to a prospectus published in Valor Economico
newspaper on Jan. 24.  Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  has risen 16 percent since the
start of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in  London  at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  