-- Cabinet Authorizes Sale of Cyprus Airways, Capital Boost
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-02-08T16:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/cabinet-authorizes-sale-of-cyprus-airways-capital-boost-1-.html
Cyprus’s government has given green
light for Cyprus Airways Ltd. to increase its capital and
authorized negotiations for the sale of an unspecified stake of
the state-run carrier to investors.  The government reaffirmed a previous “decision to raise
the share capital of the company and approved the participation
of the government as main shareholder in the new capital
issue,” government spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  told reporters
in Nicosia today. “The government also decided to authorize the
finance minister to negotiate the sale of Cyprus Airways shares
and shape a relevant proposal that will be submitted to cabinet
for approval.”  The government’s decision to participate in the company’s
capital increase must be approved by the east Mediterranean
island’s  Commissioner for State Aid , Stefanou said, declining to
comment on the company’s value.  Last year, the airline, which  posted  29.3 million euros
($38.4 million) in losses in the first half of 2011, received 20
million euros in compensation package from the Cypriot
government for extra costs incurred as a result of  Turkey ’s ban
on Cypriot traffic and underwent a restructuring plan in an
attempt to save 40 million euros annually.  Talks to sell the loss-making airline to  Russia ’s Aeroflot
have already begun an are at an “advanced stage,” while
Lebanon’s Middle East Air Airlines has also shown interest in
buying a stake in the carrier, Kathimerini newspaper reported on
its website today, without saying where it got the information.  Cyprus Airways has seen its stock recover this month on
reports that the government was mulling the sale of a majority
stake to a strategic investor. Share rose for a sixth day,
climbing 6.7 percent to 0.08 euros today after falling to a six-
month low of 0.046 euros on Jan. 31.  Click here for Web link   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Athens at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  