-- California Group Drops Bid to Put Public Pension Reductions Before Voters
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-08T22:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/california-group-drops-bid-to-put-public-pension-reductions-before-voters.html
A group that had been trying to place
a voter initiative on  California (STOCA1) ’s ballot to cut public pensions
suspended its campaign, saying a summary and title assigned to
the measure by the attorney general made it impossible to pass.  California Pension Reform will instead focus on getting
lawmakers and Governor  Jerry Brown  to overhaul public pensions,
the group’s president, Dan Pellissier, said in a statement
today. He said they would seek another ballot measure in 2014 if
Brown and lawmakers fail to act.  Brown, a Democrat, has proposed his own plan, which would
push new state workers into a hybrid-type pension that combines
elements of a 401(k) savings plan common in the private sector
with traditional government benefits. It would also raise the
 retirement age  to 67 from 55 for most state employees.
Pellissier said at the time Brown unveiled his plan that it
didn’t go far enough.  “We will continue to push our elected representatives to
reform our broken pension system and if they fail we will focus
on qualifying an initiative for 2014,” Pellissier said in the
statement. “California taxpayers face more than $240 billion in
pension debts that grow every year, a brutal math problem that
requires courageous leadership instead of the special interest
politics that is blocking meaningful reform today.”  Pellissier’s group had submitted two separate measures, one
that would have forced government workers into a 401(k)-
type plan and another that would have sought a hybrid. The group
was polling voters to see which might pass before deciding which
one to pursue.  Strained Budgets  California  Attorney General Kamala Harris, also a Democrat,
must review all proposed voter initiatives and write an
impartial title and summary before supporters can begin
gathering signatures. Pellissier criticized the way Harris
explained his group’s proposals, saying she used false and
misleading language.  “Our title and summary describes the initiative’s chief
points and purposes, and is accurate and not misleading,” said
Lynda Gledhill, spokeswoman for the attorney general’s office.  Rising retiree obligations are straining the budgets of
states such as California and cities across the U.S. still
grappling with income- and sales-tax revenue reduced by the
longest recession since the Great Depression.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  