-- Canadian and Chinese Leaders Agree to Protect Investments
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-02-08T10:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/canada-agrees-to-investment-protection-agreement-with-china.html
Canada  and China reached an
investment-protection agreement today, as the holder of the
world’s third-largest oil reserves looks to deepen economic ties
with Asia and lessen its reliance on the U.S.  Neither side gave details about the agreement, announced
after Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  met Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  in Beijing. The two sides will perform a legal review
of the deal before signing it, according to a statement from
Harper’s office.  “ Investment flows  between Canada and China are at an all-
time high, contributing significantly to jobs and economic
growth in both countries,” Harper said, according to the
statement. It said the pact will create “a more stable and
secure environment for investors on both sides of the Pacific.”  The two countries began talks on an investor protection
agreement in 1994, and Canada has pushed harder for a pact in
recent years. Harper called diversifying Canada’s energy exports
a “national priority” last month after President  Barack Obama 
rejected TransCanada Corp.’s $7 billion Keystone XL pipeline to
ship Canadian oil to the  Gulf Coast .  Foreign investment protection pacts are designed to guard
investors against discriminatory and arbitrary practices.
Harper’s four-day visit is aimed at attracting more Chinese
investment in Canada’s natural resources while winning business
for Canadian companies such as  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)   Shared Aspiration  Strengthening cooperation is “our shared aspiration and
also serves the fundamental interests of our two countries,”
Wen told Harper at a meeting in the Great Hall of the People
before the agreement was signed.  Harper told Wen that the two sides can “enjoy a strategic
partnership based on mutual respect and collaboration.”  Direct investment in  China  was C$4.8 billion ($4.8 billion)
in 2010, less than 1 percent of Canada’s total, and about one-
third the level of reciprocal investment by Chinese firms,
Statistics Canada data show. With 99 percent of oil exports
going to the U.S., Canada’s trade deficit with China was C$147.5
billion from 2006 to 2010,  Industry Canada  says.  At the same time, Chinese companies purchased more oil and
gas assets in Canada from 2005 to 2011 than those any other
country, according to Bloomberg Government.  The two sides also signed six other agreements today,
including pacts on a scholar exchange program, cooperation in
environmental protection and resource development, and opening
the Chinese market for beef tallow to Canadian producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  