-- Capello Quits as England Soccer Coach After Terry Is Stripped of Captaincy
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-08T22:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/capello-quits-as-england-soccer-coach-after-terry-is-stripped-of-captaincy.html
Fabio Capello resigned as manager of
the England soccer team over a disagreement with the Football
Association’s decision to strip  John Terry  of the team captaincy.  The Italian offered to step down at a meeting today with
F.A. Chairman  David Bernstein  and General Secretary Alex Horne,
the governing body said in a statement on its website.  “During today’s meeting and throughout his time as England
manager, Fabio has conducted himself in an extremely
professional manner,” Bernstein said in the statement.  The F.A. didn’t consult Capello before stripping Chelsea
player Terry of the England captaincy after his criminal trial
on a charge of racially abusing an opponent was delayed this
month until July 9, after this year’s European Championship in
Poland and Ukraine.  The 65-year-old Capello said in an interview in his native
language with Italpress that he was “gravely offended” by the
F.A.’s decision to relieve Terry of the captaincy, the U.K.’s
 Sky News  reported. Capello’s son and agent Pierfilippo Capello
said the report was “not accurate and not true.”  Capello resigned hours after  Harry Redknapp , the favorite
to replace the Italian, was cleared of two charges of  tax
evasion  at a London court. Capello, who was hired in 2007, was
to step down after the European Championship.  Redknapp as Replacement?  U.K. bookmaker Coral said it has stopped taking bets on
Tottenham coach Redknapp after listing him as 2-1 favorite
before the end of his trial to succeed Capello. That would mean
a successful $1 bet would bring in $2 plus the original stake.  Today’s meeting was the first face-to-face encounter
between Capello and F.A. officials since Terry was removed. The
central defender denies racially abusing Queens Park Rangers
player Anton Ferdinand in an English Premier League match in
October.  Capello reinstated Terry to the captaincy last year after
stripping him of the role in 2010 over allegations of marital
infidelity with the ex-girlfriend of former teammate  Wayne Bridge .  Bernstein and England team officials will hold a press
conference tomorrow at Wembley Stadium in London at noon local
time.  Bernstein has spoken in the past of wanting an Englishman
to manage the national team.  Sports data company Opta released figures saying Capello
had the best record of any England coach since World War II. He
won more than two-thirds of his matches, 5.6 percent more than
Alf Ramsey, who coached England to its only World Cup triumph in
1966.  Capello, who won national championships with  Real Madrid ,
Roma, Juventus and AC Milan, guided England to the 2010 World
Cup. He signed a new contract days before the start of the
tournament in South Africa and the F.A. then resisted calls to
fire him following a 4-1 defeat to  Germany  in the second round
of the event.  England topped its group in qualifying for Euro 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 