-- Chile Inflation Stays Above Target Range for Second Month
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-02-08T12:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/chile-inflation-stays-above-target-range-for-second-month-2-.html
Chilean consumer prices  rose 0.1
percent in January from December, leaving the annual inflation
rate above the target range for a second straight month, the
National Statistics Institute said.  Prices climbed 4.2 percent from a year earlier and monthly
 core inflation , which excludes fuel and produce, was 0.1
percent, the institute said in a report today. The median
estimate of 16 analysts was for prices to rise 0.2 percent in
the month.  With annual inflation above the central bank’s 2 percent to
4 percent target, policy makers probably will pause before
repeating last month’s surprise quarter-point cut in its
benchmark  interest rate , economist Cristobal Doberti said by
phone. Since the Jan. 12 rate reduction, data show unemployment
tumbled and economic growth accelerated in December.  “Given the recent economic activity data we’ve seen
locally and abroad together with the increase in salaries, we
expect the bank to hold the rate in the next meeting,” Doberti,
an economist at Bice Inversiones in Santiago, said today. Rate
reductions won’t come until “the economy shows more signs of
contagion from abroad than what we’re seeing now.”  The central bank will leave its key  interest rate  unchanged
at 5 percent this month, according to the median forecast of 56
traders and investors surveyed by the bank on Feb. 7. The bank
will reduce the rate to 4.75 percent in May and 4.5 percent in
August, according to the survey published today.  Transport vs Electricity  Transportation costs climbed 1 percent in January, led by a
2.1 percent gain in motor fuel. The cost of electricity fell 5.1
percent over the same period as new price fixings came into
force, the statistics institute said.  The cost of beef, which was one of the drivers of faster-
than-forecast price increases in December, fell 2.3 percent as
supermarkets found new suppliers. An outbreak of foot-and-mouth
disease in  Paraguay , which provides 63 percent of  Chile ’s beef,
had restricted supply in previous months.  Chile’s one-year interest rate swap, which reflects
traders’ views of average borrowing costs, was unchanged at 9:38
a.m. in Santiago from 4.73 percent yesterday. The swaps market
may not react to the slower-than-forecast price increases,
according to Alex Pigatto, a trader at Nomura Securities Inc. in
 New York .  “The figure itself will not be enough to bring relief in
the interest-rate swaps and breakeven curve,” he wrote in a
note to clients.  The one-year swap rate yesterday reached a three-month high
and one-year breakeven inflation was at the highest since July.  Economic Growth  Policy makers last month reduced their benchmark interest
rate for the first time in more than two years. Only four of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast the quarter-point
reduction to 5 percent.  Since then, economic reports show that unemployment fell to
6.6 percent in the last three months of 2011 from 7.1 percent
the month earlier, while the economy expanded 1.3 percent in
December from November, the fastest pace in 17 months. Wages
rose 1.2 percent in December from the previous month.  The Chilean peso strengthened to the strongest intraday
level since September, gaining 0.3 percent to 476.89 per  U.S.
dollar  as of 9:37 a.m. from 478.55 per dollar yesterday. The
median forecast of 57 traders and investors in the survey was
that the peso would reach 480 in seven days and 485 per dollar
in three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ; and
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 