-- China Repo Rate Gains for Third Day as PBOC Sales to Drain Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-08T09:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/china-repo-rate-gains-for-third-day-as-pboc-sales-to-drain-cash.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose for a third day after the central bank gauged demand for
bill sales tomorrow, bolstering speculation policy makers are
reluctant to ease monetary policy.  The People’s Bank of China asked lenders to submit orders
for three-month bills and 91-day repurchase contracts this
morning, according to a trader at primary dealers required to
bid at the auctions. The monetary authority sold 26 billion yuan
($4.1 billion) of 28-day repurchase contracts at 2.8 percent
yesterday, resuming sales for the first time in eight weeks.  “It again shows the PBOC is reluctant to ease
aggressively,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “Whether or not it will issue bills
tomorrow depends on demand, but the act of gauging demand itself
reflects a hawkish, or a less dovish, stance. Possibly policy
makers are still mindful of inflationary pressure.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage
point, to 3.72 percent as of 5 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  A report tomorrow may show the rise in consumer prices
cooled to a 16-month low of 4 percent in January from a year
earlier, compared with 4.1 percent in December, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 33 economists.  “Most players agree that monetary policy will be easier
when compared with 2011,” said  Ju Wang , a Barclays Capital
strategist in Singapore. “A reserve-requirement ratio cut will
come. But more significantly, the higher rates also reflect
improving confidence in the growth outlook.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, increased one
basis point to 3.25 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the 3.93 percent government bond due
August 2021 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
3.50 percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net 
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 