-- China’s UN Veto on Syria May Not Hurt Ties With Gulf Oil Nations
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-02-08T00:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/china-s-un-veto-on-syria-may-not-hurt-relations-with-persian-gulf-nations.html
China ’s decision to join Russia in
blocking  United Nations  action on  Syria  may carry little risk of
economic reprisals from  Persian Gulf states , the major oil
suppliers that pushed to condemn the Assad regime.  “There won’t be an economic cost to China” for using its
veto on Syria, Gal Luft, executive director of the Institute for
the Analysis of Global Security in Washington, which studies the
links between energy and security, said by e-mail. “Some Gulf
states may cringe at China’s callousness on Syria, but at the
same time those regimes are relieved by China’s adherence to its
non-interventionist approach. After all, they’re hardly paragons
of democracy.”  Saudi Arabia , China’s largest oil supplier, last year sent
troops in to crush a revolt in neighboring  Bahrain . China
imported 4.75 million metric tons of crude from Saudi Arabia in
December, or 22 percent of its total imports of 21.92 million
tons that month, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Another Gulf state, Qatar, which armed Libyan rebels against
 Muammar Qaddafi , signed an agreement with China last month to
build a refinery for the world’s top oil consumer.  Oil for March delivery increased $1.50 a barrel, or 1.55
percent, yesterday to settle at $98.41 on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin explained
China’s veto to reporters Feb. 6 in Beijing, saying that “China
is not playing favorites and nor is it deliberately opposing
anyone, but rather is upholding an objective and fair stance and
a responsible position.”  China’s Stake  Unlike  Russia , which has military interests to protect in
Syria, China is far more invested in its economic relationship
with such oil-producing Arab nations that have turned against
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and imposed economic sanctions
on his country.  Those ties tempted Beijing to abstain in a Feb. 4 vote to
support an Arab League call for Assad to hand power to a deputy
within two months, according to UN diplomats who took part in
council negotiations and who spoke on condition of anonymity
because they were not authorized to comment publicly.  “We were surprised by the Chinese veto, particularly as
they did not express any particular concerns about the text over
several days of negotiations,” U.K. Mark Lyall Grant told
reporters on Feb. 4 after the resolution collapsed. “So we
thought that they were able to accept” the final text.  In the build-up to the vote in the packed chamber, Chinese
envoy Li Baodong was caught by cameras encircled by about five
Arab ambassadors trying to convince him to remain neutral. The
last-minute lobbying was in vain when Li took a phone call from
Beijing with final instructions on how to vote, according to UN
diplomats inside the chamber who were informed on the matter.  Voting in Tandem  A spokesman for the Chinese mission to the UN declined to
comment on whether China had contemplated abstaining. Citing his
government’s policy, he requested anonymity.  Russia and China -- permanent members of the  Security
Council  along with the U.S., U.K. and  France  -- typically vote
the same way and support each other’s causes. Both cast a veto
in 2007 for a resolution calling for an end to human rights
abuses in  Burma , which falls under China’s sphere of influence.  China has used Russian support for tempering sanctions
enforcement on  North Korea , according George Lopez, a former UN
sanctions investigator who is a professor at the Kroc Institute
for International Peace Studies at the University of  Notre Dame 
in  Indiana .  “They repay the favor in discussions or future votes about
 Iran ,” which hasn’t been resurrected at the UN since a fourth
round of sanctions in 2010, he said by e-mail. “They share an
interest in clipping the wings of what they now consider a
Western-influenced and overly active Security Council.”  Russia’s Syria Ties  Faced with leaving Russia to veto alone or alienating Gulf
states with which it does business, China rallied behind its top
ally in the Security Council. Russia sells Syria weapons and has
its only military base outside the former  Soviet Union , a naval
maintenance and supply center, in the Syrian port of Tartus on
the Mediterranean Sea.  Since China has never cast a solo veto in the 15-member
council, it will be the Russians, who led on blocking the Syria
resolution, that will face the brunt any economic ramifications
from Gulf states, Lopez said.  Russia remains a “friend of the Arab world” even though
its veto on a council resolution has been misunderstood by some
Arab countries, Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said today.  Churkin, speaking to reporters in  New York , said he had a
saying for “those in the Arab world that may be upset about our
positions” on Syria: “Don’t spit in a well; you may well need
it for a drink of water.”  Mutual Interest  China’s relations with the Gulf region are based on mutual
interest, according to Tim Niblock, a professor of Arab Gulf
Studies at the U.K.’s University of Exeter. Its emphasis on
respect for national sovereignty is well regarded by most of the
Gulf governments, regardless of how they think they might want
to deal with the Syria problem, he said.  “I would very much doubt that China’s economic interests
would be greatly affected,” he said in response to e-mailed
questions. “Nor would it come as a surprise to them, as the
Chinese government has been very straightforward about where it
stands on this over recent weeks and months.”  China maintains diversity of oil suppliers, including
nations such as  Angola (CCCIIQAO)  and  Iran (CCCIIQIR) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Not relying excessively on any one country serves
China’s security and strategic interests, according to Dean
Cheng, a research fellow at the Asian Studies Center of the
 Heritage Foundation , a conservative  Washington  policy institute.  “As for the veto, as long China is willing to pay market
rates for Gulf crude, relations will decline only so far with
the Gulf,” he said by e-mail. China is “very reluctant to see
further toppling of dictators, which essentially increases
instability and unpredictability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  