-- China Stocks Jump Most in 3 Weeks on Inflation, Property Outlook
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-08T07:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/china-s-stocks-jump-most-in-3-weeks-as-slowing-inflation-may-spur-easing.html
China’s stocks  rallied the most in
three weeks on speculation slowing inflation will provide more
leeway for the central bank to ease monetary policy and after
the government pledged to support first-time homebuyers.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362) , the largest producer of the metal,
soared 10 percent after an economist said China may “move
shortly” to help Europe resolve its debt crisis. China Vanke
Co., the biggest developer, rose 2.9 percent after the central
bank said officials will increase support for building of
affordable housing.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  and
 PetroChina Co. (601857)  led a climb for refiners after the government
raised domestic fuel tariffs for the first time in 10 months.
Inflation data for January is scheduled to be released tomorrow.  “It looks like the market is pricing in expectations about
pretty low inflation, which will allow the government to relax
its tight monetary policies such as a cut in the reserve-
requirement ratio,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager 
at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “It’s
still possible the government will relax its curbs on the
 property market  to avoid a hard landing for the economy.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 55.63 points, or 2.4
percent, to 2,347.53 at the close, the most since Jan. 17. The
 CSI 300 Index  gained 2.9 percent to 2,528.24. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, added 0.2 percent yesterday.  Inflation Outlook  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 6.7 percent this year,
after plunging 33 percent in the previous two years, on
speculation the central bank will further cut lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios to spur lending to small companies. The
central bank announced on Nov. 30 a cut in reserve ratios, the
first reduction since 2008. It lifted reserve ratios six times
last year and raised  interest rates  to cool inflation that
accelerated to its fastest pace in three years in July.  Chinese consumer prices probably rose 4 percent in January,
compared with a 4.1 percent gain in December, according to 33
economists’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The inflation data
is due to be released tomorrow. Inflation may drop to as low as
3.2 percent in February from a three-year high of 6.5 percent in
July, Bank of America Corp. said.  China’s efforts to curb inflation are starting to pay off
in the  bond market , where yields are poised to exceed consumer-
price increases for the first time in 16 months.  The  yield  on 10-year  government bonds  has gained seven
basis points this month to 3.48 percent and trailed inflation
since October 2010, resulting in a so-called negative real
yield.  Financial Stocks Rally  A gauge of financial companies in the CSI 300 jumped 2.6
percent.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the
nation’s biggest listed lender, rose 1.9 percent to 4.41 yuan.
 Citic Securities Co. (600030) , China’s biggest listed brokerage, jumped
4.1 percent to 10.95 yuan.  Vanke led gains for property stocks, rising 2.9 percent to
7.59 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., China’s second-largest
developer by market value, added 2.9 percent to 10.42 yuan, even
after the second-biggest developer said yesterday contracted
sales dropped 69 percent in January.  Chinese officials will ensure that “loan demand from
first-home families” is met, the People’s Bank of China said on
its website yesterday. A crackdown on real-estate speculation
threatens to trigger a property slump in the world’s second-
biggest economy. Concerns about the outlook for  China’s economy 
have increased after the  International Monetary Fund  warned this
week the expansion would be cut almost in half should  Europe ’s
debt crisis worsen.  ‘Two Birds’  China may “move shortly” to help Europe resolve its debt
crisis by providing an investment of as much as 100 billion
euros ($132 billion), said Yuan Gangming, an economist at the
 Chinese Academy of Social Sciences .  The money would probably go to the European Financial
Stability Facility, the euro bailout fund, said Yuan, adding
that the forecasts are his own and don’t necessarily represent
government plans. Economists from the academy provide policy
advice without direct involvement in decisions.  Helping Europe is like “hitting two birds with one
stone,” Yuan said in an interview in Beijing Feb. 6. The action
would have many benefits and few drawbacks, Yuan said.  A measure of  material stocks  in the CSI 300 climbed 5
percent, the biggest gainer among the 10 industry groups.
Jiangxi Copper surged the 10 percent daily limit to 27.28 yuan.
Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co.,  China ’s second-biggest
copper producer, also advanced by 10 percent to 21.73 yuan.  Gasoline Price Increases  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  will meet with the
leaders of the three parties supporting his government on
austerity measures needed to secure a second European Union aid
package, said a spokeswoman at the premier’s office who declined
to be named. Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up
about 18 percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according
to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Sinopec, China’s biggest refiner, advanced 1.7 percent to
7.78 yuan. PetroChina, the second largest, climbed 1.7 percent
to 10.26 yuan.  Retail gasoline and diesel prices will rise 300 yuan
($47.7) a metric ton from today, the National Development and
Reform Commission, the nation’s top planning agency, said on its
website yesterday.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  