-- China’s Unipec Books Supertanker to Ship Iran Crude Amid Looming Oil Ban
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-02-08T03:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/china-s-unipec-books-supertanker-to-ship-iran-crude-amid-looming-oil-ban.html
Unipec, the trading unit of  China ’s
largest refiner, booked a supertanker to ship Iranian crude this
month as the Persian Gulf nation continues to supply its biggest
customer before Europe bans its oil exports.  State-owned China International United Petroleum & Chemical
Co. hired the Takamine, a very large crude carrier, to carry
265,000 metric tons from Kharg Island, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and reports from five shipbrokers
including a unit of Clarkson Plc. The provisional booking, for
loading around Feb. 24, is subject to change or cancellation.  Huang Wensheng , a Beijing-based spokesman at  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , the parent of Unipec, declined to
comment on the fixture or oil contracts with Iran, citing
business confidentiality.  Iran , the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, faces a July 1 oil embargo from
the European Union because of its nuclear program. In the first
half of 2011, China was the largest importer of Iranian crude,
followed by Japan, India, South Korea and Italy, according to
data from the U.S. Energy Department.  The Japan-flagged Takamine is sailing in the Pacific from
Tokyo Bay to Fujairah in the United Arab Emirates, according 
to transmissions captured by AISLive on Bloomberg. The double-
hulled vessel, built in 2004, is owned by Nippon Yusen KK.  Unipec last week took delivery of another VLCC, the Yuan
Yang Hu, which loaded from Kharg Island on about Dec. 31, ship-
tracking data shows. The China-flagged vessel is docked in  Bohai
Bay .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  