-- China Outpaces Asia Counterparts With Pay Raises, Hays Plc Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-08T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/china-outpaces-asia-counterparts-with-pay-raises-hays-plc-says.html
Employers in  China , the world’s
fastest-growing major economy, are more willing to give pay
raises than Asian counterparts, a private survey showed.  About 72 percent of employers in mainland China reported
increasing salaries last year by more than 6 percent in white-
collar jobs including banking, insurance and programming,
according to U.K. recruiter  Hays Plc . That compares with 21
percent of companies in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore  and 7 percent in
 Japan , Hays said in the survey of more than 900 employers in
 Asia  conducted in November.  The report underscores how  growth  in the world’s second-
largest economy is outpacing other parts of Asia. China is
forecast by the  International Monetary Fund  to expand more than
twice as fast as the rest of the world this year even as
 Europe ’s debt crisis threatens the global recovery.  “China was the standout in terms of salary increases in
the region,” the report said. “Despite current global economic
conditions, the outlook in Asia remains positive and we expect
to see many businesses across the region going ahead with
aggressive growth targets and securing key talents to drive
expansion plans in 2012.”  In China, 81 percent of employers are planning to increase
salaries by more than 6 percent when they next review pay,
compared with an average of 32 percent across the surveyed
region, according to Hays, which specializes in placing people
in white-collar jobs. The survey also covered workers in
accounting, law, human resources, education and architecture.  The stronger  China’s economy  is, the more upward pressure
on salaries, Nigel Heap, managing director for Hays Asia Pacific,
said during a briefing today.  Increasing Business  The survey found 64 percent of Asia employers responding
expect their business to grow in the next 12 months and 41
percent say their “permanent staff levels” will rise.  In China, jobs in accounting and finance will see a
“steady increase” this year as multinational companies add
local managers, Hays said. Most employers in the industry in
China are willing to increase salaries by 10 percent to 15
percent to “secure the right candidate,” according to the
survey.  In banking, most employers in China are willing to pay 15
percent to 20 percent above market rates to hire the best people,
Hays said.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  