-- China Lone BRIC Among Top Emerging Markets With Thailand No. 2
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/china-lone-bric-among-top-emerging-markets.html
When Antoine van Agtmael was
traveling around  Asia  in the late 1970s, he became convinced
there were  companies  worth investing in throughout the
developing region. In 1981, while working for the World Bank’s
International Finance Corp., he presented an idea for a “third-
world equity fund” to Salomon Brothers Inc.  “They told me we would never sell this fund,” van
Agtmael says, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its March
issue. “They wanted a more-uplifting name. That’s how we came
up with the term emerging.”  Today, van Agtmael remains bullish on what everyone now
calls emerging markets.  “As a group, they’re now as attractive as I have seen
them, on both a historic and comparative basis, at any time in
the last 25 years,” says van Agtmael, who oversees $7.4 billion
in emerging-markets  equities  at Ashmore EMM LLC in Arlington,
Virginia. He’s looking in particular at shares of companies in
 China  and the  Middle East .  That’s in line with the results of Bloomberg Markets’ first
ranking of the most-promising emerging and  frontier  markets for
investors. China topped the list, which is based on more than a
dozen measures of the investing climate, from forecast gross
domestic product growth to the ease of doing business. China was
followed by Thailand,  Peru  and  Chile. (IPSA)   Leading Frontier Markets  Vietnam ranked first among the frontier markets, which
index providers consider too small or illiquid for most
investors. The United Arab Emirates came in second, while
Bulgaria and Romania tied for third place.  As the world’s second-largest economy, China commands the
attention of investors even though the  International Monetary
Fund  projects that its growth will slow during the next five
years.  After decades of topping 10 percent annually, China will
 expand  at an average pace of 9.4 percent from 2012 to 2016, the
IMF forecast in September. That still outpaces any other country
in the ranking. China’s low government debt -- 16 percent of GDP
compared with 45.3 percent for No. 2 Thailand -- and cheap
equity  valuations  helped secure its top spot among emerging
markets.  The other three so-called BRIC countries --  Brazil (IBOV) , Russia
and  India (SENSEX)  -- didn’t fare as well. Russia ranked No. 8, while
India and Brazil failed to make the top 10.  Indian Inflation  India, in 15th place, was hurt partly by surging consumer
prices and stocks that are expensive compared with those in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index. As of year-end, the Indian stock
market’s price-earnings ratio was 14.1 compared with 10.6 for
the index.  In Brazil, which ranked 16th, the economy shrank in the
third quarter for the first time in more than two years as
falling commodities prices eroded export earnings and Europe’s
debt crisis hurt business confidence.  “Each of them are starting this year off with their own
challenges,” says Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s asset management unit in  London , who coined the term BRIC
a decade ago. “But I don’t see any of them being life
threatening.”  Thailand (SET)  scored well because it’s attracting investors with
its agricultural wealth and industrious workforce. Peru, which
has grown an average of 5.7 percent annually during the past
decade, will benefit from a surge in  consumer  spending across
 South America , says  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $45 billion
as executive chairman of San Mateo, California-based Templeton
Emerging Markets Group. He has been buying Peruvian shares.  Vietnam Grows  The leading country among frontier markets has been
expanding faster than most emerging markets. Vietnam’s GDP has
grown 7.2 percent annually on average since 2000. Still, the
country’s benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  tumbled 27 percent in 2011 as
consumer prices surged as much as 23 percent, the fastest pace
in Asia.  Stocks in the emirates of Dubai and Abu Dhabi trade at some
of the cheapest levels worldwide. The  Dubai Financial Market
General Index (DFMGI)  was valued at 6.7 times analysts’ profit estimates
at year-end, while the ADX General Index traded for 7.5 times,
compared with a global average of 10 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Valuations are at historic lows,” says Fadi Al Said,
senior investment manager at ING Investment Management in Dubai.
“And the businesses are actually doing well.”  2012 Outlook  Emerging-markets equity strategists have bullish outlooks
for 2012. Geoffrey Dennis, head of emerging-markets strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in  New York , predicts that the MSCI index will
jump 32 percent by year-end, driven by looser monetary policy in
China.  In mid-January, the MSCI benchmark for $6.7 trillion of
equities in developing nations was 30 percent cheaper than its
historical average after dropping 20 percent last year on
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis would curb global growth.  “It’s just a matter of time before investors come back,”
van Agtmael says. “People will start to smell opportunity
instead of risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net . 