-- Christie Criticizes Democrats for Comments on Court Nominees
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-08T21:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/christie-criticizes-democrats-for-comments-on-court-nominees-1-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
criticized Democrats in the Legislature today for publicly
commenting on confidential questionnaires filled out by his two
nominees to the state  Supreme Court .  The documents were the basis of a story published yesterday
by the Star-Ledger of  Newark  about the nominees,  Bruce Harris ,
61, and Philip Kwon, 44. The leak, which Christie said came from
someone in the Legislature, was “unprecedented and despicable”
and may have violated state and federal statutes, Christie said
at a town-hall meeting in Westfield.  Christie, a first-term Republican, nominated Harris and
Kwon on Jan. 23 to fill openings on the high court. If
confirmed, Harris would be the first openly gay justice and
third black on the court, while Kwon would be the first Asian-
American and the first immigrant.  “This has never happened -- these folks have engaged in
providing personal, confidential information” to the media,
Christie said. “They’ve already participated in what is an
unprecedented violation of the confidentiality of the
confirmation process.”  Two Republican senators, Minority Leader Tom Kean Jr. of
Westfield and Gerald Cardinale of Cresskill, also condemned the
document leak and called for punishment of those responsible.  Kean and Cardinale wrote to Senate President  Stephen
Sweeney , citing a Senate rule that says information “concerning
the character or qualifications of any person nominated by the
governor” and which comes before the Judiciary Committee
“shall not be made public.”  They urged a “quickly and timely” consideration by the
Senate Judiciary Committee of the nominations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 