-- Christie Seeks Ouster of Teachers Union Chief for ‘Life’s Not Fair’ Remark
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-08T21:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/christie-seeks-ouster-of-teachers-union-chief-for-life-s-not-fair-remark.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie ,
who has called leaders of the state’s largest teachers’ union
“political thugs,” said the organization’s executive director
should be fired for his comments about poor schoolchildren.  “Life’s not always fair,” Vincent Giordano, executive
director of the 196,000-member  New Jersey  Education Association,
said during an interview this weekend on the NJTV network, when
the host suggested that poor families can’t afford to put their
kids in better private schools. The comment is “unacceptable,”
Christie told reporters in Westfield today.  “That level of arrogance, that level of pumped-up, rich-
man baloney is unacceptable and he should resign,” said
Christie, 49, a first-term Republican. “The teachers of New
Jersey deserve much better than that.”  Christie has feuded with the association since taking
office in January 2010. That April, he urged parents to reject
school budgets in districts where teachers refused to accept
wage freezes, and accused educators of using children like
“drug mules” to carry union messages. In an ABC News interview
with  Diane Sawyer , he called New Jersey teachers “wonderful
public servants” and their union’s leaders “political thugs.”  ‘Political Attack’  Barbara Keshishian, president of the NJEA, walked out of a
meeting with Christie in April 2010 after she refused to fire a
Bergen County union leader who wrote an e-mail joking about the
governor’s death.  The governor was unjust to Giordano, Steve Wollmer, a
spokesman for the  NJEA  in Trenton, said in a telephone interview
today.  “Could he have chosen better words? I’ll let someone else
decide that,” Wollmer said.  “This is a political attack and
it’s unfair.”  Christie has proposed offering privately funded vouchers to
students from poor families, instituting merit pay for teachers
and making it easier for administrators to fire educators.  Unassailable Record  Vouchers “will take resources from disadvantaged public
schools and only exacerbate the challenges faced by students in
those communities,”  Giordano , executive director since 2007,
said in a  statement  on the NJEA’s website. The union’s record of
support for urban education and poor children “is
unimpeachable,” he said.  “While Mr. Giordano acknowledges that his choice of words
may be open to misinterpretation, his intent was to make the
point that providing vouchers to a select few students is not
the way to address the challenges faced by urban school
districts.”  Christie has said the NJEA collects more than $100 million
a year in dues from its teachers, in part to fund salaries of
its leaders and contributions to politicians. Giordano earned
$326,000 in 2009, plus about $165,000 in deferred retirement pay
and other benefits, according to Wollmer.  The  Communications Workers of America , which is New
Jersey’s largest union for state-government employees and which
has been working without a contract since July 1 amid stalled
talks with Christie’s administration, released a statement
supporting the NJEA leader.  “The governor seems to be suffering from a case of
selective outrage, and -- surprise, surprise -- it is hard-
working public employees that have made him mad again,” Bob
Master, political director for the CWA, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  