-- Cisco Exceeds Profit, Sales Estimates
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/cisco-tops-estimates-after-businesses-boost-spending-on-corporate-networks.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest maker
of networking equipment, beat profit and sales  estimates ,
defying concerns that delays in network upgrades by phone and
cable companies would drag down revenue.  Fiscal second-quarter  net income  rose to $2.18 billion, or
40 cents a share, from $1.52 billion, or 27 cents, a year
earlier, the company said yesterday in a statement. Excluding
certain items, earnings were 47 cents in the period ended Jan.
28. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had estimated 43 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  began a turnaround
plan at Cisco last year, when he cut jobs, eliminated businesses
and refocused on more profitable products. Cisco also has gotten
more competitive on price, putting pressure on rivals. It
reported 12 percent growth in orders from service providers --
customers that were blamed for weak results at  Juniper Networks
Inc. (JNPR)  and other equipment makers.  “The company has been talking a lot about getting more
aggressive with individual competitors,” including  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ) , Juniper and Huawei Technologies Co.,  said  Erik Suppiger , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in San Francisco.
Cisco appears to be managing the impact of lower prices on its
bottom line, he said.  Frank Calderoni, Cisco’s chief financial officer, said
longstanding relationships and newer products helped win deals
with service providers.  “It comes down to a competitive situation and what we have
to offer,” he said in an interview.  Third-Quarter Revenue  Cisco predicted a third-quarter revenue gain of 5 percent
to 7 percent. That equates to about $11.4 billion to $11.6
billion, compared with an  average estimate  of $11.5 billion.
Excluding some costs, earnings will be 45 cents to 47 cents a
share. Analysts had projected 45 cents.  Cisco fell 3 cents to $20.40 in extended trading yesterday
after the report.  The stock , up 13 percent this year, had closed
at $20.43 earlier in the day.  Matt Robison, an analyst at Wunderlich Securities in  San
Francisco , said the guidance wasn’t as aggressive as some
analysts and investors wanted. Robison recommends buying the
stock. The results showed that Cisco has managed its
restructuring efficiently, he said.  “Obviously one quarter doesn’t confirm that the job is
complete, but it sure looks like they’ve gotten the job done,”
he said in an interview. “It certainly seems like they’ve
gotten their mojo back.”  The company raised its quarterly dividend to 8 cents a
share, up from 6 cents earlier.  San Jose , California-based Cisco
 initiated  the payments last year.  Chambers’s Turnaround  Sales rose 11 percent to $11.5 billion in the second
quarter, topping the $11.2 billion estimate. The company has
been trying to reignite growth after years of sluggish
networking spending and market-share losses to rivals. To make
Cisco more nimble, Chambers fired thousands of workers last year
and dissolved a cumbersome internal structure that slowed
decision making.  About a third of Cisco’s revenue comes from communications
providers, making it less reliant on the industry than rivals,
said  Joanna Makris , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in
 New York . She recommends buying the stock.  A slump in spending by phone and cable companies is taking
a bigger toll on Juniper, Cisco’s biggest competitor. Telephone
and Internet-service customers are delaying network upgrades,
especially in the U.S., Juniper CEO  Kevin Johnson  said last
month. Service providers account for more than half of his
company’s revenue.  ‘More Aggressive’  Cisco also is trying to win back market share by cutting
prices. A January survey of more than 100 resellers of Cisco
products by Robert W. Baird & Co. found almost half reported
that Cisco has become “incrementally more aggressive on pricing
in the past few months.”  Investors are watching Cisco’s margins for signs that the
price cuts are eroding profitability. The gross margin was 61.3
percent in the recent quarter, compared with about 65 percent
two years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  