-- Computer Sciences Shares Climb After Lawrie Named Chief: Washington Mover
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-02-08T21:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/computer-sciences-delays-new-forecast-on-1-5-billion-writedown.html
Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) , a technology
contractor for governments and companies, rose the most in three
decades after naming Mike Lawrie its next chief executive
officer as it renegotiates a U.K. government agency contract.  Computer Sciences, based in  Falls Church ,  Virginia ,
advanced 19 percent to $31.39 today in New York, its biggest
one-day gain since July 1980. The stock was the top  performer  in
the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  The company yesterday named Lawrie, CEO of London-based
 Misys Plc (MSY) , as its new head. Today Computer Sciences delayed
revising its fiscal 2012 forecast and wrote down almost $1.5
billion of its investment in the disputed contract with the
U.K.’s  National Health Service . Chief Financial Officer Michael Mancuso said today he plans to leave in May.  “This CEO has a background of somewhat of a change
agent,” Darrin Peller, an analyst at  Barclays Capital , said
today in a telephone interview. “In his prior experiences he’s
been looked at as somebody that can help in terms of
restructuring, or helping a company move in the right
direction.”  Still, today’s rally “is probably a bit presumptuous given
that the SEC is still involved in the company and they’re not
even giving guidance,” said Peller, who has a “neutral”
 rating  on the shares.  SEC Investigation  Computer Sciences is being investigated by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission over accounting
irregularities in its Nordic and Australia regions, as well as
some Americas outsourcing and other contracts. The company
expanded its internal audits last year, and appointed Chris
DePippo as chief ethics and compliance officer.  In May, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said his
government wouldn’t sign any more agreements with Computer
Sciences until reviews are finished about how a contract to
centralize records for every U.K. patient missed deadlines. In
August, a panel of lawmakers also recommended close examination
of discussions about the matter.  “Discussions have evolved into a potential go-forward
framework that is currently in the government’s review
process,” current CEO and Chairman Mike Laphen said today on a
conference call. “It’s in the review process and as soon as we
have something back from them” the company will provide
earnings guidance.  Computer Sciences reduced the contract value by $1.49
billion, or $9.93 a share from continuing operations, for its
third quarter ended Dec. 30. It also wrote down another $60
million, or 39 cents a share, in its health business solutions
unit.  Third-Quarter Loss  The company had said Dec. 27 it would revise its outlook
and could write down its entire $1.5 billion investment in an
electronic patient-records contract in the U.K. Computer
Sciences said at the time it may also incur additional costs as
the agreement is renegotiated.  Computer Sciences reported a net loss of $1.39 billion, or
$8.97 a share for the third quarter, compared with a profit of
$242 million, or $1.55 a share a year earlier, according to the
statement. Profit excluding the writedowns of $1.35 was boosted
by more than 80 cents of tax benefits, the company said today on
the conference call. Analysts had estimated adjusted earnings of
58 cents, the average of 13 surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales fell to $3.76 billion, from $4 billion. Analysts had
estimated $4 billion.  Lawrie and IBM  Lawrie, 58, will join Computer Sciences “no later than”
March 31, Computer Sciences said yesterday in a statement. He
has also joined the board. Rodney F. Chase will become non-
executive chairman. The company said in October that Laphen
would retire as CEO and that he would leave no later than Oct.
31 of this year.  “CSC has had challenges recently, but we have an
outstanding core business consisting of world-class customers
supported by a premiere dedicated staff,” Laphen said in his
closing remarks on today’s call. “I’m confident that the
challenges will evolve into successes under Mike Lawrie’s
leadership.”  Lawrie was executive chairman of Allscripts-Misys
Healthcare Solutions Inc., a provider of electronic health
record technology, from October 2008 to August 2010, Computer
Sciences said in yesterday’s statement. Earlier, he was a
general partner at ValueAct Capital, a San Francisco-based
investment firm; CEO of software group Siebel Systems Inc.; and
worked at  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  for 27 years.  Transatlantic Commute  At IBM, Lawrie worked under former CEO Lou Gerstner, who
led a turnaround at the Armonk, New York-based technology
company.  “He learned a lot from Gerstner and will be applying some
of the same techniques at CSC, because we really do need some
transformation,” Irving W. Bailey, lead director of Computer
Sciences, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Our results
have been not what our investors deserve.”  Lawrie is an American who has spent years commuting between
his job in  London  and a family home in  Connecticut , Bailey said.
His experiences doing deals and overseeing electronic health
records are “a plus,” the lead director said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  