-- Congress’s Job-Approval Rating of 10% Marks Another Low, Gallup Poll Shows
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-02-08T21:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/congress-s-job-approval-rating-of-10-marks-another-low-gallup-poll-shows.html
The public’s contempt for the  U.S.
Congress  continues to grow.  The Gallup Poll’s latest gauge of public sentiment for the
job Congress is doing sank to a record low, with 10 percent of
Americans registering approval. That’s down from 13 percent in
January and a previous low of 11 percent in December.  Of those surveyed, 86 percent disapproved of the job
Congress is doing. That ties with a record disapproval rating
set in December.  The approval rating was lower even though there have been
modest improvements in the public’s mood toward President  Barack Obama  and the state of the economy, said  Frank Newport , editor
in chief of the Gallup Poll.  “This is not a case of a lowering tide lowering all
boats,” Newport said in an interview. Other measures are
improving and “the Congress boat is sinking,” he said.  The poll found similar results among those from different
political parties, with 11 percent of Democrats and 12 percent
of Republicans indicating approval of Congress. Among
independents, 8 percent approved. Republicans control the House
and Democrats control the Senate.  In a survey released yesterday, Gallup found that
Americans’ confidence in the economy improved for the fifth
month in a row in January. Obama’s approval rating edged up to
50 percent in the survey, after dipping to 40 percent late last
year.  Partisan Gridlock  Today’s nationwide poll of 1,029 adults was conducted Feb.
2-5, two weeks after Obama outlined his policy objectives for
the next fiscal year in his State of the Union address, and also
after the House and Senate returned to work in  Washington .  The average approval rating for Congress in 2011 was 17
percent, Gallup said. The research organization’s record-high
approval rating for Congress was 84 percent in October 2001, a
month after the terrorist attacks.  Amid partisan gridlock between the House and Senate,
records of low productivity in Congress also are being set. Last
year, 80 laws were completed, the lowest number since the
Congressional Record began keeping an annual tally in 1947.  That’s well short of the previous record low of 88 laws in
1995, which was also a year when Republican House majority
countered a Democratic president’s agenda with one of its own.  Newport said it doesn’t appear that any single event caused
the lower approval numbers. Last year, approval ratings dropped
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s credit rating on Aug. 5
because on grounds Congress didn’t do enough to curb the
deficit.  This time, “it just seems to be a cumulative effect,”
Newport said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  