-- Corn, Soybeans Futures Drop as Rains Ease Dry Spell in Argentina, Brazil
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-02-08T18:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/corn-soybeans-futures-drop-as-rains-ease-dry-spell-in-argentina-brazil.html
Corn fell for a third day and
soybeans declined as rain improved prospects for crops in
 Argentina  and  Brazil  that have been hurt by unusually dry
weather in January.  The most impressive rains of the growing season, with as
much as 4 inches (10 centimeters) of rain overnight, will aid
crops in Argentina and move into southern Brazil tomorrow, the
Commodity Weather Group LLC said in a report today. Farmers
increased corn sales as spot prices rose to a three-week high on
Feb. 3, unloading supplies before the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  issues its monthly supply and demand report
tomorrow.  “The rains are definitely stabilizing crop yields and
keeping pressure on the market,” Brian Grete, the senior market
analyst for the  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based Professional Farmers of
America newsletter, said in a telephone interview. “We are
probably seeing an increase in sales by farmers ahead of the
USDA report.”  Corn futures for March delivery fell 0.5 percent to $6.39 a
bushel at 12:22 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, heading for
the biggest drop since Jan. 30. Earlier, the price rose 1
percent to a one-week high on speculation that hot, dry weather
reduced production in Argentina and Brazil.  Soybean futures for March delivery dropped less than 0.1
percent to $12.315 a bushel in Chicago, after earlier gaining 1
percent to $12.4475, the highest since Jan. 3.  Prices had risen on speculation that USDA will reduce its
forecasts for world inventories.  World corn and soybean inventories before the harvests in
the Northern Hemisphere probably will fall as the USDA probably
will report a drop in world corn and soybean inventories before
the Northern Hemisphere harvest, and cut its forecasts for
output from  South America . Argentina is the biggest shipper of
corn after the U.S., and Brazil is expected to be the top
exporter of soybeans this year, USDA said Jan. 12.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, USDA data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  