-- Corn Prices Rise on Supply Concerns in Argentina, Brazil; Soybeans Drop
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-02-08T20:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/corn-prices-gain-as-south-america-crop-loss-boosts-demand-soybeans-steady.html
Corn futures rose for the first time
this week on speculation that dry weather in Argentina and
 Brazil  damaged crops. Soybeans fell as rain this week may boost
yields in  South America .  Global inventories of both crops will fall before the
harvests in the Northern Hemisphere, and the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  probably will trim its output forecast for South
America in a report tomorrow, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Argentina is the world’s second-biggest corn exporter, and
Brazil is forecast to be the top soybean shipper this year,
according to the USDA.  “People are making bets that smaller crops in South
America will increase U.S. exports,”  Don Roose , the president
of U.S. Commodities Inc. in West Des Moines,  Iowa , said in a
telephone interview.  “The markets will quickly turn their
attention to the upcoming planting season, where we will need to
grow bigger U.S. crops.”  Corn futures for March delivery rose 0.25 cent to close at
$6.425 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
commodity has rallied 8.3 percent from this year’s lowest
closing price on Jan. 18 as hot, dry weather threatened
production in  Argentina  and Brazil. The U.S. is the top
exporter.  Soybean futures for March delivery fell 0.5 cent to $12.315
a bushel. Earlier, the price reached $12.4475, the highest for a
most-active contract since Jan. 3.  The heaviest rains of the growing season, with as much as 4
inches (10 centimeters) overnight, will aid crops in Argentina
and move into southern Brazil tomorrow, the Commodity Weather
Group LLC said in a report. Soybeans are planted after corn and
benefit more from late-season precipitation.  “The rains are definitely stabilizing crop yields and
keeping pressure on the market,” Brian Grete, the senior market
analyst at the Cedar Falls, Iowa-based Professional Farmers of
America newsletter, said in a telephone interview.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, USDA data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  