-- Dali, Klimt Paintings Fail to Sell at $124.7 Million Auction
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-02-08T22:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/dali-klimt-paintings-go-unsold-as-buyers-balk-at-124-7-million-auction.html
High-value paintings by  Gustav Klimt 
and  Salvador Dali  failed to sell at a $124.7 million auction in
 London  tonight as wealthy buyers of Impressionist and modern art
balked at over-ambitious estimates.  Klimt’s recently rediscovered 1901 canvas “Lakeshore with
Birches,” valued at as much as 8 million pounds ($12.65
million), and Dali’s 1946 painting “Oasis,” with a top estimate
of 6 million pounds, were among the casualties at a Sotheby’s
auction that raised 78.8 million pounds with fees.  While decorative, museum-quality Impressionist and modern
masterworks are fetching ever-higher prices, more routine pieces
can struggle to sell at a time when an increasing number of
investment-minded buyers are migrating to the more fashionable
market for contemporary art.  “The quality wasn’t as good as at Christie’s,” the London-
based art adviser  Hector Paterson  said in an interview. “And
what Sotheby’s had was heftily estimated. The Klimt was a dull
picture that was overpriced.”  Yesterday,  Christie’s International (CHRS)  took 135 million pounds
from its equivalent material.  Klimt’s somber painting of the shores of the Attersee at 
dusk hadn’t appeared at auction before. It had been acquired by 
German banker Richard Koenigs in 1902, the year in which it was 
shown at the XIII Secession Exhibition in Vienna, and had 
remained in the same family ever since.  Though it failed to attract a bid at the public auction, 
the Klimt was quickly sold privately for 5.6 million pounds,  
Sotheby’s (BID)  said.  Dali Values  The Dali work was a Surrealist vision of Apollo and Venus 
silhouetted against a desert landscape. Dali values have 
climbed, following the record 13.5 million pounds paid for the 
Spanish artist’s 1929 portrait of Paul Eluard at Sotheby’s 
“Looking Closely: A Private Collection” sale in London in 
February 2011.  “The estimate was too high,” Morgan Long, director of art 
investment at the London-based Fine Art Fund, said in an 
interview. “There’s been a backlash against the prices paid for 
Dali in 2011. Artists have their seasons, and he’s no longer 
quite the man of the moment.”  The top price of the evening was instead the 8.2 million 
pounds paid by an unidentified bidder in the room for the 1885 
Claude Monet snow scene “L’Entree de Giverny en hiver,”  
estimated at 4.5 million pounds to 6.5 million pounds. Kept in 
the same private European collection since 1924 and never sold 
at auction before, the signed canvas carried a third-party 
guarantee.  Sale Total  Sotheby’s found buyers for 77 percent of its 53 lots. The 
final total, including fees, was in line with the low estimate, 
based on hammer prices. The equivalent Impressionist and modern 
auction last year raised 68.8 million pounds.  The 1919 oil-and-collage-on-board work “The Electric Tram”  
by the German Expressionist artist  Otto Dix  was one of few lots
to sell far above its estimate. Valued at 700,000 pounds to 1 
million pounds, this Dada-influenced evocation of urban life 
was also making its debut at auction, this time from a German 
collection.   It was bought by a telephone buyer for 3 million pounds, 
against underbidding in the room from the London-based dealer 
Richard Nagy, representing a client.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 