-- Delaware-Only Corporate Bylaw Restricting Investor Suits Comes Under Siege
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-02-09T00:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/danaher-investors-challenge-company-s-delaware-only-shareholder-suit-rules.html
Danaher Corp. (DHR) , a maker of microscopes
and water-treatment systems, was sued for adopting corporate
bylaws that force shareholders to bring claims against the
company solely in a  Delaware  court.  Shareholders of  AutoNation Inc. (ANR) , the largest U.S.
automobile retailer, travel website Priceline.com and truckmaker
 Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  are also challenging the policy.
They said in lawsuits made public yesterday that the companies
violated investor rights by requiring litigation to be heard in
Chancery Court in Delaware, where judges hear cases without
juries.  Such a provision “permits directors to control the forum
for litigation against them and thereby reduces their risk of
liability,” while avoiding jury trials, according to the
plaintiffs, pension funds with investments in the companies.  Founded in 1792, the Wilmington-based court has become a
top forum for litigating business disputes because more than 60
percent of Fortune 500 companies are incorporated in the state,
according to  Jill Fisch , a professor of business law at the
 University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia.  Washington-based Danaher,  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based
AutoNation, Norwalk Connecticut-based Priceline and Lisle,
Illinois-based Navistar are all incorporated in Delaware.  Delaware Laws  Companies incorporate in Delaware to take advantage of laws
that give their directors wide latitude and to gain access to
the Chancery Court, which provides fast-track trials in which
punitive damages are banned. Chancery cases can be heard quickly
by judges experienced in corporate law.  “Navistar does not discuss pending litigation,”
spokeswoman Karen Denning said in an e-mail.  Brian Ek, a Priceline spokesman, said the company would
have no comment. Matt McGrew, a spokesman for Danaher; and Marc Cannon, a spokesman for AutoNation, didn’t immediately respond
to e-mails seeking comment on the lawsuits.  The pension plans’ suits were filed in Chancery Court
jointly by law firms Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check LLP of
Radnor,  Pennsylvania , and Prickett, Jones & Elliott PA, of
Wilmington.  The venue restriction is just one way companies can try to
discourage shareholder litigation and control costs.  Carlyle Group LP, a Washington-based private equity firm
that is planning an initial public offering, last month pushed
to require arbitration of shareholder disputes. The buyout firm
dropped the plan Feb. 3 after officials at the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission said they wouldn’t approve the share
sale if the provision was adopted.  Arbitration Process  In 2010, the Chancery Court adopted a process that allows
one of its five judges to preside over arbitrations, in which
limits on the exchange of evidence between contending parties
are more restrictive than in conventional lawsuits and
proceedings can be kept confidential.  The validity of the Delaware-only bylaws is uncertain, said
Larry Hamermesh, a professor at Widener University’s law school
in Wilmington who specializes in corporate law.  “Bylaws like these can be adopted by the board without
shareholder approval,” he said. “That casts some doubt on
their legitimacy.”  U.S. District Judge Richard Seeborg in  San Francisco  ruled
in January 2011 that corporate directors can’t dictate venue for
shareholder derivative cases by adopting a bylaw limiting the
action to Delaware Chancery Court. The parties may contract for
a venue, he said. Seeborg, a federal judge, didn’t decide
whether such bylaws are valid under Delaware law.  Shareholder Activists  The bylaws raise questions about whether a company can
require claims that could otherwise be filed in federal courts
to instead be brought only in state court in Delaware, Hamermesh
said.  “Shareholder activists are beginning to express their
opposition to exclusive forum clauses,” Claudia Allen, a
partner in Chicago-based Neal, Gerber & Eisenberg LLP, said in a
forum-selection study she completed Jan. 25.  At least nine companies with forum-selection bylaws have
been sued, Allen said in a separate e-mail.  “There is an ‘emerging debate’ relating to the
advisability and enforceability of Delaware forum-selection
provisions, which are intended to address concerns regarding
‘lawyers rushing to sue anywhere but Delaware,’ she said. Last
year, 51 companies adopted corporate bylaw forum-selection
provisions, compared with 18 in 2010, she said.  The cases are Boilermakers Local 154 v.  Priceline.com (PCLN) ,
CA7216; Boilermakers Local 154 and Key West Police & Fire
Pension Fund v. Danaher, CA7218; Larry Sutton v. AutoNation,
CA7221; and Singh v. Navistar, CA7222, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  