-- David Koch Pledges $60 Million to Upgrade Met Museum’s Plaza
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-02-08T04:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/david-koch-pledges-60-million-to-upgrade-met-museum-s-plaza-in-new-york.html
New York’s  Metropolitan Museum of Art 
announced plans for a redesign of the plaza outside of its Fifth
Avenue facade, financed with a $60 million gift from  David Koch ,
a museum trustee.  The project will upgrade the fountains and double the
number of the trees along the four-block stretch from 80th to
84th Streets, according to a release from the museum. In 2008,
Koch, a billionaire who built his fortune in the chemical and
oil industries, pledged $100 million to renovate the New York
State Theater at  Lincoln Center  which was then named after him.  “The plaza won’t be named for anybody,” Harold Holzer,
the museum’s senior vice president of external affairs, said
yesterday by telephone. “We will probably do a donor
recognition plaque on the fountains.”  The museum began meetings and presentations with local
residents last night to discuss the plan. On Feb. 13 it will
make its first public presentation for the local district
planning board, Holzer said.  The museum hired  OLIN , a landscape architecture, urban
design and planning firm, to be the lead design consultant for
the project. The plan will replace the deteriorating existing
fountains, built in the 1970s, with ones made of granite that
would be positioned closer to the Met’s front steps. The
pavement will be replaced and more seating added.  More Trees  The renovated plaza will feature about 100 new trees,
including London Plane trees and Little Leaf Linden trees. Some
would be pruned in a similar way to the trees at the Palais
Royal in Paris.  The project would have to be approved by city agencies
including the Landmarks Preservation Commission, Department of
Parks & Recreation, Department of Environmental Protection,
Department of Cultural Affairs and Department of Transportation.  The construction, expected to begin this autumn, would take
23 months, the release said.  “The Metropolitan Museum’s Fifth Avenue plaza is the
public face of the Met, the first on-site experience for our
millions of visitors from around the world,” said Thomas P. Campbell, director and chief executive officer of the Met, in a
statement. “As such, it should mark the beginning of the
extraordinary environment that awaits them inside.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 