-- TDC Owners Said to Weigh Sale of Part of Stake in Mobile-Phone Operator
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/tdc-owners-said-to-weigh-sale-of-part-of-mobile-operator-stake.html
The private-equity owners of  TDC A/S (TDC) 
are weighing a sale of part of their stake in the Danish phone
company, people familiar with the situation said, allowing them
to return funds as European equity markets rebound.  Apax Partners LLP,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  KKR & Co. , Permira
Advisers LLP and Providence Equity Partners Inc. may opt to cut
their stake through a block sale of TDC shares in the next
couple of months, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. A sale would depend on
the performance of TDC  stock , which is already publicly traded,
the people said.  While a partial sale is most probable, the private equity
firms have also discussed with investment banks a sale of their
entire stake to either private equity or strategic buyers, some
of the people said.  The rally in European stock markets may make it easier, and
more attractive, for buyout firms to cash out their stakes. The
benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index has risen more than 22 percent
since late September, an indication that stocks have entered a
 bull market . Permira is currently raising capital for its 6.5
billion euro ($8.6 billion) Permira V fund, and Apax for its 9
billion euro Apax Europe VIII, according to the London-based
research firm Preqin.  The five firms currently own 59 percent of TDC, Denmark’s
largest telephone operator, after taking an 88 percent stake in
2006 in what was then Europe’s largest leveraged buyout. TDC
shares were trading at 44.90 Danish kroner yesterday, down 2
percent from a year ago, giving the company a market
capitalization of 37 billion kroner ($6.6 billion) and valuing
the private equity firms’ stake at $3.9 billion.  Lasse Bastkjaer Jensen, a spokesman for TDC, declined to
comment, citing a company policy on market rumors.  Market Opening  The buyout firms will probably go ahead with a secondary
equity offering if TDC’s shares rise closer to 51 kroner per
share, the price of their previous selldown in December 2010,
said the people. The stock is trading at about 14 percent below
that level now.  Others have already taken advantage of an opening in the
markets. Last month,  Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE) ,  Spain ’s
biggest toll-road operator, sold part of its stake in Paris-
based satellite company  Eutelsat Communications SA (ETL)  for about
$1.2 billion.  Three Bulgari SpA directors sold a 558 million-euro stake
this week in the world’s largest maker of  luxury goods ,  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA. (MC)   Buyout funds, which are currently seeking $175 billion from
investors worldwide, managed to raise $21.4 billion last
quarter, a rebound of 34 percent from the previous quarter and
up 46 percent from the fourth quarter of 2010, according to data
from Preqin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  