-- Deutsche Bank Said to Cap Immediate Bonuses at 200,000 Euros
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-02-08T17:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/deutsche-bank-said-to-set-266-000-limit-on-bonuses-paying-out-this-year.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s largest
lender, told employees it will impose a 200,000 euro ($266,000)
cap on bonuses paying out this year, said three people with
knowledge of the discussions.  Staff will receive as much as 100,000 euros in cash and
100,000 euros in stock they won’t be able to sell before August,
the people said, declining to be identified because the talks
are private. Any further bonus will be deferred over three
years, they said. The limit will apply to employees across the
company, including the investment bank, one of the people said.  Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
have all reduced senior investment bankers’ pay for last year as
revenue slows.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is capping immediate cash bonuses
at $125,000, people with knowledge of the move said last month.  “The generic ‘war for talent’ is over,” said  John Purcell , founder of London-based recruiter Purcell & Co. “Of
course, top performers will always be in demand, but the rising
tide that lifted all boats has well and truly gone out. The
recent, current and forthcoming redundancies have fundamentally
altered the economics of remuneration in banking.”  Christoph Blumenthal, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, declined to comment on the bonus cap. The lender
said last week profit fell 76 percent in the fourth quarter as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis curbed income from trading.
Employees were informed this week about their individual pay,
the people said.  ‘Few Levers’  “This fits the current investment banking environment,”
said  Christian Hamann , an analyst at  Hamburger Sparkasse , who
rates the stock a “hold.” “This is one of the few levers you
can deploy apart from cutting jobs” to cut costs, he said.  Deutsche Bank  shares  gained 1.5 percent in  Frankfurt  today,
bringing this year’s gain to 17 percent. The lender has a market
value of 32 billion euros.  The bank said last week it cut pay for employees at the
corporate and investment bank by 15 percent in 2011 after income
at the division plunged. Deutsche Bank set aside 5.05 billion
euros for compensation and benefits, compared with 5.91 billion
euros in 2010, according to company filings. That was enough to
pay an average of 332,785 euros to the 15,184 employees at the
division, which includes transaction banking.  Financial firms worldwide are facing public and political
pressure to limit bankers’ compensation after taxpayers were
forced to bail out the industry during the financial crisis.
Deutsche Bank, which didn’t require direct state aid, announced
500 job cuts at the investment bank in October to reduce costs
as tougher regulation weighs on profitability. Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said Feb. 2 that 61 percent of total
compensation at the bank will be deferred.  Bank of America Corp.  is also freezing base salary levels
and limiting cash bonuses to $150,000 for some investment
bankers, people with knowledge of the moves said in January. The
cap on cash payments applies to those getting as much as $1
million in total year-end bonuses, with the rest coming in
shares of the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  