-- Diamond to Restate Earnings, Oust Managers, Putting Pringles Deal in Peril
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-02-09T15:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/diamond-foods-to-restate-earnings-replace-executives-amid-payments-audit.html
Diamond Foods Inc.’s (DMND)  decision to
restate earnings after an accounting probe puts in peril a deal
to acquire the Pringles brand -- and ends the empire-building
dreams of its ousted chief executive officer, Michael J. Mendes.  Diamond, which sells Emerald snack nuts and Pop Secret
popcorn, said yesterday it was replacing Mendes and the chief
financial officer as well as restating earnings for the past two
years after the board found payments to walnut growers had been
booked in the wrong periods.  Procter & Gamble Co. , which last year agreed to sell
Pringles to Diamond for about $1.5 billion, had previously said
the sale depended on a favorable resolution of the probe.  P&G finds the results of the probe “very disappointing,”
Paul Fox, a spokesman, said yesterday in an interview. Pringles
has attracted “considerable interest” from other potential
buyers and the company will keep all its options open, he said.  As part of the Pringles deal, Diamond gave assurances to
P&G that its financial statements were accurate. Under the terms
of the agreement, P&G may be able to terminate the deal if it
demonstrates that problems with the financial statements
represent a “material adverse effect” in Diamond’s business.  The documents also state that a change in employment status
of the acquirer’s senior management that may negatively affect
its future prospects constitutes a material adverse change.  Pringles Deal  “You have to assume the Pringles deal doesn’t happen,”
said Timothy Ramey, senior vice president of equity research at
D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon . “I doubt they can
get their house in order.”  Diamond fell 35 percent at 10:30 a.m. to $23.93. The
results of the investigation were announced after the close of
trading yesterday.  The three-month investigation, later taken up by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, concluded that about $20
million in “continuity” payments made to walnut growers in
August 2010 and about $60 million in “momentum” payments in
September 2011 weren’t accounted for in the correct periods,
Diamond said. The board also identified material weaknesses in
the company’s financial reporting controls.  Director Rick Wolford will serve as CEO, and Alix Partners
LP’s Michael Murphy will be CFO while the company searches for
permanent replacements, San Francisco-based Diamond said
yesterday in a statement. The board put Mendes and former CFO
Steven M. Neil on administrative leave.  Career Ender  Mendes’s ouster ends a career at Diamond that began 21
years ago, when the son of immigrants joined the company’s sales
and marketing office.  Back then, Diamond was a cooperative, a collection of
growers who band together to process and market their products.
Mendes was named its head in 1997. Ambitious and hard-working,
he threw himself into the job, sometimes walking into factories
at 3 a.m. to schmooze with workers loading walnuts, according to
a former Diamond Foods executive who has since retired.  At the time, walnuts were mainly used by housewives for
baking brownies and other sweets. Mendes saw an opportunity to
boost sales by marketing walnuts to younger consumers as a
snack, while also expanding into other nuts like almonds and
cashews. He created a new nut brand, Emerald, backed by TV ads -
-including Super Bowl spots -- and sold in sleek green canisters
that fit into car cup holders.  Glazed Walnuts  A year or so into the CEO job, Mendes pledged to boost
sales to $500 million from about $200 million in five years.
With new products such as tasty glazed walnuts and snack mixes,
which encouraged retailers including Safeway Inc. and
restaurants such as McDonald’s Corp. to buy more of Diamond’s
nuts, Mendes blew past the target.  Mendes took Diamond public in 2005, giving the company the
capital to acquire Pop Secret for $190 million in 2008 and
Kettle for $615 million in 2010. With the ink on the Kettle deal
not yet dry, Mendes pursued Pringles, telling analysts who said
he’d bitten off more than he could chew that “you don’t get to
pick your time with good transactions.”  In the near term, Diamond will probably incur some heavy
costs, Thilo Wrede, a Jefferies & Co. analyst, said in a
research report. Diamond may have to pay P&G a $60 million
breakup fee if the deal falls through, wrote Wrede, who is based
in  New York .  Debt Covenants  Diamond’s change in earnings may also be a violation of its
debt covenants, Wrede wrote. The company’s effective interest
rate of 4.5 percent could rise. For every percentage point of
interest, costs would rise by 16.5 cents a share, or $3.6
million, according to Wrede’s report.  Even without Pringles, Diamond is a solid company that has
products in growing businesses such as chips, popcorn and snack
nuts, Ramey said. The earnings restatement will push costs back
to prior periods and should clear the air for investors once the
restatements have been made, Ramey said in an interview.  Other suitors may even be interested in buying pieces of
Diamond, Ramey said. Assuming the company remains intact,
investors may be concerned that new management won’t expand the
business as quickly, he said.  “Mendes was an inspirational CEO -- he drove growth,”
Ramey said. “It’s sad that two respected executives did this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  