-- East Europe Snowfall Eases, Helping Cleanup Before New Wave
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-02-08T13:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/eastern-europe-snowfall-eases-helping-cleanup-before-new-wave-of-freeze.html
Snowfall and chilling temperatures
eased in eastern  Europe , giving authorities a chance to dig out
from a cold front that killed hundreds of people in the region
and prepare for more freezing in the coming days.  Temperatures in Warsaw today climbed to minus 8 degrees
Celsius (18 degrees Fahrenheit), the highest in a week, while
sunlight made sub-zero temperatures more bearable in Hungary and
Slovakia. Still, a new wave of extreme weather may force further
traffic and business disruptions in countries such as  Croatia  on
the Adriatic coastline, meteorologists said.  “There’s a bit of respite from the snow, with temperatures
still falling to -22 C in eastern Croatia,” said Kristijan
Bozarov from Croatia’s meteorological association Crometeo.
“Today we should try to clean up as much as possible and
prepare for a new snowstorm tomorrow.”  Eastern Europe has been hit by cold Siberian air from the
north, while the southern Balkans countries have suffered from
above-normal snowfall. Demand for electricity and natural gas
surged across the region, while  Russia ’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the main
supplier of the commodity, said supplies can’t keep up with
elevated demand.  Supply of natural gas and electricity was cut off in parts
of Azeri capital, where temperatures dropped to minus 11, the
lowest since 1969.  Traffic on the Danube river remained disrupted by ice
floes, forcing authorities in Romania and  Serbia  to call ice
breakers to create a passage to the Black Sea. Some roads in
Romania and Croatia were also closed.  Blocked Bulgaria  Bulgaria’s schools will remain closed this week as most of
the roads and railways are blocked by snowdrifts, while freezing
temperatures and heavy snowfall are hampering recovery work from
floods in southern  Bulgaria  along the border with with Turkey
and  Greece . Some 200 towns and villages in north East and South
of the country are without electricity.  The government declared a day of mourning today for the
eight people who died after a dam burst near the southern city
of Harmanly on Feb. 6 destroying 200 houses and hundreds of
livestock. Four people died of the cold in the country in the
past two days, police said.  The Romanian Health Ministry reported three cold-related
deaths overnight, bringing the toll to 41 this year. The number
of casualties in Serbia rose to 12, after one person died in
Belgrade being hit by an icicle fallen for a roof an a 12-floor
building.  Ukraine Problems  In Ukraine, heavy snowfall and strong wind cut electricity
supplies to 134 villages and towns in the Southern part of the
country, while snow caused traffic jams as long as 3.5
kilometers (2.2 miles) in Crimea, on the  Black Sea  coast.  The Ukrainian government increased the number of shelters
to 3,361 across the country, taking in more than 100,000 people
yesterday as temperatures plunged to minus 25 degrees Celsius at
night, according to the Ministry for Emergency Situations.  “I’m chilled to the bone, and am not in a mood to do
anything,” said Mariya Andriichuk, 28, a photographer and
designer in Kiev. The capital city’s transport system is
suffering from delays, making travel to work extend past one
hour in some quarters.  The national weather center forecasts temperatures will
drop to minus 31 degrees in western and central Ukraine from
Feb. 11 and to minus 19 in the Crimea peninsula.  Temperatures in some parts of the  Czech Republic  may fall
below the 1927 record low of minus 42.2 degrees at night this
weekend, according to the Czech Hydro Meteorological Institute.  The freeze will then gradually loosen its grip and
temperatures may climb to around zero in the middle of next
week, said Petr Dvorak, a spokesman for the institute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  