-- Technip Wins $2.1 Billion Five-Year Flexible-Pipe Contract From Petrobras
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-02-08T09:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/technip-gets-2-1-billion-flexible-pipe-contract-from-petrobas.html
Technip SA (TEC) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
oilfield-services provider, won a five-year order from  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  to supply $2.1 billion of flexible pipes for
offshore oil projects.  The contract is for 1,400 kilometers (870 miles) of
equipment to be made at two sites in Brazil using a “high
level” of locally produced content, the Paris-based company
said today in a statement.  The “good news for Technip” will raise visibility in the
subsea division, Bertand Hodee, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets, wrote in a note today. The  shares  rose as much as 2.9
percent and traded 1.7 percent higher at 74.87 euros at 10:05
a.m. Paris time.  Technip has said the market for flexible pipelines for
offshore oil exploration and production is growing at a faster-
than-expected pace. The company unveiled a plan a year ago to
increase pipe-manufacturing in  Brazil , where development of
offshore hydrocarbon reserves is set to expand. The Angra dos
Reis plant is located near Brazil’s pre-salt basins.  Petrobras is investing more than $200 billion in five years
to tap Brazilian  oil deposits  below a layer of salt in the
Atlantic Ocean. The pre-salt fields are two miles below the
ocean and two to four miles further under the seabed.  Technip could also announce an order worth at least $400
million shortly for a Spar floating production platform for the
Mad Dog South development in the Gulf of Mexico, Hodee said.  Chief Executive Officer Thierry Pilenko said in October
that the company was in talks with BP Plc about working in the
Mad Dog field and others in the  Gulf of Mexico .  BP more than doubled the estimated oil resources at the Mad
Dog field after drilling an appraisal well in the northern
section of the deposit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  