-- Telenor Forecasts 5% Sales Growth This Year After Loss From Indian Venture
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-02-08T08:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/telenor-forecasts-5-sales-growth-after-india-unit-leads-to-quarterly-loss.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s
largest telephone company, forecast 5 percent revenue growth
this year, excluding acquisitions and currency shifts, after
writedowns at its Indian venture led to a fourth-quarter loss.  The net loss was 1.94 billion kroner ($336 million)
compared with profit of 2.3 billion kroner a year earlier,
Fornebu, Norway-based Telenor said today in a statement. That
matched the average loss estimate of 15 analysts compiled by SME
Direkt. Sales gained 2.3 percent to 25.4 billion kroner,
compared with 25.2 billion kroner expected by analysts.  Operating profit in  Denmark  declined as customers shopped
around for services. Telenor announced writedowns on Feb. 3 of
4.2 billion kroner on licenses and goodwill at its Indian
venture after the country’s  Supreme Court  canceled mobile-phone
licenses following an investigation. Telenor said today that
demand elsewhere in  Asia  will help restore earnings.  “Growth momentum is driven by strong customer uptake in
our Asian operations and increasing demand for data services,”
Chief Executive Officer Jon Fredrik Baksaas said in the
statement. “The results from the Norwegian operation are
impacted by high market activities this quarter to speed up
migration to new bundled-price plans.”  Telenor declined 0.5 krone or 0.5 percent to 93.3 kroner as
of 9:03 a.m. in the Norwegian capital, its third day of losses.  The company is working to protect its Indian investment and
“will consider every option” before spending more in the
country, Baksaas said.  Telenor proposed a dividend of 5 kroner per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  