-- Televisa Must Modify Iusacell Deal for Approval, Mexico Says
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-02-08T01:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/televisa-must-modify-iusacell-deal-for-approval-mexico-says-3-.html
Grupo Televisa SAB , the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, must modify its proposal
to enter the mobile-phone business to win approval for the $1.6
billion deal, Mexico’s antitrust agency said.  The plan to acquire a 50 percent stake in wireless carrier
 Grupo Iusacell SA  would have created “grave risks” for
competition, the agency said today in a statement explaining its
Jan. 24 decision to reject the deal. Iusacell is owned by
billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , who controls  TV Azteca SAB ,
Televisa’s main rival in the broadcast television market.  “Benefits in one market can’t be used to justify harming
competition in other markets,” the agency said.  Televisa and Iusacell are planning legal filings to ask the
agency to reconsider its decision. The companies can propose
remedies to address the agency’s concerns in the filings.
Neither company proposed such remedies in their original request
for approval of the transaction, the agency said.  “Televisa would like to reiterate that the intent of its
proposal is to promote competition in the phone industry so
users have better prices and services,” Televisa said in an e-
mailed statement. “Televisa is in favor of competition in all
markets, and for that reason the viable options are being
analyzed.”  Dan McCosh, a spokesman for Salinas, declined to comment.  Televisa  fell  0.5 percent to 50.6 pesos at the close in
Mexico City, its lowest level since Sept. 23. The shares have
dropped 6.5 percent since the antitrust ruling was reported by
El Universal newspaper on Jan. 25, compared with a 2.3 percent
gain for the benchmark IPC index.  Deal Rejected  While the agency made its  decision  last month, it had to
legally notify the parties before it could officially announce
the ruling. Televisa and Iusacell disclosed last week they had
been informed of the deal’s rejection.  Allowing Televisa to buy half of Iusacell would have
created an incentive for the controlling shareholders to
collaborate in broadcast television, the agency said. The
companies attract almost all of  Mexico ’s broadcast viewers.
Advertisers spend 57 percent of their budgets in Mexico on
broadcast television, so prices in that market affect the prices
of products for consumers, the agency concluded.  Broadcast television channels represent more than 40
percent of the pay-TV audience, so the “probable coordination”
between Televisa and TV Azteca would allow the companies to use
their programming, such as Mexican league soccer games, as an
advantage over competitors in the pay-TV business, the agency
said. Televisa controls three of Mexico’s largest cable
operators and its biggest satellite-TV company. Iusacell started
a pay-TV service, Totalplay, last year.  Eduardo Perez Motta, the agency’s chief, voted against the
transaction, along with fellow commissioners Rodrigo Morales
Elcoro and Miguel Flores Bernes. Commissioners Luis Alberto
Ibarra Pardo and Cristina Massa Sanchez voted in favor of the
transaction, arguing that it would benefit mobile-phone
competition and that the agency could have imposed conditions to
protect other markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  