-- Emerging Stocks Climb to 6-Month High on Greek Bailout Prospects
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-02-08T22:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/emerging-market-stocks-advance-to-five-month-high-on-greece-debt-progress.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a six-
month high as Greek leaders worked on an austerity deal needed
to qualify the debt-ridden nation for a second rescue package.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 1.2 percent to
1,060.70 at the close in New York, the highest since Aug. 4. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 2.4 percent while  Taiwan ’s
 Taiex Index (TWSE)  climbed 2.1 percent.  Russia’s (INDEXCF)  Micex Index gained for
the first day this week as UBS AG upgraded the country’s
equities to “overweight.”  Brazil ’s Bovespa index retreated
from a nine-month high.  Greece  will pledge permanent spending cuts, including lower
pension payments and a 20 percent reduction in the minimum wage,
according to a draft of its new financing deal with the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund . Greek Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos  is negotiating with political parties supporting
his government on measures needed to qualify for the 130 million
euro ($172 billion) bailout.  “ It does seem like we’re heading toward some type of
resolution in Greece,” Greg Lesko, who manages $700 million at
Deltec Asset Management in  New York , said by phone. “That risk
of a meltdown has been taken away so people are taking more
risk.”  Papademos yesterday held an unscheduled meeting with the
so-called troika, comprising the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the International Monetary Fund, to
put the final touches on the aid package. At stake is whether
Greece wins the bailout, secures a debt write-off with private
creditors and remains in the euro region. The impact of a Greek
exit from the euro would be “incalculable,” Merkel said
yesterday.  Chinese Inflation  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.  and  PetroChina Co. (601857)  both
jumped 1.7 percent in  Shanghai  after the government raised
domestic fuel tariffs for the first time in 10 months.  Chinese consumer prices probably rose 4 percent in January,
down from a 4.1 percent gain in December, according to 33
economists’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation may slow
to as low as 3.2 percent in February from a three-year high of
6.5 percent in July, Bank of America Corp. said.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  fell 0.1 percent after rising yesterday to the
highest since April 29.  Redecard SA (RDCD3) , Brazil’s second-biggest
card-payment processor, rose 2.8 percent, above the price Itau
Unibanco Holding SA offered minority shareholders yesterday on
speculation Itau will raise its bid.  Russia ‘Overweight’  The Micex Index added 0.4 percent, led by United Co. Rusal
as Deputy Chief Executive Officer Oleg Mukhamedshin said demand
for aluminum will continue to increase as manufacturers switch
to the light metal.  UBS raised its recommendation on Russia stocks to
“overweight” as investors return to assets perceived as posing
higher risk and the shares trade at a discount to global
markets, analyst Nicholas Smithie wrote in an e-mailed report.
The report didn’t detail the previous recommendation.  The  ISE National 100 Index  climbed 1 percent in Istanbul.
 Gozde Girisim Sermayesi Yatirim Ortakligi AS (GOZDE) , a private equity
firm owned by Yildiz Holding AS, jumped 6.1 percent after saying
it will conclude acquisitions worth as much as $1 billion each
year.  Vietnam ’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  moved 2.1 percent higher and the  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  rose 1.1 percent in  Seoul .  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 382, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  