-- Lenovo, Computer Makers Settle Copyright Lawsuit Over Green Dam Software
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-08T22:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/lenovo-computer-makers-settle-copyright-lawsuit-over-green-dam-software.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and other computer
makers settled a lawsuit brought by a California software maker
who had claimed the Green Dam software installed on personal
computers in China infringes its copyright.  “The parties have reached a settlement resolving the
entire case,” Cybersitter LLC, the software maker, said
yesterday in a filing in U.S. District Court in Santa Ana,
California. Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in the
filing.  Closely held Cybersitter sued China, seven computer makers
and two Chinese software makers in 2010, seeking $2.2 billion in
damages over allegations the Green Dam program illegally copies
more than 3,000 lines of code from Cybersitter’s Internet
content-filtering program. The Chinese government made Green Dam
mandatory on personal computers sold there in 2009.  Researchers in  China  have reported that Green Dam contains
more than 6,500 political keyword filters, including words
related to China’s control of Tibet, the 1989 Tiananmen Square
massacre and the government-banned Falun Gong religious group,
Cybersitter said in its complaint.  Robert Schwartz , a lawyer for Lenovo in  Los Angeles ,
declined to comment on the settlement. Elliot Gipson, a lawyer
for Santa Barbara, California-based Cybersitter, didn’t
immediately return a call to his office.  Gipson said in a telephone interview last month that China
hadn’t responded to the complaint and that U.S. District Judge
Josephine Staton Tucker last year granted a motion for entry of
default against the country.  The case is Cybersitter v. the People’s Republic of
China, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California 
(Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  