-- EOG Channels Enron Roots While Outperforming Chesapeake: Energy
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-02-08T21:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/eog-channels-enron-roots-while-outperforming-chesapeake-energy.html
EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) , the fourth
quarter’s best-performing U.S. shale producer, plans to get a
record 75 percent of its North American revenue from higher-
profit petroleum liquids this year as natural- gas prices  tumble,
branching faster into oil than  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)   The company, formerly Enron Oil & Gas Co., expects to
increase 2012 oil output by almost a third through boosting
production from liquids-rich geological formations such as
 Texas ’s Eagle Ford, where EOG is the biggest crude producer.  “The wind is at their back in 2012,” said Brian Lively, a
managing director at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston who
has a “buy” rating on EOG shares and doesn’t own any. “I
think 2011 was a big transition year. They’re set up well to be
a top-tier performing stock.”  Chief Executive Officer Mark Papa, who joined a predecessor
to the Houston-based company in 1981 and has accumulated about
$136 million in shares, spent the past five years transforming
it from getting 85 percent of production from gas to tripling
daily output of oil and gas liquids such as propane since 2007.  That’s put EOG ahead of competitors such as Chesapeake,
which were slower to shift to crude as gas plunged below $3 per
million British thermal units last year and traded yesterday
close to a 10-year low.  $98 Oil  With a 39 percent share gain in the fourth quarter as the
U.S. benchmark oil price gained 25 percent to $98.83 a barrel,
EOG became the  top performer  in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Oil &
Gas Exploration and Production Index. It beat out larger rivals
such as  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , which gained 21 percent.  EOG is the third-biggest U.S. independent oil company by
market value, behind Anadarko and  Apache Corp. (APA)  Independents
focus on oil and gas exploration without refining or chemicals
units.  EOG is poised to report fourth-quarter  earnings  this month
of 83 cents a share, more than triple the 21 cents it earned a
year earlier, according to an average of 12 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  After trailing Chesapeake in 2009 and 2010, EOG
outperformed its rival last year and has  risen 13 percent  in  New
York  this year, while Chesapeake has fallen 0.8 percent.  Papa became CEO in 1998 when EOG was still owned by  Enron
Corp (ENRNQ) . and known as Enron Oil & Gas. He began in 2007 to shift
more of the company’s investment to oil-rich assets including
the Eagle Ford and  North Dakota ’s Bakken Shale at a time when
most shale producers were still focused on gas.  Early Oil Shift  Papa’s early commitment to onshore oil helped EOG pick up
acreage at lower costs than many rival producers. The company
said in August that its past transactions in  Eagle Ford  cost
about $450 an acre, compared to more than $20,000 an acre
 Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  paid last year for Eagle Ford assets.  Like many of its peers that have spent billions to secure
acreage in oil-and-gas-rich shale formations, EOG has been
strapped for cash to develop those assets as gas prices slumped
57 percent since the end of 2008.  Papa stayed on the sidelines as producers such as
Chesapeake and Anadarko sold stakes to partners in Europe and
 Asia  in exchange for the cash to pay for drilling.  Chesapeake has secured more than $16 billion through such
partnerships since the start of 2008. Papa, meanwhile, viewed
selling stakes in its premium U.S. oilfields as tantamount to
selling EOG’s future, the CEO said in a November interview.  Costs and Benefits  By refusing joint ventures, EOG bore all of the costs with
the aim of also reaping all of the profit. Its funding gap --the
amount capital spending and dividends exceed the cash generated
by operations -- rose to about $3 billion in 2010, said Thomas Driscoll, a managing director at Barclays Capital Plc in New
York.  “The simplest way to fix a funding gap is to do a JV,”
Papa said in the interview at EOG’s Houston headquarters. “I
guess at EOG we’ve never necessarily taken the simplest route.”  When the company cut production forecasts in November 2010,
it raised concerns among investors and analysts that EOG lacked
the resources to follow through with developing its properties.
The stock tumbled about 9 percent the next day.  The company’s transition to oil has been difficult,
“because it’s costly,” said  Tudor Pickering ’s Lively.  EOG may boost  cash flow  this year by increasing its oil and
gas-liquids production in Texas’s Eagle Ford and Permian Basin.
Improving methods of recovering oil and gas will mean higher
production as the company seeks to cut costs, he said at an
industry conference in Houston in November.  Recovery Factors  “Current recovery factors are quite low, between 4 percent
and 10 percent depending on Eagle Ford versus Bakken, and we
think that’s pretty pathetic,” Papa said. “The next revolution
in the industry is going to be who can improve recovery factors
from the current low levels.”  EOG planned to boost liquids output an estimated 47 percent
in 2011 and an additional 27 percent this year, according to
company presentations.  Thanks to horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing,
which uses high-pressure injections of water, chemicals and sand
to crack rock and release hydrocarbons, EOG’s initial oil rates
at  Eagle Ford  wells in the fourth quarter were nearly double
year-earlier levels, according to data the company released in
December.  To raise cash for drilling, EOG sold at least $1.3 billion
of less profitable assets last year and raised about $1.39
billion in its first new equity offering issue in more than 11
years.  Crude Versus Gas  About 75 percent of EOG’s  North American revenue  in 2012
will come from petroleum liquids such as crude, which made up 38
percent of production in the third quarter. By comparison,
Chesapeake plans to have 60 percent of its revenue from oil and
gas liquids, which will be 25 percent of production in 2012,
according to a January presentation.  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG) , the best performer in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 index last year, has fallen 13 percent this year as
more than 80 percent of its operating revenue came from gas in
the third quarter.  As it has increased oil production, EOG’s funding gap
narrowed to an estimated $2.6 billion last year from $3 billion
the year before, said Barclays’ Driscoll, who has an
“overweight” rating on EOG shares. Driscoll estimates the gap
will shrink to $2 billion in 2012, and to $1 billion in 2013.  President William Thomas, who has been designated to
succeed Papa next year when he retires in June, is expected to
continue EOG’s move into oil.  “Reducing their exposure to natural gas a few years ago
has turned out to be a very good decision on their part, given
how oil and natural gas have moved in opposite directions,”
said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  who has a
“buy” rating on EOG shares and owns none.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  