-- Merkel Austerity Called Counter-Productive
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   C a r o l   M a t l a c k
-- 2012-02-08T08:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/merkel-austerity-called-counter-productive-by-french-socialists.html
Germany ’s push to treat  Europe ’s
financial crisis with austerity may backfire by stifling its
exports to the euro area, says Jerome Cahuzac, economic adviser
to  France ’s Socialist presidential candidate.  “No country in Europe will obtain balanced budgets without
growth,” Cahuzac, a lawmaker who also heads the  Finance
Committee  at the lower chamber of Parliament, said in an
interview in Paris Feb. 1. “It is also in the interest of
Germany that growth resumes everywhere and not just in
Germany.”  His comments underscore the schism between  Francois Hollande , the Socialist candidate who leads President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in polls, and policy makers in Berlin. Hollande has
vowed to renegotiate the German-inspired treaty tightening
budget rules endorsed by 25 European Union leaders last month,
saying it is biased against economic growth.  “A Hollande government might be on a collision course with
Germany,”  George Magnus , senior economic adviser at UBS AG,
said in an e-mailed note Feb. 6 that pointed to the increasing
chance of a Hollande victory in the voting that concludes with a
runoff on May 6.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has declined to accept
Hollande’s bid for a meeting during the French campaign. A
decision has yet to be taken, a German official said yesterday.
She said Feb. 6 she supports Sarkozy “at every level.”  Hours after she expressed her preference in a joint press
conference with Sarkozy, Hollande told reporters “what matters
is French people’s judgment. Their support is the only support I
seek.”  Hollande Proposals  Hollande’s  policy platform  includes proposals that may meet
resistance across the Rhine river that forms the Franco-German
frontier.  Hollande “has said he would want to renegotiate the
German-driven fiscal compact, he wants a much stronger
commitment to pro-growth policies, and he favors  European
Central Bank , euro bonds and euro firewall initiatives to which
Germany is implacably opposed,” UBS’s Magnus wrote.  Europe’s biggest economy, which Sarkozy has called a model,
isn’t a model for the Socialists, Cahuzac said. “We must find
inspiration in what has been done for small companies,” he said
in the interview. “But we must not follow what they do for
savings, where it’s not sufficient; for the birth rate, it’s
worrying; in terms of equality, poverty increased
significantly.”  German unemployment dropped to a two-decade low of 6.7
percent in January while French joblessness exceeds 9 percent.
The German economy registered 3 percent annual growth last year
and 3.7 percent the year before, the most since German
reunification. The French economy may be in recession now.  Growth Forecasts  The  International Monetary Fund  has reduced 2012 growth
forecasts as budget cuts in the 17-nation euro area damp demand
for Germany’s goods in its biggest export market. The IMF cut
its forecast for German growth by one percentage point to 0.3
percent. French growth may not exceed 0.2 percent, the IMF said.  “Germany won’t remain strong in a weakened Europe, it
 won’t stay rich in a poorer Europe ,” Hollande told about 15,000
supporters in his first major campaign speech in Le Bourget,
north of Paris. He has called for a more ’’equal’’ economic and
political relationship with Germany since he started campaigning
last year.  Hollande would garner 37 percent of the votes in the April
22 first round and Sarkozy 29 percent, according to a BVA poll
for  Le Parisien  daily, published Feb. 7. Head to head, the
Socialist would win 58 to 42 percent, the Paris-based pollster
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Matlack in Paris at 
 cmatlack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  