-- Merkel Approval in Germany Climbs to Highest Level Since 2009 Re-Election
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-02-08T10:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/merkel-approval-in-germany-climbs-to-highest-level-since-2009-re-election.html
Support for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party bloc rose to the highest since before her re-
election in 2009, pointing to voter backing for her handling of
the European financial crisis.  Merkel’s ruling  Christian Democrats  rose two percentage
points to 38 percent, the highest approval rating since August
2009, in the weekly Forsa poll published today. The Free
Democrats, Merkel’s junior coalition partner, were stuck at 3
percent and the  Social Democrats , the main opposition party,
were unchanged at 27 percent.  Merkel’s ratings have jumped since December as she led the
drive to lock in euro-area budget discipline while resisting
calls to provide more public money to fight the debt crisis.
It’s a reversal after Germans’ anger at bailouts for  Greece (GDBR10) ,
Ireland and  Portugal  sent support for her bloc to 29 percent in
the fall of 2010 and helped defeat the Christian Democrats in
state elections last year.  “Germans like that she continues to be seen as tough on
 Greece  while managing to get all the other euro countries on
board,”  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London , said by phone. “Italy, Greece,  Spain , Portugal -- all
these countries are moving into a German direction.”  Merkel’s revived popularity as unemployment declined to a
two-decade low is drawing voters to her party and away from the
Free Democrats and Greens, who declined two percentage points to
13 percent, Stern magazine and broadcaster RTL cited Forsa head
Manfred Guellner as saying in a statement. The Pirate Party and
the anti-capitalist Left were unchanged at 7 percent and 8
percent, respectively.  ‘Boom in Employment’  Germans credit Merkel with shielding them from the debt
crisis as “people have a feeling that there’s no end to this
boom in employment,” Schulz said. German business confidence
jumped to the highest in five months in January even as the
European Commission predicts the 17-nation euro area may tip
into recession.  The benchmark DAX stock index has advanced 15 percent so
far this year  compared to  a 9 percent gain in the Euro Stoxx 50
gauge.  “The good economy is cheering voters and Merkel and her
party are the beneficiaries,” Ulrich Deupmann, a partner at
public-relations firm Brunswick Group Inc. in Berlin and
biographer of German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , said
in an interview.  Short of Majority  Even so, the Jan. 30-Feb. 3 poll of 2,500 people suggests
Merkel’s coalition wouldn’t have a governing majority if
elections were held now. Neither would the Social Democrats and
Greens, who governed  Europe ’s biggest economy between 1998 and
2005. The poll has a margin of error of as many as 2.5
percentage points.  Merkel, in remarks to business students late yesterday in
Berlin, restated her determination to avoid a breakup of the
euro while insisting on spending cuts, debt reduction and steps
to boost competitiveness in the region’s weaker economies.  As Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  seeks to secure an
agreement on a debt writedown and the country’s second financial
aid package, Merkel said “there is no way around” the
country’s economic overhaul. Yet a Greek exit from the euro area
would have an “incalculable” impact, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  