-- Erratic U.S. Oversight of Gas Fracking Cited by House Democrats
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-08T21:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/erratic-u-s-oversight-of-gas-fracking-cited-by-house-democrats.html
Oversight of drilling and hydraulic
fracturing for oil and gas on federal land is “erratic and
inconsistent” and in a decade led to about $300,000 in fines,
according to report released by U.S.  House Democrats .  The Interior Department avoids imposing fines for
violations such as deficient casing and cementing, which may
lead to tainting of drinking water, and lets some companies
break rules while imposing penalties for identical breaches by
competitors, according to the report on the House Natural
Resources Committee Democrats’  website . The analysis covered
cases from 1998 to 2011.  “It’s incomprehensible,” Representative Rush Holt, a New
Jersey Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement. “Oil and gas
companies have committed thousands of drilling violations, yet
they have faced a grand total of $300,000 in fines. That’s
roughly a single minute of oil company profits -- the equivalent
of levying a 10-cent fine against someone who earns $50,000 a
year.”  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, releases gas trapped in
shale rock by injecting water, sand and chemicals thousands of
feet underground, is used for almost every new natural-gas well
drilled on U.S. lands. Fracking helped boost production of the
fuel to a record, while pushing prices to 10-year low.  President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. has natural gas
supplies that can last almost a century, and urged safe
development of the resource in his Jan. 24 State of the Union
address.  Adam Fetcher, an Interior Department spokesman, said the
agency will review the Democrats’ report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  