-- ETFs Draw Highest Flows in 16 Months: BlackRock
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-02-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/etfs-draw-highest-investor-deposits-in-16-months-blackrock-says.html
Exchange-traded funds in January
attracted the most money in 16 months, driven by record deposits
to bond ETFs.  Investors poured $34.1 billion into ETFs worldwide, the
most since September 2010, according to data compiled by New
York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the industry’s largest provider.
Fixed-income ETFs gathered $9.1 billion, compared with the
previous high of $6.7 billion in January 2009.  The popularity of low-cost index-based strategies surged
among bond investors in the past year as yields hovered near
record lows and some top long-term performers, including  Bill Gross  at Pacific Investment Management Co., trailed markets.
Assets in bond ETFs, including exchange-traded notes and trusts,
have more than quadrupled since the beginning of 2008 to $271
billion, BlackRock data show.  “We are reaching a critical mass with fixed-income ETFs,”
Matt Tucker, head of fixed-income strategy at BlackRock’s ETF
unit iShares, said in a telephone interview. “We’re seeing
investors exercise more control of their investing through
ETFs.”  U.S.-registered funds accounted for $7.2 billion of bond
ETF deposits in January, he said. Of that, two-thirds went into
funds focused on investment-grade and high-yield corporate
bonds.  Bond ETF investors are concentrating less on the broadest
indexes, Tucker said. Funds that track the BarCap U.S. Aggregate
Bond Index captured 6 percent of the money that flowed into all
U.S. bond ETFs in January, he said. The same funds manage 20
percent of U.S. bond ETF assets.  “Investors are shifting to more customized segments in the
market,” Tucker said.  ETFs, which typically hold baskets of securities that track
an industry or market benchmark, trade throughout the day like
stocks.  In September 2010, the funds attracted $39.1 billion,
according to BlackRock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  