-- EU Says Romania, Bulgaria Need to Act Against Crime, Graft
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-02-08T14:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/eu-says-romania-bulgaria-need-to-act-against-crime-graft-1-.html
Romania  and Bulgaria, the European
Union’s two poorest members, have made progress in fighting
crime and corruption and need “stronger action” to ensure
transparency and revamp their judiciaries, the EU said.  The  European Commission  released a report today in Brussels
praising Romania for moving ahead with “high level” corruption
trials” and Bulgaria for “significant results” in
confiscating criminal assets, commission spokesman  Mark Gray 
told reporters.  The two former communist countries joined the 27-nation
bloc in 2007. Their efforts to join the  EU’s  passport-free zone,
known as Schengen, were delayed last year by some EU states
including  France  and the Netherlands on grounds they needed to
do more to ensure the rule of law. The commission’s report is
used to assess their achievements in fighting top-level
corruption and organized crime.  “The commission believes that  Bulgaria  and Romania should
be assessed objectively and fairly when it comes to joining
Schengen,” Gray said. “From the commission’s point of view,
both countries meet the criteria to be Schengen members.”  The European Parliament in Strasbourg endorsed the Black
Sea countries’ bids on June 8, 2011, while the bloc’s Justice
and Home Affairs Ministers Council postponed their admission on
the next day, urging them to do more to fight crime and
corruption.  ‘Visible’ Progress  “Progress is visible in both countries, especially in
Romania,” said Ben Knapen, the Dutch minister for European
affairs and international cooperation, in a statement today.
“It is a step forward but more needs to be done. We will see in
July, following the full report of the European Commission,
whether this then has been the case.”  The two countries were admitted to the EU on condition the
governments accept monitoring after accession to ensure they
complete legal changes and continue to receive EU aid. Romania,
with a population of 19 million, stands to receive 32 billion
euros ($42.5 billion) in EU aid through 2013, of which it has
used 10 percent so far. Bulgaria, with 7.5 million people, may
draw 11 billion euros, of which it has used 24 percent.  EU warnings have prompted probes of Cabinet ministers,
business leaders and lawmakers, though convictions have been
rare except for minor corruption cases involving mayors and
police officers.  Nastase Conviction  Romania’s  Supreme Court  judges sentenced former Prime
Minister Adrian Nastase to two years in prison last month, the
first corruption conviction of a former government head two
decades since the fall of communism.  Nastase was charged with illegally collecting funds for his
presidential campaign in 2004 through a publicly sponsored
construction conference. He denied any wrongdoing and said he
plans to appeal the decision.  Prosecutors in Romania have accused almost 20 current and
former ministers of corruption since the country joined the EU
in 2007 and are still investigating Nastase on other alleged
corruption deeds.  “This positive report means that we must intensify our
efforts in the following period and must boost the judiciary and
the political front that we have to continue on this path,”
Justice Minister Catalin Predoiu told reporters in Bucharest
today.  The commission urged Bulgaria to deal with suspicions of
electoral fraud in the October presidential and municipal
elections, Gray said.  Bulgarian Probes  “Suggestions of electoral fraud need to be followed up by
the prosecution services,” Gray said. “It’s an issue we treat
seriously.”  Bulgarian authorities started about 200 investigations into
suspected vote-buying related to elections on Oct. 23 and the
Oct. 30 runoff.  Bulgaria set up a Specialized Court and Prosecution Office
in January to fight organized crime. In the past three years,
Bulgarian police arrested ministers on corruption charges and
criminal groups involved in kidnappings, smuggling and
racketeering, which resulted in very few convictions.  “The report in all fairness reflects all our efforts and
work that has been done and what remains to be done,” Lazar
Gruev, chairman of the Supreme Court of Cassation, told
reporters in Sofia today.  Many of the arrested individuals, including former
Bulgarian Defense Minister Nikolai Tsonev and Labor Minister
Emilia Maslarova, have been acquitted of most of the charges and
have sued the police for brutality and human-rights violations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  