-- Euro Finance Chiefs Set to Meet as Greece Presses for Financial-Aid Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-02-08T18:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/euro-finance-chiefs-set-to-meet-as-greece-presses-for-financial-aid-deal.html
Euro-area finance ministers are due
to hold an emergency meeting in Brussels tomorrow as the Greek
government pushes to complete talks on terms of a rescue.  The policy makers, to be joined by International Monetary
Fund chief  Christine Lagarde , will convene at 6 p.m., according
to a statement today by Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of finance chiefs from the 17-
nation euro area.  That gathering will follow the monthly meeting of the
 European Central Bank ’s governing council in  Frankfurt  and an
assembly of Greek creditors in Paris. While no information was
provided about the ministers’ agenda, the scheduling suggests
policy makers, who have to ratify a Greek accord, were
optimistic about negotiators reaching an agreement in  Athens .  The euro erased losses after the meeting was announced and
was up 0.1 percent at $1.3268 at 7:30 p.m. in Brussels.  “We look forward to a successful outcome of that
meeting,”  Amadeu Altafaj , the European Commission’s economic-
affairs spokesman, told reporters today in Brussels. “The ball
is in the Greek authorities’ court.”  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  was locked in talks
today with leaders of the political parties supporting his
caretaker government.  Debt Swap  The rescue is slated to include a 50 percent cut in the
face value of more than 200 billion euros ($265 billion) of
Greek debt through a voluntary exchange by private creditors of
outstanding bonds for new securities. The package is also
supposed to offer 130 billion euros in public aid.  Papademos met with the domestic political chiefs after
delaying the gathering for two days as Greek officials and
international creditors fought over terms. He held an
unscheduled meeting late last night with the European
Commission, the ECB and the IMF to put final touches on the
rescue plan.  Yesterday’s delay was yet another hitch in completing a
package that has been in the works since last July. The Greek
government, facing a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20,
is struggling to arrange financing to avert a collapse of the
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  