-- European Investors Still Favor Sovereign CDS, Fitch Says
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   A n d r e w   R e i e r s o n
-- 2012-02-08T13:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/european-investors-still-favor-sovereign-cds-fitch-says-1-.html
Investors still regard sovereign
credit-default swaps as useful despite uncertainty about whether
Greek debt writedowns will trigger the contracts, according to
 Fitch Ratings .  “More than two thirds of investors said they plan to
continue using sovereign CDS for hedging and investment purposes
at current levels,” Monica Insoll, managing director in Fitch’s
credit market research group in London, said in the company’s
quarterly European fixed-income investor survey.  Confidence in sovereign swaps has been undermined by
European officials’ insistence that a swaps trigger was
unacceptable and by the Greek government’s efforts to call any
losses voluntary to avoid payouts. The amount of Greek debt
protected by default swaps has almost halved in the past year to
$3.2 billion, according to the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.   The cost of insuring Greek sovereign bonds is near an all-
time high, signaling investors think the nation will default and
contracts will pay out. The government has said it may impose
losses on investors who fail to support a debt restructuring by
using a so-called collective action clause, which would trigger
swaps.  “Unless they get 100 percent participation, the next step
is a  credit event ,” said Peter Tchir, founder of TF Market
Advisors in  New York . “In spite of all the best efforts to
avoid triggering CDS on  Greece , it looks like it’s going to
trigger. That’s going to give people faith.”  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “Investors may still be using sovereign CDS because
there’s no alternative, rather than because they’re convinced
about the quality of the product,” said Jeroen van den Broek, a
strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “Investors I’ve talked
to seem less comfortable with the product and they see its value
has deteriorated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  