-- Euro Reaches Two-Month High Ahead of Greece Meeting, ECB Policy Decision
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-02-09T12:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/euro-declines-as-greek-leaders-fail-to-agree-on-pension-cuts-for-bailout.html
The euro reached a two-month high
against the dollar and the yen on speculation a meeting of
regional finance ministers today will approve a second financing
accord for  Greece , boosting demand for European assets.  The 17-nation currency erased earlier gains versus the
greenback after Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said
there were still doubts on the agreement needed to win a 130
billion-euro ($173 billion) rescue package. The  European Central
Bank  meets today to set monetary policy, after which President
 Mario Draghi  will hold a press conference.  “The euro is trading higher on expectation a deal is
imminent” for Greece, said Neil Jones, head of European hedge-
fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “We
understand only some detail remains until agreement. After the
ECB decision arrives, all eyes will switch from Greece to Draghi
to gauge the dovishness or hawkishness from the conference.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3255 at 12:01 p.m.  London 
time after rising to $1.3313, the highest since Dec. 12. The
common currency rose 0.1 percent to 102.25 yen after reaching
102.77 yen, the strongest since Dec. 13. The yen dropped 0.1
percent to 77.13 per dollar.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and the leaders of the
three parties supporting his government “agreed on all the
points of the program with the exception of one which requires
further elaboration and discussion” with the lenders, according
to an e-mailed statement from the premier’s office in Athens.  ‘Bar One’  The shared currency pared gains after Finance Minister
Venizelos said a deal was still to be finalized. “As the prime
minister said, there is agreement on all the issues bar one,”
he told reporters in  Athens .  Euro-area finance ministers and International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  will meet at 6 p.m. in
Brussels, according to a statement by Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker, who chairs the group of finance chiefs from
the currency bloc.  The ECB will keep its benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent
today, according to all but two of 57 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The others predicted a cut to 0.75 percent. The rate
was held at 1 percent at the central bank’s January meeting,
following quarter-point reductions in November and December.  Draghi is scheduled to hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m.
in  Frankfurt .  Monthly Gain  The euro has gained 0.6 percent in the past month according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar dropped 3.5 percent and
the yen declined 3.9 percent.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, dropped 0.1 percent to 78.653 after touching
78.407, the lowest since Dec. 8.  Implied volatility of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies fell to 9.95 percent, the lowest since March, from
10.13 percent yesterday, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility
Index (JPMVXYG7) . A decrease makes investments in currencies with higher
benchmark lending rates more attractive as the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  The pound strengthened against the dollar after a U.K.
report showed manufacturing production increased more in
December than economists forecast.  British factory output rose 1 percent from November, when
it fell a revised 0.1 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast a 0.2 percent gain.  BOE Meeting  The  Bank of England  increased bond purchases by 50 billion
pounds ($79.2 billion) at a policy meeting today to help cap
borrowing costs, as forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The pound advanced 0.2 percent to $1.5851 after falling 0.5
percent yesterday.  The euro may rise as high as $1.3627 if it sustains a move
above $1.3280,  Karen Jones , head of fixed-income, commodity and
currency technical analysis at Commerzbank AG in London AG,
said, citing trading patterns. The $1.3436 level is the 50
percent Fibonacci retracement level of the October peak, while
$1.3627 is the 61.8 percent retracement, Jones wrote in a
research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  