-- Ex-Motorola Worker Guilty of Trade Secret Theft, Judge Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-08T21:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/ex-motorola-worker-guilty-of-stealing-trade-secrets-for-china-judge-says.html
Hanjuan Jin, a former  Motorola Inc. (MMI) 
software engineer, was found guilty of stealing  trade secrets 
from that company and acquitted of charges she did so to benefit
a Chinese company and that country’s military.  U.S. District Judge Ruben Castillo in Chicago announced his
ruling today from the bench. Jin waived her right to a jury and
was tried before him in November. She faces a maximum sentence
of 10 years in prison on each of the three counts for which the
judge found her guilty.  After the hearing, one of Jin’s lawyers,  John Murphy , told
reporters that Castillo’s ruling would be appealed.  “The goverment’s theory of this case was rejected,”
Murphy said, calling the ruling a full repudiation of
prosecutors’ assertion his client was “some sort of spy for the
Chinese government.”  Jin was indicted in 2008 on the trade-secret theft counts
for which she was convicted and three counts of economic
espionage, each punishable by as long as 15 years in prison.  She was accused of simultaneously working for Motorola and
for a Beijing-based company, Kai Sun News (Beijing) Technology
Co., also known as  SunKaisens , which was affiliated with  China ’s
military.  U.S. Customs agents stopped her as she was about to board a
plane at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport on Feb. 28,
2007. In her possession were more than 1,000 Motorola documents,
$30,000 in cash and a one-way ticket to China.  ‘Criminally Betrayed’  “I conclude that Ms. Jin criminally betrayed Motorola by
stealing its trade secrets,” the judge said. Prosecutors didn’t
persuade him beyond a reasonable doubt that Jin was a Chinese
agent, Castillo said.  The judge ordered Jin confined to her home, with electronic
monitoring. He scheduled her sentencing for April 18.  “We want to send a message to the corporate community that
we take the theft of trade secrets very seriously,”  Chicago 
U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald told reporters after Castillo
announced his ruling. He called Jin’s ticket to China “a one-
way ticket to trouble for her.”  Prosecuting such cases is a Justice Department priority, he
said.  Asked whether he was concerned that Castillo had rejected
the economic espionage counts, Fitzgerald said, “It’s clear she
was headed to China.” The judge, he said, found that the proof
wasn’t direct enough as to whether the Motorola materials in
Jin’s possession were meant to benefit the Chinese military.
“We respectfully disagree with that, but he makes the calls.”  Obsolete Technologies  Fitzgerald declined to say how long a sentence he would ask
the court to impose.  Based in Schaumburg,  Illinois , Motorola Inc. is now known
as  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)   “Motorola Solutions appreciates the significant efforts
the government devoted to prosecuting this case and securing
this verdict,” said Tama McWhinney, a company spokeswoman. “We
fully cooperated with the government’s investigation and are
pleased with this outcome.”  Defense lawyers argued at trial that their client was
innocent and that the documents in her possession related to
obsolete technologies and fell short of the criminal definition
of trade secrets.  “The government saw this case in a very specific way from
the very first day,” Murphy, of the Chicago Federal Public
Defender’s Office, said in his closing argument.  ‘A Spy’  That viewpoint, he said, was based on the O’Hare incident
in which officials became suspicious about the amount of U.S.
currency she was carrying and the nature of the documents in her
possession.  “They made the determination from that point, that Ms. Jin
was a spy,” Murphy said. A naturalized U.S. citizen, the
Chinese-born Jin was no spy, merely a bad employee, he said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Dollear said that while the
U.S. never expressly said Jin was a spy, “She was better than
 James Bond .”  “She had a nine-year cover story,” Dollear said. He said
the length of her Motorola employment and the trust engendered
by it allowed her to carry two bags full of documents out of its
offices in February 2007 without security officers doing
anything more than holding the door open for her.  The case is U.S. v. Jin, 08-cr-192, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  