-- Expanded E. Coli Testing on Hold Until June 4, USDA Officials Announce
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-02-08T21:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/expanded-e-coli-testing-on-hold-until-june-4-usda-officials-announce.html
A March deadline for companies to
start tests for six strains of potentially deadly E. coli
bacteria has been pushed to June 4 so meatpackers can make sure
their methods work, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.  The new deadline will be announced today, the agency said
in an e-mail. The USDA is planning to test raw ground beef for
six strains of E. coli in addition to one strain, called
0157.H7, that was banned in 1994.  The industry has fought the regulation, saying there’s no
proof the expanded testing will prevent illnesses or outbreaks
and that it may cost as much as $300 million a year.  “Hopefully this will stop the excuses by industry,” said
 Bill Marler , a Seattle food safety lawyer who obtained about $30
million in legal settlements against  Jack in the Box Inc. (JACK) 
following a 1994 outbreak linked to E. coli. “I’m not at all
surprised they’re giving the industry a little more time.”  The expanded testing may also become a trade issue, Marler
said in an interview. Countries including Canada and  Australia 
have submitted comments on the proposal saying it will increase
the expense of exports to the U.S.  Australia said the proposed testing will “add substantial
cost,” some of which will be passed onto consumers.  The USDA has said the ban on the six strains will reduce an
estimated 110,000 foodborne illnesses a year.  “Imposing this new regulatory program on ground beef
components even within 90 days will needlessly cost tens of
millions of federal and industry dollars,” James H. Hodges,
executive vice president of the Washington-based  American Meat
Institute , a trade association representing packers and
processors and their suppliers, said in a statement.  The comment period for the rule was extended to Dec. 21
following a request by industry groups such as the  American
Association of Meat Processors  in Elizabethtown,  Pennsylvania ,
and the  Meat Import Council of America  in Reston, Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  