-- Facebook Should Expand Diversity of Board, California Fund Says
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-02-09T03:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/facebook-should-expand-diversity-of-board-california-fund-says.html
Facebook Inc.  should diversify the
makeup of its all-male  board  and separate the chairman position
from chief executive officer role, the  California  State
Teachers’ Retirement System said.  Calstrs, the second-largest U.S. public pension, also
recommended adjusting the voting rights of  Facebook  stock so
that shareholders’ economic interest matches their voting power,
according to  a statement  today. The pension fund posted the
remarks a day after sending a letter directly to CEO  Mark Zuckerberg .  “We are disappointed that the Facebook board will not have
any women members,” said Anne Sheehan, the pension’s director
of corporate governance. “This is particularly glaring in view
of the fact that Facebook is going public at a time when there
is clear evidence that companies with diverse boards perform far
better than the companies with more homogenous boards.”  Facebook has faced criticism over its insular board and
concentration of voting power since  filing  for a $5 billion
initial public offering last week. Zuckerberg, who co-founded
the company, controls 56.9 percent of voting power. Facebook
also says it meets the requirements of a “controlled company,”
meaning it can skip the governance rules that apply to most
businesses holding an IPO, such as the need for a compensation
committee and a board made up mostly of independent directors.  Sarah Feinberg, a spokeswoman for  Menlo Park , California-
based Facebook, didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment after regular business hours.  Applying Pressure  Calstrs has a history of pushing for changes at companies.
It lobbied last year to get corporations to disclose their
political donations. In 2009, the pension sent a letter to 300
of its largest portfolio companies asking them to let
shareholders have an advisory vote on executive compensation.  The $144.8 billion fund, based in West Sacramento,
California, has invested in Facebook through two partnerships.  Facebook should “equalize the voting power of shares to be
representative of investors’ economic interests,” Calstrs said.  “Given that this company embraces an innovative business
culture and a diverse user base, nearly 60 percent female, it
seems paradoxical that it should adopt such a centralized, old
business governance structure,” Calstrs CEO Jack Ehnes said in
the statement. “This type of governance structure is definitely
not conducive to ‘friending’ new shareholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  