-- Falcone’s Harbinger Hedge Fund Said to Borrow $190 Million at 15% Interest
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/falcone-s-harbinger-said-to-borrow-190-million-from-jefferies-at-15-rate.html
Phil Falcone’s hedge fund, which
tumbled by almost half last year because of a troubled wireless
venture, is paying a 15 percent interest rate for a $190 million
loan, almost triple what the riskiest corporate borrowers pay,
said two people with knowledge of the loan.  The billionaire borrowed the money from  Jefferies Group
Inc. (JEF)  after paying off a $400 million loan from UBS AG on Jan.
30. Falcone got $160 million from New York-based Jefferies after
fees, and will pay an annualized rate of 15 percent on the loan,
which matures on Oct. 31, according to the people, who asked not
to be named because the fund is private. Interest on the loan
will be paid monthly.  Junk-rated companies paid 5.15 percentage points more than
the three-month London interbank offered rate at the end of
January, according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary &
Data. The benchmark was 0.39 percent yesterday. The average
annual rate for credit card borrowers is 14.9 percent, according
to a Feb. 1 report published by CreditCards.com.  The premium Falcone’s hedge fund must pay to borrow money
illustrates just how risky lenders view his biggest wager. His
main Harbinger Capital Partners Master Fund I has more than 60
percent of its assets invested in LightSquared Inc., a Reston,
Virginia-based firm that plans to build out a network offering
high-speed data service to as many as 260 million people.  LightSquared is awaiting final clearance from the Federal
Communications Commission as regulators weigh test results that
show the service’s signals disrupt global-positioning system
equipment used by cars, tractors, boats and planes.  Ferrous Resources  LightSquared argues that technical solutions exist to
resolve the interference and GPS manufacturers should have
planned to accommodate the firm’s use of the spectrum.  Lew Phelps, a spokesman for Harbinger, and Richard Khaleel,
a Jefferies spokesman, declined to comment.  The loan is backed by the fund’s assets, according to the
people, including a 27 percent stake in Ferrous Resources Ltd.,
an iron-ore producer in  Brazil . If any assets are sold,
Jefferies gets paid first, according to the people, and the
lender has the right to help sell some of the assets at an
agreed upon minimum price.  The Harbinger fund will make a prepayment of $47.5 million
on April 30 and another of the same amount on July 31, according
to the people.  While Harbinger is cutting its borrowing by half, the rate
is higher than for its UBS loan, which was issued on July 28,
2010 at 95 cents on the dollar with a 10 percent annual interest
rate, according to the Harbinger Capital Partners 2010 audited
financial statement.  Harbinger, which managed $4 billion at the end of last
year, down from a peak of $26 billion in mid-2008, has sunk
about $3 billion into LightSquared. The fund wrote down the
position by 59 percent last year because of the uncertainty over
whether LightSquared would receive final approval from the FCC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Effinger in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  