-- Fannie Mae Nixed Plan to Reduce Mortgage Debt, Democrats Say
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-08T20:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/fannie-mae-nixed-plan-to-reduce-mortgage-debt-democrats-say.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA)  pulled the plug on a 2010
plan to forgive borrowers’ mortgage debt because company
executives were “philosophically opposed” to the idea, a
former company employee told House investigators.  In a letter today to the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
House Democrats challenged a January analysis from Acting
Director Edward J. DeMarco that claimed principal writedowns
would raise costs and increase taxpayer losses at the
government-owned company.  “We have now become aware of new information that calls
into serious question the accuracy and completeness of your
response, as well as your motivation for continuing to oppose
principal reduction programs even when they have the potential
to save American taxpayers billions of dollars,” said the
letter from representatives Elijah Cummings of  Maryland  and John
F. Teirney of  Massachusetts , Democrats on the House Committee on
Oversight and Government Reform.  FHFA spokeswoman Corinne Russell did not have an immediate
comment. The agency oversees  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which
were taken over by the federal government in 2008 as they neared
bankruptcy.  According to the letter, a former Fannie Mae employee told
the committee that the mortgage finance company had developed a
pilot program for reducing mortgage debt for borrowers who owe
more on their house than the property is worth.  The purpose of the plan was to develop “a responsible way
to reduce principal balances for underwater mortgage borrowers
without creating undue incremental moral hazard,” the employee
told the committee.  The pilot had preliminary approvals from officials at
Fannie Mae, FHFA, and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, a bank regulator, according to the former employee.  In mid-2010, two weeks before its launch, senior Fannie Mae
executives cancelled the program because they were
“philosophically opposed to writing down principal balances,”
according to the former worker, who was quoted in the letter
without being identified.  “I believe that we could be saving tens of billions of
dollars while also helping stabilize housing prices and
stimulating economic growth,” the former employee said,
according to the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  