-- Faster Frequent-Flier Screening Coming to 28 More Airports
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-02-08T21:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/faster-frequent-flier-security-checks-will-expand-to-28-more-u-s-airports.html
New York ’s three airports will be
among 28 where pre-approved frequent fliers can get through
security faster as the U.S. Transportation Security
Administration expands expedited screening.  Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and Washington
Dulles International Airport are also on the list, Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano told reporters today in
Arlington, Virginia.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) ,  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  will join  AMR Corp (AAMRQ) .’s
American Airlines and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  in participating this
year, according to a department statement.  The expansion marks a potential shift in TSA screening
processes started after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, said
Jeffrey Sural, a former assistant agency administator. Besides
cutting time and hassles for travelers, it may speed screenings
by shortening from normal passenger lines, he said.  “This is the beginning of a wholesale change to the
screening experience,” said Sural, now a lawyer and public-
policy adviser at  Alston & Bird LLP  in  Washington .  PreCheck passengers still go through screening checkpoints.
They get a separate line and in most cases the streamlined
process.  Participants in TSA’s PreCheck program -- who must be
invited and agree to provide information such as flight history
to the government -- can keep their shoes, belts and light coats
on at designated checkpoints, according to the agency. Those
fliers can keep laptops and liquids packed in carry-ons.  ‘Sensible Security’  “Good, thoughtful, sensible security by its very nature
facilitates lawful travel and legitimate commerce,” Napolitano
said. The program expansion “will increase our security
capabilities and expedite the screening process for travelers we
consider our travel partners,” she said.  New Jersey ’s Newark Liberty International and Dulles in
 Virginia  are two airports Sept. 11 hijackers used to board
airliners before attacks that destroyed the World Trade Center
and damaged the Pentagon. Boston’s Logan International Airport,
also used by hijackers that day, will get expedited screening.  New York’s JFK and Salt Lake City International Airport
will have PreCheck in place by the end of February, said Greg
Soule, a TSA spokesman. Washington’s Reagan National and
Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport will be added before the
end of March, he said.  The program is currently used by eligible Delta and
American passengers at seven U.S. cities, including  Los Angeles ,
Las Vegas, Detroit, Atlanta and  Dallas . Participating passengers
get a special bar code imprinted on their tickets and are
directed to specific screening lines.  Random Checks  More than 336,000 passengers have been screened through the
program, according to the TSA. The expansion will be cost-
neutral, though it will require the agency to shift resources,
Soule said.  PreCheck passengers proceed through the streamlined queues
at the TSA’s discretion. The agency will always incorporate
random and unpredictable measures “to prevent terrorists from
gaming the system,” according to a TSA fact sheet.  Sparing resources on trusted travelers moves the agency
away from a “one-size-fits-all approach” to a more
“intelligence-driven, risk-based” system, TSA Administrator
 John Pistole  said today. Pistole has said he would like to
provide speedy screening to members of the military and
travelers with government security clearances in a PreCheck-
style program.  “TSA PreCheck moves us closer to our goal of delivering
the most effective and efficient screening by recognizing most
passengers do not pose a threat to security,” Pistole said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  