-- Bad Home Loans Top $72 Billion in ‘Colossal Failure’: Mortgages
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-02-08T14:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/faulty-loans-top-72-billion-as-banks-seek-legal-deal-mortgages.html
Costs from faulty mortgages and
shoddy  foreclosures  have topped $72 billion at the biggest U.S.
banks as they near a settlement of a 50-state probe into the
industry’s practices.  Wells Fargo & Co.,   Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup (C)  Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc., the five largest
home lenders during the real estate boom, tallied at least $6.78
billion in new costs tied to mortgages during the second half of
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of America,
ranked second among U.S. banks by assets, contributes $41.8
billion of the overall total.  The mounting costs are pushing lenders and regulators to
resolve investigations and lawsuits over faulty home lending,
including a 50-state review of foreclosures. The wrangling over
the status of old loans has made some banks more reluctant to
make new ones, even as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
appeals for action to increase lending and fix the U.S. housing
market because it’s a drag on the economic recovery.  “It’s a colossal failure of basic banking,” said David Knutson, a credit analyst in  Chicago  with Legal & General
Investment Management, a holder of bonds in some of the lenders
involved. “It’s surprised everyone in terms of persistence and
longevity and I think it will continue to surprise.”  ‘Fear of the Unknown’  The banks are negotiating a settlement said to be worth as
much as $25 billion with state attorneys general, and it may
expand later to include some  smaller lenders  that made  mortgage
loans . While an accord could be announced as early as this week,
some states have been holding out for tougher and possibly more
expensive terms, including the right to press future legal
claims.  “The fear of the unknown is a lot worse than when you
finally get a figure,” said Alex Lieblong of Key Colony
Management LLC, which manages about $153 million, including
shares in Bank of America and Wells Fargo. “If you could get it
all into a box and say that this is the known figure, then that
will be viewed as a positive.”  Spokesmen for all five of the lenders declined to comment.  The bulk of the expense was triggered by investors who
bought mortgages and then demanded refunds after finding flaws
in the underwriting, including false data about borrower incomes
and home values. Such sales to investors typically came with
promises, known as representations and warranties, to buy back
defective loans.  Outstanding claims against  Bank of America  jumped 22
percent in three months to $14.3 billion as of Dec. 31.  Countrywide Acquisition  Bloomberg’s tally also includes expenses tied to court
cases and investigations. Bank of America’s increase of at least
$2.65 billion in mortgage costs during the second-half of 2011
included $1.76 billion tied to litigation, filings show.  That increased total costs since the start of 2007 for the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank to $41.8 billion. Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has been hobbled by bad
loans created at Countrywide Financial Corp., acquired in 2008
as the subprime home lender careened toward possible bankruptcy.  The combined company, which once accounted for one in every
four U.S. mortgages, now controls only 5.6 percent of the
market, according to FBR Capital Markets Corp., as Moynihan
tries to stanch losses at the home lending unit.  Wells Fargo, now the biggest home lender with 30 percent of
the market, added $794 million to its repurchase reserve for the
six months. The San Francisco-based company  said Jan. 17  it
would pay $100 million to meet with the requirements of so-
called requirement of consent orders that banks signed with
federal regulators last April designed to curb any abuses. That
brings its total costs to at least $5.98 billion.  Costs Surge  JPMorgan (JPM) , the biggest U.S. lender, saw costs surge by at
least $2.25 billion during the six months, increasing mortgage
expenses to $18.5 billion, according to regulatory filings. The
New York-based firm, led by CEO  Jamie Dimon , added $1.53 billion
in legal costs during the period, the filings show.  Citigroup, the third-biggest  U.S. bank , didn’t disclose
specific litigation costs for mortgages. Vikram Pandit, CEO at
the New York-based company, set aside  more than $600 million  for
repurchasing faulty loans during the last six months of 2011,
more than the $541 million set aside by Bank of America.  Citigroup said in a Jan. 24 presentation that litigation
costs at its Citi Holdings unit were  $1.1 billion  in 2011. The
majority of those expenses were tied to a $109 billion mortgage
portfolio, according to a person briefed on the costs, who
declined to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to
comment publicly about the matter.  Citigroup Losses  Bloomberg News excluded the $1.1 billion cost from the
overall tally. Citigroup’s total legal and repurchase costs from
the mortgage crisis so far are at least $3.61 billion when this
figure is included. The total number for the five banks rises to
more than $73 billion.  Pandit created Citi Holdings to hold and sell troubled
assets in the wake of the lender’s $45 billion bailout in 2008.
The bank  lost $29.3 billion  for 2008 and 2009 combined, much of
it tied to subprime mortgage bonds.  “We remain concerned about the U.S. housing market,”
Pandit said on an Oct. 17 call with analysts. “The U.S.
residential mortgage portfolios of most banks remain their
greatest risk.”  Ally (ALLY) , the lender controlled by U.S. taxpayers following a
bailout, added $114 million to its repurchase reserve during the
period, filings show. The Detroit-based company also said last
month it will record a fourth-quarter charge of about $270
million for penalties associated with foreclosure practices by
its mortgage unit Residential Capital LLC, bringing total costs
to about $3.67 billion since 2007.  Ally Penalties  Michael Carpenter , Ally’s CEO, wants to sell the firm’s
shares in an initial public offering to help repay $17.2 billion
of bailout funds to taxpayers. This is unlikely to happen until
issues tied to faulty home loans are resolved, Carpenter said
last week.  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank
of Philadelphia and analyst with FBR Capital Markets, wrote in a
note last September that bank losses from repurchases could
surpass $121 billion. About 60 percent of that, or about $72.6
billion, might be incurred by Bank of America, Citigroup,
JPMorgan and Wells Fargo, Miller wrote.  The mounting costs sparked concern that some lenders might
need to raise capital and helped send their stocks reeling last
year, with the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  down 25 percent in 2011. Bank of
America was the worst performer in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  with a 58 percent plunge; this year, the company leads
the Dow with a 41 percent gain amid signs that the  U.S. economy 
is gathering strength.  Robo-Signing Investigation  All 50 states announced almost 16 months ago they were
investigating disclosures of so-called robo-signing, a term that
describes the practice of mortgage lenders and their contractors
vouching for foreclosure documents without verifying them.
Officials from a group of state attorneys general offices and
federal agencies, including the  Justice Department , have since
been involved in negotiating terms of a proposed settlement with
the banks.  The Justice Department also contacted smaller mortgage
lenders, including U.S. Bancorp,  PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. (PNC)  and HSBC Holdings Plc, with the goal of including them in
any future settlement agreement.  More than 40 states signed on to the accord, according to
Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is helping to lead talks
with the banks. Other attorneys-general, including  California ’s
Kamala Harris and  New York ’s  Eric Schneiderman , have yet to join
the settlement.  MERS Litigation  The accord may not cover a new round of litigation from
local governments, who may claim they were cheated out of fees
by the industry’s electronic system of registering and
transferring mortgages, known as MERS. Banks used the database
to help speed the sale of home loans for more than a decade as
trading in mortgage-backed bonds accelerated, bypassing some
traditional real-estate recording practices.  “There are counties out there that are desperate for
revenue that may come after the banks,” said  Peter Henning , a
law professor at  Wayne State University  in Detroit. “The MERS-
related litigation could run into the billions.”  Bloomberg’s tally was compiled from regulatory filings,
company statements and financial presentations. The data cover
provisions and expenses attributable to repurchases, foreclosure
errors and abuses, payments to reimburse investors for lost
value on faulty mortgages, legal settlements and litigation
expenses.  Smaller Banks Included  The compilation also includes writedowns of assets, such as
mortgage servicing rights, when the company attributed the loss
in value to problems in mortgage underwriting or foreclosures
and the costs of remedies. The figures may increase as more
detailed breakdowns become available.  Bloomberg’s tally focused only on firms that were among the
top five home lenders during the mortgage boom. The industrywide
total would be closer to $75 billion if smaller banks and
securities firms were included.  U.S. Bancorp reported a $130 million expense in the fourth
quarter tied to mortgage servicing by the Minneapolis-based
company, ranked fifth by deposits. CEO Richard Davis told
investors in January that smaller banks had been invited into
settlement talks with the attorneys general, and “we believe we
have something that we need to reserve for.”  PNC, the sixth-largest U.S. lender by deposits, set aside
$240 million for costs tied to residential mortgage foreclosures
as a result of “ongoing governmental matters,” the Pittsburgh-
based company said.  California, New York, Nevada, Florida and Massachusetts are
among the states that haven’t signed off on a settlement with
banks over foreclosure abuses, according to state officials and
two people familiar with the talks. Even a quick agreement may
not help the banks keep the tally from soaring even higher.  “It does give them certainty and it gives them a PR
boost,” said Wayne State’s Henning. “But it isn’t over. They
may want to be out of the headlines but this isn’t the last
we’re going to hear about mortgages.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  