-- Williams Says Fed May Need to Purchase Mortgage Bonds If Expansion Falters
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-08T17:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/fed-may-need-to-purchase-mbs-if-growth-falters-williams-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  said the central bank may need to buy
additional mortgage bonds if the economic expansion falters or
inflation slows too much.  “We may still need to provide more policy accommodation if
the economy loses momentum or inflation remains well below 2
percent,” Williams said in a speech today in  San Ramon ,
 California . “Should that occur, restarting our program of
purchasing mortgage-backed securities would likely be the best
way to provide a boost to the economy.”  Williams, a voting member of the policy-setting  Federal
Open Market Committee  this year, echoed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said yesterday he sees a “long way to go” before
the job market returns to normal. The Fed chief said on Jan. 25
that bond buying is an option. That day the FOMC extended its
pledge to keep interest rates low through at least late 2014.  “Clearly, with unemployment at 8.3 percent, we are very
far from maximum employment,” Williams, 49, said in remarks to
the Bishop Ranch Forum.  “I expect inflation to run somewhat below the 2 percent
level that we at the Fed are aiming for,” he said. “In this
situation, it’s vital that the Fed use all the tools at its
disposal to achieve its mandated employment and price stability
goals.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,344.57 at 12:15 p.m. in  New York , while the yield on the 10-
year Treasury note increased to 1.98 percent from 1.97 percent.  Jobless Rate Fell  The economy added 243,000 jobs last month, Labor Department
data showed Feb. 3. That sent the  unemployment rate  down to 8.3
percent, the lowest since February 2009.  Williams said he expects gross domestic product to increase
about 2.25 percent this year and 2.75 percent in 2013.  “Unfortunately, such moderate growth will not be enough to
keep taking big bites out of unemployment,” said Williams. As a
result, the jobless rate will probably “remain over 8 percent
well into next year and still be well over 7 percent at the end
of 2014,” he said.  Some data since the Fed’s meeting last month have painted a
mixed outlook for the world’s largest economy.  Consumer spending 
stalled in December as Americans chose to repair their balance
sheets, while confidence among households unexpectedly slid in
January.  On Jan. 25, while extending its rate pledge to late 2014
from mid-2013, the FOMC cited an “elevated” unemployment rate
and “significant downside risks” to the outlook. Bernanke told
reporters following the meeting that the Fed is prepared to ease
policy if employment doesn’t rebound fast enough or if inflation
slows.  Reduce Borrowing Costs  Policy makers’ forecasts for the federal funds rate have
helped reduce borrowing costs, Williams said. He said in
response to audience questions that he’s “confident” any
future efforts by the Fed to remove its record stimulus should
have the “desired effect.” Also, asset sales would probably be
the final step of such an exit, he said.  The San Francisco Fed president said the U.S. is “clearly
on an unsustainable path” of deficits and that fiscal issues
are the “biggest” long-term challenge facing the country.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  called for more
accommodative policy Feb. 2, saying the central bank needs a
clear low-rate commitment or a third round of bond buying to
stimulate the economy.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said Feb. 6 the
central bank risks “a looming disaster” if it keeps interest
rates near zero to counteract a high degree of slack in the  U.S.
economy . Bullard was the first Fed official in 2010 to call for
a second round of asset purchases.  Below 1 Percent  The central bank released policy makers’ projections for
the  benchmark interest rate  for the first time on Jan. 25, with
nine of 17 officials expecting borrowing costs to remain below 1
percent at the end of 2014.  Williams has been an early proponent of unveiling the
projections. He published a paper with Glenn Rudebusch,
currently the director of research at the  San Francisco  Fed, in
2008 that argued policy makers’ rate projections would help the
economy perform better.  Williams became president of the San Francisco Fed in March
2011 after two years as the bank’s director of research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  