-- Bernanke’s Inflation Target Stokes Japan Lawmaker Ire at Shirakawa Record
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-02-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/fed-s-inflation-target-stirs-japan-lawmaker-ire-at-boj-record.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to set
a 2 percent inflation target last month had a ripple effect a
continent away: Japanese lawmakers are invoking it as evidence
that their own central bank comes up short.  “Japan is sending a message we are OK with deflation,”
Yuichiro Uozumi, a member of the No. 2 opposition party, told
Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa at a hearing two days
ago in Tokyo. The BOJ defines price stability as about 1
percent. The Fed “set a clear goal and made a firm promise for
its commitment to fulfill the goal,”  Kozo Yamamoto , with the
top opposition group, said at a Feb. 2 hearing with Shirakawa.  Underlying the criticism is a legacy of more than a decade
of  deflation  -- declines in  price levels  that can damp growth by
making debts harder to pay off -- and calls by minority groups
of lawmakers for more stimulus in the wake of the March 11
earthquake. With the Fed signaling another round of asset
purchases, political pressure on the BOJ may rise.  “The Fed’s action ignited frustration with the Bank of
Japan,” said  Takahide Kiuchi , chief economist at Nomura
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The Fed is making it clearer that the
BOJ haven’t tried hard enough to end deflation. They may need to
ease more, depending on moves in the yen.”  Shirakawa and his colleagues acted three times last year to
expand asset purchases by a total of 15 trillion yen ($194
billion), efforts that didn’t halt yen gains. Companies from
Panasonic Corp. to Sharp Corp.  blame the yen, which yesterday
traded at 77.07 per dollar, 2.2 percent from the postwar high in
October, for contributing to predictions of record losses.  GDP Drop  The BOJ concludes its next policy meeting Feb. 14, a day
after a government report forecast to show gross domestic
product shrank at an annualized pace of 1.4 percent in the
fourth quarter, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. BOJ Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi told reporters Feb. 2 that the bank wasn’t considering
immediate action to respond to the yen’s recent strengthening.  Shirakawa has said the BOJ is the “front runner” in
implementing monetary policy, and has provided ample liquidity
and kept the banking system healthy.  Lawmakers have used another measure to judge success.
Consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.1 percent in
December from a year before, the third straight year of decline.
The BOJ’s stated understanding of  price stability  is from above
zero to 2 percent, centered on 1 percent. Prices haven’t risen
at least 1 percent for any year since 1997.  BOJ’s Pledge  BOJ policy makers have pledged to keep  interest rates  near
zero unless they judge that “price stability is in sight.”  The Fed last month committed to keeping its target rate at
exceptionally low levels at least through late 2014. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said Jan. 25 the Fed recognizes “hardships”
imposed by high unemployment and “is prepared to provide
further monetary accommodation.”  Fed officials also unveiled a statement of longer-term
policy goals, defining 2 percent as their target for consumer
price increases. Like the BOJ, the Fed will review its stance
annually.  The BOJ chief told lawmakers Feb. 6 that “in my sense,
it’s FRB policies coming closer to the  Bank of Japan ,”
referring to the Federal Reserve Board.  Philosophy Gap  At the same time, the Fed and BOJ have signaled differences
over the ability to control long-run rates of change in prices.
Fed policy makers said last month that “the inflation rate over
the longer run is primarily determined by monetary policy.”  By contrast, Shirakawa has for years indicated that the BOJ
cannot achieve its inflation target on its own. He said at a
business conference Jan. 29, 2010, that lack of demand was the
“root cause of deflation” and there was no “magic wand”
policy makers could wave to stamp out falling prices.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told Diet members last month
that he expects the Bank of  Japan  to take “bold” actions to
address the yen’s rise and fight deflation. Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said in parliament Feb. 2 “we expect the BOJ to implement
appropriate and timely policies when needed as the U.S. showed a
strong stance to maintain its easing policies.”  “Japan won’t change unless it employs a modest inflation
target policy” like the Fed did, said Yamamoto, who belongs to
the  Liberal Democratic Party . Uozumi, a member of the New
Komeito Party, said the BOJ “should set a price stability
target at 2 percent.”  Yosuke Isozaki, another LDP lawmaker, said to Shirakawa
Feb. 6 that “Japan is the only country having two decades of
deflation,” asking whether it was “time for you to take
responsibility.”  “The BOJ will be under more political pressure once the
U.S. reaches a firm recovery ground,” said  Masamichi Adachi ,
senior economist at JPMorgan and Chase & Co. in  Tokyo  and a
former BOJ official. “The Bank of Japan thinks it’s doing its
best but their best may be seen as being at a much lower level
than other central banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  