-- New York Fed Sells $6.2 Billion of Bonds From AIG Rescue to Goldman Sachs
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-02-08T21:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/fed-says-it-sold-6-2-billion-of-bonds-from-aig-bailout-to-goldman-sachs.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
sold $6.2 billion in face value of mortgage bonds it assumed in
the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  to  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , allowing one of its bailout loans to be repaid.  The New York Fed said it sold the bonds through a
“competitive process” after  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  made an
unsolicited offer to buy assets held by a vehicle called  Maiden
Lane II LLC (FARBML2) . The sale will allow the repayment of the central
bank’s loan to Maiden Lane II, which was originally $19.5
billion, according to a  statement  posted on the New York Fed’s
website.  Today’s sale was the second such this year, following a Jan.
19 disposition of about $7 billion of mortgage bonds to Credit
Suisse. The New York Fed’s sales were in response to unsolicited
bids, after a series of auctions last year were blamed for
damaging prices. So far, the latest sales haven’t curbed a rally
in home-loan bonds, with analysts at Morgan Stanley and Bank of
America Corp. saying they are contributing to the gains.  “When the market saw there was a deep bid for this paper,
the momentum picked up,” said Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage
bonds at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc. which oversees $118
billion. “Both the end buyers as well as the Street are willing
to put money to work. It doesn’t seem like the momentum is
slowing, if anything, it looks like it’s picking up.”  The New York Fed in June ended its earlier plan to sell
Maiden Lane II assets through regular auctions, following sales
of about $10 billion. The face value of the assets had dwindled
to about $21 billion when the auctions were halted.  Selling Piecemeal  The New York Fed began selling the bonds piecemeal after
rejecting a $15.7 billion bid from New York-based insurer AIG
for the entire pool in March. The portfolio includes securities
backed by the types of home loans with some of the highest
default rates, such as so-called subprime,  Alt-A (BBMDA60P)  and option
adjustable-rate mortgage debt.  Typical prices for the most-senior bonds tied to option
ARMs climbed to 55 cents on the dollar last week from 49 cents
in October and November, according to Barclays Capital data.
That’s down from last year’s high of 65 cents in February.
Option ARMs allow borrowers to pay less than the interest they
owe by increasing their balances.  The Fed was owed about $6.7 billion on the loan to Maiden
Lane II as of Feb. 1, not taking into account proceeds from last
month’s transaction. About $6 billion in bonds remain in the
Maiden Lane II portfolio, based on disclosures from the Fed.  ‘Continued Interest’  “I am pleased with the continued interest in these assets
and am especially gratified that the New York Fed’s loan to ML
II will be repaid as a result of the sale announced today,” New
York Fed President William C. Dudley said in the statement.  The Fed made another loan to help bail out AIG to a vehicle
called Maiden Lane III LLC, and was owed about $9.6 billion
under that facility as of Feb. 1, according to the New York
Fed’s  website . The central bank is also owed about $4.6 billion
from its rescue of Bear Stearns Cos.  The New York Fed “will dispose of the remaining securities
in the ML II portfolio individually and in segments over time as
market conditions warrant through a competitive sales process,
while taking appropriate care to avoid market disruption,” the
regional bank said. “There will be no fixed timeframe for the
sales; at each stage, the  Federal Reserve  will only transact if
the best available bid represents good value for the public.”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, and Steven Vames, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  