-- Food Bubble Is Expanding U.S. Waistlines: Vikram Mansharamani
-- B y   V i k r a m   M a n s h a r a m a n i
-- 2012-02-08T00:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/food-bubble-is-expanding-u-s-waistlines-vikram-mansharamani.html
In the  housing boom  that lasted from
2001 to 2007, highly motivated investment bankers capitalized on
historically low  interest rates , abundant liquidity, government-
sponsored housing finance, political encouragement to make
housing accessible to all, and mortgage-interest tax policies to
create a securitization party of unrivaled scale and scope.  The hangover from this toxic cocktail continues to plague
the global economy: The world still struggles with too much
debt, the threat of deflation and the painful prospect of more
deleveraging.  Similar dynamics are at work in the global food system:
Forces are combining to create another dangerous bubble. This
food bubble, like the housing one, has grown from a system that
is focused on generating efficiencies through high volumes,
which generate lower prices and increased consumption. The
commoditization of loans and crops, supported by government
policies to keep prices low, has led to overconsumption of
credit and food -- resulting in a highly leveraged society, and
a national obesity epidemic.  Just as bankers created loans for standardized mortgage
pools, most farmers now produce predominantly for commodity
markets. And just as bankers stopped caring about their
customers’ financial health, or even their ability to repay
loans, farmers, under the heavy influence of government
programs, have increasingly stopped growing food for the benefit
of the people who eat it. In fact, industrial farming is
generally not even producing “food,” but rather inputs for what
author Michael Pollan calls “edible food-like substances” --
processed foods.  Bushels of Corn  Consider corn. While some of it is actually consumed as
food (for example, “on the cob”), most is converted into  animal
feed , ingredients for processed food or feedstock for ethanol.
The price of most corn grown in the world is based on
qualitative variations from the benchmark  No. 2 grade  corn. By
the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s definition, a bushel of No.
2 grade corn weighs about 54 pounds and contains no more than 5
percent damaged kernels and less than 3 percent broken corn and
foreign materials. Just as unsophisticated buyers blindly bought
AAA rated mortgage securities, so does the  corn industrial
complex  readily accept all No. 2 grade corn. Similar dynamics
exist for other commoditized crops, such as wheat and soybeans.  U.S. government policies have promoted the production of
high-volume commodity foods. These policies date to the early
1970s, when poor harvests in the  Soviet Union  and bad weather in
the American farm belt caused crop prices to skyrocket. U.S.
News & World Report and Time magazines dedicated cover stories
to food inflation and its social impact.  To prevent grocery prices from soaring 20 percent or more,
Earl Butz, the secretary of agriculture in the Nixon and Ford
administrations, made a series of policy changes designed to
lower food prices. He did away with some loans to farmers,
government grain purchases and incentives for leaving land idle
during times of low crop prices. And he replaced them with
direct payments to farmers to make up any difference between the
market price and an artificial price floor.  Rather than discourage farmers from growing more crops when
market prices were low, the new policy motivated them to produce
more, regardless of price. The floor, which has been regularly
adjusted, set a price at which farmers could effectively sell an
infinite supply. Ballooning crop volumes drove prices lower,
which, in turn, increased consumption.  Similarly, in 2001, when the  Federal Reserve  lowered short-
term interest rates -- to fight the deflationary forces from the
popping Internet bubble -- the price of money was driven lower,
and that increased the use of debt.  Price of Calories  In the past 30 years, food prices have  fallen , on average,
1 percent per year, according to an analysis from the Department
of Agriculture’s  Economic Research Service . During the same
period, the daily average calorie consumption in the U.S. has
risen about by an average of about 400 calories, or about 18
percent.  There’s reason to think that the low price of food has led
people to eat more of it, and especially the kinds of foods that
are subsidized by U.S. agricultural policy. Consider that
overconsumption is not spread evenly across food groups, but
rather predominates among processed foods containing ingredients
such as corn, wheat and soybeans, whose prices are heavily
influenced by government policies.  Flour and cereal products account for 39 percent of the
total increase in average American food consumption since 1980 -
- about 155 additional calories -- while whole foods not
supported by agricultural subsidies are not being eaten much
more today than before: The average American’s intake of fruit
rose by a mere 6 calories over the past three decades, and
calories from vegetables were flat.  In 2004, a dollar  could buy  more than 1,000 calories of
cookies or potato chips, or 875 calories of soda, but only 250
calories of carrots or 170 calories of fruit juice, according to
Adam Drewnowski, a professor of epidemiology at the University of
 Washington  and director of the Center for Public Health
Nutrition in  Seattle . In other words, agricultural subsidies
cause the least healthy calories to be the cheapest.  Given that about 3,500 calories is equivalent to a pound of
body weight, it is easy to see that extra calories are a major
contributor to our obesity epidemic -- alongside inadequate
exercise and a poor diet. Furthermore, given the strong linkages
between obesity and cardiovascular disease, diabetes and other
illnesses, our industrial food system appears to be no more
sustainable than our pre-2008 housing-finance system.  Another unintended consequence of producing food in such
large volume is that the bigger the yields per acre, the fewer
nutrients the crops contain. Donald R. Davis of the Biochemical
Institute at the  University of Texas  in Austin has  looked  at the
evidence regarding the relationship between yield and nutrient
content. The studies comparing high-yield and low-yield
varieties of corn, wheat and broccoli show, in his words,
“uniformly inverse associations between yield and nutrient
concentrations.”  Food and Health  In a time of strained budgets and rising medical costs, we
must think more broadly about the health effects of our food
system. To ignore the connection between agricultural policy and
public health would be as wrong as to ignore the link between
housing policy and financial regulation. Presidential campaign
debates and the renewal of the farm bill in 2012 may offer a
platform for the conversation. Let us begin by redesigning
agricultural policy to minimize incentives for overproduction
and encourage the production of healthy calories.  Two agricultural subsidies, in particular, should be
greatly reduced or eliminated: the  marketing-loan  program and
the  countercyclical-payments  program. The marketing-loan
program, which allows farmers to borrow using their crops as
collateral, effectively enables farmers to lock in a minimum
price via non-recourse loans. If market prices are lower than
the government-set target price, farmers are not required to pay
back the full loan amount. Yet if prices are higher than the
target price, they keep the difference. Countercyclical payments
act as their name suggests: When prices are lower, subsidy
payments are higher -- enabling farmers to again lock in minimum
prices. Both subsidies focus disproportionately on commodity
crops.  These programs create de facto price floors, allow farmers
to ignore crop prices when deciding how to allocate land, and
effectively encourage overproduction. From 1995 to 2010, the
Department of Agriculture spent more than $50 billion on these
programs. Eliminating them would save enough money not only to
subsidize the farming of fruit, vegetables and other healthy
foods, but also to sponsor education programs on how careful
eating and exercise can reduce or prevent obesity. Acting now
could help keep today’s cheap food and expanding waistlines from
adding to tomorrow’s high health-care costs.  (Vikram Mansharamani, who teaches a seminar on financial booms
and busts at  Yale University , is the author of “Boombustology:
Spotting Financial Bubbles Before They Burst.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Vikram Mansharamani at  vikram.mansharamani@aya.yale.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  