-- Foreclosure Deal Said to Offer $17 Billion in Mortgage Aid
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-08T22:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/foreclosure-deal-to-offer-17b-mortgage-relief.html
A multistate settlement with five
large U.S. banks over foreclosure practices would include as
much as $17 billion in mortgage debt forgiveness and loan
modifications and take three years to complete, according to a
letter describing the deal.  The draft letter to stakeholders from state  attorneys
general  outlines an agreement among large mortgage servicers,
states and the  Department of Justice , which are continuing talks
to finalize the proposal.  Servicers, including  Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , and  Wells Fargo & Co ., would also have to provide as much
as $3 billion in refinancings, enabling borrowers to secure new
loans “at today’s historically low rates,” according to the
letter.  Another $1.5 billion would be distributed to about 750,000
borrowers who have lost their homes to  foreclosure , according to
the letter.  States that sign on to the agreement would get “immediate
payments” to fund consumer protection and foreclosure
prevention efforts.  All 50 states announced almost 16 months ago they were
investigating bank foreclosure practices following disclosures
that faulty documents were being used to seize homes. Officials
from a group of state attorneys general offices and federal
agencies, including the  Justice Department , have since
negotiated terms of a proposed settlement with the nation’s
largest mortgage servicers.  ‘Robo-signing’  The agreement holds banks accountable for “wrongdoing on
robo-signing and mortgage servicing.” It allows state and
federal prosecutors to continue to pursue securities cases and
other claims. Individuals would not be barred from filing their
own lawsuits, and the settlement includes “absolutely no
criminal immunity for any individual who violated the law.”  Loans owned by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  are not affected
by the settlement, according to the letter.  The letter, fashioned as a template for individual
attorneys general to customize, was obtained from a person with
knowledge of the talks and its authenticity was confirmed by a
second person with knowledge of the talks.  According to the letter, the agreement would give states
oversight of national banks for the first time. Banks would be
required to report to an independent monitor who reports to
attorneys general.  California Attorney General Kamala Harris and New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  were among attorneys general
who had yet to join the accord as of a Feb. 6 deadline. More
than 40 states have signed on, said Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is helping to lead talks with the banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  