-- Fracking’s Toll on Pets, Livestock Chills Farmers: Commentary
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/fracking-s-toll-on-pets-livestock-chills-pennsylvania-farmers-commentary.html
Smelling gas one morning, a southern
 Pennsylvania  farmer almost passed out when he went outside to
check on his bellowing cows.  One of the animals did keel over, kicking its feet in
spasms. A couple of days later, a calf was fighting for its
life, the farmer said. It died.  Something awful is happening over the Marcellus Shale, the
vast geological formation in eastern  North America  where energy
companies are looking for natural gas.  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a process for extracting
gas by injecting high volumes of water and chemicals into deep
wells, has sparked complaints about ruined landscapes and fouled
groundwater. Increasingly there is evidence, mostly anecdotal,
that animals are suffering.  A new study by veterinarian Michelle Bamberger and Robert
Oswald, a professor of veterinary medicine at  Cornell
University , chronicles case studies of dozens of farmers and pet
owners in six states over the Marcellus Shale.  Their findings, published in “ New Solutions : A Journal of
Environmental and Occupational Health Policy,” are a harrowing
account of sudden deaths of cattle, as well as reproductive and
neurological problems in horses, cats, dogs and other animals.  The Pennsylvania farmers I spoke with have lost cows,
calves, a horse, a couple dozen chickens. Many of the animals
succumb in the same way: seizure-like symptoms, gasping for
breath and a quick wasting away. A Rottweiler and a Dalmatian
also fell ill and died.  Crops Lost  These farmers are getting out of the beef business, in part
over concern that their animals will become delivery systems for
contaminants.  An organic farmer from southeast  Ohio  told me he has
abandoned his cash crop, ginseng, for now, concerned that
contaminants would enter his product. He began noticing changes
around his 20-acre property in 2007, when a fracking operation
began dumping wastewater nearby. He lost quite a few deer that
were drawn to the brine and antifreeze in the fluid.  Energy representatives dismiss the veterinarians’ study.
They say that health indicators have actually improved in areas
with shale development.  “The paper is little more than a collection of personal
testimonials that cannot be independently assessed or
verified,” says Steve Everley, a spokesman for industry group
 Energy in Depth . “The paper is full of bold assertions about
oil and gas development, but empty of any facts or scientific
evidence to support those opinions.”  Causal Link  Establishing a causal link between fracking and specific
health threats is tricky. Energy companies are not required to
disclose the composition of fracking fluids for proprietary
reasons, so they don’t.  Like a lot of people who live near fracking operations,
many of the farmers I interviewed are in litigation with an
energy company and wish to remain anonymous.  “We don’t know what the chemicals are in a lot of these
cases,” says Bamberger. “It gets very frustrating when you start
saying: What was in the tissue? What killed these animals
exactly?”  In 2010, the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture
quarantined 28 head of cattle after they drank wastewater from a
fracking site in Tioga County. The fear was that a radioactive
contaminant in the water, strontium, would end up in beef.  In December 2011, the Environmental Protection Agency
linked water pollution to fracking for the first time, after
examining contaminated water in central  Wyoming .  Note to New York  Last month the federal agency announced it would test water
in dozens of homes around Dimock, Pennsylvania, a hotbed of
fracking activity. It also told New York it would need to
improve safeguards for drinking water before tapping into the
Marcellus Shale.  New York placed a moratorium on fracking in 2010 so it
could revise the rules governing the practice. Bamberger and
Oswald are among those who contributed to the tens of thousands
of public comments on the draft regulations, which were closed
last month.  Bamberger submitted the published study; Oswald contributed
15 pages of his own to denounce the inadequacy of the proposed
rules.  “There are so many flaws in the document,” he says. “It is
unlikely to be able to protect us from the industrialization of
our landscape and hydraulic fracturing.”  Now,  New York ’s Department of Environmental Conservation
will review comments and revise regulations as necessary. It
seems inevitable that the state will be fracking eventually, so
the question is whether the industry can proceed safely -- for
humans and animals.  New Yorkers  should listen to the stories of farmers,
hunters and vets before making the same fracking mistakes that
are being made elsewhere.  (Mike  Di Paola  writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 