-- French Cabinet Passes Euro Stability Mechanism, Trading Tax
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-02-08T12:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/french-cabinet-passes-euro-stability-mechanism-trading-tax-1-.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s Cabinet
approved amendments to the 2012 budget that will bring  Europe ’s
permanent rescue fund into operation in July, as well as raising
France’s sales-tax rate and creating a tax on share trading.  Parliament’s finance commission will start discussing the
measures this afternoon.  Euro-area leaders agreed on Dec. 9 in Brussels to bring the
European Stability Mechanism, or ESM, into force a year earlier
than expected to help contain the region’s sovereign debt
crisis. The plan requires France to pay 6.5 billion euros ($8.6
billion) into the ESM in two tranches in 2012, increasing the
nation’s debt burden to 89.1 percent of gross domestic product,
the  Finance Ministry  said today in Paris.  The amendments also include legislation that will create a
tax on share trading in big French companies starting in August,
as well as an increase in the nation’s main rate of sales tax
and a corresponding cut in payroll taxes that was announced by
Sarkozy on Jan. 29.  France  and eight other European countries plan to introduce
the transaction tax, which will cover shares, derivatives such
as naked credit default swaps, and high frequency trading,
Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said at a press conference.  “France is not alone,” Pecresse said. “She is the leader
and the motor in the moralization of finance. We want to hit
speculation.” The other countries are Germany,  Italy ,  Spain ,
Belgium, Austria, Finland, Portugal and  Greece .  Election Looms  Sarkozy, who faces re-election in less than three months,
has presented the cut in payroll taxes as a measure to improve
the competitiveness of the economy, even if it’s opposed by
public opinion because of the corresponding rise in sales taxes.  A study released today by COE-Rexecode, an economics
research company close to the Paris Chamber of Commerce, said
that moves to cut labor charges and increase VAT rates in France
in 1995, Denmark in 2007 and  Germany  in 2007 were followed by
greater job creation, improved competitiveness, and only a
temporary increase in consumer prices. The improvements in
Germany and Denmark were also due to other liberalizations of
their labor markets, the company added.  France’s 2012 budget is based on economic growth of 0.5
percent and 10-year French government bond yields of 3.7
percent, which Pecresse called “extremely prudent.” The yield
on the 10-year bond was 2.89 percent as of 1:32 p.m. in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  