-- Gay Marriage Ruling a Memo to Justice Kennedy: Noah Feldman
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-02-08T17:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/gay-marriage-ruling-a-memo-to-justice-kennedy-commentary-by-noah-feldman.html
What’s in a name? In 2008, supporters
of a state ballot measure convinced a majority of California
voters that there was a meaningful difference between extending
full domestic partnership rights to gay couples and calling
their relationships marriage.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit agrees --
sort of. On Tuesday it held that the measure, Proposition 8,
violated the U.S. Constitution not because there is a right to
gay marriage, but because it took away the equal right to the
institution of marriage that gay Californians briefly held under
state law before Proposition 8 was passed.  The upshot is that while gay-rights advocates should
rightly be happy with the decision, it isn’t the major legal
breakthrough that some hoped it would be. The Supreme Court
could uphold the circuit judges’ position without making same-
sex marriage legal across the U.S.  The California issue is rooted in language. Before and
after Proposition 8, gay couples in  California  had the same
rights as heterosexual couples when it came to adoption,
benefits, hospital access and all other legal aspects of
marriage. Yet opponents and proponents alike are convinced that
the word “marriage” means everything.  Religious Traditionalism  Those who reject gay marriage while (at least in principle)
accepting practical equality for gay couples have found
themselves in a bind when trying to explain their position in
court. For most, the basis for this stance surely lies in
religious traditionalism. Mores have changed, and discrimination
against gay people is no longer socially acceptable in many
circles. But marriage is so bound up in religious tradition that
a radical change, like the possibility of same-sex unions,
challenges people’s settled expectations and their ideals of
what marriage is supposed to be.  The establishments of most conservative religious
denominations and the bulk of followers -- from Catholics to
Baptists to  Orthodox Jews  to Mormons to Muslims -- are the
stalwarts in opposing gay marriage. In these traditions, change
comes incrementally and over generations. Almost 500 years after
the Reformation, Catholicism still rejects divorce. Orthodox
Judaism is not going to endorse marriages between Jews and non-
Jews, no matter what more-liberal Jewish denominations might do.  Yet such religious traditionalism has proven difficult to
translate into a legally cognizable argument. Because of the
separation of church and state, Proposition 8’s proponents
couldn’t simply tell the truth: That they oppose gay marriage
because it is against their faith and their customs. They did
claim in court that their religious liberty was affected, but
this argument is a sure loser, since they may continue to
determine their own marriage rules. The state’s adoption of gay
marriage will have no more coercive effect than the state’s
recognition of divorce does on the Catholic church.  There is a certain paradox here. The state recognizes
marriages performed by priests, rabbis and imams -- a privilege
that itself deviates from strict separation between religion and
government. This makes civil, state-sanctioned marriage seem
religious, which is exactly why religious traditionalists are
threatened by the idea of state marriage extending to gay
people.  Imagine that the state didn’t use the word marriage to
describe any relationship, but only recognized civil union for
all couples, gay or straight. In this parallel universe, there
would be no discrimination. And presumably, neither religious
traditionalists nor gay-rights advocates would have reason to
complain. But that imaginary world isn’t ours. Once the state
calls something marriage, supporters of gay equality have every
reason to insist that this honorable word must extend to
everyone equally.  Activist Judge  The Ninth Circuit found this argument to be powerful. In a
typically tongue-in-cheek passage of his  decision , Judge Stephen Reinhardt, who proudly wears the mantle of the most activist
liberal judge on the federal bench, quoted  Groucho Marx :
“Marriage is a wonderful institution ... but who wants to live
in an institution?”  Reinhardt explained that such jokes wouldn’t be funny if
the word marriage were replaced with an alternative phrase. “How
To Register a Domestic Partnership With a Millionaire,” he
added, wouldn’t make much of a movie title.  From the argument that the word marriage confers a sense of
dignity and belonging, Reinhardt could have gone on to find a
basic constitutional right to marriage equality. But here the
80-year-old Reinhardt, who has a long history of having
decisions reversed by the Supreme Court, decided to get crafty.
Instead of asserting a general right to gay marriage, he
restricted his holding to the strange situation that obtained in
California, where the state  Supreme Court  had declared a right
to gay marriage before Proposition 8 reversed it. For 143 days,
gay couples in California could marry.  Reinhardt made that interregnum the key to his decision.
Proposition 8, he said, had no other purpose but to take away
the equality fleetingly enjoyed by gay Californians. The only
point of the law was to make the equal unequal. That brought the
case into a parallel with  Romer v. Evans , the 1996 case in which
the Supreme Court invented modern gay rights.  In the Romer case, Justice  Anthony Kennedy  wrote that a
Colorado constitutional amendment that prohibited treating gays
as a “protected class” was itself an irrational form of
discrimination. In dissent, Justice  Antonin Scalia  memorably
disparaged Kennedy as mistaking a culture war for “a fit of
spite.”  By treating Proposition 8 as Romer redux, Reinhardt was
sending a direct message to Justice Kennedy, his former
colleague on the Ninth Circuit. He was telling the justice that
if the Supreme Court decides to review the new decision, Kennedy
would have to uphold it -- since it went no further than Kennedy
had gone before. That would allow Kennedy, if he wished, to
avoid declaring a general right to gay marriage in an election
year.  Cautious Justices  This was also a message for gay-marriage advocates: By
asserting that the case could be decided on narrow grounds,
Reinhardt was actively making it harder for the more progressive
justices on the Supreme Court to use this case to find a right
to gay marriage. If the most liberal judge in the system
declined the opportunity to take the issue all the way, why
should the considerably more cautious justices go there?  The Supreme Court might not take the case at all. The state
of California declined to defend Proposition 8, leaving the task
to the measure’s political proponents, who may lack the
constitutional standing to appear in court on its behalf.  But in an election year, anything is possible. It only
takes four “yes” votes for a case to be heard, and the four
conservatives -- Scalia, Samuel Alito ,  John Roberts  and  Clarence Thomas  -- might want to force the issue on Kennedy, daring him
to complete his journey from Ronald Reagan appointee to civil-
rights hero. A decision favoring gay marriage, even restricted
to California, might help get out the conservative vote in
November. The Mormon church helped finance Proposition 8 in the
hopes of making common cause with other values conservatives.
And right now, anything that would help  Mitt Romney  may be
starting to look good.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 