-- General Growth Fourth-Quarter FFO Rises as Tenant Demand at Malls Increase
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-08T22:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/general-growth-fourth-quarter-ffo-rises-as-tenant-demand-at-malls-increase.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the
second-biggest U.S. shopping-mall owner, said funds from
operations excluding some items rose in the fourth quarter as
tenant demand for space in top-tier retail centers increased.  The company’s so-called core FFO climbed to $279.8 million,
or 29 cents a share, from $230.1 million, or 23 cents, a year
earlier, the Chicago-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts expected core FFO, which excludes items such as
discontinued operations and costs related to debt retirement, of
27 cents a share, the average of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. FFO is a measure of a property owner’s ability to
generate cash.  General Growth plans to redevelop, expand and refurbish
shopping centers to boost growth. The real estate investment
trust last month completed its spinoff of 30 malls that have
lower tenant sales as  Rouse Properties Inc. (RSE) , allowing General
Growth to focus on its better-performing centers.  “The spinoff of Rouse Properties was the big decision of
2011,” Cedrik Lachance, a managing director at Green Street
Advisors Inc. in  Newport Beach ,  California , said in a telephone
interview before earnings were announced. “Retailers do seek to
be in higher-end properties.”  Mall Occupancies  General Growth said occupancies at its regional malls rose
to 94.6 percent at the end of December and the initial rent on
leases completed in 2011 increased 8.3 percent to $65.67 a
square foot. Comparable sales by its tenants gained 7.9 percent
to $505 a square foot.  The company released its results after the close of regular
U.S. trading. General Growth rose 0.5 percent to $16.67 in New
York trading.  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the only U.S. mall owner larger
than General Growth, on Feb. 3 reported fourth-quarter results
that were higher than analysts’ estimates and increased its
dividend 5.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  