-- Most German Stocks Fall as Greece Continues Debt-Swap Talks; Bayer Drops
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-02-08T17:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/german-stocks-climb-on-greek-debt-talks-commerzbank-shares-jump.html
Most  German stocks  declined as
Greece’s Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  sought political support
for the austerity measures required to obtain further aid.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  led losses.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  jumped 7.6 percent and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rose 1.5 percent.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s
largest steelmaker, increased 2 percent.  The DAX Index dropped less than 0.1 percent to 6,748.76 at
the close in Frankfurt. Nineteen stocks in the benchmark gauge
fell, while 11 rose. The DAX has still  rallied 33 percent  from
its low on Sept. 12 as investors speculated that the euro area’s
leaders will contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The
broader HDAX Index lost less than 0.1 percent today.  “The global economy seems to be gaining traction and some
of the uncertainty related to the region’s debt crisis has
declined,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank in
 Frankfurt .  Papademos will today meet the heads of the three political
parties that support his government to discuss spending cuts,
after postponing a meeting with them yesterday.  Papademos instead met the so-called troika -- the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund  -- to discuss the terms needed to secure further
aid, a spokeswoman said.  German Trade  A report showed German  exports  fell more than economists
forecast in December as the debt crisis damped economic growth
across the euro region.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes,
slumped 4.3 percent from November, when they rose 2.6 percent,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast a decline of one percent, according to
the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports
dropped 3.9 percent.  Bayer dropped 1.1 percent to 54.44 euros, contributing the
most to the decline in the  DAX index. (DAX)   Infineon Technologies AG fell 1.5 percent to 7.51 euros.
Adidas AG lost 1.5 percent to 56.71 euros.  Commerzbank jumped 7.6 percent to 2.10 euros, the highest
since Oct. 28, after its BRE Bank SA unit in Poland posted
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  “It is a combination of reinforcing factors including BRE
Bank’s earnings,” said Thomas Stoegner, an analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd. who has a  “neutral” rating on the stock. “Some
investors may also be betting on a deal being reached in the
Greek debt-swap talks.”  Deutsche Bank rose 1.5 percent to 34.47 euros. Germany’s
largest lender told employees it will impose a 200,000 euro
($266,000) cap on bonuses this year, said three people with
knowledge of the discussions.  ThyssenKrupp increased 2 percent to 22.84 euros after CA
Cheuvreux named the steelmaker one of its “favored stocks for
unlocking value” through asset sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Riffler in Frankfurt at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  