-- Germany Is Discussing Plan for Greek Bailout Votes Next Week, Meister Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-02-08T13:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/germany-is-discussing-plan-for-greek-bailout-votes-next-week-meister-says.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government is readying plans for parliamentary votes on a
bailout for Greece as soon as next week while Greek political
leaders struggle for consensus on terms of the aid, the deputy
floor leader of Merkel’s party said.  Lower-house lawmakers are discussing as many as three
separate votes on the package now being thrashed out in Athens,
plus allied measures to enable the participation of the euro-
area’s financial backstop, Michael Meister, who is also the
parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said in an interview today.  “Whether to vote on everything in one package or whether
to divide it up into one, two or three packages is something we
can look at calmly,” Meister said by telephone today from his
office in Berlin.  Meister’s comments suggest that the German government, the
biggest contributor to euro-area rescues, is looking beyond the
bailout talks playing out in Athens over the past six days in
anticipation of a successful outcome. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is due to negotiate today with leaders of the
political parties supporting his caretaker government.  In addition to a vote on the 130 billion-euro ($173
billion) aid package, Meister said there may be votes on steps
to empower the European Financial Stability Facility to
guarantee Greek  government bonds  held by the  European Central
Bank  and to guarantee some Greek bonds held by the private
sector after a debt swap.  Merkel’s coalition parties last year backed amendments to
the EFSF on the condition that any payments by Germany be
approved by parliamentary majority.  Special Session  The German government is considering convening a special
sitting of parliament next week in the event that a deal is
reached in  Athens , Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told
lawmakers yesterday, according to two people who took part.  The  Finance Ministry  denied a report in the Financial Times
Deutschland newspaper today that Schaeuble was considering
postponing votes on Greece to keep up pressure on the Papademos
government. Holding separate votes at different times is not
attempt by Germany to delay parts of the second aid package,
Marianne Kothe told reporters in Berlin today.  A vote in Germany’s lower house, or Bundestag, on a 100
billion-euro EFSF payment for Greece can’t be decoupled from the
other votes because the private sector may balk at making its
own contribution if the second package for  Greece  isn’t assured,
Meister said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  