-- Spanish Yields Advance Most in Five Weeks Before Debt Sale; Bunds Decline
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-02-08T16:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/german-bunds-fall-as-greek-premier-seeks-debt-bailout-consensus.html
Spanish bonds fell, pushing the five-
year note yield up the most in almost five weeks, as the country
was said to hire banks for a debt sale taking place today.  German bond yields touched a two-week high amid speculation
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is close to obtaining a
bailout deal, damping demand for the region’s safest assets.
 Spain  hired six banks to sell additional 5.85 percent bonds due
in January 2022, according to a banker involved in the
transaction. The security has been used as Spain’s 10-year
benchmark since Jan. 20.  “Spanish bonds sold off on talk of more supply in the
shape of a syndicated 10-year deal,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-
income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London.
“That’s the reason for today’s underperformance in light of the
solid run Spain has had of late.”  The Spanish five-year note yield rose 12 basis points to
3.84 percent at 4:45 p.m.  London  time. It climbed as much as 19
basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 3.90 percent, the
biggest increase since Jan. 5. The 4.25 percent securities
maturing in October 2016 fell 0.53, or 5.30 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,324) face amount, to 101.74.  The 10-year bond yield climbed 15 basis points to 5.22
percent, pushing the yield difference, or spread, versus
benchmark German 10-year bunds 13 basis points wider to 3.24
percentage points.  Unlimited Cash  Spain’s bonds will be priced to yield 300 basis points more
than the benchmark mid-swap rate, a banker involved in the
transaction said.  Spanish and Italian bonds have rallied since the  European
Central Bank  offered unlimited three-year cash to the region’s
banks in December to avoid a credit crunch. The securities rose
amid speculation banks are buying them to use as collateral with
the ECB under the program, known as the longer-term refinancing
operation. The central bank will offer a second round of the
loans on Feb. 28, with allotment a day later.  The more measures Spain’s government implements to ensure
budget stability, the easier it is for the ECB to provide
support, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said today.  The ECB will hold its key  interest rate  at a record low 1
percent tomorrow, according to the median estimate of 57
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Two of the analysts
forecast a quarter-point rate reduction.  Italy’s 10-year yield was little changed at 5.59 percent,
leaving the extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of German bunds at 3.61 percentage points.  Greek Deal  German bunds dropped for a second day after the Greek
premier held a meeting with the ECB and the  International
Monetary Fund  yesterday to put the final touches on terms needed
for a 130 billion-euro rescue package. Bunds also declined as
Germany auctioned 3.29 billion euros of five-year notes.  “The market thinks that a deal on  Greece  is imminent and
that’s enough to support risk appetite,” said  Richard McGuire ,
a senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
London. “Bunds are continuing their bearish tone.”  The 10-year bund yield added one basis point to 1.98
percent, after reaching 2.01 percent, the highest since Jan. 25.  Papademos is meeting leaders of the political parties
supporting his government today in  Athens  after delaying the
talks for a second time in as many days while Greek officials
and international creditors discussed the terms of an agreement.
The government, facing a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March
20, is struggling to arrange financing to avert a collapse of
the economy.  German five-year note yields were little changed at 0.92
percent as the nation sold 0.75 percent securities due in
February 2017 at an average yield of 0.91 percent. Investors bid
for 1.8 times the amount of debt allotted, compared with a bid-
to-cover of 2.8 at the previous auction on Jan. 11.  Germany ’s bonds have handed investors a loss of 0.7 percent
this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Bunds
returned 9.7 percent last year as the European debt crisis
stoked demand for safer assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  