-- German Exports Slump Faster Than Forecast as Crisis Damps Growth: Economy
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-02-08T10:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/german-exports-slumped-in-december-as-debt-crisis-sapped-growth.html
German  exports  fell four times more
than economists forecast in December as the sovereign debt
crisis damped growth across the euro region.  Exports slumped 4.3 percent from November, when they rose
2.6 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said
today. Economists predicted a decline of 1 percent, according to
the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. French
business confidence held near its lowest level in more than two
years in January on recession concerns, the Bank of France said
in another report.  While the German economy,  Europe ’s largest, probably shrank
0.25 percent in the final three months of 2011, data this year
suggest it may avoid recession, which is commonly defined as two
consecutive quarterly contractions. Business sentiment jumped to
a five-month high in January and factory orders gained 1.7
percent in December, driven by demand from outside the 17-nation
euro area.  “The global economy seems to be gaining traction and some
of the uncertainty related to the region’s debt crisis has
declined,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt. “But exports to the euro area will remain weak
and are clearly a risk.”  The euro rose slightly to $1.3285 at 10:53 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . European stocks advanced, with the Stoxx Europe 600
Index snapping two days of losses. U.S. index futures and Asian
shares also climbed.  Cut in Half  The  International Monetary Fund  warned on Feb. 6 that
 China ’s economic expansion would be cut almost in half if
Europe’s debt crisis worsened. The Washington-based lender
currently forecasts Chinese growth of 8.2 percent this year.
China accounted for 6 percent of German exports in 2010.  China’s central bank today pledged support for first-home
buyers as a crackdown on real-estate speculation threatens to
trigger a property slump in the world’s second-biggest economy.  A U.S. report on mortgage applications may provide more
evidence on the state of the nation’s housing market later
today.  In  Spain , the National Statistics Institute said industrial
production fell for the fourth month in December. Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  told parliament that the Spanish Cabinet will
approve a “broad, deep and balanced” overhaul of the labor
market this week. Household spending will continue to decline in
2012 as a result of unemployment and budget cuts, he said.  1 Trillion  Germany’s trade surplus narrowed to 12.9 billion euros
($17.1 billion) in December from 15.9 billion euros in November,
the statistics office said. The surplus in the current account,
a measure of all trade including services, was 19.3 billion
euros, up from 14.7 billion euros a month earlier.  German exports gained 11.4 percent in 2011 to 1.06 trillion
euros, breaching the trillion-euro mark for the first time, the
office said. The economy will expand 0.6 percent this year and
1.8 percent in 2013 after 3 percent growth in 2010, the
Bundesbank predicts.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, will have
a “solid year” because of a record order book, Berthold Huber,
the head of the IG Metall labor union and a member of Siemens’
supervisory board, said yesterday.  “German companies appear to be benefitting from both
resilient demand at home and improved sales to key export
markets such as the U.S., U.K. and  emerging markets ,” said
 Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit in  London . Growth
should pick up in January “but whether this growth will last
remains a big uncertainty, given the weakness of demand in the
rest of the euro area and the ongoing possibility of a
disorderly default by  Greece .”  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  met last night with
the so-called troika, comprising the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the IMF, to put the final touches on
terms required for a 130 billion-euro rescue package designed to
help Greece avoid default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  