-- Bank of Ghana Considers Weekly Dollar Sales to Support Cedi
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-02-08T15:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/ghana-central-bank-considers-weekly-dollar-sales-to-support-cedi.html
The  Bank of Ghana  said it’s
considering starting weekly dollar auctions and will continue to
sell foreign-exchange reserves to support  Africa ’s second-worst
performer against the dollar this year.  Ghana’s cedi slumped 2.9 percent this year and hit a 17-
year low last month, as companies seeking to invest in the oil-
led economy exchanged the currency for dollars to buy equipment
from overseas. The cedi rose for the first time in free days,
advancing less than 0.1 percent to 1.6878 per dollar as of 3:21
p.m. in Accra, the capital, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Foreign exchange auctions are being considered, but no
decision has been taken as of yet,” Grace Akrofi, acting head
of research at the central bank, said in a phone interview
yesterday in Accra. Reserves have been used “to moderate the
levels of the volatility and to meet some demand by importers
that cannot be satisfied by their bankers,” she said.  The cedi has tumbled even as the economy expanded 13.6
percent in 2011 and is forecast by the  Finance Ministry  to grow
9.4 percent this year, boosted by the start of oil production
for export at the Jubilee field in December 2010. The central
bank sold $4.1 billion in 2011 to support the currency, up from
$1.7 billion the year before, Akrofi said.  “I don’t think they anticipated the amount of demand,”
Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, an Africa strategist at Rand Merchant
Bank, said by phone from Johannesburg. “The cedi is under
significant pressure.”  Policy Rate  The central bank held the policy rate at 12.5 percent since
July as inflation in the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer
held at 8.6 percent for a third month in December. The cedi has
declined 10 percent since September. Governor Kwesi Amissah- Arthur will present the Monetary Policy Committee’s decision on
the key lending rate on Feb. 15.  If cedi depreciation persists,  Ghana ’s central bank may
start increasing  interest rates  in the first half of 2012 to
curb the risk of higher inflation, Yvonne Mhango, a
Johannesburg-based economist at  Renaissance Capital , said in a
note Jan. 19.  “Continued foreign exchange demand for imports and other
important commitments are likely to combine with some fiscal
slippage and general risk-aversion in the run-up to the
country’s December 2012 elections,” Michael Kafe and Andrea Masia, economists at Morgan Stanley in Johannesburg wrote in a
Jan. 16 report. The cedi may weaken to 1.85 per dollar by the
year end, they said.  Election Spending  President John Atta Mills is seeking a second term in
office and faces the same challenger he defeated by less than 1
percentage point in 2008. That year, election spending helped
drive the country’s budget deficit to 14.5 percent, according to
the Ministry of Finance and  Economic Planning .  Finance Minister  Kwabena Duffuor  has vowed to keep spending
in check this year, pledging a fiscal gap of 4.8 percent,
unchanged from a year earlier. The current account deficit is
expected to narrow to $2.6 billion this year from $3.5 billion
in 2011, Akrofi said.  “There is commitment of the political leaders that
expenditures are contained,” she said.  “If policy is aggressively tightened, slowing import
demand somewhat, then the growing loss of cedi confidence would
not develop further,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. strategists led
by London-based Stephen Bailey-Smith wrote in a Jan. 18 report.
“If confidence is not proactively re-built, then there is a
possibility we end the year nearer 2 cedi per dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  