-- Glaxo Tests Cheaper Version of Advair for Emerging Markets
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-02-08T15:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/glaxo-is-testing-capsule-based-inhaler-against-advair-diskus-1-.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is testing a
capsule-based inhaler, suggesting the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker
is exploring a cheaper version of its best-selling asthma
therapy for emerging markets or to compete with generic
versions.  Glaxo completed a 60-patient, mid-stage trial in June
comparing its Advair Diskus dry-powder inhaler against the
capsule-based version of the drug-device combination, according
to a posting on the clinicaltrials.gov  website .  The patent for Advair, also marketed as Seretide, will
expire in  Europe  next year. The drug lost patent protection in
the U.S. in 2010, though no generic versions have reached the
market. Regulators call for rigorous studies of breathing-
disorder medicines to show equivalence to older products,
slowing competition. Glaxo has eight respiratory drugs in
“advanced” development, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty 
told reporters yesterday. That doesn’t include the capsule-based
inhaler, the company said today.  “Our strategy has been to develop a broad respiratory
portfolio of new products to add to Seretide,” Witty said.  A single-dose, capsule-based inhaler is less complex and
less expensive than the Advair Diskus, and may be aimed at
customers in emerging markets, Bloomberg Industries analysts
said in a note today. The experimental product may also be
targeting possible generic versions of Advair, such as VR 315,
which is being developed by  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit and
 Vectura Group Plc (VEC) , the analysts said.  Possible Competitors  “Patient access to medicines is at the heart of what we
are doing,” said David Daley, a Glaxo spokesman in London. “We
are committed to exploring how we can deliver high-quality but
affordable medicines for  emerging markets .”  Glaxo may face at least one generic competitor to Advair in
the U.S. as early as 2016 and three or more equivalents in
Europe over the next three to four years, Andrew Baum, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a note to investors on Feb.
3. Possible competitors include  Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries
Ltd. (TEVA)  and Sandoz, he said.  Advair and Seretide revenue totaled 5.06 billion pounds
($8.05 billion) in 2011, or a fifth of Glaxo’s global sales.  Glaxo will seek regulatory approval this year of Relovair,
which the company is developing as a successor to Advair.
Results from a late-stage study on the drug, which didn’t prove
superior to Advair, disappointed investors on Jan. 9. Glaxo is
investigating reports of fatal pneumonia from the highest doses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  