-- Glencore, Xstrata Seal $39 Billion Deal in Two Months After Years of Talks
-- B y   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n
-- 2012-02-08T14:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/glencore-xstrata-sign-41-billion-deal-in-two-months-after-years-of-talks.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s planned
$39 billion takeover of Xstrata Plc, a combination years in the
making, came together in just two months after a pivotal dinner
in  London  last year between Xstrata Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis  and Glencore’s Ivan Glasenberg.  The two executives met at a hotel in London’s West End in
early December to iron out the basis for talks that would fuse
their enterprises, according to people familiar with the matter,
who declined to be identified because the talks were private.
After reaching an agreement, they then brought in 18 advisers
from half a dozen banks to hammer out the details of the all-
share “merger of equals” announced yesterday.  Glencore, which already holds 34 percent of the Zug,
Switzerland-based mining company, offered 2.8 of its shares for
every  Xstrata share , valuing the rest of  Xstrata (XTA)  at 24.3 billion
pounds ($39 billion) at yesterday’s close in the largest mining
takeover ever.  The companies spent about six to seven years laying the
groundwork for the deal, Xstrata CEO Davis, who will lead the
combined company, said yesterday at a press conference.
Negotiations, however, only gathered steam following Glencore’s
$10 billion IPO in May, from which point the executives spoke
“every few weeks,” CEO Glasenberg said in an interview.  Glencore’s offering expedited the talks because it gave
Xstrata  shareholders  an idea of how to value the commodities
trader, a crucial step before trying to strike a non-cash
transaction. The share sale, which valued Glencore at $59
billion, also gave the commodities trader the firepower
necessary to carry out the takeover.  Klein Negotiates  By that point, the two companies had brought in  Michael Klein , the former vice chairman of Citigroup Inc. who struck out
on his own in 2008, to act as a broker between Davis and
Glasenberg. Throughout most of the negotiations, Klein played an
important role relaying the two CEOs’ demands and helping them
come to terms, according to people with knowledge of the talks.
Klein was listed on the merger announcement as a strategic
consultant to both companies.  The merger plans went by the codename “Everest.” Xstrata
Chairman  John Bond  and his Glencore counterpart  Simon Murray ,
both mountaineers, made a trip to Everest a few years before,
when they were both on the board of  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   A spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore declined
to comment, and an Xstrata spokeswoman wasn’t available.
Glencore climbed 0.4 percent to HK$56.70 at 11:57 a.m. in  Hong
Kong  after dropping 3.8 percent in London yesterday. Xstrata
declined 4.9 percent in London yesterday.  The Next Step  By late last year, Davis, 53, and Glasenberg, 55, were
ready to take the next step, and began planning the merger in
earnest, the people said. When Bloomberg broke the news of the
talks on Feb. 2, Glasenberg was at a conference in Moscow.
Xstrata’s  board  was set to meet that same day and Glencore’s on
Feb. 3, as the final details were being hashed out for the deal
to create a company to rival  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   That agreement, which includes giving Davis the role of CEO
and making Glasenberg his deputy, reunites two men who first
crossed paths more than 30 years ago at  South Africa ’s
University of the Witwatersrand, where Davis taught and
Glasenberg received an accounting degree.  Glasenberg later joined the commodities trader Marc Rich &
Co., which was renamed Glencore in 1994 after a  management
buyout . By then, the company had acquired a stake in Sudelektra
AG, a Swiss infrastructure investment company that was renamed
Xstrata in 1999.  Joining Xstrata  Davis, who had helped orchestrate the merger of BHP with
Billiton Plc in 2001, left the combined company to become CEO of
Xstrata months later. Xstrata listed on the London Stock
Exchange the following year, at the same time acquiring the
Australian and South African coal assets of Glencore, still its
largest shareholder.  As partners, Davis and Glasenberg will now have to convince
shareholders of the merits of the deal and the price, which has
some  investors  balking. Garnering their support may yet draw out
the final stretches of a deal almost a decade in the making.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  