-- Glencore’s Glasenberg Returns to Marc Rich Trading Roots With Xstrata Deal
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-02-08T03:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/glencore-s-glasenberg-returns-to-marc-rich-trading-roots-with-xstrata-deal.html
Just eight months after taking
Glencore International Plc public in a $10 billion stock
offering, Ivan Glasenberg is stepping aside as chief executive
officer to go back to his trading roots.  Yesterday, Glencore agreed to buy  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  for about
24.3 billion pounds ($39 billion) in what would be the biggest
takeover ever in the  mining industry , should the deal be
approved. Xstrata CEO  Mick Davis  will lead the combined company
focusing on its assets, which range from African copper mines to
Russian oil wells. Glasenberg, the largest shareholder with an
8.8 percent stake, will become deputy CEO and president and run
the trading operations, traveling to meet customers and looking
for new business opportunities.  The question on many people’s minds, though, is why one of
the wealthiest, most powerful and most secretive players in the
high-stakes commodities trading game would seemingly step aside
and relinquish his CEO post at the very moment of his greatest
triumph? Glasenberg says he’s doing it to get back to what he
loves most about the business, acknowledging that his strengths
lie in buying and selling commodities rather than leading a
public company.  “The trading side of the business means a lot of travel,
being out of the office a lot of time,” Glasenberg said
yesterday at an investor presentation in  London . “Mick running
the company, being CEO of the company, does release a lot of
pressure from me to do more of what I do best.”  Price-Taking  While Glencore operates mines and smelters around the
world, it also supplements that flow of commodities by trading
with 8,000 other suppliers. From its trading offices around the
world, Glencore gathers information on its markets and moves
cargoes by ship and rail to arbitrage prices at different
locations.  This is the commodities-trading world that Glasenberg has
been immersed in for almost the past 30 years. During that time
he has bet on coal and other commodities, buying mines and
smelters during the 1990s when the industry was out of fashion
and reaping the benefits in the last decade as demand from the
developing world sent prices on a tear.  Davis, meanwhile, has run Xstrata more akin to BHP Billiton
Ltd. and Vale SA, the world’s largest mining companies, by
focusing on extracting raw materials in the most efficient
manner and taking the market price. Industry followers generally
endorse the change in role and say it plays to both men’s
strengths.  Marc Rich  “Davis has a way in dealing with investors and the City
which is engaging and openly charming,” says  Charles Cooper , an
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London. “Ivan comes in a
bit more defensive. That’s perhaps because of the culture of not
having to explain the mechanics of his business to the outside
world until recently.”  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment.  Returning to trading would be something of a homecoming for
Glasenberg, who started out 28 years ago on the coal desk of
Marc Rich & Co., the trading firm founded by former fugitive
U.S. financier Marc Rich. Glasenberg, 55, was part of the 1994
 management buyout  from Rich and was instrumental in pursuing a
strategy of buying mines, smelters and refineries that produced
the commodities it traded. He led Glencore to the world’s
largest initial public offering last year, ending 37 years as a
closely held firm.  Metal Acquisitions  “We’re talking to every third-party supplier every day of
the week and our traders are talking to them and buying products
from them,” Glasenberg said yesterday. “When we’re doing that,
we see opportunities which no one else sees.”  Glasenberg was born in  South Africa  and grew up in
Johannesburg. He graduated in 1981 from the University of the
Witwatersrand with a degree in accounting and earned his
accounting certification at Levitt Kirson. He then enrolled at
the University of Southern  California , where he earned a master
of business administration degree in 1983.  The following year, he joined Marc Rich & Co., working in
the company’s coal department in South Africa for three years
and then in Australia for two. Following stints in  Hong Kong  and
 Shanghai , he moved to  Switzerland  and in 1991 became head of the
firm’s coal unit.  By that time, the company was already augmenting its
trading business with industrial assets, having started with a
stake in a U.S. aluminum plant in 1987. Glasenberg led efforts
to acquire coal mines.  ‘Tough Period’  Glasenberg was part of the management team that bought out
 Marc Rich  & Co. in 1994, changing its name to Glencore. At that
point, Glasenberg reported to the new CEO Willy Strothotte.  Strothotte and Glasenberg working together proved a potent
combination. Over the next decade they expanded Glencore’s
portfolio of assets, adding coal in Australia, a U.S. aluminum
smelter and a Philippine copper plant.  “That model, no one can deny, Ivan and Willy were the
first to really pick it,” Andrew Michelmore, CEO of Chinese
miner Minmetals Resources Ltd., said in an interview last year
just before the IPO. “The ‘90s were a tough period where the
minerals industry was regarded as a smokestack industry.’’  Glasenberg made the most of a tough situation,
opportunistically going after troubled companies, even as
Glencore faced challenges of its own. Eventually, he rose to
CEO.  ‘Dinosaurs’ Ousted  ‘‘It was always clear that this guy was going to eventually
replace Willy,’’ said Michael O’Keefe, a former Glencore
managing director who later served as executive chairman of
 Australia ’s Riversdale Mining Ltd.  O’Keefe, who worked for Glasenberg in  Melbourne , remembers
him forcing out the ‘‘dinosaurs” at the company’s Australian
operation.  “He was always very focused on who’s contributing what to
the business,” O’Keefe said in an interview last year.  A string of deals saw Glencore become the world’s largest
shipper of coal used by power stations. A plan to spin off the
coal unit was scrapped after the 9/11 terrorist attacks and
Glencore instead sold the coal assets to Davis at Xstrata, in
which Glencore at the time had a stake of about 40 percent.  In 2002, Glasenberg succeeded Strothotte, just as  China  was
embarking on a decade of economic expansion that would make it
the largest user of metals and drive commodities prices to
records. By 2007 Glencore’s annual net income had swelled to
$1.11 billion on revenue of $142.3 billion. The bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. the following year and the global
recession saw commodity prices plunge.  Crisis Survival  To survive the crisis, Glasenberg cut production and halted
some projects, according to the company’s IPO prospectus.  “Some of the rumors that were running around were that
they had run out of debt facilities and they were cash-
strapped,” Michelmore said.  Even after commodity prices had crashed, Michelmore says
Glasenberg was looking for deals. Michelmore, who at the time
was running cash-poor Australian miner OZ Minerals Ltd., found
himself face to face with the Glencore boss trying to sell a
mine so that he could refinance debt.  “There was Ivan, and he and I were negotiating on a deal
right in the middle of this,” Michelmore said. “He was seeing
opportunities in that market even though he and their business
were under huge pressure.”  Kloppers Friendship  Glasenberg, who was once an Olympic-standard competitive
walker, runs each day and competes in triathlons. He’s friends
with fellow South Africans Davis and BHP Billiton CEO Marius Kloppers.  The challenge for Glasenberg and Davis will be sorting out
their new roles in way that benefits the company and works for
both them.  “There are some tensions there” said  Ian Henderson , a
 fund manager  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. “There’s no
doubt about it when you get two individuals with a great a deal
of skill and history having to work alongside each other it only
works if both parties work hard at it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  