-- Glencore Seen Winning Regulatory Approval for $39 Billion Xstrata Takeover
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-02-08T09:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/glencore-seen-winning-regulatory-approval-for-39-billion-xstrata-takeover.html
The world’s biggest mining deal is
likely to win antitrust approval because the most important
regulator already treats Glencore International Plc and  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  as a single group.  The European Commission, which monitors the world’s largest
market, has considered Glencore and Xstrata one entity because
the Swiss commodity trader  owns 34 percent  of the miner,
suggesting regulators won’t stand in the way of the $39 billion
deal, analysts at Numis Corp. said. The companies control about
30 percent of exports of coal for power stations, 25 percent of
zinc production and 15 percent of copper mining.  “There’s no solid reason why competition authorities would
be anti the merger,” said Charles Cooper, a mining analyst at
Oriel Securities in  London . “Regulator approvals should not
necessarily be an issue of concern.”  Regulatory filings will be required in the U.S.,  Europe ,
South Africa, Australia and  China  and the process won’t be
completed until the third quarter of this year, said Xstrata
Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis , who will fill the same role
in the combined group.  “The market shares are high, but we don’t have any
concerns,” Davis said in a call with analysts yesterday. “In
the past, the European Union has treated Xstrata and Glencore as
one unit. I take that as a precedent.”  In a ruling on Xstrata’s 2006 acquisition of miner
Falconbridge Ltd., the commission said Xstrata was controlled by
Glencore and the overlap between the three companies’ activities
was limited and they would continue to face several strong
competitors.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for  Joaquin Almunia , the
EU’s antitrust chief, declined to comment today.  Longest Approval  China and South African authorities are going to take the
longest to approve the deal, Davis said. He doesn’t expect
Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board to stand in the way
because both companies operate in the country already.  Nonetheless, the range of regulators involved means there
is scope for antitrust investigations to hold up the deal, said
Chris Searle, corporate finance partner at BDO LLP in London.  “Glencore will have to persuade antitrust regulators
around the world to let the deal through, which won’t be an easy
task,” Searle said. “This is by no means a done deal.”  The combined company, to be called Glencore Xstrata
International Plc, will have sales of $209 billion a year and be
most dominant in the trade for thermal coal, a commodity it
mines in  South Africa , Australia and Colombia.  Largest Buyers  Japan ’s power producers are the largest coal buyers in  Asia 
and may be concerned the combined group will have too much
market power as they rely more on fossil fuels after last year’s
Fukushima nuclear disaster, investor Yuuki Sakurai said.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, produces about 20 million metric tons of power station
coal a year and would boost output fivefold through an
acquisition of Xstrata. Japan’s thermal coal imports will
probably rise 3 percent to 104 million tons in 2012, according
to Daiwa Capital Markets.  “Fewer suppliers through mergers and acquisition
activities may oligopolize the market,” Sakurai, chief
executive officer at Fukoku Capital Management Inc. in  Tokyo ,
which manages the equivalent of $20 billion, said by phone.
There’s a “possibility that the negotiating power of the
utilities will weaken.”  The impact on European coal markets, where the U.K. and
 Germany  are the biggest importers, may be more limited because
of the range of suppliers, said Nigel Yaxley, a U.K.-based
independent industry consultant said.  Russia , a country where
neither Xstrata nor Glencore have mines, is the biggest supplier
of coal to the European Union.  “I don’t see it as a big deal at all because of the
liquidity in coal markets,” Yaxley said in a telephone
interview today. “There’s coal from Russia, the U.S.,  Colombia 
and South Africa.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  