-- Gokarn Says Liquidity, Call Rate Decide Open-Market Operations
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-02-08T08:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/gokarn-says-liquidity-call-rate-decide-open-market-operations.html
Subir Gokarn, deputy governor of the
 Reserve Bank of India , comments on options to address a cash
shortfall in the banking system. He spoke to reporters in
Mumbai.  “The motivation for open market operations has always been
liquidity conditions and not the objective of targeting yields
of  government bonds .  ‘‘We do watch two things when we decided that open market
has to be done or not. One is liquidity conditions itself of the
quantum of borrowing from the Liquidity Adjustment Facility,
which has come down to about 1 trillion rupees ($20.4 billion)
and is still outside our stated comfort zone of about 600
billion rupees.  ‘‘The combined impact of the  cash reserve ratio  cut and the
cumulative impact of open market operations is starting to bring
liquidity pressure down.  ‘‘The second thing we watch out for is where the call rate
is. A reason why we did a weekly series of open market
operations is that before the policy action, the call rate had
shown some signs of stress. It had gone above 9.5 percent for a
few days. Now, it is about 20 basis points above the repurchase
rate which we believe is a reflection of normal market
conditions.  ‘‘These are the conditions we are watching to decide if we
need to do open market operations or not. We have not put a stop
to open market operations by any means, they are on the table
and they will remain as a response to liquidity conditions.  ‘‘Cash reserve cut has liquidity and monetary policy
dimensions. So if we are contemplating a CRR cut then we will
have to take a large monetary scenario into account as opposed
to the open market, which only takes into account narrow
aspects. There is a larger set of issues we have to consider
when we think of a CRR cut.  ‘‘Theoretically, the third option is accumulation of
foreign exchange reserves. It will not be motivated by liquidity
objectives. It will be motivated by volatility objectives. That
is an instrument we have used in the  currency market . We have
used it in one direction. We could certainly consider using it
in the opposite direction but that depends entirely on
conditions that prevail in that market.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  