-- Gold May Trade Higher Than Expected, Copper to Suffer: Fairfax
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-02-08T16:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/gold-may-trade-higher-than-expected-copper-to-suffer-fairfax.html
Gold may trade higher than forecast
by Fairfax IS, said  John Meyer , the No. 1 ranked analyst for
U.K. smaller mining companies by Extel for each of the four
years until 2009. Industrial metals, including copper, will
suffer. He commented at the Investing in African Mining Indaba
conference in  Cape Town  today.  Gold:  “We’re pretty cautious and modest about our forecast but
actually we think that we’re going to see price spikes ahead of
that so we’re looking for $1,700 or $1,800 an ounce as a price
average.  “If anything, we might lift that forecast. We’re looking
for a lot of speculative money to come back into this market and
probably some ongoing new  capital investment  out of China and
India as the Indian market gets used to these  price levels 
again.  “It does look as if a lot of money that was taken out of
gold just before Christmas is beginning to move back into this
market.”  “And that will come in through ETFs and physical gold
purchases. And in the meanwhile we’ve got this ongoing move into
gold, particularly in China where government has been
stimulating personal gold holdings of physical bars.”  Copper:  “Copper is going to just suffer a bit. May see some better
performance in the short term, but the prices are likely to come
off again just on less copper consumption by manufacturers and a
cautious outlook.”  Industrial Metals:  “Maybe the industrial metals, copper, aluminum, nickel and
zinc will suffer on the eurozone crisis, the slowdown in
economic activity in  Europe  and the pullback in China as well,
where the government is reining in on  capital spending  and some
of the bigger excesses of the boom they’ve been seeing there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  