-- Goldman’s Gupta, BNP Paribas, Google, JPMorgan in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-08T12:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/goldman-s-gupta-bnp-paribas-google-jpmorgan-in-court-news.html
Rajat Gupta, the ex- Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director accused of giving inside information to fund
manager  Raj Rajaratnam  about that company and  Procter & Gamble
Co ., may face additional allegations he passed tips, prosecutors
said.  Federal prosecutors, at Gupta’s arraignment on revised
charges yesterday, also told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff of a
second “insider at Goldman Sachs” who provided Rajaratnam with
information.  Prosecutors disclosed in a Feb. 3 letter “certain witness
statements related to an insider at Goldman Sachs, a company
that provided information to Mr. Rajaratnam, that did not relate
to Goldman and or Procter & Gamble,” Rakoff said during the
hearing as he read the Feb. 3 letter aloud. Gupta was a director
at Procter & Gamble.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , had previously asked the
government to share any evidence that Rajaratnam had an inside
source at Goldman Sachs other than his client. The defense
lawyer has said the evidence may be used to show that the other
source is the culprit, not Gupta. Rakoff has also pressed
prosecutors to identify the purported source, whom he called
“Mr. X.”  Gupta, 63, pleaded not guilty yesterday to a revised
indictment filed last week. The latest charges broaden the
prosecutors’ description of the insider-trading scheme, saying
it began in March 2007, not in 2008, as the U.S. alleged when
Gupta was first charged in October.  Naftalis said that with the new allegations, they need more
time to prepare for trial. Rakoff agreed to postpone until May
21 from its scheduled start date of April 9.  “What the government is doing here now is wildly expanding
what everybody in the world believed the case to be about,”
Naftalis said, adding later, “I really think it’s quite unfair.
They can investigate my client ‘til the cows come home.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told the judge the
government may file yet another superseding indictment adding
new allegations that Gupta passed tips.  The judge told lawyers that with six additional weeks to
get ready for trial, no further delays will be allowed,
“barring an act of God.”  “My goal is to get this show on the road in a way that’s
fair to all concerned,” he said.  Prosecutors said that even if the judge doesn’t allow them
to further revise the indictment, they may still seek to
introduce evidence at Gupta’s trial of other acts of alleged
wrongdoing.  Naftalis declined to comment on yesterday’s hearing after
court.  Gupta, who denies wrongdoing, faces as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of any of the  securities fraud  charges and
as long as five years if convicted of conspiracy, U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  said. He also faces a fine of as much
as $5 million, prosecutors said.  Rajaratnam, who was convicted by a jury last year of
insider-trading charges, is serving an 11-year prison term.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Four Accused of Running Insiders’ ‘Criminal Club’ Indicted  Four men arrested last month for allegedly participating in
a “criminal club” of inside traders that reaped almost $62
million from Dell Inc. shares were indicted by a federal grand
jury in Manhattan.  One trade earned a $53 million illegal windfall for Level
Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and his fund,
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara alleged. The ring, which
involved five hedge funds and investment firms, is the largest
identified by the U.S. to date tied to a single stock, federal
authorities said.  Chiasson; Todd Newman, a portfolio manager formerly at
Diamondback Capital Management LLC; Jon Horvath, a hedge fund
analyst in New York; and Danny Kuo, a fund manager for Whittier
Trust Co. in South Pasadena,  California , were all named
yesterday in an indictment filed in federal court in New York.
They were charged in total with one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and nine counts of securities fraud.  After a federal grand jury returned the indictment, the
case was assigned to U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan.  Illegal profits earned from the scheme were almost of the
same “magnitude of fraud we proved in the Galleon Group insider
trading scheme,” Bharara said.  A five-year insider-trading probe by Bharara’s office and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York called “Perfect
Hedge” has resulted in charges against 63 people, said Janice
Fedarcyk, head of the FBI’s New York office.  More than 50 have pleaded guilty or been convicted after
trial since 2009, including Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam, who is serving an 11-year prison sentence.  Three men who were charged in the scheme to illegally trade
in Dell stock have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the
U.S. -- Jesse Tortora of Diamondback; Spyridon “Sam”
Adondakis, a Level Global analyst; and Sandeep Goyal, a former
Dell employee, according to Bharara and court records.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-121, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Adondakis,
12-409, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  BNP Paribas Wins Dismissal of Unauthorized Trades Lawsuit  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ’s wealth management unit won dismissal of a
lawsuit filed by Nitine Jantilal, a former client who claimed
the bank made unauthorized trades leading to a shortfall in his
account.  Jantilal sued the bank in 2009 over allegations that a
S$1.1 million ($883,000) reduction in his account was due to the
bank’s breaches. The Indian national had made two of his
relatives co-signatories of his account and claimed he was
unaware of trades based on instructions from them, Singapore
High Court Judge Choo Han Teck said in a ruling yesterday.  Jantilal “assumed the risk of making his relatives
authorized signatories. He cannot now say that he did not
authorize them,” Judge Choo said. BNP Paribas “executed the
specific asset transactions and swap transactions with the
proper authority.”  The decline in asset value in Jantilal’s account was due to
trades made by his authorized signatories and market
fluctuations, according to the ruling.  K. Muralidharan Pillai represented the bank.  The case is Nitine Jantilal v. BNP Paribas Wealth
Management S1048/2009 in the Singapore High Court.  States With Highest Foreclosure Rates Among Bank Deal Holdouts  California, New York, Nevada, Florida and Massachusetts are
among the states that haven’t signed off on a settlement with
 banks  over foreclosure abuses, according to state officials and
two people familiar with the talks.  The holdouts include some with the highest rates of
foreclosures. More than 6 percent of Nevada housing units had at
least one foreclosure filing in 2011, the nation’s highest rate,
according to RealtyTrac. California was third-highest with more
than 3 percent, said the firm, which tracks foreclosures.  California Attorney General Kamala Harris and New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , who have been among the most
outspoken in pushing for changes to the accord, were among those
who hadn’t joined as of a Feb. 6 deadline. More than 40 states
signed on, said Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is helping
to lead talks with the banks.  “Adding more numbers probably improves the political
dimension of the settlement from the standpoint of the attorneys
general,” said Ken Scott, a Stanford University law professor.
“If you can say there were only a handful of diehards that
didn’t sign on, that gives you some political protection.”  All 50 states announced almost 16 months ago they were
investigating bank foreclosure practices following disclosures
that faulty documents were being used to seize homes. Officials
from states and federal agencies, including the  Justice
Department , have since negotiated terms of a proposed settlement
with five banks that is said to be worth as much as $25 billion.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  and Florida
Attorney General Pam Bondi hadn’t joined as of yesterday, said
the two people, who declined to be identified because the matter
isn’t public. Delaware and Nevada also hadn’t agreed to the
settlement as of Feb. 6, according to their offices.  Miller said federal and state officials continue to discuss
the proposed deal and its terms with the banks.  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  made a last-minute demand that New York drop claims filed
against them Feb. 3 as a condition of the settlement, a person
familiar with that case said. The push by the three banks raised
an obstacle in getting Schneiderman’s support for the deal, said
the person.  New York sued Bank of America, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo in
state court in Brooklyn, saying their use of a mortgage database
known as MERS led to improper foreclosures.  Dani Lever, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment on the demand by the banks over the MERS lawsuit.
Schneiderman, who was scheduled to make remarks on the
settlement talks yesterday, postponed the conference call
indefinitely, according to a statement.  Mark Rodgers, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup; Tom
Goyda of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo; Tom Kelly, a spokesman
at New York-based JPMorgan; and Gina Proia of Detroit-based Ally
Financial declined to comment on the proposed settlement terms.  “We’re interested in finding a path forward with a
comprehensive settlement that benefits homeowners and
communities,” said  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declining to comment further.  For more, click here.  News Corp.’s Times Mislead U.K. Court About Computer Hacking  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Times newspaper in  London  misled a court and
lawyers for a police officer who suspected his e-mail account
had been hacked by a reporter, editor James Harding told a media
inquiry.  “In the last couple of weeks, I’ve learned a great deal
more about what happened in this incident,” Harding told the
inquiry that was set up in response to the phone-hacking scandal
at News Corp.’s now defunct News of the World. “I sorely regret
the intrusion.”  Reporter Patrick Foster hacked into officer Richard
Horton’s e-mail in May 2009 to expose him as the writer of an
unauthorized “Nightjack” blog about police work. Lawyers for
Horton, to prevent the story from being published, raised the
possibility that the e-mail had been illegally accessed.  Foster told his editor and the newsroom’s lawyer who
advised him to continue to pursue the story through legitimate
means and told Horton’s counsel that his identity was revealed
through deduction, Harding said.  The Metropolitan Police Service is investigating the Times
over e-mail hacking, Labour party lawmaker Tom Watson said in an
e-mail last week. The paper is the third News Corp. title in
London to come under suspicion in related probes of phone
hacking, computer hacking and bribes to police officers. The
scandal erupted in July after revelations that the News of the
World accessed messages on a murdered schoolgirl’s mobile phone.  Foster didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail.  For more, click here.  UBS Says Swiss Regulator Granted Immunity in Libor Investigation  UBS AG (UBSN)  said it was given immunity from a second antitrust
regulator as part of an investigation into whether the London
Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, was manipulated.  The bank has conditional immunity from the Swiss
Competition Commission regarding submissions for Yen Libor,
Euroyen Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate, or Tibor, and Swiss franc
Libor rates, the bank said in a regulatory filing yesterday. UBS
was granted similar immunity by the U.S. Department of Justice
in regards to Yen Libor and Euroyen Tibor because it is
cooperating with the probe, the Zurich-based bank said last
year.  UBS won’t be prosecuted, fined, or face other sanctions
from the Swiss regulator if it continues to cooperate, it said.
The regulator said last week that it was investigating 12 banks,
including UBS and Credit Suisse Group AG, over how the benchmark
for about $350 trillion of financial products is set.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Justice Department,
 Japan ’s Financial Supervisory Agency and the U.K. Financial
Services Authority are investigating whether there were attempts
to manipulate Libor rates. European Union antitrust regulators
are also examining Libor rates.  For more, click here.  Google Removes Search, YouTube Content on Indian Court Order  Google Inc. (GOOG)  removed content from its India domains that was
deemed objectionable by a New Delhi district court after a civil
lawsuit against the owner of the world’s largest search engine.  The material was blocked from India search results,
YouTube, Blogger and the social-networking site Orkut, said
Gaurav Bhaskar, a spokesman for Google India. The content was
deleted from domains .in and .co.in, while remaining accessible
from other countries, Bhaskar said yesterday. Google can’t take
down content that appears on websites owned by other companies
and individuals, he said.  India is stepping up scrutiny of Internet postings and
mobile communications as it tries to eliminate provocative
comments and curb discord between religious groups. The Hindu-
majority South Asian country is home to more than 138 million
Muslims, comprising about 13 percent of the world’s second-
largest population.  “This step is in accordance with Google’s long-standing
policy of responding to court orders,” the company said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  The statement didn’t provide details about the lawsuit or
the content that was removed, and Bhaskar didn’t elaborate.  The order follows a civil complaint filed by Mufti Aijaz
Arshad Quasmi, an Indian activist who seeks the removal of
videos and images that could be seen as offensive to Muslims,
his lawyer Santosh Pandey said yesterday.  For more, click here.  Raytheon Executive Fined in $1 Billion FAA Contract Lawsuit  A  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  executive was fined by a  Washington  court
for failing to give opponents in a lawsuit a reprimand letter
stemming from an affair with a subordinate while both worked at
the Federal Aviation Administration.  Charles E. Keegan, leader of Raytheon’s Civil Aviation
Solutions division, violated a court order to turn over to
Washington Consulting Group Inc. the document showing he had an
improper romantic relationship with the woman, Judge A. Franklin
Burgess Jr. of the District of Columbia Superior Court ruled
Feb. 7.  For the past two years, Washington Consulting Group, or
WCG, has argued that the relationship began at the FAA, and
continued after Keegan left for Raytheon and Maureen Knopes, now
Keegan’s wife, became responsible for a contracting program to
train air traffic controllers. WCG held the contract for more
than 20 years until Raytheon won it in 2008.  The Bethesda, Maryland-based company is seeking $1 billion
in damages from Raytheon and Keegan, claiming the relationship
contaminated the bidding process on the 10-year contract. Keegan
and his wife, now Knopes-Keegan, conspired with others to
reconfigure the FAA’s contracting program and stole  WCG ’s trade
secrets to ensure Raytheon would take the business, the lawsuit
claims.  “Though it is faced with conflicting evidence as to
whether Keegan’s failure to produce the reprimand letter was
inadvertent or intentional, the court reaches the same
conclusion in either case,” the judge said, ordering Keegan to
pay a portion of legal fees to opposing counsel.  The couple’s romance was investigated by the Transportation
Department’s inspector general. In 2004, a top FAA official
reprimanded Keegan in a letter for having an “inappropriate
relationship” that created a “perception of favoritism” and
the appearance of “giving preferential treatment” to Knopes-
Keegan, according to the judge’s ruling.  The letter wasn’t disclosed to WCG until Keegan was being
interviewed in the case in December. Keegan said in court
filings that the document was found in a box in his basement
that contained work papers along with a weather dial and a
runner’s bib.  “These rulings are unrelated to the merits of the case,”
Jon Kasle, a spokesman for Waltham, Massachusetts-based
Raytheon, said in an e-mail. “Raytheon continues to maintain
that WCG’s suit is without merit,” he said, adding that the
company is reviewing the rulings and will defend itself and
Keegan.  Steven Thomas, a lawyer for WCG, said in an e-mail the
ruling means Raytheon “now must face public scrutiny of its
misconduct.”  The case is Washington Consulting Group Inc. v. Raytheon
Technical Services Co. LLC, 10-00296, Superior Court of the
District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Hong Kong Regulator Says It Should Be Able to Redress Investors  Hong Kong’s securities regulator, whose attempt to ban New
York-based hedge fund Tiger Asia Management LLC last year from
trading was blocked by a court, said it should have the right to
redress investors.  “If private individuals can seek civil remedies, why does
the SFC have to wait?” Benjamin Yu, a lawyer representing the
Securities and Futures Commission, told Hong Kong’s Court of
Appeal yesterday.  The regulator is trying to overturn a court ruling that it
lacks the power to unwind Tiger Asia’s transactions in the
market and ban the hedge fund and employees from trading in Hong
Kong before proving insider trading allegations in a tribunal or
criminal court.  The SFC alleges the hedge fund traded on inside information
from bankers arranging placements of  China Construction Bank
Corp. (939)  and Bank of China Ltd. shares in 2008 and 2009, pocketing
HK$38.5 million ($4.9 million). Tiger Asia, which has no
employees and physical presence in Hong Kong, denied the
allegations in an Oct. 12, 2010 letter to investors.  The legal battle, which both the SFC and Tiger Asia’s
founder Bill Hwang have pledged to take to Hong Kong’s top
court, will determine whether the agency can sue independently
for relief without working through government departments to
bring a criminal case or civil inquiry. Tiger Asia’s lawyers
argue the regulator can’t use a provision for freezing assets to
bring its own lawsuit against them.  “It was never intended that the SFC should have an
unchecked ability to seek a contravention of market
misconduct,” Charles Sussex, representing Tiger Asia and its
officers, argued before the court yesterday.  Criminal proceedings or a civil tribunal inquiry “are not
preconditions to investors taking action,” said Judge Robert
Tang from the bench yesterday. “If small investors don’t have
to wait, why should the SFC have to wait?”  The three appeals court judges reserved their judgment and
will hand down their decision at a later date.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Tiger
Asia Management LLC, Sung Kook Hwang Bill, Raymond Park, William
Tomita, CACV178/2011 in the Hong Kong Court of Appeal.  Some Stanford Assets Were Profitable, Ex-CFO Tells Jurors  R. Allen Stanford’s businesses collapsed in part because
the stock market imploded and a court-appointed receiver
destroyed much of the companies’ value after they were seized by
the government, Ex-Stanford Financial Group Co. finance chief
James M. Davis told jurors.  Davis, testifying yesterday for the government under a plea
deal at Stanford’s federal court trial in Houston, was shown a
letter he wrote shortly after regulators seized Stanford’s
companies in February 2009.  “There was from the start never a thought to put the
clients in harm’s way in this process, never a hint of criminal
intent,” Robert Scardino, a lawyer for Stanford, read from the
letter, which Davis said he wrote to an attorney he was trying
to hire to defend him at the time.  “The underlying global business growth model remained
strong,” Davis wrote in the letter, adding that some of
Stanford’s businesses were moving toward profitability.  “Isn’t that 180 degrees opposite from what you’ve been
telling this jury?” Scardino asked Davis. “You said these
companies had no value.”  Davis responded, “A number of the companies Stanford owned
were growing; they were worth something.” The 2009 letter
“could be true under certain circumstances,” he said.  The former finance chief told jurors he changed his mind a
month after writing that letter, when he met with his current
attorney, who persuaded him to seek a plea deal. “But at the
time I was still lying,” he said of the letter. “I was still
in the middle of it.”  Davis’s testimony may bolster Stanford’s defense that he
never intended to defraud investors of $7 billion through what
the government says was a Ponzi scheme built on bogus
certificates of deposit at Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank.  Stanford’s lawyers claim accountants were in the process of
consolidating companies the financier funded with $2 billion in
secret bank loans onto the Antiguan bank’s portfolio when
regulators stepped in and stopped the process.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Acer Sues Former Chief Lanci Over Non-Compete Clause  Acer Inc. (2353)  sued former president and chief executive officer
Gianfranco Lanci in an Italian court seeking damages for breach
of a non-compete clause, the Taipei-based company said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Lanci left Acer last year after helming the company for
more than six years. Rival  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  in September
announced he would join the company as a consultant, and last
month named him head of its newly-created Europe, Middle-East
and Africa unit.  Acer Chairman J.T. Wang and Lanci met March 28 last year to
agree on the terms of the Italian’s departure after they
couldn’t resolve disagreements over the company’s future
direction, Wang said in a May interview. Lanci’s resignation was
announced three days later, exposing a feud between the two
sides over product strategy and internationalization of the
Taiwanese company. Lanci confirmed accounts of that meeting in a
separate interview.  “We believe Mr. Lanci has breached his non-compete
measures agreed into willingly by both parties when he left
Acer,” the company said in yesterday’s statement.  We are
taking legal action against him in order to protect Acer’s
rights and interests.’’  Calls to Lanci’s Italian mobile phone and e-mail to his
personal account weren’t answered.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  JPMorgan Reaches Tentative Settlement in AFTRA Pension Suit  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and the American Federation of
Television and Radio Artists Retirement Fund reached an
“agreement in principal” to settle a suit claiming losses from
the bank’s securities lending program.  The settlement is to be announced on the plaintiffs’
website, according to a statement provided yesterday by
Stephanie Cirkovich, a spokeswoman for the federal court in
Manhattan, where the AFTRA fund filed its suit.  “The parties are drafting a formal settlement agreement,
to be submitted to the court for approval within approximately
three weeks,” according to the statement. “The settlement
terms will remain confidential until the agreement is submitted
to the court. The settlement is subject to the court’s approval
and to certain other conditions.”  The fund sued in 2009, claiming it lost money that New
York-based JPMorgan invested for it in medium-term notes issued
by Sigma Finance Corp., a structured investment vehicle that
collapsed in 2008.  The case is Board of Trustees of the AFTRA Retirement Fund
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 09-cv-686, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  California Gay Marriage Ban Ruled Unlawful by Appeals Court  California’s voter-backed Proposition 8 law declaring
marriage to be only between a man and a woman was ruled
unconstitutional by a federal appeals court.  The San Francisco-based court, ruling 2-1, yesterday upheld
the 2010 decision of a federal court judge who said the measure
violated constitutional equal protection rights of same-sex
couples. That ruling came in the first federal trial over
whether it’s legal to ban marriage by gays and lesbians.  “The people may not employ the initiative power to single
out a disfavored group for unequal treatment and strip them,
without a legitimate justification, of a right as important as
the right to marry,” the U.S. Court of Appeals said in its
 ruling .  Proponents and advocates of Proposition 8 had appealed the
decision of U.S. District Judge Vaughn Walker in San Francisco.
They argued that that the measure, which was approved by 52
percent of California voters in 2008 after the California
 Supreme Court  legalized gay marriage, reflected the traditional
definition of marriage and furthered the state’s interests in
“responsible procreation.”  The appeals court yesterday kept in place its earlier order
putting Walker’s ruling on hold. Proposition 8 proponents said
they will continue their court battle to uphold the measure and
hope to win in the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L) .  “We are not surprised that this Hollywood-orchestrated
attack on marriage -- tried in San Francisco -- turned out this
way,” Brian Raum, an attorney for proponents and senior counsel
at the legal group Alliance Defense Fund, said in an e-mail.
“But we are confident that the expressed will of the American
people in favor of marriage will be upheld at the Supreme
Court.”  “Every pro-marriage American should be pleased that this
case can finally go to the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L) ,” Raum said.  Carla Hass, another attorney for the Proposition 8
proponents, said her clients were deciding whether to petition
for a rehearing of the case before a larger panel of appeals
court judges, or petition the Supreme Court for review without
delay. An immediate appeal to the high court would allow for a
hearing during the nine-month term that starts in October.  The appeals court in San Francisco could decide on its own
to rehear the case before more judges, Hass said in a phone
interview.  The cases are Perry v. Brown, 11-17255 and 11-16577, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, San Francisco.  For more, click here.  GlaxoSmithKline Among Companies Paying $25 Million to State  Actavis Group HF and Merck & Co. Inc.’s Schering-Plough
were among five companies that paid a total of $25.2 million to
settle claims that they overcharged Louisiana for drugs for low-
income patients.  The two companies and Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Dey Pharma
LP and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  resolved civil claims that they
inflated drug prices to get larger reimbursements from the
state’s Medicaid program, Louisiana Attorney General James
“Buddy” Caldwell said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The
state claimed the companies misreported average wholesale prices
for the drugs.  Louisiana has sued more than 100 drug companies, accusing
them of fraud and violating the state’s unfair trade practices
and consumer protection law. The statement didn’t specify the
amount that each company is paying.  Representatives of GlaxoSmithKline, Actavis, Boehringer
Ingelheim and Dey Pharma didn’t immediately return phone calls.
 Ron Rogers , a spokesman for Merck, didn’t have an immediate
comment.  Fourteen Hospitals Reach $12 Million False Claims Accord  Fourteen hospitals in New York and six other states agreed
to pay more than $12 million in total to settle allegations that
they submitted false claims to Medicare, the U.S. Justice
Department said.  Four hospitals affiliated with  Adventist Health
System/Sunbelt Inc.  in Florida will pay the largest sum, $3.9
million, according to an e-mailed statement by the Justice
Department. Plainview Hospital in Plainview, New York, will pay
$2.3 million, the largest single hospital payment, the agency
said.  The settlement resolves civil claims that the hospitals
overcharged Medicare for eight years starting in 2000 for the
cost of performing kyphoplasty procedures, which treat spinal
fractures due to osteoporosis. In total, more than 40 hospitals
have paid at least $39 million to settle such overbilling
claims, the Justice Department said.  “By recovering taxpayer dollars lost to improper billing,
this settlement will help support the vital public health care
programs we depend on,” Assistant Attorney General  Tony West 
said in the statement.  The settlements follow a 2008 whistle-blower lawsuit
brought under the False Claims Act by two men who had worked for
Kyphon Inc., a maker of surgical equipment. The men, a former
regional sales manager and an ex-reimbursement manager, will
collect a total $2.1 million from the settlements.  Plainview Hospital, which is part of the North Shore-Long
Island Jewish Health System, said in a statement that the
dispute concerned “technical billing allegations,” and it
denied violating the law.  “Settlement without any admission of liability avoids the
significant costs and distraction of litigation against the
government,” the hospital said. Representatives of Adventist
Health System didn’t immediately respond to phone calls seeking
comment on the settlement.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court News  Rajaratnam Judge Announces Departure in Press Release  The U.S. judge who sentenced Raj Rajaratnam to 11 years in
prison for insider trading after a trial where he often closed
proceedings and sealed files used a public relations firm to
announce he was quitting the bench.  Richard Holwell, 65, revealed his departure yesterday in a
press release advertising the creation of his new Manhattan law
firm, Holwell Shuster & Goldberg. The announcement was
circulated by Hellerman Baretz Communications LLC.  In response to a question last week on reports he planned
to leave the judiciary, Holwell said he told a court spokeswoman
it’s not his practice “to talk about my future plans.”  “I gave the chief judge a heads-up a week or two ago,”
Holwell said yesterday in an interview, referring to U.S.
District Judge  Loretta Preska . “I didn’t think it was
appropriate to ask the court to issue a press release,” Holwell
said. “I thought I should be the guy to do it.”  The announcement comes a day after Holwell published his
last ruling in the Rajaratnam case, a 39-page opinion giving the
reasons for how he calculated the applicable federal sentencing
guidelines. The hedge fund manager’s sentence was the longest in
U.S. history for insider trading.  Holwell said he wanted to finish that ruling before leaving
the bench, along with a decision in a securities case against
 Vivendi SA (VIV)  and another denying a request to block toll increases
on New York-area bridges and tunnels. His new firm opened
yesterday, according to the press release.  Holwell spent more than 30 years as an attorney with  White
& Case LLP (1116L)  in Manhattan before President George W. Bush
appointed him to the federal bench in 2003.  Holwell’s new firm includes Michael Shuster and Daniel
Goldberg, lawyers he practiced with at White & Case. Holwell
Shuster & Goldberg plans to represent clients in complex
commercial, securities, antitrust and bankruptcy litigation,
according to the press release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 