-- Goldman Sachs’s Lucas van Praag to Leave Firm After 12 Years
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-08T14:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/goldman-sachs-s-spokesman-lucas-van-praag-will-leave-firm-after-12-years.html
Lucas  van Praag , who became one of
the public faces of the U.S. financial industry as  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s global head of corporate communications, is leaving
the firm after 12 years.  Van Praag, a 62-year-old British citizen, will retire at
the end of March and continue to provide strategic advice as a
consultant to the company, according to an internal memo signed
by Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein and President Gary D. Cohn. The memo’s contents were confirmed by  Michael DuVally ,
a spokesman. Van Praag was promoted to partner, the highest rank
in the New York-based company, in 2006.  “Lucas has played a critical role in helping the firm
navigate through one of the most difficult and testing
environments the firm has faced, particularly during the
financial crisis and its aftermath,” Blankfein and Cohn said in
the memo. “His strategic counsel and deep understanding of
complex issues defined his career at the firm as did his warmth,
natural inclusiveness and determination in the face of
relentless demands.”  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, has
been in talks with Richard “Jake” Siewert Jr., 48, a former
counselor to U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , to
manage the bank’s communications department, three people
familiar with the situation said last week. Siewert worked as a
press secretary for President  Bill Clinton  and managed corporate
development and public strategy at  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  before joining
Treasury in 2009.  Other Partners Leave  Van Praag follows about 50 partners who left Goldman Sachs
in the last year amid sagging profits and pay. Six members of
the firm’s management committee, including trading co-heads
David B. Heller and Edward K. Eisler, also left in the last 12
months. The company eliminated 2,400 jobs last year as it
reduced compensation 21 percent.  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history before converting to a bank in 2008, has been
criticized by regulators and politicians for activities leading
to 2008’s financial crisis. Blankfein, 57, settled a Securities
and Exchange Commission lawsuit against the firm in 2010,
reviewed the company’s business standards and rolled out an
advertising campaign.  Van Praag became  known  for his disparaging rebuttals to
negative stories, favoring phrases like “nonsense” and
“extraordinarily ill-informed.” Goldman Sachs partners are
typically the firm’s highest compensated employees. Van Praag
paid $7.85 million in August 2008 for a townhouse on  New York ’s
Upper West Side, the Real Deal  reported  at the time, citing
public records.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 