-- Gold-Medal Swimmer Phelps Says Still Has Much to Prove at London Olympics
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-08T20:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/gold-medal-swimmer-phelps-says-still-has-much-to-prove-at-london-olympics.html
Michael Phelps , already the winner of
the most gold medals in Olympic history, says he still has goals
to meet as he prepares to swim in his fourth Games this year in
 London .  He just won’t say what they are.  At the 2008 Olympics in Beijing, the American won eight
gold medals, the most at a single Olympics -- bringing his
career total to a record 14. His 16 total medals are two behind
Soviet gymnast Larisa Latynina, who won 18 from 1956 to 1964.  After a three-year stretch during which he said he lost
motivation to train, the 26-year-old Phelps said today in an
interview that he has rediscovered his love for swimming and
feels better than he had at any time since his record-setting
performance in  China . As he did four years ago, he won’t specify
what he wants to prove when the London Games begin on July 27.  “That’s the million-dollar question,” Phelps said in New
York following the announcement of a marketing campaign with
 Procter & Gamble  Co.’s Head & Shoulders shampoo brand. “There
are goals that I think are meaningful, and some that are special
to me, helping me get out of bed in the morning and into the
pool.”  That recent motivation has been critical for Phelps. He
said it took until the world championships last year in  Shanghai 
for him to get back to the training that helped him win more
Olympic medals than any American athlete.  “Over the last three years, I was golfing more than I was
swimming,” Phelps said. “This is the most excited I’ve been
since going into Beijing, this is the best shape I’ve been in
since going into Beijing.”  International Appeal  Hanneke Faber, a Procter & Gamble vice president in charge
of hair-care products, today unveiled a new sport shampoo, to be
released in more than 100 countries. She said Phelps offers more
from an international standpoint than athletes such as  New York 
Giants quarterback  Eli Manning , the Most Valuable Player of this
month’s  Super Bowl . Procter & Gamble, based in Cincinnati, is
the world’s biggest consumer-products company.  “Eli Manning is obviously huge here, but if you go to
India or China, people are going to have no earthly clue who
that is,” said Faber, an All-American diver at the  University
of Houston  in 1991. “Michael is one of not even a handful of
global athletes who is truly iconic.”  Matt Delzell, a group account director at  The Marketing
Arm , a Dallas-based promotional company, said it is tough for
Olympic athletes to stay relevant because they are in the public
spotlight once every four years. He said Phelps, one of a rare
breed of Olympic athletes capable of carrying sponsorships
through non-Olympic years, remains marketable despite the layoff
since his last gold medals.  ‘Spike and Dip’  “In those three years in between there’s not a lot of
chance for him to build his brand, for him to build awareness,”
Delzell said in a telephone interview. “There is a spike and
then a dip for three years, and then a spike and then a dip for
another three years.”  Phelps pleaded guilty in 2004 to driving under the
influence of alcohol, and in 2009 a British newspaper published
photos of him with a bong, typically used for smoking marijuana.
Phelps apologized for both transgressions.  Faber said the issues didn’t affect her company’s desire to
work with Phelps, who also has sponsorships with Speedo athletic
wear, Subway sandwich ships, Under Armour sports gear and Omega
watches.  “The fact that he bounced back from that is a testament to
him and his team, and four years later he is still one of the
more marketable Olympians in the world,” Delzell said.  New Competition  Phelps, named the American Swimmer of the Year eight times
from 2001 to 2009, has struggled in the pool at times since
Beijing.  Ryan Lochte , a 27-year-old who has won the award the
last two years, beat Phelps in both the 200-meter freestyle and
200-meter medley at the world championships last year.  Phelps said the experience gained in three previous
Olympics will benefit him in London.  “Going into 2004, I was a deer in headlights and going
into 2008 was a little bit better,” Phelps said. “Right now, I
feel more relaxed and laid-back than I have going into any of my
Olympics. I think I will be able to use that this time around.”  Phelps said he knows, and won’t divulge, the races he
intends to swim in London. He is keeping track of the time until
the Games start -- “It’s about 173 days,” he told reporters
today. He travels to  Colorado Springs ,  Colorado , on Feb. 12 to
begin three weeks of altitude training.  “I’m older, I don’t recover like I used to, but this is
the time to make sure I am doing all the little things
correctly,” he said. “That’s one of the reasons I have been
able to feel myself coming back to the old me once again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  