-- Turkish Buyouts Seen Increasing as Buyers Bid More
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-02-08T09:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/goldman-s-utku-sees-more-turkey-buyouts-as-buyers-raise-prices.html
Turkey may see more of its companies
acquired as buyers raise offers to match premiums demanded by
sellers, according to Utku Ozay, an  executive director  at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  “The gap between valuations and buyers is decreasing, and
that’s basically because buyers are increasing their
valuations,” Ozay said at a conference on acquisition finance
in Istanbul yesterday. “For the right story, there is
willingness to pay more for Turkish companies. Prices are
increasing, the multiples are increasing, so we may see more
deals.”  Turkey had 114 mergers and acquisitions worth $9.3 billion
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The country
may attract between $12 billion and $13 billion in 2012, Ilker
Ayci, head of the Investment Support and Promotion Agency, told
Hurriyet newspaper in December. The figure could reach as much
as $26 billion, according to Istanbul-based brokerage BGC
Partners.  Failure to close deals in  Turkey  in the past has been
largely due to unwillingness to pay the premiums Turkish sellers
demand, Ozay said.  “It’s not a lack of interest, it’s basically not being
able to come to an agreement on valuation.”  Turkish deal flow may also be increased by conglomerates
selling off assets to invest in energy and infrastructure, which
are expected to be key growth areas in Turkey, according to
Mustafa Tiftikcioglu, senior vice president in charge of project
and acquisition finance at  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , who was
also speaking at the seminar.  “Conglomerates who want to take significant positions in
energy or infrastructure will dispose of non-core assets,” he
said.  More than $10 billion of Turkish energy grid privatizations
last year were canceled after the winning bidders at auction
failed to make the down-payments necessary to complete the
transactions, indicating difficulty funding the deals, Ozay
said.  “In Turkey, buyers tend to look for financing after they
win the asset,” Ozay said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  