-- Google Privacy Changes Must Be Stopped, Argues Lawsuit Seeking FTC Action
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-02-08T23:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/google-privacy-changes-must-be-stopped-group-s-lawsuit-claims.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s planned changes to its
privacy policy violate a consent order signed with the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission last year and should be blocked, a
 Washington  advocacy group said in a lawsuit.  Google’s plan to streamline privacy settings for some 60
different services and products on March 1 would allow the
company to combine more information about users, reduce users’
control of their own data and give more personal information to
advertisers, the  Electronic Privacy Information Center  said. The
group seeks to compel the FTC to enforce the consent decree.  The lawsuit’s demands on the agency could trigger a
regulatory challenge to Google’s business practices at a time
when the FTC is already cracking down on how Internet companies
collect and use consumer data.  The agency’s 2011 settlement with Google over privacy,
which barred sharing user data outside the company without clear
permission, stemmed from a complaint filed by the advocacy group
in 2010.  “To date, the FTC has failed to take any action with
respect to Google’s privacy changes,”  Marc Rotenberg , executive
director of the group, said in the complaint filed today in
federal court in Washington. “The consolidation of customer
information across Google services is a clear misappropriation
of customer information, and presents a great threat to consumer
privacy.”  No Changes  Chris Gaither , a spokesman for Google, said the complaint
by the group, known as EPIC, “is wrong on the facts and on the
law.” He said Google’s new privacy policy doesn’t change how
any personal information is shared outside of Google and that
the company has given users “ample time” to understand the
changes.  “We’ll continue to offer choice and control over how
people use Google,” Gaither added.  Cecelia Prewett, a spokeswoman for the FTC, said, “We take
compliance with our consent orders very seriously and always
look carefully at any evidence that they are being violated.’  The agency last year settled privacy complaints with
Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.  Google, the world’s most-popular search engine, announced
plans on Jan. 24 to unify privacy policies for products
including YouTube videos and Android software for mobile phones,
saying it will simplify conditions users agree to.  Data Collection  That also means Google will be able to pull together
everything it knows about users from its disparate products. A
consumer’s YouTube viewing history can be used to tailor results
in  Google Search  while an individual’s search history will
enable more relevant ads across Google products, Gaither said.  Users will benefit from such functions as adding an
appointment to their calendar from a Gmail message or reading
Google Docs within Gmail, Gaither said  EPIC claims in its lawsuit that the changes will let
advertisers gain access to increased amounts of personal
information. Gaither said that’s incorrect.  Google, amid growing competition from Facebook Inc.’s
social networking service, is seeking increased  revenue  from
advertisements served up on the basis of personal interests
garnered from Internet and mobile phone activity.  Competition for Ads  Facebook wrested the lead in U.S. online display ads from
Yahoo! Inc. in 2011, taking a 16.3 percent share, according to
researcher EMarketer Inc. Google remained in the No. 3 spot with
9.3 percent last year.  Under the consent decree announced March 30,  Mountain View ,
California-based Google agreed it used deceptive tactics and
violated its own privacy policies when it introduced its Buzz
social-networking service in 2010.  The 20-year settlement bars Google from misrepresenting how
it handles information and obliges the company to follow
policies that protect consumer data in new products.  Google’s new privacy policy is also under review by data-
protection agencies in Ireland and  France .  Google’s settlement with the FTC stems from a Feb. 16,
2010, complaint filed by EPIC. The center asked the FTC to
investigate whether the Buzz harmed consumers when it
automatically revealed private e-mail contacts from Google’s
Gmail service to other Buzz members.  The FTC has authority to levy fines of as much as $16,000 a
day for each violation of the consent decrees.  The case is Electronic Privacy Information Center v.
Federal Trade Commission, 12-00206-ABJ, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 