-- Google May Open Retail Store at European Headquarters in Dublin
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-02-08T20:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/google-may-open-retail-store-at-european-headquarters-in-dublin.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  may open its first stand-
alone retail store at its European headquarters in Dublin,
according to a  filing  by the world’s most popular search engine.  The Google Store would be open to the public and sell
unspecified “Google merchandise,” Google’s Irish unit said in
a local planning application. Located in Dublin’s Montevetro
office block, the shop would include about 123 square meters
(1,323 square feet) of space with an added mezzanine floor
extension.  “While we do have the option to open retail space, we are
examining all potential uses,” the  Mountain View , California-
based company said today in an e-mailed statement. “No final
decision has been taken.”  Retail may be a new front in Google’s competition with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , whose 361 stores have fueled sales of iPods, iPhones
and iPad tablet computers. Google, the world’s biggest maker of
smartphone operating software, is in the process of buying
handset maker Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. for $12.5 billion
to help it compete with Apple’s phones and Microsoft Corp.’s
mobile software.  Google opened a store inside of a  London  branch of Currys
and PC World, units of Dixons Retail Plc, as a trial for selling
laptop computers, the Daily Telegraph newspaper reported in
October.  California Store  Google has a store for its merchandise at its headquarters
in California, which isn’t open to the public. The company also
offers its merchandise at www.googlestore.com, featuring
everything from baby bibs to notebooks with the Google logo.  The planning application, prepared by consultants John
Spain Associates for Google Ireland Inc., was approved by the
Dublin City Council on Jan. 23. The document also describes a
staff swimming pool in an area designed for use as a restaurant.  Google’s Dublin office is its largest location outside of
the U.S., according to the filing. It purchased the Montevetro
site in April for about 100 million euros from  Real Estate
Opportunities Plc. (REO)  Google will have more than 3,000 employees in
the Dublin area after it expands into the building and
refurbishes its existing headquarters across the street,
according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  in Berlin at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 