-- Greece Private Creditors to Meet in Paris Tomorrow on Debt Swap
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-02-08T14:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/greek-private-creditors-said-to-meet-in-paris-tomorrow-on-swap.html
Greece ’s private creditors plan to
meet in Paris tomorrow to discuss a debt-swap deal that’s
contingent on the country securing a second aid package from
European and international officials, Institute of International
Finance spokesman  Frank Vogl  said.  The IIF is holding the meeting to go over technical matters
so that if an accord between Greece and the so-called troika,
comprising the European Commission, the  European Central Bank 
and the  International Monetary Fund , is reached, the debt swap
could be implemented quickly, said two people familiar with the
matter who declined to be identified because talks are private.  Private creditors are still prepared to accept an average
coupon as low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the
exchange, said one of the people, who declined to be identified.
While the framework of the swap and many of the details have
been agreed upon, the deal can’t be completed until the
government agrees on the terms with domestic political parties
and the troika on the second financing package, the person said.  “We now are expecting the Greek leadership to discuss
things with the troika and the Eurogroup,” Vogl said. “All
elements of what will eventually be an agreement are contingent
on other elements.”  IIF Managing Director  Charles Dallara  and  Jean Lemierre ,
co-heads of the steering committee leading talks on behalf of
creditors, need to brief investors and get their feedback on the
debt swap after holding talks with Greece officials yesterday,
Vogl said.  Discussions in Athens  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is set to meet with
leaders of the political parties supporting his caretaker
government today in Athens after delays plagued negotiations
over the terms required for a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion)
rescue package from official creditors. The government is
struggling to arrange financing to avert a collapse of the
economy, risking a new round of contagion in the euro area.  With the country facing a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on
March 20, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  warned this week that
“time is running out” to reach an accord.  The debt-swap deal with private bondholders, an element of
the second rescue package, would slice 100 billion euros off
more than 200 billion euros of privately-held debt. The rescue
blueprint includes a net present value loss of 70 percent or
more for bondholders in the voluntary debt exchange as well as
loans that will probably exceed the 130 billion euros now on the
table.  Even if a deal is reached, a question remains over how many
of Greece’s private creditors will take part in the debt swap.  Paris Meetings  Papademos and Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos had
“constructive discussions” yesterday with Dallara and Lemierre
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann ,
the IIF said yesterday in a statement. Ackermann is chairman of
the Washington-based IIF, an industry group representing more
than 450 financial firms.  They discussed the private-industry involvement and the
program that Greece is negotiating with the troika. The IIF
representatives are going to Paris today to continue
consultations with investors and creditors, the statement said.  Papademos agreed late yesterday on the terms of a debt-swap
deal with representatives of the country’s private creditors,
Naftemporiki  reported , without saying how it got the
information.  The creditors’ steering committee negotiating the debt swap
includes representatives from banks and insurers with the
largest holdings of Greek  government bonds , including  National
Bank of Greece SA ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, Commerzbank AG, Deutsche Bank
AG,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA ,  ING Groep NV ,  Allianz SE  and  Axa SA .  Default Risk  Financial firms on the IIF’s private-creditor investor
committee, a larger group of 32 members that includes the
smaller steering committee, hold more than 47 billion euros in
Greek sovereign debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from company reports.  Greece may have only three days left to avoid “outright
default,”  Thomas Mayer , chief economist at Deutsche Bank, said
today.  “They have to make a payment of 14 and a half billion on
an outgoing bond,” Mayer said in a radio interview today on
“Bloomberg -- The First Word” with Ken Prewitt. “If they
don’t have the money in the account at the time the payment is
due, then they really default. Time is of the essence. I think
we have maybe one, maybe two, maybe three more days but that’s
it. And then it will be too late to avoid an outright default.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 