-- Greek Talks Stuck as Euro Ministers Meet
-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-02-09T12:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/greek-bailout-talks-stall-on-pension-dispute-talks-to-resume-imminently.html
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos headed to Brussels today as politicians in  Athens 
narrowed their differences to the single issue of pension cuts
needed to secure a 130 billion euro ($172 billion) bailout.  Talks stumbled over pensions as European Union spokesman
Amadeu Altafaj said he couldn’t confirm reports the EU gave
Greece 15 more days to identify measures totaling 300 million
euros. “No one seems to be aware of such an extension,” he
told reporters today in Brussels before today’s emergency
finance ministers’ meeting starting at 6 p.m.  “There are issues outstanding that must be resolved,”
Venizelos told reporters in Athens today after a meeting with
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and EU and International Monetary
Fund officials that ended just before 6 a.m. “As the prime
minister said, there is agreement on all the issues bar one.”  The latest hitch came after six days of talks as the
political parties battled to complete a package that’s been on
the table since July.  Greece  faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20 and is struggling to secure financing to
avert a collapse of the economy that could spark a new round of
contagion in the euro area.  European  stocks  rose for the first time in four days as the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index  added 0.1 percent at 12:52 p.m. in
Berlin. The euro was down 0.1 percent to $1.3251.  Defusing ‘Greek Issue’  “Some key pieces are falling into place,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London , said in
an e-mailed note today. “Barring any last minute hitch,  Europe 
may soon have defused the Greek issue for a while.”  A  Greek deal  would reinforce the reduction of contagion
risks as investors discriminate between “small countries with
serious problems (Greece,  Portugal ) and much bigger countries
with smaller problems ( Italy ,  Spain ),” Schmieding said.  Greece’s unemployment rate in November rose to 20.9 percent
from 18.2 percent in the previous month, according to an e-
mailed statement from the Athens-based Hellenic Statistical
Authority today.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s biggest mobile-phone
company, is moving cash from Greece into the U.K. “every
evening,” mirroring efforts by others companies such as
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (SAN)  and  WPP Plc (WPP)  to hedge against the European
debt crisis, Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford said on a
conference call today.  Agreement  Papademos and the leaders of the three parties supporting
the government “agreed on all the points of the program with
the exception of one which requires further elaboration and
discussion” with the lenders, according to an e-mailed
statement from the premier’s office in Athens. “This discussion
will occur immediately so that it can be completed in light of
the meeting of euro area finance ministers” today.  With Greek leaders not planning any major appearances
today, discussions over Greece’s fate will shift to Brussels and
 Frankfurt . In the Belgian capital, ministers must decide whether
Greece has already done enough for governments to give a green
light to a bailout package needed to stave off an economic
collapse. Venizelos said he hoped they would take a “positive
decision.”  In  Germany , European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
will be grilled on the ECB’s role in any new bailout at a press
conference after its monthly interest rate decision. Draghi
meets reporters at 2:30 p.m. local time.  Not Much Time  Greece doesn’t have much time left to arrange financing for
its bond payment and avoid “outright default,” said  Thomas Mayer , chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG.  “If they don’t have the money in the account at the time
the payment is due, then they really default,” Mayer said
yesterday in a radio interview on “Bloomberg -- The First
Word” with Ken Prewitt. “Time is of the essence. I think we
have maybe one, maybe two, maybe three more days but that’s
it.”  A Greek decision has hung in the balance for almost a week
as lenders demand officials sign on to measures ranging from a
reduction in the minimum wage and lower pensions, to immediate
job cuts for as many as 15,000 state employees.  A government official, who declined to be identified, said
Antonis Samaras of the  New Democracy  party, Pasok party leader
 George Papandreou  and George Karatzaferis of the Laos party all
submitted alternative proposals to avoid pension cuts.  Pension Cut Alternatives  The leaders have effectively agreed on all the issues
except for that of cuts to pensions, Panos Beglitis, a spokesman
for the Pasok socialist party, told reporters after the meeting.
He said his party was opposed to cuts in main pensions and that
talks revolved around finding alternatives to make up for a 300-
million euro shortfall.  The tussle in Athens threatens to hold up a vital element
of the plan: a debt swap that will slice 100 billion euros off
more than 200 billion euros of privately-held debt. The rescue
blueprint includes a loss of more than 70 percent for
bondholders in the voluntary debt exchange as well as loans that
will probably exceed the 130 billion euros now on the table.  A formal offer for the debt swap must be made by Feb. 13 to
allow all procedures to be completed before the March 20 bond
comes due. Parliament may be called to vote on the terms of the
writedown on Feb. 12, state-run Athens News Agency reported on
Feb. 7, without saying how it got the information.  ‘Last Minute Deal’  “History tells us that a deal in Greece will be reached at
the last minute,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
almost $100 billion under management. “A lot of indications
show they are heading in that direction even though there are
endless delays.”  Karatzaferis, the head of  Laos , the smallest of the parties
supporting Papademos, may yet hold up an agreement even if the
pension issue is resolved. He said he wanted assurances that the
measures were legal.  Karatzaferis “expressed serious reservations,” the
premier’s office said in its statement after the meeting.  Private creditors plan to meet in Paris today to discuss
the deal, which is contingent on the country agreeing to the aid
package from European and international officials.  The Institute of International Finance is holding the
meeting to go over technical matters so that if an accord
between Greece and the troika is reached, the debt swap could be
implemented quickly, said two people familiar with the matter
who declined to be identified because talks are private.  April Elections  While the prime minister and party chiefs have agreed to
make further cuts this year equal to 1.5 percent of gross
domestic product, political leaders are worried about the effect
on voters of further cuts in wages and pensions ahead of
elections due as early as April. Unions, which went on strike
this week, have derided the conditions as “blackmail.”  “During these difficult times, we must look at ordinary
people, at the pensioner,” New Democracy’s Samaras said. “I
don’t have the right not to do it, I don’t have the right not to
negotiate hard.”  Greece will pledge permanent spending cuts, including lower
pension payments and a 20 percent reduction in the minimum wage,
as the economy contracts this year at a faster pace than
originally estimated, according to the draft of the agreement
discussed at the meeting with party heads, and obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Deepen Recession  The troika argues such moves are needed to boost
competitiveness. Those opposed say the cuts would deepen the
country’s recession, now in its fifth year.  Guarantees from leaders such as Samaras, who is ahead in
opinion polls, are key to securing the funds. International
lenders want assurances that whoever wins the next election will
stick to pledges made now to receive financing.  Samaras’s party has 31 percent support from voters,
according to a Public Issue poll published yesterday, compared
with 8 percent for the socialist Pasok party, the biggest in the
current parliament. The survey of 1,002 Greeks showed a growing
number want elections immediately, and waning support both for
Papademos and the parties that back him.  Greece’s private-sector union GSEE has called a 48-hour
strike on Feb. 10-11, according to an e-mailed statement, sent
from the Athens-based union today. ADEDY, the public-sector
union, is also participating in the 48-hour strike, union
spokeswoman Despina Spanou said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  