-- Greek Premier Pushes Party Leaders on Deal
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-02-08T17:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/greek-haggling-drags-on-as-meeting-to-seal-terms-of-second-bailout-delayed.html
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
began negotiating with leaders of the political parties
supporting his caretaker government as he tried to make up for
lost time to secure a second aid package.  Papademos met with the chiefs in Athens today after
delaying the gathering for a second time in as many days as
Greek officials and international creditors haggled over terms.
He held an unscheduled meeting late last night with the so-
called troika of the European Commission, the  European Central
Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund , to put final touches
on a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) rescue plan.  Yesterday’s delay was yet another hitch in completing a
package that’s been on the table since July. The Greek
government, facing a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20,
is struggling to arrange financing to avert a collapse of the
economy, risking a new round of contagion in the euro area.  “The situation is getting more problematic for  Greece  day
by day,” Michael Meister, the deputy floor leader and finance
spokesman in parliament for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s party,
said today in a telephone interview. “A day wasted in failing
to tackle Greece’s administrative, budget and competitive
problems is a bad day.” Greeks need to reform “not for
Brussels, Berlin or the IMF, but for their own sake.”  Debt Swap  The tussle in Athens threatens to hold up a critical
element of the plan: a debt swap that will slice 100 billion
euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately-held debt.
The rescue blueprint includes a loss of more than 70 percent for
bondholders in the voluntary debt exchange as well as loans that
will probably exceed the 130 billion euros now on the table.  Euro region finance ministers will convene in Brussels
at 6 p.m. tomorrow. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs euro-area finance meetings, announced the
gathering in an e-mailed statement today, without specifying the
agenda. Euro area politicians must sign off on any aid accord
reached by negotiators.  The ECB is prepared to swap its holdings of Greek
 government bonds  to contribute to a reduction of the country’s
debt burden, Dow Jones reported yesterday, citing unidentified
people briefed on the talks. The agreement could reduce Greece’s
debt by as much as 11 billion euros, Dow Jones said.  A formal offer for the debt swap must be made by Feb. 13 to
allow all procedures to be completed before the March 20 bond
comes due. Parliament may be called to vote on the terms of the
writedown on Feb. 12, state-run  Athens  News Agency reported
yesterday, without saying how it got the information.  German Votes  The German government is readying plans for up to three
parliamentary votes on the plan as soon as next week, Meister
said.  The euro touched an eight-week high against the dollar
today, reaching $1.3289. European stocks advanced, with the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index  up 0.3 percent after two days of losses.  Papademos had “constructive” talks last night with
 Charles Dallara , managing director of the International
Institute of Finance, which has negotiated the terms of the
swap, and Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , according to an IIF statement.  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the exchange, said a
person familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified
because a final deal hasn’t been struck yet. They will meet in
Paris tomorrow to discuss the deal, which is contingent on the
country wrapping up the second aid package.  EFSF Role  The European Financial Stability Facility, the region’s
bailout fund, will “probably play a significant role” in the
swap and a new rescue program for Greece, Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Christophe Frankel said today, without elaborating.  Greece may have only three days left to arrange financing
for its bond payment and avoid “outright default,” said  Thomas Mayer , chief economist at Deutsche Bank.  “If they don’t have the money in the account at the time
the payment is due, then they really default,” Mayer said today
in a radio interview on “Bloomberg -- The First Word” with Ken Prewitt. “Time is of the essence. I think we have maybe one,
maybe two, maybe three more days but that’s it.”  While the prime minister and party chiefs have agreed to
make further cuts this year equal to 1.5 percent of gross
domestic product, they have yet to close gaps over measures
demanded by creditors for the rescue. Unions, which went on
strike yesterday, have derided the conditions as “blackmail.”  Way Out  “There is a path here for Greece, there is a way out for
Greece, if it wants to take it, but there’s no denying this will
be tough,” Grant Lewis, an economist at Daiwa Capital  Europe 
Ltd. in  London , said in a radio interview with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt yesterday. “You are talking about multiyear austerity
packages against a backdrop of an economy that’s shrinking very
rapidly.”  Merkel, speaking in Berlin late yesterday at an event on
Europe’s future, said the impact of a Greek exit from the euro
would be “incalculable,” and restated her determination to
keep Greece in the single currency region.  The chancellor, who heads Europe’s biggest economy and the
biggest contributor to euro-area bailouts, said there is “no
way around” Greece carrying out reforms. That country is in a
“very complicated situation,” she said.  Final Draft  A Greek official said yesterday the government and
international creditors were close to a final draft of an
agreement on budget and structural measures needed to extend the
financial lifeline. Another official said earlier yesterday
talks were focused on how to make up for a 550 million-euro
shortfall in new austerity measures for this year.  With elections due as early as April, Greek political
leaders are arguing over demands such as ensuring the viability
of pension funds and reducing wage- and non-wage costs to boost
competitiveness.  Efforts to win a second bailout from the troika have hung
in the balance for six days as lenders demand officials sign up
to measures ranging from a reduction in the minimum wage and
lower pensions, to immediate job cuts for as many as 15,000
state employees.  The troika argues such moves are needed to boost
competitiveness. Those opposed say the cuts would deepen the
country’s recession, now in its fifth year.  Opposition  Antonis Samaras, the head of the second-biggest party,  New
Democracy , has indicated he will oppose measures that will
deepen the economy’s downturn. George Karatzaferis, the head of
 Laos , one of the three supporting Papademos, sought assurances
that the program would lead Greece out of the crisis.  “I am concerned at our lenders’ intentions when they use
time as a means to blackmail,” Karatzaferis told reporters as
he entered today’s meeting.  Guarantees from Greek leaders such as Samaras, who is ahead
in opinion polls, are key to securing the funds. International
lenders want assurances that whoever wins the next election will
stick to pledges made now to receive financing.  Samaras’s party has 31 percent support from voters,
according to a Public Issue poll published today, compared with
8 percent for the socialist Pasok party, the biggest in the
current parliament. The survey of 1,002 Greeks showed a growing
number want elections immediately, and waning support both for
Papademos and the parties that back him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  