-- Greece Draft Cuts Minimum Wage 20%
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2012-02-08T21:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/greece-to-pledge-20-cut-in-minimum-wage-pension-cut-draft-accord-shows.html
Greece  will pledge permanent spending
cuts, including lower pension payments and a 20 percent
reduction in the  minimum wage , as the economy contracts this
year at a faster pace than originally estimated, according to
the draft of a new financing deal with the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund .  “To restore competitiveness and growth, we will accelerate
implementation of deep structural reforms in the labor, product
and service markets,” according to the letter of intent
addressed to IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  in a
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  The letter, attached to the 43-page Greek-language draft
agreement, is to be signed by Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ,
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos and  Bank of Greece  Governor
 George Provopoulos . The draft is the focus of a meeting
Papademos is having in Athens today to seek approval from the
leaders of the three parties supporting his government to secure
a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion)  rescue plan  ahead of an
emergency euro-area finance minister meeting in Brussels
tomorrow.  While no information was provided about the finance chiefs’
agenda at the meeting tomorrow, the scheduling suggests policy
makers, who have to ratify the Greek accord, were optimistic
about negotiators reaching an agreement in Athens.  May be Saddled  The draft didn’t provide any details of international
 financing  for Greece, which even after a second bailout may be
saddled with too much debt, too little  growth  and too large a
budget hole to do without even more money, which euro nations
led by  Germany  are increasingly reluctant to offer. It also
provided no details of a debt-swap which is an integral part of
the second financing package for Greece.  Further financing may be needed for the country as the
economy contracts at a faster pace than originally estimated.
The draft showed a contraction of between 4 percent and 5
percent this year, due in part to a worsening external
environment, compared to a forecast of a 3 percent drop in
output, contained in a Dec. report on the country by the IMF.  The reforms outlined in the draft, which include trimming
state wages, cutting 15,000 public sector employees this year
and merging all auxiliary pension funds, will help Greece return
to growth in the first half of next year, according to the
document.  Rescue Plan  Papademos met late last night with the so-called troika of
the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the IMF,
to put final touches on the rescue plan before presenting it to
the three party leaders.  Greece also repeated pledges to sell stakes in six
companies, including  Opap SA (OPAP) ,  Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE) , Athens
Water & Sewage Co SA and Thessaloniki Water & Sewage Co SA in
the first half of this year and issue tenders for ports and
airport concessions in the second half, the draft said.  Greece aims to raise at least 50 billion euros by 2017 by
selling or renting state assets. So far, Greece has raised only
1.8 billion euros from the assets. Efforts to raise the money
have stalled as investors await the outcome of talks over a
debt-exchange plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 