-- Groupon Shares Decline After Unexpected Tax-Related Fourth-Quarter Loss
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-02-09T15:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/groupon-has-unexpected-loss-on-move-to-low-margin-businesses-shares-fall.html
Groupon Inc. , the largest daily-deal
site, tumbled as much as 14 percent today after reporting a tax-
related fourth-quarter loss that analysts hadn’t predicted.  Groupon (GRPN)  fell 10 percent to $22.04 at 9:57 a.m.  New York 
time after yesterday reporting a loss, excluding certain costs,
of 2 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had projected
profit of 3 cents. Today’s is the biggest intraday decline since
Nov. 23. The company priced its initial public offering at $20 a
share Nov. 3.  Groupon, based in  Chicago , has expanded to 47 countries and
set up a new international headquarters in Switzerland. That
contributed to a higher-than-expected $34.8 million in taxes,
Chief Financial Officer Jason Child said. Taxes related to
overseas operations will go down over time, he said.  “Their effective  tax rate  is extraordinarily high, and it
seems like using a normal tax rate you would have had a better-
than-expected outcome,” said  Clayton Moran , an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in  Delray Beach ,  Florida , who has a “buy” rating
on Groupon shares.  Groupon’s loss compared with one of 53 cents a year
earlier, the company said yesterday in a statement. Revenue rose
to $506.5 million from $172.2 million. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had projected, on average, sales of $472.6 million.  Some analysts were disappointed that Groupon failed to give
updates on some of the business benchmarks it has previously
provided, including its total number of subscribers and the
amount of coupons sold on its site, said  Herman Leung , an
analyst at Susquehanna International Group in San Francisco.  Vanishing Milestones  In the fourth quarter, Groupon’s active user base rose to
33 million. Groupon spent $156.5 million marketing its service
to customers in the period, down from $200.9 million a year
earlier. The company said in an October regulatory filing that
it plans to “significantly” reduce online marketing spending
over time, as such investments yield insufficient returns.  Other expenses are poised to rise. Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Mason  plans to boost technology hiring to develop new
products, he said on a call with analysts. The company aims to
beef up its engineering staff to more closely resemble Silicon
Valley businesses.  “We are still far under-indexed in terms of our technology
headcount, compared to traditional California-based technology
companies,” Mason said. “We expect to continue to invest
aggressively.”  The company spent a record $14 million on  capital
expenditures  last quarter. Groupon has opened a new  data center 
to power its operations, Child said on the call.  International Sales Growth  Groupon boosted revenue overseas faster than in North
America, more than tripling international sales to $318 million
from $83.9 million a year earlier. North American revenue
doubled to $188.5 million from $88.4 million.  “If you look at the revenues by geography,  North America 
came in a little bit light,” Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore
Partners in New York, said in an interview.  Sales in the first quarter may increase to $510 million to
$550 million, the company said on the conference call. Analysts
had predicted $500.8 million. Income from operations may be $15
million to $35 million, Groupon said.  The company makes money by selling discounts -- known as
 Groupons  -- from a variety of merchants. It then splits the
revenue with those businesses.  Competitors such as Yelp Inc. and Facebook Inc. scaled back
efforts last year to vie with Groupon in the market for daily
deals, which research firm BIA/Kelsey estimates will generate
$4.17 billion in 2015.  In September, Groupon restated its revenue figures to
exclude sales passed on to merchants. In its earlier accounting,
Groupon counted the total amount of its daily-deal sales as
revenue, including fees paid to the businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  