-- ICE Gasoil Gains; Gasoline Crack at 3-Week Low: Oil Products
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-02-08T13:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/ice-gasoil-gains-gasoline-crack-at-3-week-low-oil-products.html
European gasoil contracts closest to
delivery traded at more than later-dated shipments amid
speculation that colder-than-usual weather may bolster demand
for heating fuel.  Gasoline’s crack, or premium to  Brent crude , shrank to the
lowest level in three weeks. Gabon and Algeria will have to
import fuels because of refinery halts.  Light Products  Gasoline  for immediate loading in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-
Antwerp traded from $1,017 to $1,021 a metric ton, according to
a survey of brokers and traders monitoring the Argus Bulletin
Board. That’s in line with deals yesterday. Cargill Inc. was the
biggest buyer of the Eurobob grade, to which ethanol is added to
make the finished motor fuel.  The fuel’s  crack  shrank to $5.32 a barrel from $5.55
yesterday, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a
crude and refined products broker in London. That’s the lowest
spread since Jan. 17.  Naphtha’s  discount  to Brent widened to $5.62 a barrel from
$5.49 yesterday, PVM data show.  Middle Distillates  Gasoil for February added 0.1 percent to $995.75 a ton at
1:00 p.m.  London  time on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. That
contract was at a 25 cent premium to March futures, keeping the
market in backwardation for a third day. The reverse market
structure is known as contango.  “The move of ICE gasoil out of a contango continues as it
seems that we will be burning heavily heating oil also next
week,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director at Swiss-based
Petromatrix GmbH, said today in a note.  Gasoil’s  crack , a measure of refining profitability, rose
to $16.96 a barrel from $16.86 at 4:30 p.m. yesterday. Front-
month Brent gained 0.4 percent to $116.66 a barrel on the ICE
exchange.  Refineries  Societe Gabonaise de Raffinage, Gabon’s only oil refinery,
halted operations on Feb. 6 for six weeks of repairs, which will
include changing a processing column, Pierre Reteno Ndiaye, the
plant’s general manager, said in a phone interview yesterday. It
will import 120,000 tons of oil during the shutdown to meet
domestic demand, he said.  Algeria ’s Skikda refinery will partially shut in May for
maintenance, Yamina Hamdi, vice president of commercial activity
at Sonatrach, the state-owned  oil company , said yesterday. It
need to import 2 million tons of diesel as a result, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  