-- Iceland Foresees Rate Rises on Higher Inflation
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-02-08T11:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/iceland-foresees-rate-rises-on-higher-inflation.html
Iceland’s  central bank  signaled it is
ready to raise  interest rates  in order to cap inflation after
consumer prices soared above the official target and the krona
slid against the euro.  The  seven-day collateral lending rate  was left at 4.75
percent, Sedlabanki said today in Reykjavik. The bank also kept
rates unchanged in December, after last year raising borrowing
costs for the first time since Iceland’s banks failed in 2008.  “It will be necessary to withdraw the current degree of
monetary accommodation as the recovery progresses and the slack
in the economy disappears,” the central bank said. “Inflation
is forecast to remain above the bank’s  inflation  target for
somewhat longer than was projected in November.”  The bank, known as Sedlabanki, is trying to ease  capital
controls , in place since the end of 2008, without triggering a
krona slump that risks fueling inflation. Policy makers in
December halted a tightening cycle started last year to protect
the economy from the fallout of the euro crisis, which threatens
export-reliant nations such as Iceland.  Little Tougher  “The tone of the monetary policy committee has changed and
is a little tougher,” said Ingolfur Bender, an economist with
Islandsbanki hf, by phone. “They seem to be signaling rate
increases later this year.”  Islandsbanki forecasts two increases this year, each by 25
basis points.  Inflation accelerated to 6.5 percent in January from 5.3
percent in December, the statistics office said. The bank
targets 2.5 percent price growth.  Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008,
completed a 33-month  International Monetary Fund  program in
August. The Washington-based fund expects Iceland’s economy to
grow faster than the average for the euro area this year as the
region struggles to contain a debt crisis. Concern in the
single-currency bloc has eased after the  European Central Bank 
in December offered lenders unlimited three-year loans and
leaders agreed on a fiscal pact and a permanent rescue fund.  Fastest Pace  Iceland’s economy grew at the fastest pace since the third
quarter of 2007 in the three months through September, the
statistics office said in December. Gross domestic product grew
a quarterly 4.7 percent, the office said.  “The wage drift has been considerable, since a steep rise
in unit labor costs has been the main driving force behind
inflation recently,” Ingolfur Bender, an economist with
Islandsbanki hf, said in a note before the announcement. “The
inflation forecast for this year has consequently worsened for
this reason and may result in a new and tighter stance.”  Iceland’s $12 billion economy will grow 2.5 percent this
year, the IMF said in September. The euro area, by comparison,
will grow 1.1 this year, the fund estimates.  Iceland’s currency has slipped 2 percent against the euro
this year. The country started European Union accession talks in
2010 and the government has said it targets euro adoption as
soon as possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  