-- Microsoft’s Shift Over Industry-Standard Patents Timed to Undercut Google
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/microsoft-pledges-fair-licenses-to-technology-essential-patents.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s vow to negotiate
with competitors over industry-standard patents, instead of
trying to block their products, marks a change from the
company’s position less than a year ago.  The policy announced yesterday by Microsoft came the same
day that  Google Inc. (GOOG)  made its own promise regarding standard-
essential patents to appease regulators scrutinizing its $12.5
billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Microsoft, Google and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are staking out positions
on standard-setting patents amid global litigation over wireless
devices and tighter regulatory scrutiny. The Microsoft pledge,
and an Apple policy made public Feb. 7, were timed to undermine
Google, said Andrew Updegrove, a lawyer with Gesmer Updegrove in
 Boston .  “You already have Google increasingly under the
spotlight,” said Updegrove, who advises standard-setting boards
on intellectual property policies. “They’re living in a tighter
and tighter confinement just because their market power is
increasing.”  By issuing policies that contrast with Google, Microsoft
and Apple “are playing to the marketplace and they’re playing
to the regulators,” he said.  Google sent letters to standard-setting boards yesterday
saying it would seek a royalty fee of no more than 2.25 percent
of the net cost of devices using its patents, and would try to
resolve any disputes through negotiation before asking courts to
block use of the Motorola Mobility technology. It didn’t match
Microsoft’s pledge to not pursue bans on technology that’s
essential to industry standards.  Microsoft Shift  Microsoft will also make its industry-essential patents
available without requiring companies to cross-license their own
non-essential technology, according to a  posting  yesterday on
the company’s website.  “Patent holders should not seek to block shipments of
competing products just because they implement an industry
standard -- a license on reasonable terms is always available,”
Dave Heiner, who heads Microsoft’s corporate standards and
antitrust groups, said in a blog  posting .  That’s different from what Microsoft told the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission in June. The company said the existence of a
pledge to offer patent licenses on fair terms “should not
preclude a patent holder from seeking preliminary injunctive
relief or commencing an action in the International Trade
Commission just because the patent holder has made a licensing
commitment.”  A requirement to not seek any ban “may reduce any
incentives that implementers might have to engage in good faith
negotiations with the patent holder,” according to a written
 statement  submitted by Heiner in June and posted on the FTC’s
website.  EU Scrutiny  Motorola Mobility has accused Microsoft and Apple of
infringing patents that are covered partly by standards in which
companies agree to share technology that is common across their
industry. Google, which has drawn scrutiny over the acquisition,
sent letters to standard-setting groups reassuring them it will
maintain Motorola Mobility’s licensing program.  The European Union’s antitrust regulators will rule on the
acquisition by Feb 13, Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the
commission in Brussels, said Feb. 7. The agency could clear the
deal or open an in-depth probe that would last about 90 working
days.  That same agency is investigating whether  Samsung
Electronics Co.  broke a 1998 commitment to license standard-
essential patents on fair terms. Samsung accused Apple of
infringing such patents, part of a global patent battle between
the two companies.  Apple Letter  In a November letter to the European  Telecommunications
Standards Institute , Apple said the “industry suffers from a
lack of consistent adherence” to policies that require
companies to license standard-essential patents on “fair,
reasonable and non-discriminatory” terms.  In that letter, reported Feb. 7 by the Wall Street Journal,
Apple said companies that pledge to license their patents on
fair terms can’t seek to prevent use of the inventions without
being in violation of their commitment.  Motorola Mobility has sought sales bans in  Germany  on Apple
products using standard-essential patents, and is seeking to
halt U.S. imports of Microsoft’s Xbox gaming system. Microsoft
has argued that the U.S. International Trade Commission
shouldn’t impose import bans when there is a violation of
standard-essential patents.  Microsoft’s policy doesn’t bar the company from seeking
bans on the use of patented technology that isn’t part of an
industry standard or from suing to demand compensation for the
use of the essential patents.  Microsoft has a patent-infringement case against Motorola
Mobility at the ITC that seeks to block imports of Motorola
Mobility phones that run on Google’s Android operating system,
and is in the midst of a trial on patent claims over Barnes &
Noble Inc.’s Nook reader. Those cases don’t involve industry-
standard technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  