-- Tie U.S. Recovery Program to Economic Indicators: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-02-08T00:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/tie-u-s-recovery-program-to-economic-indicators-peter-orszag.html
According to early forecasts, the
 U.S. economy  should already have recovered from the financial
crisis. Despite some recent encouraging news, though, we still
don’t know when things will be back to normal.  What have we learned from this delay? That in devising
public policy to respond to the recession, it would have been
smart to minimize the guesswork by relying more on automatic
economic stabilizers.  This lesson is immediately applicable: Rather than simply
extend the payroll-tax holiday for the rest of the year,
Congress should link it to the unemployment rate.  Automatic stabilizers are components of the budget that
cushion the blow from an economic decline, without the need for
emergency congressional action. For example, when the economy
weakens, tax revenue falls and certain forms of spending -- such
as  unemployment insurance  -- automatically increase. The net
result is to attenuate the impact of a recession, by providing
stimulus right when it’s needed. As the economy recovers, the
stabilizers recede, mitigating the longer-term effect on the
 budget deficit .  What’s crucial is that, once the automatic stabilizers are
put in place, they do the work. They remove the need both to
guess about the economy and to overcome legislative inertia.  In the U.S., automatic stabilizers offset about 20 percent
of an economic shock after two years, according to  research  by
Glenn Follette and Byron Lutz of the  Federal Reserve . In  Europe ,
the effect is even larger,  research  published by the National
Bureau of  Economic Research  suggests. The automatic stabilizers
in Europe offset a shock by about 10 percentage points more than
in the U.S.  Three-Year Picture  A  report  issued by the  Congressional Budget Office  last
week illustrates how much automatic stabilizers have helped in
the U.S. over the past three years and, at the same time, how
much bigger they should be. The stabilizers have amounted to
$1.1 trillion since 2009, the report shows -- significantly more
than the stimulus delivered by the Recovery Act.  Each year since 2009, they have delivered about 2 percent
to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product in fiscal stimulus.
That is the largest sustained impact in recorded history, and it
helped to make the hard slog of recovering from the financial
slump a little less gruesome.  Nevertheless, the CBO projects an  unemployment  rate of 8.8
percent for this year. This is much higher than the agency had,
a few years ago, thought it would be. (Judging by the January
unemployment report, this prediction may be too pessimistic,
underscoring the difficulty of economic forecasting.) In January
2009, the CBO projected an  unemployment rate  of 6.8 percent for
2012. At the time, the office was not alone in its relatively
rosy outlook. Every official macro-econometric forecast in 2009
suggested we would see a V-type rebound rather than an L-type
one, even though sluggish recoveries historically have followed
financial crises.  So now imagine if more of the 2009 Recovery Act had been in
the form of automatic stabilizers -- provisions linked to the
unemployment rate -- rather than predetermined to fit a shorter
and less severe decline than we have experienced. About two-
thirds of the 2009 Recovery Act took the form of tax cuts,
temporary relief to state governments, food assistance to the
poor, and additional unemployment compensation. And all these
provisions were set to end within a year or two.  Imagine, instead, that they had been written to remain in
full effect as long as the unemployment rate was higher than,
say, 7.5 percent, and then to phase out gradually below that
threshold. In January 2009, the CBO would still have assigned a
very low cost to such an approach for 2012, because its
projections assumed a much lower jobless rate. (The budget
office would have shown some modest cost to reflect the
probability that unemployment would stay above the threshold.)  Bigger Stimulus  The CBO currently projects that the Recovery Act spending
from these provisions (with their time-certain ending points)
will amount to about $10 billion this year. If, instead, the tax
cuts and spending had been in the form of automatic stabilizers
that kept them going this year, they would amount to about 30
times that, delivering about $300 billion more in 2012 to
support the economy. That would be enough to knock the jobless
rate down by a full percentage point or more.  (In fairness, if the Recovery Act had remained in full
force, Congress may not have enacted other temporary provisions.
Nonetheless, the point still holds: If the stabilizers had been
strengthened, the federal budget would be providing more support
to the economy today.)  In this sense, the debate about whether the initial
stimulus could and should have been larger misses an important
point about its structure and duration. Linking it to the
unemployment rate wouldn’t have affected its initial projected
cost much, and therefore its acceptability to Congress may not
have been compromised, but it would have helped much more today.  Automatic stabilizers allow for strong action in the face
of two realities: that it’s difficult to predict what economic
growth will be, and that Congress is slow to respond to economic
fluctuations, especially as political  polarization  increases.  This is why the ideal approach is not to simply extend the
payroll-tax holiday through the end of this year, as Congress is
considering. Instead, lawmakers should keep it (and expanded
jobless benefits) in effect as long as the unemployment rate
remains elevated.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 