-- Illumina’s Board Rejects Roche’s $5.7 Billion Hostile Bid for Gene Mapper
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-02-08T21:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/illumina-board-rejects-roche-s-5-7-billion-hostile-bid-for-gene-mapper.html
Illumina Inc. (ILMN) ’s board unanimously
rejected  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s $5.7 billion bid to take over the
maker of gene-mapping tools as “grossly inadequate.”  “The timing of the offer is blatantly opportunistic and
does not reflect Illumina’s strong platform of new products and
pipeline,” Chairman William Rastetter and Chief Executive
Officer Jay Flatley said yesterday in a letter to shareholders.  Roche went directly to shareholders of San Diego-based
Illumina in a hostile bid after the company rebuffed its
approaches. Owners have until midnight New York time on Feb. 24
to tender their shares at $44.50 each, Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche said last month. Illumina has traded above the offer price
since Jan. 25, signaling investors expect Roche to raise its
bid. The Swiss drugmaker today said it’s “disappointed” with
Illumina’s response and is open to negotiations.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, said it
wants to move Illumina’s gene-sequencing technology from
academic research labs into routine medical use. The acquisition
would build Roche’s  palette  of health diagnostics products and
potentially allow the company to better target its medicines
toward individual patients. Illumina said Jan. 10 that by the
end of the year it would market a machine capable of scanning a
person’s complete DNA in a day.  Illumina gained less than one percent to $52.15 at 4 p.m.
New York time. The shares have fallen 26 percent in the last 12
months.  Takeover Defense  Illumina has bolstered its takeover defenses since Roche
made its $44.50-a-share acquisition offer last month, granting
investors the right to buy shares at half price, a so-called
poison-pill maneuver. The strategy may block an unwanted bid by
making it prohibitively expensive.  The company also outlined a “golden parachute”
compensation plan for its executives if they lose their jobs
within two years of an acquisition, according to a regulatory
filing. Flatley would be paid double his annual salary plus a
bonus, stock and other benefits valued as of Jan. 27 at $10.7
million. Five other executives would receive benefits valued
from $2.6 million to $3.2 million, according to the filing.  In its formal response yesterday, Illumina said Roche’s bid
fails to recognize the growth potential from the company’s 60
percent share of the next-generation genetic sequencing market.  ‘Scarcity Value’  “Your proposal fails to compensate our stockholders for
the intrinsic and scarcity value associated with Illumina’s
unmatched leadership position,” Rastetter and Flatley wrote in
a letter to Franz Humer, board chairman of Roche.  Roche has said it will nominate a slate of independent
candidates for election to Illumina board at the company’s
annual meeting this year. Illumina hasn’t yet scheduled a date
for the meeting, which has been held in March or April.  “Our highly qualified, independent directors are better
positioned to act in our stockholders’ interests than directors
selected and compensated by you to advance your own strategic
objectives at the expense of our stockholders,” the Illumina
executives wrote to Humer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net   rgale5@bloomberg.net  