-- Time Warner Beats Profit Estimates, Plans $4 Billion Buyback
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-08T21:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/time-warner-profit-beast-estimates-as-ad-revenue-improves-at-tv-networks.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of the HBO
cable-TV channel, reported fourth-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates as subscription fees for television shows
improved, and it announced a new share buyback of $4 billion.  Net income rose 0.5 percent to $773 million, or 76 cents a
share, from $769 million, or 68 cents, a year earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Excluding some
items, profit of 94 cents a share beat the 87-cent average of
analysts’  predictions   compiled  by Bloomberg.  Time Warner, which through its  Warner Bros . unit produces
“The Big Bang Theory” TV series, derives more than 70 percent
of annual operating  income  from television. Led by Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes, the owner of CNN and TNT said
last quarter’s advertising sales rose 2 percent at the networks
unit, driven by international growth. Subscription fees for TV
shows advanced 5 percent.  The company also raised its quarterly  dividend  by 11
percent to 26 cents a share. The company sees 2012 growth in
earnings excluding some items in the “low double-digit” range,
from a base of $2.89 a share. Analysts expected a gain of about
9 percent.  Time Warner  climbed  1 cent to $38.11 at the close in New
York. The shares have risen 5.5 percent this year.  Buyback ‘a Positive’  Time Warner’s repurchase program and dividend increase
answered concerns that the rate of return on capital was
peaking,  David Bank , analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “That’s definitely a
positive,” said Bank, who rates the shares “outperform.”  Advertising growth was weak compared against gains at  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Paul Sweeney , senior media analyst at Bloomberg
Industries, said in an e-mail. “Time Warner said growth is
coming from international, so domestic actually might be down,”
Sweeney said. “That is the only potential weak spot I see.”  Box office results for Warner Bros., which released films
“ Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows” and “Happy Feet Two” at
the end of the year, declined 39 percent to  $369.2 million  in
the fourth quarter compared with a  year earlier , according to
research firm Box Office Mojo. The end of the studio’s “ Harry
Potter ” franchise will make for tough comparisons this year,
according to Alexia Quadrani, a JPMorgan & Co. analyst.  “The studio did alright, but it was tough because of Harry
Potter last year,” said Quadrani, who spoke in a telephone
interview before the results were released. “At the same time,
there’s early interest in the next Batman film and their TV
business is doing well overall,” said Quadrani, who  rates  the
shares “overweight” and doesn’t own any.  Fourth-quarter sales increased 4.9 percent to $8.19
billion. Analysts had expected $8.04 billion. The adjusted
earnings exclude items such as impairments of goodwill and costs
related to mergers, acquisitions, investments or dispositions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  