-- Indians Living in Singapore Lured to Property Back Home by Rupee’s Decline
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-02-09T06:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/indians-in-singapore-lured-to-property-back-home-by-rupee-s-drop.html
Vivek Sharma, like many Indians who
came to  Singapore  for work, failed to jump into the island
state’s booming property market before the government imposed
taxes to deter foreign buyers.  Now, he is joining thousands of his compatriots who are
taking advantage of the drop in the rupee to a record low in
December and seeking to buy property back home -- for rental
investments, homes for left-behind family members, retirement
properties and residences for their own eventual returns.  “I missed the opportunity to buy property in Singapore
when I moved here 2 1/2 years back,” said Sharma, 38, a
medical-device manufacturing executive who was among 3,300
attendees at a two-day home fair in January where 53 Indian
developers were showcasing their properties and discounting them
to boost sales. “Now, prices have risen a lot, and with the new
taxes, it makes better sense to invest back home.”  India’s property market may attract $3 billion from
overseas buyers this year, almost double last year’s $1.6
billion, Shobhit Agarwal, joint managing director at the Indian
unit of  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , the world’s second-biggest,
publicly traded commercial-property broker, said in an interview
in Mumbai in December. About one-third typically comes from
individuals like Sharma and two-thirds from investors, he said.  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , India’s largest mortgage
lender and the organizer of the annual Singapore home fair, said
the number of developers participating rose 26 percent over last
year, while there were 27 percent more attendees. Among those
taking part were  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) ,  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  and  Emaar MGF Land Ltd (EMGF) .
HDFC conducts similar fairs in  Kuwait , Dubai -- where the next
is scheduled for April -- and in  London .  Sales Declines  The volume of property sales has declined in  India ’s
biggest cities, including Mumbai, New Delhi, Hyderabad and
Bangalore, after the nation’s central bank  raised  borrowing
costs by a record 375 basis points since March 2010. The bank is
seeking to curb inflation, although property prices remain at or
close to record highs.  At the same time, the rupee fell 16 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in 2011, the worst performer among Asian currencies. The
currency has since recouped some of its losses, climbing 7.7
percent to 49.45 to the U.S. dollar last month. It is forecast
to fall to 52.25 in the quarter ending in March, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  India’s record trade deficit may turn developing  Asia ’s
best-performing currency in January into its biggest loser from
now until the year-end, strategists forecast. The rupee will
drop 1.2 percent in the rest of 2012, based on the median
prediction of 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. That is the
worst outlook among the region’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the Japanese yen.  Agarwal at Jones Lang LaSalle said India’s property prices
may decline 10 percent this year, and that with a potential 20
percent loss in the currency, property purchases will become
even more attractive to overseas Indians.  “They get a net 30 percent discount, so they will be ready
to write the check,” Agarwal said.  Cutting Prices  In  Mumbai , where Sharma hopes to buy property as an
investment and ultimately for retirement, residential home sales
dropped 17 percent to a three-year low in the final quarter of
last year compared with the previous quarter, according to
Mumbai-based  Liases Foras Real Estate Rating & Research Pvt.  The
dismal sales will spur developers to cut prices to boost volumes,
 Pankaj Kapoor , founder of Liases Foras, said.  In Singapore’s prime districts such as Orchard Road, a
typical three-bedroom apartment would sell for about $2,000 a
square foot, or around $4 million. A similar-sized apartment in
Mumbai’s posh Malabar Hill would sell for about 25 percent less.
Home prices in Singapore soared 55 percent from June 2009
through December 2011, while in Mumbai they nearly doubled in
the same period.  Once-in-Lifetime  “Indians living abroad feel the rupee depreciation is a
temporary phenomenon because the Indian economy is far stronger
than most of the global economies,” J.C. Sharma, Managing
director at Bangalore-based  Sobha Developers Ltd. (SOBHA)  said in an
interview in Chennai. “They feel this as a once-in-lifetime
kind of opportunity to convert their savings from dollars and
other foreign currencies to an Indian asset which they think has
a much better future in the times to come.”  India’s economy  expanded 6.9 percent in the quarter that
ended in September, the weakest pace since 2009. The government
Central Statistical Office on Feb. 7 cut India’s growth forecast
to 6.9 percent for the year ending in March from 7.6 percent
predicted in October. Growth in Asia’s third-largest economy has
slowed in the current financial year as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis hampers global expansion.  Foreigners accounted for 31 percent of home buyers in
Singapore before the government imposed an additional 10 percent
stamp duty on them in December, according to government data.
Before the new tax, the government levy on foreigners was 1
percent on the first S$180,000 ($139,000) of the purchase price,
an additional 2 percent on the next S$180,000 and 3 percent on
the remainder.  Reining in Prices  Sales of Singapore private homes dropped in December to 632
units, the lowest in two years. Singapore has been attempting to
rein in prices since 2009, when the government barred interest-
only loans for some housing projects and stopped allowing
developers to absorb interest payments for apartments still
being built.  “We have been far more aggressive in the Singapore market
now as we have been getting a better response from this
market,” said Surendra Hiranandani, founder of Mumbai-based
 House of Hiranandani , which showed its Chennai and Bangalore
developments at the Singapore home fair.  “Over the past two years when markets in the West and
 Middle East  crashed and hopes of a major revival seem bleak,
interest in the Indian market has increased,” he said, adding
that Singapore-based buyers have doubled to 10 percent of
international purchasers from two years ago. “Other places like
China and  Australia  are quite saturated as they are overbuilt,
whereas India is still an undersupplied market. Definitely, the
rupee is a stimulating factor.”  Higher Mortgage Rates  Even though property prices are lower in India, mortgage
rates are 10 times higher at about 11 percent compared with
between 1 percent and 2 percent in Singapore.  Mumbai-based Lodha Group offered its Singapore customers a
chance to freeze the  exchange rate  at the home fair at 51.6
rupees to the dollar by hedging the currency on behalf of buyers.  For Manoj Mundra, a software professional employed with
 Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH)  in Singapore, such offers
and discounts from builders will aid his decision to purchase a
property in India.  “It’s a good time to invest in India as you are getting
more bang for your buck with the rupee depreciation,” Mundra,
41, said. Having lived in Singapore for six years, he is looking
to purchase a home in Gurgaon, a suburb near New Delhi, the
nation’s capital.  One-Tenth the Cost  A product of India’s seven years of surging economic growth,
Gurgaon and its gated communities for the burgeoning middle
class have swallowed up farmland. Homes in the area range from
two-bedroom apartments starting at 5.3 million rupees to five-
bedroom units for more than 50 million rupees, averaging around
S$151 a square foot -- about one-tenth the cost of a similar-
sized apartment in the comparable Tampines area of Singapore.  Indians in Singapore make up 9 percent of the country’s
resident population, forming the third-largest ethnic group
after the Chinese and Malays, according to government data.
Foreigners in Singapore account for 37 percent of the population.  Indians accounted for 3.7 percent of Singapore’s total home
purchases last year, according to data from the Urban
Redevelopment Authority. The top foreign buyers in the final
quarter of 2011 were Chinese, followed by Indonesians,
Malaysians and Indians, according Yang Liang Chua, head of
research for  Southeast Asia  at Jones Lang LaSalle.  “The trend will be that a lot of the Indian wealth that is
overseas will start finding its way back to India,” said
Agarwal. “This is a new window that is opening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  