-- Minmetals, Anvil May Resolve Congo Issue in Week, Minister Says
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-02-08T12:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/minmetals-anvil-may-resolve-congo-issue-in-week-minister-says.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo’s state-
owned mining company Gecamines may this week resolve issues
stalling  Minmetals Resources Ltd. ’s purchase of Anvil Mining
Ltd., Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said.  The companies have agreed to compensate the Lubumbashi-
based operator to forgo its first right of refusal over copper
projects in the southern Katanga province, Kabwelulu said today
in an interview in  Cape Town .  “We can’t accept that Gecamines loses out,” he said. “I
think they’re in the process of finalizing things this week.
Gecamines has to absolutely be indemnified for its right to
first refusal. It’s up to them to determine how much, it
seems.”  The dispute over the financial terms of a lease agreement
for Anvil’s Kinsevere project and the joint-venture accord for
the Mutoshi project is preventing Minmetals’ HK$10 billion ($1.3
billion) offer from proceeding, Perth, Australia-based Anvil
said last year.  The state-owned company is seeking a review of those terms,
and resolution is “very close,” Gecamines Chief Executive
Officer Ahmed Kalej said yesterday in an interview.  Minmetals rallied the most in five months in  Hong Kong ,
adding as much as 8.4 percent to HK$4.14 today, their biggest
gain since Sept. 9. The shares have risen 26 percent this year,
outpacing a 14 percent gain in the  Hang Seng Index .  “The share price reaction is mainly due to the news on the
Anvil Mining acquisition,” Robin Tsui, a Hong Kong-based
analyst with BOC International Holdings Ltd., said by phone.  Minmetals said today its copper cathode production from the
Sepon mine may be 78,000 to 82,000 metric tons this year, and
gold output may be 60,000 to 65,000 ounces. Last year, the
company produced 78,859 tons of the copper metal and 86,647
ounces of gold, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  