-- ICE Rises Most Since August on OTC Surge, Profit: Atlanta Mover
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-02-08T21:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/intercontinental-exchange-net-rises-on-european-energy-trade-1-.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , the
second-largest U.S. futures market, rose the most since August
as it said commissions from over-the-counter clearing rose last
month and fourth-quarter profit gained 28 percent.  Net income climbed to $127 million, or $1.73 a share, from
$99.1 million, or $1.34, a year earlier, the Atlanta-based
company said today in a statement. Profit excluding certain
items was $1.76 a share, beating the $1.69 a share average
estimate of 21 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Daily commissions for energy over-the-counter transactions
rose 21 percent to average $1.6 million in the quarter, compared
with the year-earlier period, the company said last month. The
company said in a slide presentation today that average OTC
commissions in January rose to more than $2 million.  “We expect the stock to react positively today” based on
the earnings and the increase in OTC commissions, said  Chris Allen , an analyst in  New York  at Evercore Partners Inc., who was
expecting commissions to be $1.6 million.   Intercontinental advanced 6 percent to $130.08 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. It earlier gained 7.1 percent,
the most since Aug. 9. Shares have risen 10 percent in the past
year.  The company said in its annual report that it was holding
$65.8 million in cash margin and guaranty funds that belong to
MF Global Holdings Ltd., the futures broker that in October
filed the eighth-largest bankruptcy.  MF Global Cash  The company said it was awaiting instructions from the
bankruptcy trustee on how to return the funds, which were spread
over three of Intercontinental’s clearinghouses.  Kelly Loeffler , an Intercontinental spokeswoman, said the
money belonged to MF Global and not its customers, as all of
that money under the company’s control was returned in November.  Average daily trading volume at Intercontinental’s London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  climbed 22.4 percent from the year-ago
period to 1.04 million contracts. The exchange trades futures
for heating oil and  Brent crude , which sets the price for oil
outside the U.S.  Revenue rose to $327 million from $285 million.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s largest futures
market, said last week that fourth-quarter profit missed
estimates as its trading volume slowed in the last months of
2011. Excluding a tax benefit CME Group received as an
inducement to stay in  Chicago  and other items, profit was $3.55
a share, trailing the average estimate of $3.64 in a Bloomberg
survey, the company said Feb. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  