-- International Power Declines on Weaker Outlook for Growth
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-02-08T16:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/international-power-declines-on-weaker-outlook-for-growth-1-.html
International Power Plc (IPR) , an operator
of electricity plants on five continents, declined the most in
three months in London trading after forecasting weaker growth.  International Power, a unit of  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , fell 2.8
percent, the most since Nov. 1, as of the market close in
London. Growth this year may be affected by contracts expiring
in North America and lower prices in Brazil, the company said
today in a statement.  “The main disappointment comes from the outlook,” Martin Brough, a London-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in an
e-mailed note. “While we would expect the share price to drop
slightly on the back of the results, the company continues to
have an attractive portfolio of growth projects.”  The London-based power producer, which operates plants from
 Latin America  to the Middle East, is focusing on expansion in
developing countries such as Brazil, where electricity demand is
growing faster than in North America and  Europe .  International Power reported an 8 percent gain in 2011
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization to
4.3 billion euros ($5.7 billion), according to today’s
statement. Sales advanced 3 percent to 16.5 billion euros.  “Against a backdrop of economic weakness in many developed
economies, these results demonstrate the strength of our
international portfolio, underpinned by our attractive position
in fast-growing  emerging markets ,” Chairman Dirk Beeuwsaert
said in the statement. “We remain well-placed to create
value.”  International Power will pay out 11 euro cents (14.6 U.S.
cents) a share, or 40 percent of profit, in dividends. The
payout ratio was 37.5 percent in 2010, Chief Executive Officer
Phil Cox said on a conference call with reporters. The company
was able to increase the return because of its “strong” set of
assets and cash flow, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  