-- Iran Anxiety No Match for Central Bankers Sedating Investors
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-02-08T17:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/iran-anxiety-no-match-for-central-bankers-sedating-traders-with-cheap-cash.html
Iran’s nuclear ambitions,  Syria ’s
bloody crackdown and Greece’s potential default are leaving
markets unfazed as central bankers take unprecedented steps to
prevent the global economy from crumbling.  The VIX, a measure of equity  volatility  known as the “fear
index,” fell to 17.1 on Feb. 3, the lowest level since July,
according to the Chicago Board Options Exchange. The Bank of
America Merrill Lynch  MOVE (MOVE)  index, which measures swings in bond
prices, closed at 72.3 on Feb. 6, about the least since July
2007. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  index  of implied volatility on
currencies dropped to 10.1 today, its lowest since March.  While geo-political risks have risen, investors are taking
their cue from policy makers from Washington to  Frankfurt  to
Beijing who are driving down  interest rates  and flooding the
world with cash to prop up their economies. The balance sheets
of the world’s six biggest central banks have more than doubled
since 2006 to $13.2 trillion, according to Chicago-based Bianco
Research LLC.  “Investors are numb and sedated,”  Jeffrey Sherman , a
commodities money manager who helps oversee $25 billion for
DoubleLine Capital LP in Los Angeles, said in a Feb. 7 telephone
interview. “Money sloshing around the system leads to lower
volatility.”  Market Returns  Investors have responded by driving equities to their best
start in 18 years, pushing government bond yields to record lows
and sending commodities prices soaring.  The MSCI All-Country World Index has risen 20 percent above
its closing low of Oct. 4, surpassing the threshold that signals
a  bull market , amid efforts by European leaders to tighten
budget controls, the  Federal Reserve ’s plans to keep rates low
through at least late 2014, or more than a year later than
planned, and better-than-estimated corporate profits. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rebounded 22.5 percent from its
2011 low of Oct. 3.  Corporate bonds worldwide returned 2.38 percent in January,
the best start to a year since bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate & High Yield Index was started in
1998. The firm’s index of sovereign bonds shows yields dropped
to 2.79 percent this week from 4.28 percent in November. In
commodities, the  S&P GSCI Total Return Index (SPGSCITR)  has climbed 17.8
percent from its low last year on Oct. 4  Markets rallied as the VIX fell from as high as 48 in
August on a closing basis, while the MOVE index dropped from
117.8 that month. The JPMorgan index of currency volatility is
down from 16.3 in September. That measure, which tracks three-
month options on volatility on developed and emerging market
currencies, is now below the average of 10.6 the past decade.  Balance Sheets Swell  “Don’t overlook a global central bank community that’s
intent on keeping liquidity flowing into the system,” Mitchell Stapley, the chief fixed-income officer at Fifth Third Asset
Management who helps oversee $14.6 billion from  Grand Rapids ,
Michigan, said in a Feb. 7 telephone interview. “If we learned
anything from 2008, it’s that liquidity is the key variable.
Liquidity flowing into the system cures a world of ills.”  The balance sheets of central banks in the U.S.,
Switzerland, U.K., European Union,  Japan  and  China  have swelled
from a collective $4.99 trillion in May 2006 and $10.1 trillion
in December 2008, two months after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. spurred the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression, according to Bianco Research.  China’s central bank holds about $4.5 trillion of
securities, the most of any such institution in the world,
Bianco Research’s data show. The ECB has about 2.7 trillion
euros ($3.6 trillion) while the Fed holds $2.9 trillion, up from
$898 billion in 2008.  Fed Stimulus  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said Jan. 25 that he’s
considering another set of asset  purchases , or quantitative
easing. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey the same day
estimated the central bank will buy mortgage bonds should the
economy warrant more stimulus, with purchases of all types
totaling $500 billion.  “Bottom line is we moved away from the disaster scenario
and now it’s being endorsed or even underwritten by central bank
activity in the U.S. and  Europe ,” Rob Robis, head of fixed-
income macro strategies in Atlanta at ING Investment Management,
which manages about $160 billion, said in a Feb. 7 telephone
interview. “It makes sense that volatility should be coming off
because you’ve taken that systemic risk out of the equation.”  In Europe, ECB President Mario Draghi has cut the benchmark
rate to a record low of 1 percent, eased collateral rules and
loaned banks an unprecedented 489 billion euros ($642 billion)
for three years since he took the bank’s helm Nov. 1.  ‘Stopgap Measures’  “These are stopgap measures,” Phoenix Kalen, a European
credit strategist in  London  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
said Feb. 7 in a telephone interview of the ECB’s lending
program. “We don’t think this is a lasting environment.”  The premium in  oil prices  should be two to three times
higher than it is now based on the risk of military conflict in
 Iran  and a potential lack of spare output capacity globally,
according to Saxo Bank A/S. Crude oil for March delivery slipped
14 cents to $98.59 a barrel at 12:06 p.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. The contract touched its high for the day
at $100.09 a barrel before release of the inventory report at
10:30 a.m. Prices are up 13 percent from a year ago.  Prices for European benchmark Brent crude include a $10-a-
barrel premium that takes into account the possibility of an
event that has the potential to disrupt crude shipments, Steen Jakobsen, Saxo Bank’s chief economist, said Feb. 1 in an
interview at the Danish company’s office in Dubai.  ‘Fanning the Flames’  “There is a lot of fanning the flames,” in Iran, said
George Lopez, a former UN sanctions investigator now at the Kroc
Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of
Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana. “The truth is that Iran is
discernibly not any closer to the bomb than it was four or even
six months ago. These threats rise and fall close to new
sanctions, new IAEA reports and U.S. elections and I think
markets are taking that into account.”  Almost a year after the uprising against Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad, the UN said the regime has killed more than
5,400 people and the conflict is evolving into a civil war.
 Russia  has blocked two attempts to take action against Assad, a
top ally in the  Middle East , leaving the  Arab League  and its
Western allies looking for ways to end the bloodshed and bring
about a political transition in the country.  At the same time, Israeli leaders have warned publicly that
time is running out for a military strike that could stop Iran
from developing nuclear weapons. Tensions rose further when
 Washington  Post columnist David Ignatius wrote last week that
U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta believes there is a strong
likelihood Israel will strike Iran in April, May or June.  ‘Well-Known’ Risks  “The risks to the Middle East are well known,” Kathy Jones, a fixed-income strategist in New York at Charles Schwab
Corp., which has $1.68 trillion in client assets, said Feb. 7 in
a telephone interview. “Some of these are long-term risks that
have been around for a while. People are somewhat inured to
them.”  In Europe, Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos and
international creditors are haggling over terms to secure a
second aid package from the so-called troika, comprising the
European Commission, the ECB and the  International Monetary
Fund . Papademos is seeking to put the final touches to terms
required for a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) rescue package.  Contagion Risk  The package has been on the table since July as the
government struggles to wind up financing to avert a collapse of
the economy, risking a new round of contagion in the euro area.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Feb. 6 that “time is
running out” to reach an accord.  Yields on 10-year Italian government debt soared to a
record 7.3 percent on Nov. 25 and have since declined to 5.6
percent. Italy’s bonds returned 5.4 percent last month, the most
since August 1993, while those of Spain gained 2.5 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Bonds of
European financial companies returned 3.5 percent in January,
the best performance since July 2009.  The ECB loans have “taken a tail risk off the table,”
 Andrew Milligan , who helps oversee about $262 billion as the
Edinburgh-based head of global strategy at Standard Life
Investments Ltd., said in a Feb. 7 telephone interview,
referring to a major disruptive event. “People were very
concerned in the fourth quarter about a nasty bank deleveraging
having a noticeable impact on the economy. That looks to be
tempered for the time being.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  