-- U.S. Attack on Iran ‘Suicide,’ Would Spark Reprisal, Russian Envoy Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-02-08T13:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/iran-is-watching-enemy-moves-near-borders-ready-to-respond-to-aggression.html
A U.S. attack on  Iran  would be
“suicide” that would prompt retaliation, said Mahmoud-Reza
Sajjadi, the Persian Gulf country’s ambassador to Russia,  “Iran has very good access to the whole world to carry out
strikes against America,” he told reporters in Moscow today,
adding that no pre-emptive strike is planned.  Iranian armed forces are closely monitoring hostile powers’
activities in the region, including along Iran’s borders, and
are ready to counter possible aggression, said Abdollah Reshadi,
commander of the northeastern air defense unit. “Iran’s air
defense is on the alert for foreign powers’ military moves and
fully prepared to counter any threats against the country,” he
said today, according to state-run  Press TV .  Israeli leaders, who have accused Iran of working toward
building a nuclear weapon, say time is running out for a
military strike that could stop the Islamic Republic from
pursuing that aim. President  Barack Obama  told NBC News on Feb.
5 that “our preferred solution is diplomatic, but we’re not
going to take any actions off the table.”  Iran, which says its atomic activities are designed to
ensure electricity for its growing population, is under four
rounds of United Nations sanctions and additional restrictions
imposed by the U.S. and the European Union. Iran has threatened
to shut the Strait of Hormuz, through which about a fifth of
globally traded oil passes, as the EU prepares to ban imports of
Iranian crude on July 1.  Willing to Act  Iranian leaders are willing to carry out an attack in the
U.S. in response to real or perceived actions that threaten
their government,  James Clapper , the director of national
intelligence, told Congress on Jan. 31.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  this month declined to
comment directly on a  report  by Washington Post columnist David Ignatius that Panetta believes there is a strong likelihood
 Israel  will strike Iran in April, May or June. He and other U.S.
officials have warned Israel not to act alone.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said on Feb. 2 that his
country must consider conducting “an operation” before Iran
reaches an “immunity zone,” referring to Iran’s goal of
protecting its  uranium enrichment  and other nuclear operations
by moving them to deep underground facilities.  Iran doesn’t recognize Israel as a legitimate state and
backs the Lebanese Hezbollah movement and Hamas in the  Gaza
Strip , which it describes as “resistance” groups and the U.S.
and Israel classify as terrorists.  “Wherever there is cruelty, there will be resistance, and
wherever there is resistance, we will be there,” Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said at a conference in Tehran
today. He said Iran “isn’t seeking to rule the world or
dominate anyone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  