-- Ireland Will Try to Make Use of Any ECB-Greek Accord on Debt, Noonan Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-02-09T00:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/irish-will-try-to-make-use-of-any-ecb-greek-accord-noonan-says.html
Ireland will seek to take advantage
of any “arrangement” that  Greece  agrees with the  European
Central Bank  on the country’s debt, as the government seeks help
refinancing the bailout of the former  Anglo Irish Bank Corp (ANGL) .,
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said.  “There’s a suggestion that there might be some
arrangement made with the ECB,” Noonan said in an interview
yesterday with Dublin-based broadcaster Today FM when questioned
about Greece. “If that happens we’ll be watching it very
closely and we’ll try to avail of that.”  While holders of Greek bonds face losses of more than 70
percent, Ireland’s government has insisted it won’t seek to
impose any losses on sovereign bondholders. Noonan said in a
separate interview that any concessions that Greece gets from
the ECB may help Ireland’s negotiating position as it seeks to
refinance about 30 billion euros ($40 billion) of so-called
promissory notes used to rescue the former  Anglo Irish (ANGL) , now
known as Irish Bank Resolution Corp.  The ECB is prepared to swap its holdings of Greek
 government bonds  to help cut the country’s debt burden, Dow
Jones reported two days ago, citing unidentified people briefed
on the talks. The agreement could reduce Greece debt by as much
as 11 billion euros, Dow Jones said.  “I see it as strengthening our negotiating position,”
Noonan said in a later interview with broadcaster RTE. “If the
ECB are prepared to make this kind of concession to Greece, it
would encourage me to think that they might be prepared to make
a concession on the promissory note.”  Bonds  Irish bonds have delivered the best returns in the euro
area in the past year, as the ECB bought the nation’s debt and
investors grew more confident that the government will be able
to pay its bills.  Irish bonds returned 20 percent in euro terms over the
past year, according to an index compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Ireland’s
October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark, yielded 7.01
percent yesterday, down from 9.67 percent on Nov. 25.  “The government’s been very clear that it is not looking
for the private sector to take losses on its debt,” Brian Devine, chief economist at Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers, said
by phone. “While it may look to avail of a deal along the lines
of what is being considered by the ECB for its Greek bonds, it
would need to be very clear that it would not have negative
implications for the country’s privately-held bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  