-- Israeli Labor Court to Rule on General Strike That Shut Exchange
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-02-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/israel-strike-shuts-banks-ports-stock-exchange-after-negotiations-fail.html
Israel ’s National Labor Court met to
rule on whether to allow the country’s largest labor federation
to shut banks, ports and the stock exchange for a second day to
protest contract workers’ conditions.  The  Finance Ministry  and Histadrut labor union were
scheduled to report at 1 a.m. to the court on the progress of
talks to settle the protest, the ministry said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday from  Jerusalem . The court was then to decide
if the strike can continue and, if so, under what conditions.  Histadrut estimates that 250,000 Israelis employed through
contractors receive on average about 30 percent less pay than
comparable workers employed directly. It says it wants the
government to take stronger measures to have them hired directly
so they receive higher wages and benefits.  Ben-Gurion International Airport was shut for the first six
hours of the strike, which involves 500,000 workers and started
yesterday. The  Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (EPRX)  and the  Bank of Israel 
were also closed.  “It is difficult to quantify the damage to the economy,
which I think is biggest for importers, exporters and tourism,”
 Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc,
said by telephone. “If it is just a strike for one day, it’s
not that detrimental to Israel’s image. If it will be a
prolonged strike, it will have investors worried.”  Stocks Slip  The  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index  of Israeli stocks traded
in  New York  dropped at one stage yesterday to the lowest in a
week, on concern the strike’s continued shutdown of the Tel Aviv
Stock Exchange will prevent arbitrage trading.  Histadrut said yesterday it reached an accord with private-
industry groups to ensure that contract workers will get
equivalent conditions to salaried employees. An end to the
strike will depend on the government accepting those terms, it
said.  “Private employers have agreed to equalize the conditions
of contract workers and absorb them into their workforce, and
the government, which is a public employer and has double the
responsibility toward these workers, is not willing to do so,”
Histadrut chief Ofer Eini said in an e-mailed statement.  “A strike will not solve the problem of contract
workers,” Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said on Feb. 7.
“The Israeli economy is in a delicate situation and now is not
the time to risk the stability that we have achieved at great
effort and through cooperation between the government and the
Histadrut in the face of the collapse of some of the world’s
leading economies.”  The Finance Ministry cut its growth forecast for 2012 to
3.2 percent from 4 percent, Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said
on Jan. 18. The Bank of Israel lowered its prediction on Dec. 26
to 2.8 percent from September’s estimate of 3.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  