-- Israel Suffers Straddle of Equity-Debt Fence for Emerging Label
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-02-08T22:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/israel-suffers-straddle-of-equity-debt-fence-for-emerging-label.html
Israel ’s multilane Ayalon Highway
runs parallel to the Mediterranean Sea, past Tel Aviv’s
skyscrapers, funneling traffic to its wealthy suburbs.  The La Guardia exit leads to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s research and
development center, which co-developed the auto complete
function of the company’s search engine. At the HaShalom
interchange is  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) , the
world’s No. 2 software security firm. Get off a few miles
farther north and you reach Herzliya, where a team of  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  engineers developed a free anti-virus program.  The tech giants were lured by Israel’s educated workforce
and  gross domestic product  per person of $31,000, which the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development says ranks
it among developed nations. And the country of 7.8 million
people has more startup companies per capita than the U.S.,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its March issue.  Yet by the standards of bond investors, Israel is still an
emerging market, on a par with Brazil and Turkey.  Israeli bonds and the shekel are covered by emerging-
markets strategists at Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. JPMorgan Chase & Co. includes the country’s
local-currency debt in its emerging-markets indexes.  $370 Billion  The task of classifying countries as  developed, emerging or
frontier  has gotten increasingly difficult in recent years,
investors and fund managers say. A lot is at stake: More than
$370 billion of assets were benchmarked to the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  as of Feb. 7, according to Bloomberg data. Some
$430 billion followed JPMorgan emerging-markets bond indexes as
of Nov. 23, 2011.  Since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008, rich countries have been traversing one of the roughest
economic patches in decades. At the same time, emerging nations
that were once considered hazardous bets -- from Argentina to
Thailand -- by some measures are more stable than their
developed counterparts.  When it comes to debt, for instance, some emerging markets
are rated higher than developed nations. Among emerging markets,
 Standard & Poor’s  rated the government debt of Chile as A+ and
South Korea as A.  Spain also is rated A, while Portugal, with a BB, and
 Greece , which was downgraded to the junk level of CC on July 27,
score lower. All three European markets are on the MSCI
developed-nations list.  Declining Risk  “Emerging markets were riskier in the past, but now the
situation has changed at a very rapid rate,” says  Mark Mobius ,
who helps oversee $40 billion as executive chairman of Franklin
Templeton Investments’ Emerging Markets Group. “The whole
rationale of why emerging markets were exciting was because the
potential of growth was much bigger.”  The level of  price swings  and risk in emerging markets is
becoming similar to that of developed markets. The volatility of
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which includes 820 companies
from the 21 developing nations, shrank to 22.3 in 2011 from 40.7
in 2008. That compares with 21.6 for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) , which
consists of 24 developed-market countries.  Volatility measures the relative rate at which the price of
a security moves, using the annualized standard deviation of
daily changes.  ‘Blurring Going On’  “There’s a blurring going on,” says Peter Marber, chief
business strategist for emerging markets at HSBC Global Asset
Management, which manages $400 billion. While decreasing
volatility means less risk, the downside is that investors whose
funds try to mirror benchmarks may be reducing the potential for
rewards, he says.  “People are viewing the world through these index goggles
and not evaluating the countries for what they really are,”
says Marber, who’s based in  New York . “You may not be getting
the exposure you need.”  Emerging markets have  outperformed  the U.S. and  Europe  for
a decade. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index surged 189 percent to
916.39 in the 10 years that ended on Dec. 30, 2011 -- about 10
times as much as the MSCI World Index of developed countries and
more than 20 times the  S&P 500 Index ’s 9.5 percent rise. In
2011, the emerging-markets index dropped 20 percent versus 7.6
percent for the world index.  Beating Developed Returns  In the debt markets, developing nations’ total return was
60 percent in the six years ended on Dec. 31 -- more than twice
the 25 percent gain in advanced countries, according to data
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan.  “It suggests emerging markets are no longer dependent on
the developed markets,” says Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global
strategist at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., which manages
$120 billion. “They are in a nice trajectory of their own.”  Becoming a developed market may have unintended
consequences. After MSCI Inc. bumped Israel up to developed-
market status in May 2010, there was a net outflow of $795
million from  Tel Aviv  shares by the end of the year compared
with a $1.7 billion inflow in 2009. All investors tracking the
MSCI index had to rebalance their portfolios as Israel was
removed from the emerging-markets gauges.  That’s one reason the country isn’t lobbying for any change
in its bond status. “One of our aims is to preserve both
advantages: to be developed and emerging,” Israeli Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz says.  Middle East Risks  S&P says the conflict with the Palestinians, the Arab
Spring revolts in Egypt and the turmoil in Syria negatively
affect Israel’s credit rating.  “It’s in the  Middle East , and it’s perceived as more of a
risky play,”  Michael Ganske , head of emerging-markets research
at Commerzbank AG in  London , says of Israel. “The local
politics are very difficult, which creates fear and
volatility.”  Not everyone agrees that the politics are a reason to
downgrade the country. “It’s ludicrous that Israel is still
considered an emerging market,” says  Benoit Anne , head of
emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA in London.
“Stanley Fischer isn’t exactly an emerging-markets central
banker.”  Fischer, 68, became Bank of Israel governor in 2005. He
earned a doctorate in economics at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1969 and taught there during the next three
decades, serving at one time as thesis adviser to Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman.  Anne says South Korea also doesn’t belong with the emerging
group, a view that other investors echo. The country’s growth
averaged 3.3 percent annually from 2009 to 2011, while its
policies and regulations met developed-market-status
expectations, he says.  How to Get Upgraded  Winning an upgrade from frontier or emerging status isn’t
easy. One criterion that MSCI uses to define a country as
developed is whether gross national income per capita is at
least 25 percent above the  World Bank ’s high-income threshold --
$12,276 as of 2010 -- for three consecutive years.  MSCI also looks at liquidity and the accessibility of the
country’s markets to foreign investment: “At least some”
openness to foreign investment qualifies a country as a frontier
market, “significant” as emerging and “very high” as
developed.  Qatar and the United Arab Emirates failed last year to
secure an upgrade to emerging-market status from frontier.  Status of Greece  “The upgrade should really be done forever unless there’s
some sort of extraordinary event,” says Sebastien Lieblich,
vice president of research at MSCI. “We don’t want to see
markets flip-flop from one universe to another.”  MSCI upgraded Greece to developed-market status in 2001.
The nation’s benchmark  ASE Index (ASE)  was the world’s second-worst
performer in 2011, falling 52 percent, behind the Cypriot
General Index, which dropped 72 percent. Still, the Greek market
is open to foreigners.  “Equity market accessibility hasn’t been impacted, so
there’s no reason for us to downgrade,” Lieblich says.  Even some rich countries would welcome being considered as
emerging.  Jerome Booth , who helps manage about $60.4 billion as
head of research at Ashmore Investment Management in London,
recalls arguing with a banker in Iceland who tried to get
Booth’s developing-markets fund to invest in the nation’s debt.  “We got into this argument of yes-we-are, no-you’re-not an
emerging market,” Booth says.  O’Neill’s View  Iceland’s GDP per capita for 2010 was estimated at
$38,300. After its banks defaulted on $85 billion of debt in
2008, Iceland completed a 33-month International Monetary Fund
program in August. As of Jan. 20, it cost less to insure against
an Icelandic sovereign default than it did to hedge against a
credit event in Europe’s single currency bloc, according to
credit-default-swap prices from data provider CMA, a unit of CME
Group Inc.  “We appear to be in the early days of a major
transition,” says Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, who coined the term BRIC for the rapidly growing
economies of  Brazil , Russia, India and  China .  While returns are now shrinking in the BRICs, O’Neill says
he’s optimistic about countries that he calls growth markets. He
says the next big spurt may come from places that are somewhere
between emerging and developed, such as Indonesia, Mexico, South
Korea and Turkey.  Sometimes, the best way of spotting a market that’s on its
way up is through old-fashioned, on-the-ground observation.
Marber recalls the first time he visited Warsaw, back in the
1980s: “The weather was gray; the buildings were gray; women’s
makeup was gray,” he says.  Returning in 1994, he was struck by the changes: a
gleaming, new airport terminal and a driver in a Mercedes taking
him to his hotel, where he read in a flier that the local branch
of Pizza Hut Inc. offered to deliver piping hot pies within 30
minutes -- and it did.  “It was the ka-ching factor,” Marber says. “You could
just hear the sound of the cash registers because of the amount
of business that was going on.” He boosted his holdings of
Polish assets after that trip.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net 
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  