-- Misys Holders Win Control in Temenos Merger as Lawrie Goes
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-02-08T09:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/misys-investors-to-win-control-in-temenos-merger-as-ceo-lawrie-steps-down.html
Misys Plc (MSY)  shareholders will gain a
majority stake in the company formed by merging the U.K.
software maker with  Temenos Group AG (TEMN) , while the Swiss rival’s
chief executive officer will take the helm.  Misys investors will own 53.9 percent of the enlarged
group, to be headquartered in  Switzerland , the companies said
yesterday. Temenos CEO Guy Dubois will head the new entity and
Misys Chief Financial Officer Stephen Wilson will keep his role.
Misys CEO Mike Lawrie will step down.  Six months after failing to reach a deal to be acquired by
 Fidelity National Information Services Inc. (FIS) , London-based Misys
linked up with Temenos to create the largest vendor of banking
software as many of their customers are under pressure to fire
workers and reduce costs. Any final pact is subject to the
completion of legal agreements and a financial audit.  “The combined business is expected to benefit from
enhanced scale and growth prospects, supported by a global,
blue-chip customer base,” the companies said yesterday as they
agreed on the key terms of the combination.  Misys  fell  4.4 percent to 311.7 pence at 9:13 a.m. in
 London . Geneva-based Temenos, which rose 16 percent when the
talks were announced on Feb. 3, declined 3.6 percent in Zurich
trading. The companies had a combined market value of about $3.3
billion, based on yesterday’s closing prices.  ValueAct Support  Misys makes software for cash, wealth and risk management
as well as for syndicated lending, over-the-counter derivatives
trading and post-trade processing. It has more than 1,300
banking customers. Temenos’s products include software for data
management and payments, according to its website.  ValueAct Capital, Misys’s largest shareholder, “indicated
its strong support for the proposed merger and will be
represented on the board,” the companies said.  The merged company will seek a listing on the London Stock
Exchange with a potential secondary listing on the Swiss bourse.  The ownership split takes into account dilution from
outstanding  stock options  and Misys debt that may be converted
into shares, according to the statement. The exchange ratio will
be 4.1 Misys shares to 1 Temenos share. The board of the new
entity will have nine seats, five nominated by Misys and four by
Temenos.  Dubois and Wilson will become members of the board of
directors which will be headed by Temenos Chairman Andreas Andreades.  Sales  at Temenos advanced 16 percent to $225.6 million in
the six months ended June 30, while revenue at Misys, boosted by
an acquisition, increased 22 percent to 197 million pounds ($312
million) in the half year ended Nov. 30.  Talks between Fidelity and Misys were close to an agreement
last year but negotiations were called off after the companies
couldn’t agree on a price, a person familiar with the situation
said in August.  Lazard & Co. advises Temenos, while  Barclays Capital  is
acting as financial adviser to Misys.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  