-- Ferraris Out of Fashion as Italy Nabs Tax Evaders
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-02-08T23:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/italy-police-pursue-ferraris-to-nab-tax-evaders.html
Police fanned out across Milan in
late January halting more than 350 vehicles, mostly luxury SUVs
and Porsches.  At checkpoints, including one adjacent to the fashionable
Corso Como, the police got the driver’s license and
registration, which they passed on to the national tax agency.
The tax authorities will use the data to check if the cars’
owners had declared enough income -- and of course paid the
right amount of income taxes -- to justify their lifestyles.  It was at least the fifth raid targeting wealthy Italians
since a Dec. 30 sweep at the posh Cortina d’Ampezzo ski resort,
where 251 high-end cars were stopped, including Ferrari and
Lamborghini supercars, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Feb. 13 issue. Rome, Portofino on the Italian Riviera and
Florence have also been targeted.  “I’ve been stopped three times in the last few weeks by
authorities because I’m driving a luxury SUV,” says Andrea, a
Range Rover owner and entrepreneur in  Italy ’s wealthy northeast.
“It seems like the McCarthy era in America. You’re guilty by
suspicion.”  The 43-year-old, who declined to give his last name for
fear of attracting the attention of Italy’s tax agency, now
plans to sell the SUV he bought last May. He expects to get at
most 40,000 euros ($52,400) for a car that cost him more than
100,000 euros. “Dealers are full of luxury cars. No one wants
to buy them now,” the businessman said.  Luxury Sweep  Italian authorities are applying to luxury-car owners the
same logic they displayed more than a year ago, when tax agents
started tracking down the owners of yachts berthed in Italy’s
harbors to see if they were current on their tax payments.  In the raid in Cortina D’Ampezzo,  tax agents  found that 42
luxury car owners had declared income of less than 30,000 euros
for 2010 and 2009. Another 19 luxury cars were owned by
businesses which posted a loss in the previous year. The sweep
in Florence discovered a builder with no tax record who was
driving a Mercedes with his wife who was receiving social
assistance. Tax officials also found a German owner of a BMW X5
SUV with no declared income, according to the website of the tax
agency’s Florence office.  This is serious stuff for the government, which estimates
that  tax evasion  costs the country about 120 billion euros a
year in lost revenue.  “The ownership of a luxury car highlights a level of
spending and a standard of living that are often not
reconcilable with the income declared by the owner,” said
Carmelo Piancaldini, a manager in the inspections unit of
Agenzia delle Entrate, Italy’s tax authority. “If one is
transparent with the tax agency and buys a luxury car, he
doesn’t have to worry.”  Record Costs  The collection effort is part of Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s plan to curb record borrowing costs on Italy’s 1.9
trillion-euro  debt  and avoid following Greece, Portugal and
Ireland which all had to seek bailouts.  Monti has also raised taxes on  luxury goods , including
expensive cars. The owner of a 316,000-euro Lamborghini
Aventador, for instance, will now have to pay about 8,400 euros
a year in taxes, an increase of 6,600 euros.  While tax authorities reject being the cause for a slump
in car sales, the measures are having an impact. Marco Santucci,
general manager of Tata Motors’ Jaguar brand in Italy, said
orders for high-end cars “decreased substantially” in the
final months of 2011, dragged down by the taxes. Sales are
shifting towards cheaper versions with smaller engines, he said.  Slumping Demand  Demand for vehicles from the likes of  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari
and Maserati brands and  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ’s Lamborghini slumped 53
percent in January, with just 66 supercars sold, according to
Anfia, the association of Italian carmakers. The new taxes and
high-profile dragnets have also sent exotic-car prices down 20
percent, according to dealer association Federauto.  “Extra taxes and fiscal raids are hurting the demand for
supercars and killing the second-hand market,” says Filippo
Pavan Bernacchi, head of Federauto.  The slump in luxury sales adds pressure on the Italian auto
market as the economy teeters on the brink of recession. Sales
may fall to the lowest level since 1985 this year on the weight
of the budget-tightening measures, according to Fiat Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne .  Luxury Tax  Still, for Ferrari, which earns higher profit margins than
any other Fiat unit, it’s not the end of the world. There’s
plenty of demand outside Italy for the company’s sports cars.  “Italy isn’t a concern for Ferrari as it sells its cars
abroad,” Marchionne said last month in  Detroit . Relying on
Italy would be a problem, because “demand is not there --
austerity is impacting everywhere in the country.”  Monti’s new luxury vehicle tax targets owners of cars whose
engines have more than 251 horsepower. The tax may raise about
165 million euros this year, according to Unrae, Italy’s
association of foreign carmakers.  “It’s hard to imagine that any other European country
having luxury car producers contributing significantly to
employment would have introduced a tax” on supercars, says
Maserati CEO Harald Wester.  The government also increased duties on fuel. All told, the
extra levies will cost Italian drivers 5.1 billion euros by the
end of 2012, Unrae estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ; 