-- Japan Airlines Seeks European Venture With British Airways
-- B y   N e i l   D e n s l o w   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-02-08T13:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/japan-air-plans-venture-with-british-airways-on-europe-routes.html
Japan Airlines Co.  and British
Airways applied to form a venture on Japan-Europe routes that
would let them share revenue, coordinate schedules and
potentially add new services.  JAL is seeking antitrust immunity for the plan from  Japan ’s
Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, it said
in a statement today. British Airways, a unit of International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA, has contacted the European
Union, it said.  British Airways and JAL are both members of the Oneworld
global airline alliance that also includes  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American
Airlines  and  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  The group fought off
overtures from competing alliance SkyTeam, led by  Delta Air
Lines Inc.  and  Air France-KLM Group , to lure away JAL, while the
Japanese carrier was dealing with bankruptcy in 2010.  “We have very close links with JAL and look forward to
enhancing that relationship,”  Willie Walsh , Chief Executive
Officer of IAG, British Airways’ parent company, said in a
statement. “Despite the difficulties the Japanese aviation
market has faced in recent years, we have great confidence in
JAL’s business outlook and the overall market’s future
prospects.”  Asia Ambitions  IAG, created last year by the merger of British Airways and
 Spain ’s Iberia, aims to increase its presence in  Asia . The
company currently allocates about 31 percent of its capacity to
North American routes and 9 percent to Asia-Pacific flights,
according to a presentation.  JAL exited bankruptcy last year after cutting a third of
its workers, grounding planes and receiving funding from the
country’s largest banks. The airline is planning an initial
public offering that may raise as much as 1 trillion yen ($13
billion) as early as September, two people familiar with the
matter said in January.  “IAG would look closely at investing in JAL,” said Lorena
Monsalves, a London-based spokeswoman for IAG.  British Airways currently operates a daily service from
London’s Heathrow to  Tokyo ’s Narita airport and five times
weekly to the city’s Haneda airport, according to Monsalves. JAL
flies daily services from Tokyo Narita to Heathrow, Frankfurt
and Paris Charles de Gaulle, as well as three times a week to
Moscow.  As antitrust immunity has yet to be granted, IAG can’t
confirm which routes may be included in the joint-venture,
Monsalves said.  All Nippon Airways Co. , Japan’s largest listed carrier,
formed a similar pact with  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  last year, as
airlines boost cooperation to counter rising fuel costs and to
offer easier travel options for customers. JAL and British
Airways also have separate accords with  American Airlines ,
covering routes between their home markets and the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  