-- Japan to Install Vent System for Reactors After Fukushima Crisis
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-02-08T05:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/japan-to-install-vent-system-for-reactors-after-fukushima-crisis.html
Japan ’s power utilities plan to
install vent systems with filters for nuclear reactors to reduce
radioactive releases in the event of an accident, an industry
group said.  The system will cut emission of radioactive particles to
less than one-thousandth of usual volumes, the Federation of
Electric Power Companies, a group of 10 regional utilities, said
in  presentation materials  at a government meeting yesterday. The
companies will also install equipment to remotely vent steam and
gas, it said.  Meltdowns and the release of radiation at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station after the March
11 earthquake and tsunami forced about 160,000 people to
evacuate and made areas near the plant uninhabitable. Japan’s
utilities are trying to improve the safety of nuclear plants,
with three of the country’s 54 reactors on-line and no date set
to resume commercial operations at the others.  “We all know there is no such thing as perfect safety,”
Tomoko Murakami, a Tokyo-based nuclear researcher at Institute
of Energy Economics, said by telephone today. “The point is
what criteria should be used to decide the restart of a reactor?
I don’t think installing a filtered venting would be one of the
criteria.”  The companies are considering details of the plan and
haven’t decided when to start building the filter-equipped vent
systems, Tetsu Oshikiri, a spokesman for the federation, said by
phone today.  Sweden, Switzerland  Installing the system will probably take more than three
years and cost several billions of yen, said Murakami, who
worked at Japan Atomic Power Co. for 13 years. Countries
including Sweden and  Switzerland  have installed filtered vent
systems at their nuclear stations, Murakami said.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission may direct plant
owners to improve safety at the nation’s 104 operating reactors
by March 9, Robert Fretz, a senior project manager in the
agency’s Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, said Jan. 17.
Orders dealing with emergency equipment, reliable vents and
spent-fuel pool instruments are being drafted, he said.  The “safety myth” of nuclear power may have caused Japan
to delay taking steps, including installation of filtered vent
systems, to minimize damage in an accident, Murakami said. The
Fukushima disaster shattered the myth, Murakami said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  