-- Japan Tobacco Aims to Boost EPS as It Chases Philip Morris
-- B y   C h e n g   H e r n g   S h i n n   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-02-09T03:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/japan-tobacco-aims-to-boost-eps-as-it-chases-philip-morris-1-.html
Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  may buy back
shares to help narrow a gap in earnings-per-share growth with
rivals including  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  and  British
American Tobacco Plc. (BATS)   “We are chasing  Philip Morris  and British American,”
Executive Deputy President Masakazu Shimizu said yesterday in an
interview. This will be achieved by increasing EPS growth and
dividends as well as through raising cash flows and Ebitda, or
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
margin, he said.  The company has said it will buy back shares when the
government starts selling from its 50 percent stake in the
former tobacco monopoly. Any repurchases will help prevent
dilution of share value if the government decides to cut its
holding, Shimizu said.  Japan  may reduce its stake to 33 percent
to raise cash to pay for recovery projects after the March 11
earthquake.  “The first priority is investing in the business which
will be the engine for future growth,” Shimizu said. “This
will lead to profits for all parties concerned, including
shareholders.”  The world’s second-biggest listed cigarette maker plans to
increase shareholder  dividend  while boosting profitability as
part of its new mid-term strategy. This comes after paying down
its debt from the takeover of Gallaher Group Ltd. in 2007.  The maker of Mild Seven and Camel cigarettes has come under
pressure to return more cash to shareholders including
Children’s Investment Fund Management UK LLP. The U.K.-based
investor has said it is seeking a 20,000 yen-a-share dividend,
compared with the 9,000 yen the company plans for the year
ending March 31.  The  cigarette maker  rose 3.5 percent to 428,500 yen in
 Tokyo  as of 12:36 p.m. local time. The shares have advanced 18
percent this year, tripling the 6.1 percent gain for the Nikkei
225 Stock Average.  Japan Tobacco earnings per share rose 4.8 percent over the
past year, lower than the 19.4 percent median for the global
tobacco industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheng Herng Shinn in Tokyo at 
 hcheng52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  