-- Japan Machinery Orders Fall 7.1%
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-02-09T01:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/japan-machinery-orders-fall-7-1-.html
Japan ’s  machinery orders  fell at the
fastest pace in three months in December as a faltering global
economy and gains by the yen dimmed the outlook for exporters.  Bookings, an indicator of  capital spending ,  decreased  7.1
percent from the previous month, the Cabinet Office said in
Tokyo today, after surging 15 percent in November. The median
estimate of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 5
percent decline.  Japan’s exports fell for three straight months through
December as European leaders grappled with the debt crisis that
is driving the euro region into a recession. Spending may
rebound as earthquake reconstruction work kicks in and today’s
report showed companies forecasting a 2.3 percent increase in
orders this quarter.  “Growing uncertainties over the global economy and the
yen’s gains could discourage companies” from spending, said
 Yoshiki Shinke , a senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research in
 Tokyo . At the same time “it’s unlikely that capital spending
will turn into a declining trend in coming months because of
reconstruction demand,” he said.  Japan’s currency climbed to a post-World War II high of
75.35 per dollar on Oct. 31, eroding profits at exporters such
as  Sharp Corp (6753) . and Honda Motor Co. The yen traded at 77.13 in
Tokyo as of 10:02 a.m., from 77.05 before the report.  ‘Severe’ Condition  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said this week
that the economy is in a “severe” condition because of
deflation and gains in the yen.  Japan’s lower house of parliament on Feb. 3 approved Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s 2.5 trillion yen ($32 billion)
recovery package from the earthquake and tsunami, the fourth
supplementary budget since the disaster. The government forecast
in December that Japan’s economy will grow 2.2 percent in the
year starting April after a projected 0.1 percent contraction
this fiscal year.  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates that Japan’s
economy will grow 1.7 percent this year, compared with a likely
1.8 percent expansion for the U.S. and an estimated 0.5 percent
contraction for the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  