-- Unemployment Decline Masks U.S. Labor Force Drop: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-02-08T21:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/jobless-decline-masks-drop-in-u-s-labor-force-as-fewer-seek-work-economy.html
The unemployment rate’s unexpected
drop to a three-year low has overshadowed a less-positive labor-
market development: fewer Americans are looking for work.  Last week’s Labor Department announcement that the  jobless
rate  fell to 8.3 percent in January sent stocks and bond yields
higher. The same report showed the share of working-age people
in the  labor force  had declined to the lowest level in 29 years.  The so-called  participation rate  was cited by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  yesterday to support his
assessment that the rate of unemployment obscures
vulnerabilities in the job market. Bernanke, speaking to the
Senate Budget Committee, confirmed the Fed’s stance that
interest rates will stay low at least through late 2014, and
repeated his view that the job market is a “long way” from
returning to normal.  “Weakness in the labor force is frustrating to the Fed,
which needs to see broadened participation from labor in this
recovery,” said  Eric Green , chief market economist at TD
Securities Inc. in  New York . “What the Fed wants is the real
stuff. They want unemployment falling with the labor force
rising.”  Stocks rose as Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  began
talks with political leaders on terms required for a bailout.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,349.96
at the close of trading in New York.  In  Europe  today, German exports slumped 4.3 percent in
December from the previous month as the sovereign debt crisis
slowed growth across the euro region.  Missing Workers  The Labor Department last week boosted the count of the
U.S. working-age population by 1.51 million people based on
findings from the 2010 Census. Of those, 1.25 million, or 83
percent, weren’t in the workforce, the data showed.  The adjustments are traditionally plugged lump-sum into the
January data even though they represent changes that developed
over the past decade. The jump in the count of those not in the
labor force caused the participation rate to drop to 63.7
percent last month, the lowest since May 1983. About 88 million
Americans aged 16 years or older didn’t have a job and weren’t
trying to find one, the new data showed.  The  unemployment rate , which only counts people who say
they are actively looking for work, would be higher if some of
those sought employment. The decrease in the jobless rate in
January was not influenced by the drop in participation,
according to last week’s report.  Bernanke’s View  “It is very important to look not just at the unemployment
rate,” Bernanke said in response to questions during
yesterday’s hearing. “The 8.3 percent no doubt understates the
weakness of the labor market in some broad sense.” Some people
are leaving the workforce because they can’t find jobs, and
others are taking part-time jobs because they can’t find full-
time employment, he said.  Some Fed officials are taking a more upbeat view.  “The economic news and economic data, including today’s
data, has been surprising to the upside,”  James Bullard ,
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis , said in an
interview on the day of the jobs report.  Momentum for staffing agencies such as Troy, Michigan-based
Kelly Services Inc. has grown since the end of 2009.  “The ongoing economic uncertainty will help create a
greater awareness of temporary staffing benefits and a secular
shift in demand for temporary workers,”  Carl Camden , president
and chief executive officer at Kelly Services, said on a Feb. 2
conference call with analysts.  Two-Day Meeting  At the conclusion of a two-day meeting on Jan. 25, the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said that the economic outlook,
restrained by “low rates of resource utilization,” would
probably warrant near-zero  interest rates  through at least late
2014. The Fed officials projected the unemployment rate would be
between 8.2 percent and 8.5 percent in the last three months of
2012.  While unemployment fell 1.4 percentage points over the past
24 months, the participation rate dropped 1.1 percentage points.
Additionally, the share of Americans with jobs, known as the
employment-to-population  ratio , hasn’t budged, holding at 58.5
last month, the same as in January 2010.  “We should be taking actions that boost employment growth,
including signals from the Fed that they aren’t going to tighten
up even if there is a slight whiff of inflation,” said Jesse
Rothstein, an associate professor of public policy and economics
at the  University of California  at Berkeley and a former chief
economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics. “There is not much
news that changes our view of the economy.”  Census Figures  A breakdown of the new Census numbers helps explain why the
participation rate is even lower than previously estimated.
About 1.29 million of the gain in the working-age population
came from those 55 years and older, while another 521,000 were
16 to 24 year-olds, two groups that traditionally have lower
participation rates. The count of those 25 to 54 years old,
considered the prime employment years, dropped by 299,000.  Women accounted for all the increase in the population
total, while the number of men fell. Ethnically, the count of
Asians and Hispanics grew, while whites decreased.  “The bump that you see from moving to 2010 is pretty small
because we were pretty close with our population estimates,”
Tori Velkoff, assistant division chief in charge of estimates
and projections for the U.S. Census Bureau, said in a telephone
interview on Feb. 3. The adjustments were “pretty typical,”
she said, and “groups that we were a little low on, we’re
trying to figure out why that might have been.”  Argument for Stimulus  The argument for how long the Fed should maintain stimulus
hinges on whether policy makers view the drop in participation
as a long-lasting shift in demographics, or a shorter-term shock
that will soon be reversed.  Monetary policy  is aimed at
cushioning the economy from temporary shifts.  A  research paper  published Feb. 1 by economists at the
 Federal Reserve  Bank of Chicago argues that the most recent
decline is a result of the recession. About three-quarters of
the 1.8 percentage points drop in the participation rate among
those aged 16 to 79 over the past three years is due to severity
of the slump, the report said. Only about a quarter of that
decrease reflects long-run demographic changes.  Slack in the job market can also be seen in measures of
openings and pay.  Hourly Earnings  Hourly earnings were up 1.9 percent in January from the
same month in 2011 on average, the smallest year-over-year gain
since April, last week’s report from the Labor Department
showed. For  production workers , the 1.5 percent increase was the
smallest in records going back to 1965.  There were almost four unemployed workers in December for
each position waiting to be filled, a report yesterday showed.
When the 18-month recession began in December 2007, there were
less than two vying for each opening.  “We’re very depressed relative to normal trend levels in
terms of employment and output,” Michael Darda, chief market
strategist at MKM Partners LP, said in a Feb. 6 interview on
Bloomberg Television. “So you really do need a period of above-
trend growth. That’s what the Federal Reserve is trying to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  