-- Kasich Recasts Himself as Bipartisan Healer After Ohioans Spurn Union Law
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/kasich-recasts-himself-as-bipartisan-healer-after-ohioans-spurn-union-law.html
Ohio  Governor John Kasich spent much
of his first year pushing a law to rein in public-employee
unions. Now, with voters having shot it down, he is recasting
his agenda to include “tough environmental rules” and pleas
for bipartisanship.  “You look at what’s happening in  Washington ,” Kasich, a
59-year-old Republican, said yesterday during a speech to
lawmakers gathered in the auditorium of Steubenville High School
in eastern  Ohio (STOOH1) . “Do we want to be them? They can’t get out of
their own way; the country’s losing faith. So together, we’ve
got to make sure that we move forward.”  Republican governors’ efforts to restrict unions have split
citizens on partisan lines.  Mitch Daniels  championed  Indiana ’s
transformation to a right-to-work state, a vote Democratic
lawmakers stalled with weeks of boycotted sessions.  Scott Walker 
faces a possible recall in  Wisconsin  after lawmakers approved
his bill curtailing government workers’ bargaining rights. Since
Kasich’s rebuff in November, he has said he wants Ohioans to
come together once more.  “I think you’ve got to steer clear of mindless
partisanship,” Kasich said. “They don’t give you awards for
being a partisan.”  The governor’s speech fits the mood of voters tired of
infighting, as well as the perception that Republicans
overreached last year, said John C. Green, who teaches politics
at the University of Akron.  “One goal of the speech may have been to stress the
governor’s willingness to be cooperate on legislation,” Green
said by e-mail.  Suffer the Children  Kasich, a former Fox News commentator elected in 2010, gave
the annual State of the State address to a relocated joint
session of the Legislature in the city of 18,659 about 150 miles
(240 kilometers) east of Columbus on the  Ohio River  across from
 West Virginia (STOWV1) . It was the first time the speech wasn’t delivered
at the Capitol, Jane Mason, a spokeswoman for the Ohio
Historical Society, said by e-mail.  The governor said he wanted to give the speech there
because  Steubenville (10087MF) ’s Wells Academy, housed at the high school,
is the state’s highest-ranking elementary school as measured by
test results, according to the district’s website.  “In the teachers’ minds and the administrators’ minds,
nothing stands in the way of kids being great,” Kasich said.
“Not poverty, not broken homes.”  Acts, Not Words  House Democratic Leader Armond Budish, of Beachwood, and
Senate Democratic Leader Eric Kearney questioned whether the
governor could live up to such inspirational and bipartisan
ideals after the union legislation was “rammed through.”  “He can say bipartisanship, but he doesn’t act like it,”
Kearney, of Cincinnati, said in an interview, adding that Kasich
hasn’t responded to a jobs plan offered by Senate Democrats.  Steubenville, birthplace of singer Dean Martin and Edwin
Stanton, who was President  Abraham Lincoln ’s secretary of war,
sits atop natural-gas deposits in the Marcellus and Utica shale
formations. Kasich has said they may lead Ohio to an economic
resurgence thanks to hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which
chemical-laced water is used to free trapped gas.  Millions of dollars have flowed into southeast Ohio in
bonus checks of as much as $5,500 an acre that drilling
companies including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  have been paying
landowners, Larry Piergallini, 57, a farmer and lawyer from
Tiltonsville, said in a telephone interview.  Some, though, have blamed wastewater disposal wells for a
rash of earthquakes in the state.  ‘Selling Out Ohio’  Drilling companies understand that states need tough
environmental rules because “we can’t have some yahoo come into
this state, and damage this whole industry because they’re
irresponsible,” the governor said in his speech.  “You cannot degrade the environment at the same time
you’re producing this industry,” Kasich said. “It is not
acceptable, and it’s not a false choice.”  Protesters in the balcony interrupted him. One woman called
out, “ John Kasich  is selling out Ohio,” as state troopers
escorted her from the auditorium. A group that Steubenville
Police Captain Joel Walker estimated at 200 demonstrated outside
the school.  Republican Senate President Thomas Niehaus of New Richmond
said in an interview that he hopes the two parties can overcome
last year’s anger. He encouraged a bipartisan bowling outing
with senators last week, he said.  “It’s a two-way street,” Niehaus said in an interview.
“We’re certainly willing to go down that road, but you also
have to have someone willing to walk that road with you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  