-- Kemira Climbs as CEO Reassures Profit Will Grow: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-02-08T17:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/kemira-climbs-as-ceo-reassures-profit-will-grow-helsinki-mover.html
Kemira Oyj (KRA1V)  climbed the most in 20
months in Helsinki trading after Chief Executive Officer Harri Kerminen reassured investors that the maker of water-treatment
chemicals will succeed in growing profits this year.  Kemira jumped as much as 10 percent, the most since May
2010. The shares in the Helsinki-based company rose 59 cents, or
6.1 percent, to 10.32 euros at the close in the Finnish capital.  “The company seemed to stand firm behind their forecast”
in today’s telephone conference, Markku Jaervinen, an analyst at
Evli Bank Oyj, said by phone today. The shares, which had
advanced in earlier trading as Kemira reported earnings that
beat estimates,  added to gains  after the call.  Kemira said 2012 revenue and operative earnings before
interest and tax will increase “slightly” from last year,
according to today’s earnings report. Fourth-quarter net income
jumped 55 percent to 36.8 million euros ($48.8 million), beating
the average  estimate  of 27.6 million euros in a Bloomberg
survey.  “So far, analyst estimates had indicated a decline,” in
2012 sales and profits, Jaakko Tyrvaeinen, an analyst at FIM
Bank Oyj in Helsinki, said by phone today. “The company
management probably succeeded in reassuring people that the
forecast could be achieved.”  Kemira shares lost 14 percent on Nov. 18, the most in
almost four years, when the company cut its forecast, saying
2011 profit and sales wouldn’t grow.  On today’s conference call, CEO Kerminen said the company
is considering measures to improve profitability, including
energy cost savings of 10 million euros this year.  CEO Replacement  Kerminen will retire on April 1, after 26 years at the
company, and will be replaced by Wolfgang Buechele, who has been
on the board for two years, the company said last year.  It’s too early to say what strategic changes Buechele, a
former BASF SE, employee will bring to Kemira, Chief Financial
Officer Jyrki Maeki-Kala said in an interview today.  Kemira’s aim this year is to consolidate sites in the U.S.,
 Spain  and  Germany . The process follows the reduction of 60
million euros in costs in the last cost-cutting program, Maeki-
Kala said.  “It gets harder and harder because we have done quite a
lot over the last three years, there’s no low-hanging fruit
anymore,” the CFO said.  Kemira is getting a boost from growth areas such as
additives for tissues and chemicals used in shale gas. The key
focus for expansion is emerging markets, Maeki-Kala said.  “Last year, shale gas really has been a success and we
have gained a very nice business,” he said. “It seems that
it’s still in a growth phase” in  North America .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  