-- Kenyan Shilling Hits One-Year High as Bank Curbs Money Supply
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-02-08T14:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/kenyan-shilling-hits-one-year-high-as-bank-curbs-money-supply.html
Kenya ’s shilling strengthened to its
highest in almost a year as the central bank curbed  money supply 
through  repurchase agreements .  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy appreciated
1.2 percent and was trading 0.9 percent high at 82.75 per dollar
as of 4:10 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi. A close at this level
would be the highest since Feb 28, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The central bank accepted 2 billion shillings ($24 million)
of seven-day repurchase agreements at 14.461 percent after
receiving 10.8 billion shillings in bids. The bank later sold 8
billion shillings of five-day repurchase agreements at a
weighted average rate of 13.5 percent to mop up liquidity, an
official at the Nairobi-based bank, who declined to be
identified in line with policy, said by phone today.  “The central bank is sucking flash liquidity created by
government release of development funds and recent maturity of
 government securities ,” Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer at Nairobi-
based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview
today. “This action has supported the shilling, leading to it
gaining against the dollar.”  Tanzania’s shilling appreciated for the first time this
week as the central bank sold dollars. The currency of the
second-biggest economy in East Africa appreciated as much as 0.5
percent to 1,590 per dollar as of 4:30 p.m.  “The market is generally quiet with some inflows coming in
from the central bank,” Eric Chijoriga, a dealer with National
Bank of Commerce Ltd., said today by phone from  Dar es Salaam ,
the commercial capital.  The Ugandan shilling weakened, snapping a two-day rally.
The currency of the third-biggest economy in  East Africa 
depreciated 1.7 percent to 2,325 and was trading 0.2 percent
lower at 2,315 at 2:20 p.m., in the capital, Kampala.  “The shilling weakened on account of some dollar demand in
the  interbank market ,” Abbey Mutabali, a currency trader at
Centenary Bank Ltd. said by phone from Kampala.  -- With assistance from David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam and
Fred Ojambo in Kampala. Editors: Peter Branton, Linda Shen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  