-- Klepierre Gains as Earnings Per Share Beats Analyst Estimates: Paris Mover
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-02-08T17:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/klepierre-gains-as-earnings-per-share-beats-analyst-estimates-paris-mover.html
Klepierre SA (LI) ,  France ’s second-largest
publicly traded owner of shopping centers, reported annual
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates and raised its dividend.
The shares gained 3.7 percent.  Profit excluding one-time charges, known as net current
cash flow, climbed to 1.99 euros ($2.64) a share from 1.96 euros
a year earlier, the Paris-based company said in a  statement 
after the market closed yesterday. Analysts expected profit of
1.895 euros a share, the average of 16  estimates  in a Bloomberg
survey.  Chief Executive Officer Laurent Morel forecast in July that
net current cash flow would be little changed in 2011 as he  sold
assets  to cut debt and finance a 3.3 billion-euro development
program through 2016. The company plans to make 1 billion euros
of disposals through 2013.  “We had a very solid activity from our shopping centers,”
Morel said on a conference call in which he predicted net
current  cash flow  per share “should increase slightly” in
2012.  Klepierre advanced 84 cents to 23.72 euros in Paris
trading, giving the company a market value of 4.5 billion euros.
The shares are unchanged in the three months though yesterday,
compared with a 4 percent gain for the FTSE EPRA- Nareit European
Index (EPRA)  of real estate stocks.  Increased Dividend  The company increased its  dividend  to 1.45 euros a share
from 1.35 euros for 2010. Shareholders may receive the payout in
shares, which may boost net current cash flow per share if there
is significant take-up by investors, Morel said.  BNP Paribas SA,  Klepierre’s largest shareholder  with a 50.5
percent stake, currently plans to take up the scrip dividend,
although its final decision will be made the day before the
option expires, Morel said. He declined to comment on whether
BNP has plans to sell part or all of its stake.  Klepierre is stepping up  disposals  after raising 187.1
million euros last year. It’s tapping demand for shopping
centers from investors attracted by regular rental income
generated by the centers. The company plans to cut debt to 40
percent of the value of its real estate, Morel said.  Net current cash flow rose 1.8 percent to 371.1 million
euros, Klepierre said.  Net debt  totaled 7.62 billion euros, or
45.8 percent of the value of its properties. Six months earlier,
the loan-to-value was 46.5 percent.  The proceeds will also help fund projects which offer
higher rental growth potential, Morel said.  Scheduled Completions  Three are scheduled to be completed this year, including a
center under Paris’s Saint-Lazare railroad station, a mall in
Malmo,  Sweden , and the enlargement of an existing center in
Claye-Souilly, near Paris.  Rents rose 1.7 percent last year, excluding the effect of
disposals, openings and acquisitions, as Klepierre signed leases
at higher rates, the company said. Higher management fees and
the opening of its Millenaire mall in Paris and Aqua Portimao in
 Portugal  meant total revenue rose 4.2 percent to 1.03 billion
euros.  Klepierre expects rents to rise as much as 2.5 percent this
year before the effect of acquisitions or new openings.  Net asset value  rose 7.5 percent from six months earlier to
31.4 euros a share.  Net income  rose 142.2 million euros from
124.6 million euros a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in Paris at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 