-- Kloppers Says BHP has Capacity for M&A as Rivals Xstrata, Glencore Combine
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-02-08T05:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/kloppers-says-bhp-has-capacity-for-m-a-as-rivals-xstrata-glencore-combine.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , facing a new
threat from a combined  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and Glencore International
Plc, flagged to rivals the world’s biggest mining company has
the firepower to keep making acquisitions.  “Obviously the balance sheet has got some capacity,”
 Marius Kloppers , chief executive officer of the Melbourne-based
company, said today on a first-half earnings media conference
call. “M&A is an opportunistic thing. If you have got the
capacity in the balance sheet, if there is an opportunity that
comes by and you have got the capacity, then you can exercise
that,” he said.  Glencore (GLEN) ’s $39 billion takeover offer for Xstrata will
create the world’s fourth-biggest mining company and heighten
competition against the big three global miners, BHP, Rio Tinto
Group and Vale SA. The energy and mining industries are likely
to lead growth in mergers and acquisitions this year, Clifford
Chance LLP said last month.  “Now that Xstrata and Glencore are merging, if they do
successfully bed that marriage together, they will obviously be
looking to utilize their significant capital base to take
greater influence across some of the commodity sectors,”  Jamie Spiteri , head dealer at Shaw Stockbroking Ltd. in Sydney, said
by phone. “BHP and Rio will be conscious of the fact that
there’re competitive forces out there for key commodities.”  ‘Bigger Size’  The combined Xstrata and Glencore would have competitive
advantages to do deals because of its bigger size,  Ian Henderson ,
a  fund manager  at JPMorgan Asset Management, who holds Xstrata
shares, said yesterday. Global mining deals swelled to $98
billion last year, the highest level since 2007, from $76
billion in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BHP, which UBS AG forecasts will generate $29.4 billion in
operating cash flow next fiscal year and have net debt of $13
billion, last year spent $16.9 billion on shale gas, acquiring
U.S. explorer Petrohawk Energy Corp. and assets from Chesapeake
Energy Corp. BHP could target the copper, energy and potash
industries for further acquisitions, Kloppers said in August.
The company scrapped a $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. in 2010.  “They have shown that they are in a position to seek
opportunities through acquisition but it will be very
selective,” said Shaw’s Spiteri. “It will be more likely to be
associated in some of the key commodities where they want to
maintain a dominant position.”  BHP was a different type of company to the proposed
Xstrata-Glencore combination, said Kloppers, adding that the
merger doesn’t make any difference to BHP’s strategy. Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore is the world’s largest publicly
traded commodities supplier with a global trading network for
energy, metals and farming products.  ‘Different Space’  “We only invest in tier one, long-life, low-cost assets.
We will not invest money in anything that doesn’t fall in that
box,” Kloppers told reporters on the call. “Our strategy is to
drive the transparency in our industry in pricing upwards, which
again puts us in a different space to the Glencore part of the
Glencore-Xstrata combination.”  BHP announced a review of its diamond business last
November, saying it will probably sell some, or all, of the unit,
and agreed the following month to sell its 51 percent stake in a
Canadian diamond project to Peregrine Diamonds Ltd. Kloppers
said in December that it may trim some of its assets and
products in the next decade as spending increases on shale gas,
 iron ore , coking coal and potash. It won’t make big investments
in nickel and aluminum, he said.  The aluminum business, valued at $7.7 billion by UBS, made
an underlying loss of $67 million in the first half, while
earnings in the stainless steel materials business, including
nickel, fell to $1 million.  “We continue to rationalise the portfolio, both by
prioritizing our capex by divesting some assets, and then by the
rationalization actions if assets lose money,” Kloppers said.  BHP today reported a 5.5 percent drop in first-half profit
to $9.9 billion, the first decline since 2009, as rising costs
and lower output and prices halved base metals earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  