-- Nedbank, Standard Profit From Europe’s Distress, Grow Mine Loans
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-02-08T15:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/nedbank-oil-lending-may-double-as-european-banks-struggle-1-.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , the largest
lender based in Africa, and  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  are profiting from
European rivals’ distress by boosting loans for mining and oil.  Standard Bank  may increase loans from last year’s “already
strong” level of more than $1 billion, Rajat Kohli, global head
of mining and metals, said in an interview. Nedbank Capital may 
double oil and gas lending, and seeks to offer about $500 million 
for mining and oil, Joint Mining Head Peter van Kerckhoven said.  “We’ve in essence stepped into a bit of a gap in the
market that’s been left by European banks,” Van Kerckhoven said
in an interview in Cape Town today. “We’re open for business
when many in  Europe  are tightening their belts. Our balance
sheets are whole and our  capital ratios  are good.”  Europe’s lenders are struggling as the regional debt crisis
enters its third year. French banks  Societe Generale  SA, BNP
Paribas SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are cutting corporate and
investment banking jobs, putting at risk Paris’s role as a
center for project finance and other corporate lending.  “The eurozone crisis has forced some of the European banks
to look inwards, to really focus their energies on resolving
balance and liquidity issues,” Kohli said today. “Some of
these banks are not as prevalent in funding and other
situations, including in Africa in mining.”  Nedbank said Feb. 6 per-share earnings for the year ended
December probably grew as much as 28 percent. The bank’s parent
is up 20 percent in Johannesburg trading in the past six months
as Standard Bank rose 17 percent, while Societe Generale fell 12
percent in Paris in the period and BNP Paribas slid 10 percent.  Nedbank Capital is the Johannesburg-based investment
banking unit of Nedbank Group, controlled by  Old Mutual Plc. (OML)   The bank’s new oil and gas unit’s “asset base has grown by
hundreds of millions of dollars in the past year,” said Van
Kerckhoven. The company agreed to finance oil and gas projects
in Nigeria and Angola last year, helping the unit formed last
year exceed expectations, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  