-- States With Top Foreclosure Rates Push U.S. Mortgage Accord to Completion
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-02-09T13:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/new-york-california-said-to-be-signing-on-to-17-billion-foreclosure-deal.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  said it
will announce the resolution of a 16-month nationwide probe of
abusive foreclosure practices at banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and Wells Fargo & Co. after the collapse of the housing bubble.  California and New York, along with  Florida , agreed to join
more than 40 other states in the settlement 16 months in the
making that seeks to end, a person familiar with the matter
said. The decision by New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  and California Attorney General Kamala Harris gave
the deal the backing of two officials who had been among the
most outspoken in pushing for changes.  “With California and New York signing on, it’s a huge
deal,” said  Kurt Eggert , a professor at Chapman University
School of Law in California who has been following the talks.
“California and New York were the biggest critics of this deal,
so if they sign on, that’s a sign that this is a real deal. It’s
not just a show.”  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder will announce a
settlement today “regarding mortgage loan servicing and
foreclosure abuse,” the Justice Department said in a statement.
Holder is to be joined by Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , U.S.
Housing Secretary Shaun Donovan and Colorado Attorney General
John Suthers at a news conference at 10 a.m. Washington time.  All 50 states announced 16 months ago that they were
investigating bank foreclosure practices following disclosures
that faulty documents were being used to seize homes. Officials
from a group of state  attorneys general  offices and federal
agencies, including the Justice Department, have since
negotiated terms of a proposed settlement with  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , Citigroup and
 Wells Fargo.  (WFC)   Holdout States  Miller, who helped lead talks with the states, announced
this week that more than 40 states had signed on to the
settlement as of a Feb. 6 deadline. California, New York and
Florida were among the holdouts, along with  Nevada  and  Arizona .  California’s refusal to sign threatened to undercut the
significance of the agreement because it’s the most populous
state and has one of the highest foreclosure rates in the
country.  The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, which
helped broker the deal, values the settlement at about
$39 billion for all states, a person familiar with the matter,
who declined to be identified because the terms haven’t been
made public, said late yesterday. Another person familiar with
the agreement has said it was worth about $25 billion.  Deal Breakdown  The settlement will provide as much as $17 billion in loan
principal reductions and other loan modifications for borrowers,
according to a draft letter outlining the deal. Banks will also
provide $3 billion in mortgage refinancing and pay $1.5 billion
to about 750,000 borrowers who lost their homes to foreclosure,
according to the letter.  Several banks received so-called Wells notices from the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Wall Street Journal
reported yesterday, citing unnamed sources. The notices are
issued when the SEC is considering bringing a claim, possibly
including a lawsuit, against a company.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment after regular business hours
yesterday on those notices.  The agreement, which will go into effect over a three-year
period, requires the banks to report compliance to an outside
monitor who will report to state attorneys general, according to
the letter. Banks will pay “heavy penalties” for failing to
adhere to the settlement, according to the letter.  ‘Pay the Penalty’  “The real question is how much will they get that forces
servicers to behave,” said Eggert, the law professor. “What I
want to see in this deal is real standards that bind the
servicers and are monitored so if servicers act badly they have
to pay the penalty.”  Shum Preston, a spokesman for Harris, didn’t return phone
or e-mail messages yesterday seeking comment on California
joining the settlement. Dani Lever, a spokeswoman for
Schneiderman, and Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for  Iowa ’s
Miller, declined to comment.  Florida is working on final details and expects to sign on
to the agreement, Jenn Meale, a spokeswoman for attorney general
Pam Bondi, said in a phone interview.  ‘Much-Needed Relief’  Bondi “believes that we have reached a settlement that
provides Floridians with much-needed relief and reforms the
mortgage servicing industry,” Meale said in an e-mailed
statement.  Besides New York, California and Florida, other states that
hadn’t signed on to the agreement as of the Feb. 6 deadline to
decide were Nevada, Arizona,  Massachusetts  and  Delaware .
Officials in Arizona and Delaware couldn’t be reached for
comment after regular business hours yesterday. Brad Puffer, a
spokesman for Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley ,
declined to comment yesterday.  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto was still
reviewing terms of the proposed settlement, her spokeswoman,
 Jennifer Lopez , said yesterday in an e-mail.  Arizona, which filed a consumer-fraud lawsuit against Bank
of America in 2010, was negotiating a settlement with the bank
to resolve the claims, a person familiar with that matter said.
The foreclosure agreement with the five banks requires Arizona
to release the claims if it joins the accord, said the person,
who didn’t want to be identified because the talks aren’t
public. If a settlement is reached with Bank of America, Arizona
plans to join the foreclosure agreement, the person said.  Rick Simon , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
the talks with Arizona.  Liability Releases  The scope of liability releases protecting banks from
future litigation has been one of the biggest concerns for some
attorneys general in the nationwide settlement talks, including
Harris and Schneiderman, who started separate probes of mortgage
operations of banks and had said the agreement shouldn’t protect
the lenders from claims that hadn’t been investigated.  Schneiderman was selected by the Obama administration to
help lead a joint state and federal group probing misconduct in
the packaging and sale of residential mortgage-backed
securities.  The settlement preserves any state and federal criminal
claims, claims related to mortgage securitization, including
those under  New York ’s securities fraud statute, and fair
lending laws, and claims brought by individual homeowners, among
other matters, the first person familiar with the terms said.  MERS Lawsuit  The settlement with the five banks will allow Schneiderman
to continue a lawsuit he filed against Bank of America, New
York-based JPMorgan and San Francisco-based Wells Fargo over the
use of a mortgage database called MERS, which he said led to
improper foreclosures. The settlement preserves those claims and
similar claims in the complaint that may be asserted against
other banks, said the person familiar with the matter.  Bank of America, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo had demanded as a
condition of the foreclosure agreement that New York drop many
of the claims in the lawsuit, the person said.  Of the 20 U.S. metropolitan areas with the highest
foreclosure rates in 2011, 10 were in  California , according to
RealtyTrac, which monitors foreclosure activity.  California had the third-highest foreclosure rate in the
U.S. last year, behind Nevada and Arizona, RealtyTrac reported.
One in every 31 homes, or 3.19 percent, was in some stage of
foreclosure. California had almost 2 1/2 times as many
foreclosure filings for housing units, 428,045, as the second-
ranking state, Florida, which had 181,965.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  