-- News Corp. Settles More Phone-Hacking Suits, Delays U.K. Trial
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-08T18:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/news-corp-settles-15-phone-hacking-lawsuits-before-trial.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British newspaper unit
settled at least 15 more lawsuits by victims of illegal voice-
mail interceptions at its News of the World tabloid and delayed
the first civil trial in the scandal by two weeks.  Lawyers for the company read apologies to nine victims
today, including soccer agent Sky Andrew, one of the paper’s
first known phone-hacking targets, and actor-comedian  Steve Coogan . While lawyers said dozens more lawsuits would soon be
filed, the only remaining complaint ready for the so-called test
trial was filed by Welsh singer Charlotte Church.  Judge Geoffrey Vos denied a request by News Corp. to
indefinitely delay the trial to deal with what the company said
were difficulties related to Church’s claim. He rescheduled the
trial for Feb. 27. “If it is a hard nut to crack, then
certainly it is my job to crack it,” Vos said.  News Corp. has agreed to pay out more than 5 million pounds
($7.9 million) to resolve claims by hacking victims, settling 54
lawsuits out of 60 that were filed by October. The scandal led
New York-based News Corp. to close News of the World in July and
the company faces a separate judicial inquiry and three related
police probes.  More than 50 victims are preparing new lawsuits, lawyer
 Mark Lewis  said in an interview today. The U.K. unit, News
International, has admitted liability and tried to resolve the
cases out of court, offering victims an online process overseen
by a former judge to begin settlement talks.  Mulcaire Notes  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International,
declined to comment.  The  Metropolitan Police Service  has said more than 800
people were targeted and thousands of other names were found in
the notes of  Glenn Mulcaire , the ex-News of the World private
investigator who was jailed for phone hacking in 2007.  Mulcaire’s lawyer, Gavin Millar, asked Vos to consider
barring the press from reporting on parts of the trial -- a
request the judge put off ruling on until a later hearing.
Millar argued the trial could prejudice his client, who was
arrested again in December and hasn’t been charged.  News Corp. lawyer Michael Silverleaf had sought a longer
delay, arguing the plaintiffs are taking “polarizing” and
“extreme” views about the specific instances of alleged phone
hacking in Church’s lawsuit. One of the disputed calls lasted
only five seconds, not long enough for hacking to take place, he
said.  Silverleaf also sought disclosure of evidence about
Church’s family finances and her current medical condition,
including her state of mind. News of the World wrote stories
about her pregnancy and her parent’s marriage.  ‘Disproportionate’  “I think it’s disproportionate to go into the entire
Church family’s financial affairs,” Vos said.  Church, who sang at News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch’s
wedding, agreed to give medical records and details of her
complaints about other media companies over their coverage of
her, Vos said. She also consented to a medical examination by a
doctor selected by News International, he said.  Andrew will receive 75,000 pounds and Coogan 40,000 pounds,
lawyers said at the hearing. Soccer player  Paul Gascoigne  and
 Alastair Campbell , who was spokesman for former Prime Minister
 Tony Blair , also settled their cases. Lawmaker George Galloway
also agreed to resolve his claim.  The hacking of Andrew’s phone was particularly egregious
because it affected the privacy of his clients, his lawyer
 Charlotte Harris  said. His lawsuit was one of the first to
uncover evidence that chipped away at News International’s
argument that phone hacking wasn’t widespread.  ‘Further Wrongdoing’  “I am particularly pleased that News Group have also
undertaken to continue searches of other ‘documents in its
possession,’ so that I can ascertain the extent of any further
wrongdoing, both for the time I worked in Downing Street and
since,” Campbell said on his website. “They have agreed I ‘may
be entitled to further damages in certain circumstances.’”  Evidence uncovered in civil cases by actor  Sienna Miller 
and other celebrity victims in 2010 revealed the extent of phone
hacking at the News of the World, prompting News Corp. to
shutter the tabloid in July and Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  to be
called to give testimony to lawmakers the same month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  