-- News Corp. Net Beats Estimates on Pay-TV Fees; Scandal Costs $195 Million
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-09T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/news-corp-s-second-quarter-profit-climbs-65-on-ads-tv-subscriber-fees.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , owner of Fox
Broadcasting, reported a 65 percent increase in second-quarter
profit, driven by higher fees from pay TV operators. The company
also said a hacking scandal has cost $195 million.  Net income rose to $1.06 billion, or 42 cents a share, from
$642 million, or 24 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said yesterday in a statement. Excluding some items,
profit was 39 cents, exceeding the 34-cent average of 23
analysts’ estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg.  News Corp., run by Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch ,
who controls about 40 percent of the voting shares, gets most of
its profit from levies on pay-TV operators for Fox broadcast and
cable programming. Revenue at Fox cable networks, which include
FX and Fox News, rose 9.5 percent to $2.16 billion, led by
affiliate fees. Stock buybacks pushed the gain in earnings per
share to 75 percent.  “Because their fundamental businesses haven’t been that
volatile, this whole ball game is really about buybacks --that’s
what moves the stock,”  David Bank , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets  in New York, said in an interview.  The company’s stated commitment to further buybacks may
boost the stock, said Bank, who rates the shares his “top
pick” and doesn’t own any. As of Feb. 7, News Corp. had
repurchased $2.69 billion in shares as part of a $5 billion
buyback program, according to a  company filing  yesterday.  Sales in the quarter ended Dec. 31 rose 2.4 percent to
$8.98 billion. Analysts on average had estimated $8.91 billion.
Profit in the cable division increased 20 percent to $882
million, or 60 percent of total operating income.  Hacking Victims  Publishing revenue slumped 9.2 percent to $2.13 billion.
News Corp. has been trying to contain a hacking scandal at its
U.K. publishing unit that is the subject of at least three
separate inquiries. A police probe has identified 829 “likely
victims” of phone hacking.  The company said it incurred an $87 million expense in the
quarter tied to the investigations. The scandal has cost News
Corp. $195 million since it broke in July, representing $88.4
million in legal fees, $15.6 million in settlements and $91
million from closing the News of the World newspaper.  At least three top executives have departed since December
and Murdoch’s son, James, who led News International from
 London , is moving back to New York to work more closely with
Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey . The scandal hasn’t hurt the
company’s business, said  Alan Gould , an Evercore Partners
analyst in New York.  ‘Gaining Power’  “If anything, what you’re seeing is Chase gaining power
internally at the expense of James,” Gould said in an interview
before News Corp. released results. Gould rates the shares
“overweight” and doesn’t own any.  News Corp. has gained 47 percent from the 52-week low of
$13.38 was set in August after the scandal broke. The Guardian
reported on July 4 that a News Corp. newspaper accessed the
voicemail of murdered teenager  Milly Dowler . The shares  rose  0.6
percent to $19.62 at the close in  New York .  Filmed entertainment profit more than doubled to $393
million on new home video releases including “Rise of the
Planet of the Apes.” Domestic box-office revenue from News
Corp.’s films dropped in the December quarter, according to Box
Office Mojo, as ticket sales for  20th Century Fox  and  Fox
Searchlight  films fell 16 percent to $252.9 million, from $299.5
million a year earlier.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  