-- Nigeria’s Naira Advances After Central Bank Sells Dollars
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-02-08T14:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/nigeria-s-naira-gains-for-second-day-against-dollar-on-reserves.html
Nigeria ’s naira appreciated to the
strongest in more than two months after the central bank sold
dollars to lenders.  The naira appreciated 0.4 percent to 159.45 per dollar as
of 2.20 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital, the strongest
since Nov. 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Nigeria
sold $450 million at a foreign-currency auction today, the
highest since Oct. 12 sales. The marginal rate, which is also
used as the prevailing exchange rate, strengthened 0.1 percent
to 156.50 naira, from 156.70 naira at the previous sale on Feb.
1, the Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria  said in an e-mailed
statement.  The central bank intervention has reduced the pressure on
dollar demand, helping the naira to appreciate further,
Babatunde Obaniyi, head of market risk at Lagos-based Greenwich
Trust Group Ltd., said by phone today.  “We have seen a moderation in the demand for foreign
exchange perhaps especially from the petroleum sector,” central
bank deputy Governor Tunde Lemo told a public hearing of a  House
of Representatives  committee investigating fuel subsidy
discrepancies yesterday in Abuja, the capital.  The foreign-exchange reserves of  Africa ’s most populous
nation increased 5.5 percent this year to $34.7 billion as of
Feb. 2, according to the central bank. Nigeria’s central bank
offers foreign currency to lenders at twice-weekly auctions and
also sells dollars directly to banks through the  interbank
market  by dipping into reserves, as it tries to keep the
exchange rate around a midpoint of 155 naira per dollar and
stabilize prices.  Exchange Rate  “We expect to see appreciation of the naira as the central
bank continues its intervention on the back of the boost in
foreign-exchange reserves,” analysts at Lagos-based Cowry Asset
Management Ltd., said in an e-mailed note to clients today.  Nigeria would like to keep the  exchange rate  stable while
building up reserves, Central Bank Governor, Lamido Sanusi said
Jan. 31.  The regulator kept its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged at
a record high for a second consecutive meeting on Jan. 31 to
curb inflation after the government partially removed fuel
subsidies, boosting gasoline costs.  Ghana ’s cedi strengthened less than 0.1 percent to 1.6881
per dollar as of 2:30 p.m. in Accra, the capital, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  