-- Nissan Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on China, Japan Sales
-- B y   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2012-02-08T08:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/nissan-q3-profit-beats-estimates-on-china-sales.html
Nissan Motor Co .,  Japan ’s second-
biggest automaker, reported third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates, helped by domestic demand and record
deliveries in China.  Net income  rose 3.2 percent to 82.7 billion yen ($1
billion) in the three months ended Dec. 31, the company said in
a statement today. That exceeded the 71.3 billion yen average
 forecast  of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Vehicle sales at Nissan, which recovered faster than  Toyota
Motor Corp . and Honda Motor Co. from natural disasters in 2011,
rose 24 percent in China last quarter, helping it become the
only one among Japan’s three-biggest carmakers to report a
profit gain for the period. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
said last month he expects a record year for the automotive
industry this year, with growth in the U.S.,  China  and most
 developing countries .  “Nissan was barely affected by the natural disasters last
year, so we can expect them to continue growing this year,”
said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees $600 million at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. “Nissan has the ability to
flexibly adjust production in regions where demand is strong, so
even if it slows down in certain regions, it shouldn’t be
difficult for them to make it up elsewhere.”  Nissan, which kept its full-year earnings forecasts
unchanged, rose 2.4 percent to close at 774 yen in Tokyo trading
before the company reported earnings. The benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average advanced 1.1 percent.  China Sales  Global sales rose to a record 4.67 million vehicles in 2011
at Nissan, including a 22 percent gain in China, as gains in
overseas markets offset declining deliveries at home, the
company said last month.  During the quarter ended December, operating profit rose
3.6 percent to 118.1 billion yen and revenue increased 11
percent to 2.33 trillion yen. Operating profit in  Asia  --
including China -- rose 2.4 percent to 47.9 billion and jumped
to 16.8 billion yen in Japan, versus 1 billion yen a year
earlier, Nissan said.  Nissan’s Chinese venture plans to invest 50 billion yuan
($7.9 billion) by 2015, the company said last July, as part of
its target to boost its share of China sales to about 10 percent
from 6.2 percent last year. The Japanese automaker plans to
introduce about 30 products in China by 2015, including a fully
electric car, it said.  Mexico Plant  Nissan’s U.S. sales rose 10 percent last month, led by the
mid-size Altima sedan, Rogue compact crossovers and Quest
minivans. In 2011, Nissan sold a record 224,509 autos in  Mexico ,
up 19 percent from the previous year, according to the nation’s
auto dealership association, known as AMDA.  The automaker also said in January it will spend as much as
$2 billion on a third factory in Mexico. The company shifted
production of low-cost cars to Thailand and Mexico in recent
years to counter losses from making vehicles in its home market
as the yen appreciated more than any major currency since 2010.  Toyota yesterday reported a 14 percent drop in third-
quarter net income. Still, the maker of the Camry sedan raised
its vehicle sales forecast for the second time in less than a
month as it rolls out new versions of the Prius gas-electric
hybrid car and Lexus luxury vehicles  Honda last month posted a 41 percent decline in profit,
though the company is predicting earnings to recover next fiscal
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Hagiwara in  Tokyo  at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  