-- TNK-BP to Spend $12 Billion to Tap Yamal Oil, Boost Output
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-02-08T13:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/tnk-bp-to-spend-12-billion-on-four-yamal-fields-to-boost-output.html
TNK-BP ,  Russia ’s third-largest oil
producer, plans to spend $12 billion to develop four fields in
the Arctic Yamal region as it invests in new projects to offset
declines at some of its older deposits.  The fields, which hold about 2.7 billion barrels of
resources, will likely add about 15 million metric tons, or
300,000 barrels a day, of output in the early part of the next
decade, Tom Quigley, vice president in charge of the Yamal Oil
project, said today.  The oil producer, a joint venture between BP Plc and a
group of billionaires, is investing in remote fields to counter
declines at its biggest fields in western Siberia. It set a
target to boost output by 1 percent to 2 percent a year, also
through expansion outside Russia.  The company plans to start production at the Suzunskoye
field first in 2016 and “rapidly” move to a plateau of 5
million tons of annual output the following year, Quigley said.  Output of heavy oil from the Russkoye field will begin in
2017 and reach plateau levels of 7.5 million tons a year by 2019
or 2020, Quigley said. The field development plan assumes 10
percent recovery rates, which TNK-BP will attempt to double with
technology, Quigley said.  Russian Standards  Oil from both the fields will likely be pumped into
Russia’s East Siberian  Pacific Ocean , or ESPO, pipeline, which
supplies Chinese and Asian Pacific markets, Victor
Blagoveschenskiy, TNK-BP’s vice president, told journalists. The
heavy oil from the Russkoye field meets Russian pipeline
operator OAO Transneft’s standards and can be placed in the
system, he said. The low viscosity oil is unlikely to depress
the quality of the ESPO blend due to its comparatively small
volume, Quigley said.  Tagulskoye and Russko-Rechenskoye are to start producing in
2019, Quigley said.  In the future, TNK-BP will continue to explore for oil in
the region. The Moscow-based company has eight exploration
licenses in the Suzun area, Quigley said.  TNK-BP has half of the Gazprom Neft-led Messoyakha field,
which is also in the Yamal region. The venture developing that
field aims to spend $17.3 billion, producing a peak of 16
million tons of crude a year in 2024, according to a Gazprom
Neft presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  