-- No Sex, Please, We’re Tracking Sleep Cycles: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-02-08T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/no-sex-please-we-re-tracking-sleep-cycles-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Sleep ranks right up there with
weight in the pantheon of health issues to obsess over: Millions
of people worry that they aren’t catching enough ZZZs, or that
the ones they are catching aren’t high-quality.  Those numbers are far too large for gadget-makers to
ignore. As a result, a growing number of devices purport to
track, coach and improve sleep performance, taking advantage of
the computing power of mobile phones and personal computers.  I’ve been trying out three of them: the  Zeo Sleep Manager
Mobile  and  Lark , both of which cost $99; and the $149
 SleepTracker Elite . All use sensors that you wear to bed to
measure how long and how well you sleep. They also feature
silent alarms that wake you by vibrating, so you won’t disturb
someone else.  The most elaborate is the Zeo, which measures brain waves
and eye-muscle movements to calculate how much time you spend in
deep, rapid-eye and light sleep cycles, as well as how often and
for how long you’re awake in the night. The data is transmitted
wirelessly to a free Zeo app on your  iPhone  or Android phone.  Romantic Restriction  You wear the Zeo device positioned over the middle of your
forehead and held in place by an elastic headband, which
probably isn’t compatible with any romantic plans you might have
unless you’re auditioning for the part of Jor-El in the next
 Superman  movie.  While the headband didn’t prevent me from falling asleep, I
woke up the first night to find it lying on the pillow above my
head. The next night it stayed on but I was so uncomfortable
that I took it off myself in the middle of the night. Subsequent
nights went better, though I still found myself aware of the
device.  On the other hand, the simple Zeo app synced my data
automatically, providing me with an impressive trove of
information -- including my “ZQ,” a single sleep score I could
monitor over time to track my improvements. Even more analytics
were available on Zeo’s  website , including a coaching regimen to
help me improve my score.  More Comfortable  The Lark sensor was much more comfortable. Like the Zeo,
there’s an elastic band -- but you wear this one around your
wrist, where it monitors your sleep by tracking your movements
during the night.  The Lark’s data isn’t as detailed as the Zeo. It did
capture how many times I roused in the night and for how long,
but it didn’t break out the amount of time I spent in different
phases of sleep.  The two devices also differ in how they wake you in the
morning. The Zeo seeks a point around your designated alarm time
when it senses from your sleep cycles that you’re most likely to
feel refreshed. The Lark, by contrast, transfers its data to
your iPhone and starts vibrating at whatever time you set. The
company says it concluded that users don’t really like being
awakened any earlier than they need to be.  Apple-Only  The Lark, which also offers a sleep-coaching “pro”
service for an extra $60, currently works only with Apple’s iOS
devices. An  Android (GOOG)  app is in the works.  The SleepTracker Elite was the least hassle to wear.
Unlike the others, it doesn’t require constant recharging. It’s
also the only one you might dare to wear in public: a slightly
oversize, waterproof digital wristwatch that comes in white or
black.  Balanced against those advantages is that it works only
with a computer. You have to download and install its software
to your Mac or Windows PC. Nor is it wireless; you transfer data
from watch to computer via an included USB cable that clamps on
to contacts on the back of the watch.  Programming the SleepTracker requires pushing lots of
little buttons and navigating various digital-watch screens.
Once I got it up and running, it did a good job of waking me and
was able to capture my data -- though I did run into a bug in
the Windows software that first prevented me from viewing my
results, then concluded I had slept 17 hours. (If only.) The
company says it is working on a fix.  None of these devices actually helps you get to sleep, at
least not directly. The idea is that by providing you with data
about yourself and offering various forms of encouragement,
you’ll adopt healthier sleep habits -- cutting out caffeine
after 3 p.m., shutting off the computer and TV an hour before
bedtime and the like.  That’s the theory anyway, though you couldn’t prove it by
me. I had issues with all three. Frankly, I slept better without
them.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 