-- Nobel Winner Oe Urges Japan to Decommission Nuclear Reactors
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-02-08T09:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/nobel-winner-oe-urges-japan-to-decommission-nuclear-reactors.html
Japan should decide quickly to
abandon its nuclear reactors, according to  Nobel Prize  laureate
Kenzaburo Oe.  “If we are to take ethical responsibility for children of
tomorrow, we need to decide now to abandon all reactors,” the
77-year old author said today at a press conference at the
Foreign Correspondents’ Club of Japan.  “Another severe nuclear accident could occur,” said Oe,
who is among the nine founding members of the  “Sayonara Nuclear
Power Plants” campaign  launched last June. “There is no proof
it won’t happen again.”  The initiative aims to collect 10 million signatures to
urge the government to phase out nuclear power generation and
shift to clean energy and energy-saving measures. So far, 5
million signatures have been collected, said Satoshi Kamata, a
freelance journalist and another founding member.  The move comes as  Japan  debates the future of its energy
mix following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that triggered
the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl. The disaster caused
the meltdown of three reactors at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and led to release of radiation and the
evacuation of about 160,000 people.  Japan has shut 51 of its 54 nuclear reactors for
maintenance and safety checks. “Our life has not been disrupted
without nuclear power,” Kamata said.  He and Oe are organizing a nationwide rally on Feb. 11 and
plan to submit a petition to governors and mayors of prefectures
and towns that host nuclear plants urging them not to approve
the resumption of the suspended reactors.  Oe won the Nobel Prize in literature in 1994 and has
authored “Hiroshima Notes” and “Changeling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  