-- Nokia Plans 4,000 Job Cuts to Shift Phone Assembly to Asia
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-02-08T12:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/nokia-plans-to-eliminate-4-000-jobs-as-it-shifts-device-assembly-to-asia.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  will eliminate 4,000 jobs,
including at its oldest factory in Finland, as the mobile-phone
maker shifts manufacturing to  Asia , its largest market.  Handset production will end in Hungary, Mexico and Finland,
where the plants will focus on final adjustments to finished
phones, Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said today. Most of the
production will move to existing factories in Beijing and Masan,
 South Korea , spokesman James Etheridge said.  The firings add to more than 10,000 job cuts Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Elop has announced since Nokia linked up with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  a year ago to fight a loss of smartphone market
share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Nokia’s first handsets based on Microsoft’s
software, called Lumia, were assembled at a  Compal
Communications Inc. (8078)  factory in Taiwan.  “They have to follow the suppliers,” said Mikko Ervasti,
a Helsinki-based analyst at Evli Bank. “This is part of the
actions Nokia has to take to reach the cost savings target of 1
billion euros by the end of 2013.”  The eliminations include 2,300 in Komarom, Hungary, 700 in
Reynosa, Mexico, and 1,000 in Salo, Finland, Nokia spokesman
 Doug Dawson  said.  Nokia added 0.4 cents to 3.90 euros at 2:10 p.m. in
Helsinki, after rising as much as 1.4 percent. The shares have
lost about 52 percent since the Microsoft partnership, cutting
Nokia’s market value to 14.6 billion euros.  Oldest Factory  Apple, which introduced the iPhone in 2007, already
assembles the smartphones in  China . Nokia is building a plant in
Vietnam to manufacture entry-level handsets and a site in
Dongguan, China, makes about a third of all of the company’s
output, according to Nokia’s website.  Nokia sold a factory in Romania earlier this year. Today's
announcement marks the latest shift of consumer electronics 
manufacturing out of  Europe , after  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Royal Philips 
Electronics NV  retreated from businesses ranging from mobile 
phones to televisions in the region.  Nokia would follow the model of its Bochum closure in
Germany in 2008, where fired workers received 12 months of
training for new jobs and Nokia spent 200 million euros on
severance packages, Riku Aalto, chairman of the Finnish
Metalworkers’ Union, said today.  Lumia Sales  Salo was spared from the earlier rounds of job cuts and
outsourcing deals, which affected engineers working on the
Symbian smartphone software Nokia is phasing out in favor of
Microsoft’s Windows Phone.  Nokia’s smartphone sales  declined  25 percent to 77.3
million units last year as customers shunned the Symbian line.
Nokia introduced Lumia handsets running Windows Phone six weeks
before the end of the year and said on Jan. 26 that it had sold
“well over” 1 million of the devices “to date.”  The fact that Nokia had been eclipsed in smartphones
gradually became apparent to shareholders in the three years
after the 2007 introduction of the iPhone. Nokia lost more than
60 billion euros in market value before then-Microsoft executive
Elop was appointed to take over in Sept. 2010. Nokia’s debt
ratings were cut last year by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s on
concerns that a turnaround would take too long.  The Salo plant, established in 1979 and the oldest of the
production plants listed on Nokia’s website, makes smartphones
for European markets. Nokia said Dec. 1 it will start making the
Lumia 710 at a plant in Manaus, Brazil.  Nokia, which gets more than 80 percent of its unit sales
from low-end phones, has  nine handset factories  including the
one under construction in Hanoi, according to its website.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the wireless-equipment venture with
 Siemens AG (SIE) , announced 17,000 job cuts on Nov. 23 as it narrows
its product lines in an effort to become profitable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  