-- NYC Comptroller Renews Call for Audits of Banks’ Foreclosures
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-02-08T17:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/nyc-comptroller-renews-call-for-audits-of-banks-foreclosures.html
New York  City Comptroller John C. Liu, who oversees $113.7 billion in city pension funds, renewed
his request that three of the biggest U.S. banks conduct
independent audits of their mortgage and foreclosure practices.  Liu said the audit committees of  Bank of America Corp. ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co.  should report their
findings on the banks’ internal controls by Sept. 30.
Shareholders may vote on the proposals at the banks’ annual
meetings later this year. Liu, 45, whose office said it owns
$855 million of shares in the three banks, filed similar
requests in 2010 that were rejected at annual meetings last
year.  The lenders are among firms negotiating a settlement with a
group of state attorneys general and federal officials,
following a nationwide probe into disclosures that banks were
using flawed documents in  seizing homes .  “The banks’ anticipated settlement with state AGs will
bring badly-needed relief to families at risk of losing their
homes, but the perverse policy incentives that are at the root
of harmful mortgage practices are still pervasive,” Liu said in
an e-mailed statement. “Bank directors need to step forward and
address the underlying conflicts that lead to unnecessary
foreclosures and costly settlements.”  Scott Silvestri , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, and Shannon Bell for New York-based
Citigroup declined to comment on Liu’s latest request.  “Our board considers all shareholder proposals as part of
its normal process,”  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo, said in an e-mailed statement.  Prior Request Rejected  Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, recommended
that shareholders vote against Liu’s proposal last year. An
independent review wouldn’t be “an effective use of the
company’s resources and could distract our efforts to cooperate
with reviews undertaken by our federal banking regulators,” the
bank said in a  filing .  Bank of America, the second-biggest  U.S. bank , also
 recommended  against Liu’s previous request because the bank said
it had already taken “significant steps” to improve its
foreclosure process.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender, said last year
that the board already receives independent reviews. The bank’s
chief auditor reports to the board’s audit committee, which is
staffed with independent directors, rather than a member of the
bank’s management, according to a  filing .  Liu requested in December that Wall Street banks  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
toughen so-called clawbacks, which allow the firms to reclaim
pay awarded to employees who acted improperly. Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley, both based in New York, said this week they will
re-write their clawback policies in response.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 