-- Obama Campaign Chief Messina Seeks to Assure Wall Street Donors
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/obama-campaign-chief-messina-seeks-to-assure-wall-street-donors.html
Jim Messina , President  Barack Obama ’s
campaign manager, assured a group of Democratic donors from the
financial services industry that Obama won’t demonize Wall
Street as he stresses populist appeals in his re-election
campaign, according to two people at the meeting.  At the members-only Core Club in  Manhattan , Messina
provided a campaign briefing last night for some of the
president’s top donors, including Ralph Schlosstein, chief
executive officer at Evercore Partners Inc., and his wife, Jane Hartley, co-founder of the economic and political advisory firm
Observatory Group LLC;  Eric Mindich , founder of Eton Park
Capital Management LP; and Ron Blaylock, co-founder of GenNx360
 Capital Partners .  Mitt Romney , the front-runner for the Republican
presidential nomination, has been criticized by party rivals for
his background as founder of Boston-based private equity firm
Bain Capital LLC. While Obama hasn’t directly attacked Romney,
he has signaled that his campaign will be based on a populist
message of “fairness” to middle-income Americans and seeking
higher taxes on the wealthy.  In response to a question, Messina told the group of  Wall
Street  donors that the president plans to run against Romney,
not the industry that made the former governor of Massachusetts
millions, according to one of the people, who spoke on condition
of anonymity to discuss the private meeting.  Central Premise  The Obama campaign plans to focus on Romney’s record in the
private and public sectors.  “Mitt Romney has made the central premise of his candidacy
his time as a so-called job creator,” said  Ben LaBolt , press
secretary for Obama for America. “But the fact is that he was a
corporate buyout specialist who profited off of bankrupting
companies and outsourcing jobs, and a governor whose state
ranked 47th out of 50th in  job creation  during his tenure.”  Obama raised almost $16 million from employees in the
securities and investment industry and their families for the
2008 election, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  After Obama championed new regulations designed to curb
abuses blamed for the worst economic downturn since the Great
Depression, Wall Street put its money elsewhere.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., whose employees gave $23,494 to Obama
in the last three months, was the only financial institution
among Obama’s top 10 list of donors for the fourth quarter.  Messina also discussed the president’s reversal in
encouraging donors to contribute to independent political action
committees backing Obama, the person said. Messina’s remarks to
the group echoed a public e-mail he sent to supporters saying,
“We can’t allow for two sets of rules in this election whereby
the Republican nominee is the beneficiary of unlimited spending
and Democrats unilaterally disarm.”  Campaign officials said the decision was made after seeing
the Republicans’ so-called super-PACs emerge as the dominant
spending force in the party’s early presidential contests. In
last week’s federal financial filings, one set of the groups,
American Crossroads and Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies,
reported raising $51 million last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  