-- Obama Weighed Religious Politics in Contraceptives Decision
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-02-08T17:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/obama-weighed-religious-politics-before-taking-decision-on-contraceptives.html
President  Barack Obama  ended months
of internal White House debate by siding with a group of mostly
female advisers who urged him not to limit a health-care law
mandate to provide contraceptives, even at the risk of
alienating Catholic voters in November, people familiar with the
discussions said.  Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius , a
Catholic and a two-term governor of  Kansas , was joined by
several female Obama advisers in urging against a broad
exemption for religious organizations. To do so would leave too
many women without coverage and sap the enthusiasm for Obama
among women’s rights advocates, they said, according to the
people, who spoke about the deliberations on condition of
anonymity.  Vice President  Joe Biden  and then-White House chief of
staff Bill Daley, also Catholics, warned that the mandate would
be seen as a government intrusion on religious institutions.
Even moderate Catholic voters in battleground states might be
alienated, they warned, according to the people familiar with
the discussions.  The administration’s decision, announced Jan. 20, has
quickly entered the presidential campaign. Republican rivals
accuse Obama of trampling on religious freedom and Catholic
bishops have ordered lectures from the pulpits across the
nation.  ‘Religious Conscience’  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , campaigning in
 Colorado (BEESCO)  in advance of Republican caucuses there, said yesterday
that Obama was waging “an assault on religion” that would
require Catholic schools and hospitals to provide “free
contraceptives and morning after pills in violation of their
religious conscience.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  promised today that the House
would pass legislation to overturn the rule. With the
administration’s action, the “federal government has drifted
dangerously beyond its constitutional boundaries,”  the Ohio
Republican said on the House floor.  Senators on both sides of the fight delivered passionate
speeches on the Senate floor yesterday, including several female
senators who spent months pressing White House aides and the
president to stand by Sebelius.  “Churches and other religious institutions are exempt, and
no doctor would ever have to dispense contraceptives if that’s
at odds with his or her religious view,” Senator Patty Murray,
a Washington Democrat who is Catholic, said in prepared remarks.  Support for Rule  Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, said under
the administration’s decision “churches are respected and women
are respected” and that “this is the 21st century. Wake up.
Look at your calendar.”  “If my colleagues decide they are going to take this issue
on, in the face of overwhelming support for this policy by the
American people, I say we are ready,” Boxer said.  Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a  New Hampshire  Republican and a
Catholic, said the ruling had created an “impossible choice”
for religious hospitals and universities by asking them to
violate their core beliefs to comply with a federal mandate.  Senator Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican, said if the Obama
administration won’t accommodate these concerns in the
rulemaking, “it will be taken care of” through legislation by
opponents of the administration’s policy.  Addressing ‘Concerns’  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters that
Obama understands the religious concerns and that the
administration will “see if the implementation of the policy
can be done in a way that allays some of those concerns.”  At the same time, Carney indicated there was no move to
fundamentally alter the plan. Obama’s interest is “making sure
that all American women, all women here, have access to the same
preventive care services,” he said.  Biden has not commented publicly on the decision.  The public debate follows a struggle within the White House
that dragged on for months. White House advisers hunted
repeatedly for a middle ground that might accommodate both
sides, only to run into legal obstacles.  Sebelius was backed by adviser  Valerie Jarrett , Tina Tchen,
the first lady’s chief of staff, and  Melody Barnes , then
director of the Domestic Policy Council, the people said. Among
the ideas considered and discarded because of legal objections
was an option modeled on a Hawaii law that provides broad
exemptions for religious agencies while requiring private
insurers to offer contraceptive coverage to the employees.  Pressing the Administration  Reproductive rights groups, such as Planned Parenthood
Federation of America, and Democratic U.S. senators Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire and Boxer and Murray, pressed the
administration to stick with a preliminary rule announced by
Sebelius in August.  Shaheen spoke to Obama about the issue when he visited  New
Hampshire (BEESNH)  in November. Her communications director, Jonathan
Lipman, said she talked “several times with senior White House
staff,” including two conference calls with other senators.  Advocates countered warnings of alienating Catholics with
arguments that an exemption might depress enthusiasm for Obama
among women, a disproportionate share of Democratic voters.
Women’s advocates intensified their efforts after Obama met in
November with Catholic Archbishop Timothy Dolan of  New York .  Judith L. Lichtman, a senior adviser with the National
Partnership for Women and Families in  Washington , among the
groups that favored minimizing religious exemptions, said the
ruling would help Obama in November.  ‘Energizing Issue’  “Contraception is not a politically controversial issue in
this country,” she said. “It’s an energizing issue for all
women reflecting all demographics.”  Sebelius, in a three-minute interview in Washington on her
way from a speech to her car, said Obama was “briefed along the
way” before the Jan. 20 announcement. She said that she and
Obama had met privately on the issue. She declined to discuss
internal deliberations, including divisions among the
administration or details of her discussions with Obama. “The
decision was made by our department,” she said.  Asked how the decision and response has affected her as a
Catholic, she said it was a policy decision and that the
administration balanced the needs of millions of women who rely
on contraceptives with the concerns of religious organizations.  The decision will require most employers to cover
contraception through their employee health insurance at no
added cost to the employees. Nonprofits that don’t cover
contraceptives now have until August 2013 to adjust. Houses of
worship and nonprofit religious groups that primarily employ and
serve people of the same religious faith would be exempt, while
religious hospitals and universities would not.  ‘Moral Convictions’  Controversy over the decision has been fueled by Republican
presidential hopefuls Romney and  Newt Gingrich  and even some
Democrats. Democratic Senator Robert Casey Jr. of  Pennsylvania ,
who had weighed in with the White House for a broader exemption
to religious organizations, called last week on the
administration to reverse course.  Casey, who is Catholic, released a Feb. 3 letter to Obama
saying religious-affiliated organizations “should not be
compelled by our federal government to purchase insurance
policies that violate their religious and moral convictions.”  Casey told fellow Democrats yesterday at a closed-door
lunch that they should press the administration for a middle
ground, said Senator Richard Durbin of  Illinois , the No. 2
Democratic leader. Durbin, who also is Catholic, said while
discussions are continuing, “It is really, extremely difficult
to find out what that might be.”  Looking for ‘Resolution’  Obama campaign adviser David Axelrod said in an interview
on  MSNBC  yesterday that the president doesn’t want to limit
religious freedom and wants to look for a “resolution” to the
conflict. He did not promise any changes to the policy.  Anthony R. Picarello, Jr., associate general secretary and
general counsel for the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops in
Washington, said has group has been “baffled by the political
calculus” of Obama and his team.  Picarello said hours after Axelrod’s comments on MSNBC that
“we have still heard nothing” from the administration. “And
until we do -- and until there’s an acceptable solution -- words
like ‘work this thing through’ is just the sugar-coated way of
saying ‘force you to comply.’”  John Green , director of the University of Akron’s Ray C.
Bliss Institute of Applied Politics in Akron,  Ohio , said the
impact on Obama’s re-election prospects depends on how
independent white, Catholic voters view it.  Swing Voters  “To the extent Catholic voters think of this as a
religious liberty issue, it does have the potential to pull
Catholic voters toward Republicans or away from Democrats,”
said Green, a political science professor who studies U.S.
religious voter patterns. He said the biggest impact might be
among white religious swing voters in battleground states
including  Ohio (BEESOH) ,  Michigan (BEESMI)  and  Pennsylvania (BEESPA) .  The decision is less likely to hurt Obama if voters see it
as a policy decision because “there are a lot of Catholics that
not only use contraception but think it should be available,”
he said.  One in four U.S. voters are Catholic, Green said. The white
Catholic vote accounts for roughly 16 percent and is divided
among Democrats, Republicans and independents. Those
independents comprise eight to 10 percent of U.S. voters, Green
said.  In 2008, Green said, Obama won the Catholic vote 54 percent
to 46 percent based on exit polls. He lost the white Catholic
vote, however, 47 percent to 53 percent.  Among Catholics who attend mass once a week or more, Obama
lost the vote 41 percent to 59 percent, while he won the support
of white Catholics who aren’t regular churchgoers, 52 percent to
48 percent.  There’s also “potential for it to extend beyond
Catholics,” Green said of any blow-back. “There are mainline
Protestants, evangelical Protestants and other groups that may
be concerned about the potential damage” to religious freedom.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  