-- Obama May Find Some 2008 Words Fail Him in Re-Election Campaign
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/obama-may-find-some-of-his-2008-words-failing-him-in-re-election-campaign.html
Candidate  Barack Obama  in 2008 bashed
China as a currency manipulator and called the foreign purchase
of an iconic American beer company a “shame.”  Now, Obama is bound by the rhetorical constraints of the
presidency. As he prepares to meet next week with a top Chinese
leader on a range of strategic and economic issues, similar
statements could roil markets, disrupt alliances or trigger
retaliation.  The Republican candidate he faces in November won’t be so
restricted.  “His opponent can say what they’d like and how they’d
react to an immediate crisis in the full knowledge that they
won’t have to do it,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at
IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  Market uncertainty resulting from the European debt crisis,
the escalating confrontation with  Iran  over its nuclear program
and rising tension between China and the U.S. over trade amplify
any utterances on those subjects from the leader of the world’s
largest economy and the most powerful military.  The power of the president’s words was on display early in
his first term. On Feb. 9, 2009, Obama raised market
expectations by saying Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  would
unveil “some very clear and specific plans” for shoring up the
financial industry and loosening credit.  Market Reaction  After Geithner made the announcement the next day, the
Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  dropped 4.9 percent and the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  declined 4.6 percent on investor
concern that the plan lacked specifics and the treasury
secretary’s warning it would “take time” for the strategy to
work.  Still, the advantage of having the platform of the
presidency outweighs any restrictions on what Obama can say,
according to  Tony Fratto , who served as a White House and U.S.
Treasury spokesman under President  George W. Bush .  “It’s the world’s biggest megaphone, the ability to take
action,” Fratto said. “He has great control over the agenda.”  Obama’s advisers said they’ve been studying how past
incumbents, including Republican Bush and Democrat  Bill Clinton ,
balanced presidential responsibilities with the simultaneous re-
election campaign.  “What’s true is that, in the White House, not just the
president but his spokespeople can cause international incidents
and affect markets by saying the wrong thing,”  Dan Pfeiffer ,
Obama’s White House communication director, said.  China and Currency  Those sensitivities are particularly acute when it comes to
 China  and currency.  While Republican front-runner  Mitt Romney  has said he would
slap sanctions on the Chinese for unfair trade practices and
direct the Treasury Department to list China as a currency
manipulator, Obama meets next week with the man in line to
become the country’s next president, Vice President  Xi Jinping .  While trade and currency are among top issues in the
relationship, Obama is seeking China’s cooperation on broader
global issues, including dealing with the nuclear ambitions of
Iran and  North Korea .  “Romney has the freedom to say those kinds of things,”
said Fratto. “The president is boxed in by the reality of the
policy environment and the very complicated relationship that
it’s his charge to maintain with China.”  Rhetoric about China regularly becomes heated during
campaigns as candidates make appeals to middle-income Americans
concerned about jobs being shipped to cheaper labor markets. The
U.S. had a $273 billion  trade  deficit with China in 2010.  Tougher Stand  Obama is no exception. Heading into the election year, the
president has been taking a tougher stance with China, in part
due to political demands and because of his own frustrations
with the slow pace at which it’s responding to calls for its
currency to appreciate and move toward a more balanced economy.  “Enough’s enough,” he said in November on China’s slow
appreciation of the yuan.  Still, it doesn’t rise to the same level as when he was a
candidate. In 2008, Obama called Bush a “patsy” for not
standing up to China in trade talks. He told the Alliance of
American Manufacturers in Pittsburgh in April of that year that
the best way to deal with China was to tell them, “you guys
keep on manipulating your currency, we are going to start
shutting off access to some of our markets.”  International Obligations  Even with the recent strong language, when the Senate
passed legislation in October to let U.S. companies seek duties
on Chinese goods to offset the weak yuan, the administration
said any action on China must be consistent with U.S.
obligations under international treaties. The administration
declined to brand China as a currency manipulator in its semi-
annual report to Congress in December.  Another example of the difference between candidate and
incumbent is illustrated by the displeasure Obama expressed in
2008 with Belgium-based brewer InBev NV’s takeover of Anheuser-
Busch Cos. without affecting markets.  During a campaign stop in  Missouri , just days before the
St. Louis-based beer maker agreed to Inbev’s $52 billion
acquisition offer, Obama said it would be a “shame if Bud is
foreign owned.”  While the remarks might have played well with voters in the
swing state of Missouri -- Obama lost there by 3,903 votes out
of 2.9 million cast -- a similar statement by Obama today might
raise concerns about a U.S. move toward protectionism and shake
markets.  “A comment like this would probably have broader macro
implications at least in the short term,” said Barry Knapp, the
head of U.S. equity strategy at  Barclays Capital  in  New York .
“You’d get a negative currency reaction and you’d probably get
a sell-off at least in the sector involved, if not in the market
overall.”  Dismissing the acquisition of an iconic U.S. company by a
foreign-owned corporation would also undercut one of the
administration’s actions that Obama is touting in this year’s
election: the rescue of the U.S. auto industry.  Obama’s administration engineered the purchase of Detroit-
based Chrysler Group LLC by Italian  carmaker Fiat  SpA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  