-- Mobistar Sees Larger Profit Drop Than Estimated, Cuts Payout
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-02-08T08:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/mobistar-sees-larger-profit-drop-than-estimated-correct-.html
Mobistar SA ,  Belgium ’s second-biggest
mobile-phone company, forecast a decline in profit will
accelerate, missing analysts’ estimates, after cutting its
 payout  to shareholders for a second consecutive year.  Net income will drop about 17 percent to 182.5 million
euros ($242.4 million), plus or minus 12.5 million euros, from
221 million euros last year, the Brussels-based company said
today in a statement. That compares with analyst projections for
2012 profit of 220.8 million euros, the average of 13  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The mobile-phone company cut its proposed
dividend by 14 percent to 3.70 euros a share.  Regulation will erase an additional 51 million euros from
sales this year and Mobistar doesn’t expect to fully make up for
the loss, forecasting a  revenue drop  of as much as 2 percent,
after a decline in Belgian wireless service revenue unexpectedly
accelerated in the fourth quarter. Mobistar, which is  controlled 
by  France Telecom SA (FTE) , also said it will continue to invest in
its unprofitable TV and broadband offering, seeking access to
Belgacom SA’s VDSL technology or cable operators’ networks.  “The trend of decreasing voice traffic is confirmed, SMS
remains popular and is still rising, and there is an increase in
mobile data usage,” Mobistar said in the statement. “The
prepaid market remains extremely competitive.”  Mobistar lost 8,800 Belgian customers in the fourth
quarter, losing more prepaid clients than it gained subscribers
on monthly contracts. The mobile-phone company added 61,500
users of its network through so-called mobile virtual network
operators and won 1,200 additional customers in Luxembourg.  The phone company’s fixed-line business posted an operating
loss of 46.7 million euros last year and Mobistar’s Starpack
offering combining satellite TV, telephony services and
broadband Internet had only 34,194 subscribers by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  