-- Moody’s Says 25% of Irish Mortgages Risk Writedown Under Plan
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-02-08T16:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/moody-s-says-irish-personal-insolvency-draft-credit-negative-1-.html
Moody’s Investors Service said
Ireland’s proposed personal insolvency laws may leave as much as
25 percent of the country’s mortgage debt open to write-off.  The proposal, published late last month, may mean “many
 mortgage loans  will be written down and many borrowers will
become discouraged from maintaining their mortgage-loan
repayments,” the company said today. “A quarter of all Irish
mortgage debt is susceptible to a writedown” under the plan.  Ireland is reshaping its bankruptcy and insolvency laws
after a real-estate bubble collapsed in 2008, trebling
 unemployment  and leaving some homeowners unable to meet their
loans. Almost 13 percent of private residential mortgages were
either more than 90 days in arrears or had been restructured at
the end of September, according to the country’s central bank.  “It is premature for any rating agency to make any call”
on the proposal, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said today.
“We have to deal with debt in this society.”  Irish homeowners seeking to get mortgages at least
partially written off need the agreement of their lenders under
the proposals published Jan. 25. Any agreement will need the
support of at least 75 percent of creditors who have security on
their loans. Borrowers may be able to obtain debt relief,
including a possible write-off of as much 3 million euros ($4
million) where creditors and the debtor agree.  ‘Truly Unable’  Moody’s said the proposals are credit negative for Irish
residential mortgage backed securities and the details of
insolvency laws used to identify borrowers “truly unable to pay
their debts” together with banks’ responses “will determine
the impact of our expected loss assumptions.”  The government proposed cutting the term of automatic
discharge from bankruptcy to three years from 12 years and it
plans to publish the final legislation by the end of April.  Moody’s said it expects  home prices  to fall 60 percent from
their 2007 peak, pushing the total share of mortgages in
negative equity to 75 percent.  “In the unlikely event that all negative equity loans were
to be written down to the market value of the home, we estimate
that 25 percent of all mortgage debt would written-off,” it
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net 
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  