-- Mortgage Accord, UBS, Gupta, Insider Trading, Finra: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-02-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/mortgage-accord-ubs-gupta-insider-criminal-club-finra-compliance.html
California , New York, Nevada, Florida
and Massachusetts are among states that haven’t signed a
settlement with  banks  over foreclosure abuses, according to
state officials and two people familiar with the talks.  The holdouts include some with the highest rates of
foreclosures. More than 6 percent of Nevada housing units had at
least one foreclosure filing in 2011, the nation’s highest rate,
according to RealtyTrac. California was third-highest with more
than 3 percent, said the firm, which tracks foreclosures.  California Attorney General Kamala Harris and New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , who have been among the most
outspoken in pushing for changes to the accord, were among those
who hadn’t joined as of Monday’s deadline. More than 40 states
signed on, said Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is helping
to lead talks with the banks.  All 50 states announced almost 16 months ago they were
investigating bank foreclosure practices following disclosures
that faulty documents were being used to seize homes. Officials
from states and federal agencies, including the Justice
Department, have since negotiated terms of a proposed settlement
with five banks that is said to be worth as much as $25 billion.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  and Florida
Attorney General Pam Bondi haven’t joined as of yesterday, said
the two people, who declined to be identified because the matter
isn’t public. Delaware and Nevada also hadn’t agreed to the
settlement as of yesterday, according to their offices.  Bondi “remains engaged in the settlement discussions in
order to ensure that Floridians receive their fair share in any
agreement and that bank mortgage servicers are held
accountable,” Jenn Meale, a spokeswoman for Bondi, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Miller said federal and state officials continue to discuss
the proposed deal and its terms with the banks.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  UBS Says Swiss Regulator Granted Immunity in Libor Investigation  UBS AG  said it was given immunity from a second antitrust
regulator as part of an investigation into whether the  London 
Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, was manipulated.  The bank has conditional immunity from the Swiss
Competition Commission regarding submissions for Yen Libor,
Euroyen Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate, or Tibor, and Swiss franc
Libor rates, the bank said in a regulatory filing yesterday. UBS
was granted similar immunity by the U.S. Department of Justice
in regards to Yen Libor and Euroyen Tibor because it is
cooperating with the probe, the Zurich-based bank said last
year.  UBS won’t be prosecuted, fined, or face other sanctions
from the Swiss regulator if it continues to cooperate, it said.
The regulator said last week that it was investigating 12 banks,
including UBS and Credit Suisse Group AG, over how the benchmark
for about $350 trillion of financial products is set.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the  Justice Department ,
 Japan ’s Financial Supervisory Agency and the U.K. Financial
Services Authority are investigating whether there were attempts
to manipulate Libor rates. European Union antitrust regulators
are also examining Libor rates.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London.  Former Goldman Sachs Director Gupta Trial Delayed to May 21  The April trial of  Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . director accused of giving inside information to  fund
manager   Raj Rajaratnam , was delayed six weeks so his lawyers
could prepare a defense on new charges Gupta passed tips about
earnings of Goldman Sachs in 2007 and  Procter & Gamble Co . in
2009.  In a hearing in  Manhattan  federal court yesterday, Gupta,
63, pleaded not guilty to criminal counts in a superseding
indictment filed last week. The latest charges broaden the
prosecutors’ description of the insider-trading scheme, saying
it began in March 2007, not in 2008, as the U.S. alleged when
Gupta was charged in October.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff moved the trial to May 21
from April 9 after  Gary Naftalis , an attorney for Gupta, asked
for a delay.  Gupta was previously charged with five counts of  securities
fraud  and one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud.
Prosecutors added a securities fraud charge based on a March 12,
2007, conference call, where people discussed Goldman Sachs’s
pending earnings announcement.  “The superseding indictment, does, as a practical matter,
give the defendant more to address than they previously
contemplated,” Rakoff said in granting the trial’s delay.  Naftalis declined to comment on yesterday’s hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Four Accused of Running Insiders’ ‘Criminal Club’ Indicted  Four men arrested last month for allegedly participating in
a “criminal club” of inside traders that reaped almost $62
million from Dell Inc. shares were indicted by a federal grand
jury in Manhattan.  One trade earned a $53 million illegal windfall for Level
Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and his fund,
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara alleged. The ring, which
involved five hedge funds and investment firms, is the largest
identified by the U.S. to date tied to a single stock, federal
authorities said.  Chiasson;  Todd Newman , a portfolio manager formerly at
Diamondback Capital Management LLC; Jon Horvath, a hedge fund
analyst in New York; and Danny Kuo, a fund manager for Whittier
Trust Co. in South Pasadena, California, were all named
yesterday in an indictment filed in federal court in New York.
They were charged in total with one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and nine counts of securities fraud.  After a federal grand jury returned the indictment, the
case was assigned to U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan.  Illegal profits earned from the scheme were almost of the
same “magnitude of fraud we proved in the Galleon Group insider
trading scheme,” Bharara said.  A five-year insider-trading probe by Bharara’s office and
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in New York called “Perfect
Hedge” has resulted in charges against 63 people, said Janice
Fedarcyk, head of the FBI’s New York office.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-121, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Adondakis,
12-409, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  U.S. WTO Case Against China ‘Major Reason’ for Citibank Nod  A World Trade Organization probe into the legality of
Chinese rules on foreign companies issuing credit cards is a
“major reason”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  was given permission to do so,
said Stuart Eizenstat, former deputy Treasury secretary under
President  Bill Clinton .  New York-based Citigroup announced on Monday that it will
become the second foreign bank, and the first western one,
allowed to issue its own credit card in  China . The news came
about 10 months after the WTO said it would investigate a U.S.
complaint about Chinese curbs on credit-card payment processing.  China requires foreign banks to “co-brand” with Chinese
operators to issue credit cards in yuan and to execute payments
through China UnionPay Data Co. The U.S. says the rules
contravene a pledge the world’s most populous nation made when
it joined the Geneva-based WTO in 2001 to open its debit and
credit-card markets to foreign processors by the end of 2006.  “I have no doubt that the WTO case is a major reason why
China has issued this license,” Eizenstat, a partner with the
Covington & Burling law firm in  Washington  who was also
President Jimmy Carter’s chief domestic policy adviser, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “By this action, they are
trying to take the ‘sting’ out of any adverse ruling.”  Nkenge Harmon, a spokeswoman at the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office in Washington, said yesterday that
China’s decision on Citibank “has no bearing on the U.S. WTO
claims.”  Stephen Thomas, a Citibank spokesman in  Shanghai , said the
company “is in a preparatory phase having received regulatory
approval and will reveal more details about our China cards
business in due course.” He declined to comment when asked
about the processing of transactions or say what conditions
Citibank accepted to be permitted to issue credit cards.  Credit cards are becoming more popular among China’s 1.3
billion people as rising incomes stoke  consumer spending .
Chinese banks issued 268 million credit cards as of Sept. 30, up
20 percent from a year earlier, according to the central bank.  Compliance Policy  Fund Industry Rejects SEC’s Proposed Money Market Rule Changes  The mutual-fund industry rejected plans for new rules
governing money-market funds, escalating a three-year
confrontation with regulators over how to make the investments
safer.  Two proposals being worked on by the SEC’s staff “are
neither constructive nor likely to make financial markets more
resilient,” Paul Schott Stevens, president and chief executive
officer of the  Investment Company Institute , said yesterday in a
statement posted on the group’s website.  The statement marks a shift to a more confrontational
approach in a debate that has lasted for more than three years.
The trade group said previously it might accept one of the plans
the SEC’s staff is likely to propose before the end of March.
With new details of the plans emerging last month, the ICI is
now on record opposing both.  The SEC’s first proposal would call for money funds to
abandon their traditional $1 share price, adopting a so-called
floating net-asset value. Industry executives have fought the
idea since it was floated in January 2009 by a think tank headed
by former  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Paul Volcker .  The second plan would require funds to build a capital
cushion designed to absorb potential losses and hold back at
least 3 percent of client redemptions for 30 days.  The ICI, whose members include  Fidelity Investments  in
 Boston  and New York-based  BlackRock Inc ., had engaged in talks
with the SEC over versions of a capital cushion plan.  The SEC enacted new rules in 2010 in an attempt to prevent
future runs and government bailouts. Those changes included
liquidity requirements, shorter maturity limits and enhanced
disclosure mandates.  As a second step, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  “is
advocating structural reforms to money-market funds to address
their susceptibility to runs and provide a buffer against
losses,”  John Nester , an agency spokesman, said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  LightSquared Asks FCC to Set Technical Standards for GPS Devices  Philip Falcone’s LightSquared Inc. asked U.S. regulators to
develop technical standards for the global-positioning system
receivers at the crux of a battle over the venture’s proposed
nationwide wireless service.  GPS devices pick up signals from “other people’s licensed
spectrum” causing interference concerns that could be
eliminated by setting an industry standard, Jeffrey Carlisle,
executive vice president, said in a news conference yesterday.
The company filed a petition with the Federal Communications
Commission, Carlisle said.  LightSquared has sought final FCC clearance for its network
since late 2010 against opposition from GPS makers and users who
say the service would disrupt navigation gear in cars, tractors
and planes. The Reston, Virginia-based company says GPS makers
should have planned to accommodate LightSquared’s use of
airwaves near those occupied by navigation devices.  The FCC said in an order released April 6 that existing
users of airwaves share responsibility for protecting against
interference. The agency may consider establishing standards
setting receivers’ “ability to reject interference from signals
outside their allocated spectrum,” the agency said in the
order.  Tammy Sun, a spokeswoman for the FCC, declined to comment
yesterday.  Courts  JPMorgan Reaches Tentative Settlement in AFTRA Pension Suit  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and the American Federation of
Television and Radio Artists Retirement Fund reached an
“agreement in principal” to settle a suit claiming losses from
the bank’s securities lending program.  The settlement is to be announced on the plaintiffs’
website, according to a statement provided yesterday by
Stephanie Cirkovich, a spokeswoman for the federal court in
Manhattan, where the AFTRA fund filed its suit.  “The parties are drafting a formal settlement agreement,
to be submitted to the court for approval within approximately
three weeks,” according to the statement. “The settlement
terms will remain confidential until the agreement is submitted
to the court. The settlement is subject to the court’s approval
and to certain other conditions.”  The fund sued in 2009, claiming it lost money that New
York-based JPMorgan invested for it in medium-term notes issued
by Sigma Finance Corp., a structured investment vehicle that
collapsed in 2008.  The case is Board of Trustees of the AFTRA Retirement Fund
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 09-cv-686, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Hong Kong Regulator Says It Should Be Able to Redress Investors  Hong Kong ’s securities regulator, whose attempt to ban New
York-based hedge fund Tiger  Asia  Management LLC last year from
trading was blocked by a court, said it should have the right to
redress investors.  “If private individuals can seek civil remedies, why does
the SFC have to wait?” Benjamin Yu, a lawyer representing the
Securities and Futures Commission, told Hong Kong’s Court of
Appeal yesterday.  The regulator is trying to overturn a court ruling that it
lacks the power to unwind Tiger Asia’s transactions in the
market and ban the hedge fund and employees from trading in Hong
Kong before proving insider trading allegations in a tribunal or
criminal court.  The SFC alleges the hedge fund traded on inside information
from bankers arranging placements of  China Construction Bank
Corp.  and Bank of China Ltd. shares in 2008 and 2009, pocketing
HK$38.5 million ($4.9 million). Tiger Asia, which has no
employees and physical presence in Hong Kong, denied the
allegations in an Oct. 12, 2010 letter to investors.  The legal battle, which both the SFC and Tiger Asia’s
founder Bill Hwang have pledged to take to Hong Kong’s top
court, will determine whether the agency can sue independently
for relief without working through government departments to
bring a criminal case or civil inquiry. Tiger Asia’s lawyers
argue the regulator can’t use a provision for freezing assets to
bring its own lawsuit against them.  “It was never intended that the SFC should have an
unchecked ability to seek a contravention of market
misconduct,” Charles Sussex, representing Tiger Asia and its
officers, argued before the court yesterday.  The regulator has also invoked the same law in cases
against  Hontex International Holdings Co. , as well as former
executives of  China Forestry Holdings Ltd.  and  Gome Electrical
Appliance Holding Ltd.   The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Tiger
Asia Management LLC, Sung Kook Hwang Bill, Raymond Park, William
Tomita, CACV178/2011 in the Hong Kong Court of Appeal.  Speeches and Interviews  Finra Examines CDs Tied to Derivatives as Sales Surge to Record  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  is examining
sales of certificates of deposit tied to derivatives after banks
sold a record number of the investments last year.  The industry-backed regulator wants to make sure the so-
called structured CDs, where principal is protected by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., are properly understood by
investors given their increasing complexity and lengthening
maturities, said Maria Rabinovich, a lawyer in Finra’s risk
division. Rabinovich, who spoke Monday after a session on
structured product law and regulation at Morrison & Foerster
LLP’s office in New York, declined to comment further.  The watchdog issued an alert on “ complex products ” in
January, without referring to the CDs. The notice avoided
defining what constitutes such products, while outlining a few
examples, such as those where information is not readily
available about the assets they’re tied to, and so-called
“steepeners,” which typically bet on the shape of the Treasury
yield curve.  Demand for derivative-linked certificates of deposit has
risen as the Federal Reserve holds  interest rates  below 0.25
percent for the third straight year. Yields on five-year, fixed-
rate CDs have declined to 1.55 percent, the lowest level since
at least June 1998, according to  data  from Bankrate.com.  Comings and Goings  Former CFTC Commissioner Dunn Joins Patton Boggs Law Firm  Michael V. Dunn, former member of the U.S.  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission , has joined  Patton Boggs LLP , a
Washington law and lobbying firm.  Dunn is a senior policy adviser at  Patton Boggs , the firm
announced yesterday. He was a CFTC commissioner for about seven
years before stepping down on Oct. 24. The CFTC, the main U.S.
derivatives regulator, is leading efforts to complete Dodd-Frank
Act rules by 2013.  Patton Boggs represents the Depository Trust and Clearing
Corp., which collects data on derivatives transactions, and the
 Wholesale Markets Brokers’Association, Americas , an association
of derivatives trading venues, among other clients, according to
U.S. Senate records.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-rule overhaul enacted in 2010, is
intended to reduce risk and boost transparency in the swaps
market after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 