-- Mortgage Bonds Face Eye of Storm as Refinancings Decline: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-02-08T17:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/mortgage-bonds-face-eye-of-storm-as-refinancings-decline-credit-markets.html
Investors in U.S. government-backed
mortgage bonds who benefited from a decline in early payoffs by
homeowners are bracing for the fallout from a loosening of
 refinancing  rules at  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac .  Prepayments for Fannie Mae’s 30-year fixed-rate securities
fell 8 percent last month to a pace that would erase 21.6
percent of the debt in a year, the slowest since September, data
released Feb. 6 by the Washington-based company show.
Refinancing damages securities that trade for more than face
value by returning principal faster at par and curbing interest.  An expansion of the Home Affordable Refinance Program urged
by President  Barack Obama  is set to boost speeds by 1 or 2
percentage points each month, Barclays Capital analysts wrote in
a report this week titled, “Calm Before the Storm.” More
homeowners with the cheapest mortgages who don’t need HARP are
also seeking new loans as  average rates  on 30-year debt ease,
falling to a new nadir of 3.87 percent last week.  “For the first time in this entire period of tight credit
and other challenges, there is real concern amongst investors”
that betting against refinancing is risky, said Brad Scott, Bank
of America Corp.’s head trader of pass-through agency mortgage
securities in New York. “People are anticipating HARP will be
real and that the program will be fairly effective, and are
bracing for higher speeds going forward with the next print.”  Mortgage-bond buyers are preparing for the effects of
adjustments for  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac borrowers with little
or no home equity announced in October, while downplaying risks
from the further loosening that Obama said Feb. 1 he will seek
to create with help from Congress.  Default Swaps Rise  Returns in the $5.3 trillion market for U.S. government-
backed mortgage bonds beat Treasuries in December and January
after concern that the president would accelerate refinancing
fueled losses in four of the prior five periods, Barclays
Capital  index data  show. The outperformance this month has
totaled 23 basis points through yesterday.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
credit risk rose, with the Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rising 0.9 basis point to 95.9
basis points as of 12:07 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit
Group Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, has climbed from 94.3
basis points at the end of last week, the lowest level since
July.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Noble Bonds  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread fell 1.3 basis
points to 28.69 basis points as of 12:07 p.m. in New York. The
measure of stress in credit markets, which had climbed 3.63
basis points in the past three days from a five-month low,
widens when investors seek the perceived safety of  government
securities  and narrows when they favor assets such as corporate
bonds.  Bonds of  Noble Corp. (NE)  were the most actively traded U.S.
corporate securities by dealers yesterday, with 175 trades of $1
million or more as of 12:08 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The Swiss offshore drilling contractor
sold $1.2 billion of bonds yesterday in its first offering in
more than a year.  At current  mortgage rates , about 95 percent of the $2.8
trillion of 30-year loans packaged into Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac securities stand to gain from refinancing based on typical
closing costs, according to JPMorgan analysts led by Brian Ye.
About a third of the borrowers face the types of qualification
challenges HARP is meant to address, they said.  Slower Timeline  Mortgage bonds guaranteed by government-supported Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae outperformed
similar-duration Treasuries by a total of 30 basis points in
December and January, according to  Barclays Capital  index data.
The debt underperformed by 198 basis points in the second half
of 2011.  Trading yesterday initially reflected relief that
prepayments slowed, before investors reassessed the data and
concluded that it only signaled a slower timeline on use of the
HARP expansion, Bank of America’s Scott said in a telephone
interview. With last month “just too soon to encompass the
impacts,” that may mean data on speeds released in March may be
higher than expected, he said.  Fannie Mae’s 6.5 percent securities, whose underlying
loans’ rates average about 7 percent, rose about 0.3 cent to
112.2 cents on the dollar as of 11:44 a.m. in New York, the
highest since August. That compares with 109.7 cents on Oct. 3
and a record 113.6 cents on June 7, Bloomberg data show.  Push for Adjustments  “The big overhang in the market is just how effective the
HARP 2.0 changes will be,” said Bryan Whalen, co-head of
mortgage bonds at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc. which
oversees $118 billion. “The fact that we didn’t see it this
month was a small relief. But investors are going to wait to see
how next month’s print will go.”  Obama created HARP in 2009 as refinancing was curbed by
lower incomes, tightened lending standards and the worst decline
in U.S.  home prices  since the Great Depression. After the
initiative reached less than a quarter of the 4 million to 5
million projected, the president pushed for adjustments last
year. The resulting changes, including lower fees and lessened
risks for lenders, began in December and some won’t start until
March or later.  While the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the independent
regulator that oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said that
the tweaks might double HARP’s reach, a Fed paper sent to
Congress last month by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said policy
makers should consider expanding it further.  Refinancing Speeds  Obama responded by preparing legislation to force further
changes, including making it easier for lenders to refinance
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans they don’t service. The bill
would also expand refinancing opportunities for borrowers
without government-backed debt.  There is “a low probability of it passing Congress,”
Barclays Capital analysts Derek Chen and Wei-Ang Lee wrote Feb.
6 in their report. At the same time, investors may have
“shrugged it off a bit too quickly,” with a “tail risk”
being the potential for Obama to expand HARP to mortgages made
after May, 2009, they added.  Last year’s changes mean that refinancing speeds among
potential HARP-eligible loans will probably rise about 40
percent over the next year, the analyst wrote in the report.  ‘Many Surprises’  Fannie Mae prepayment speeds will probably peak in March at
almost 28 percent, rising partly because of lower rates and
lenders rushing to close loans before an increase in Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac bond-insurance costs created by Congress,
according to the JPMorgan analysts, the top-ranked for
prepayment strategy last year in a poll by Institutional
Investors magazine. Barclays Capital had the second-ranked team.  “Investors will face many surprises” in prepayments on
the highest-rate loans “in the months ahead, both on the upside
and occasionally on the downside,” the JPMorgan analysts said.  The  average rate  on a typical 30-year mortgage reached 3.87
percent in the week ended Feb. 2, after averaging about 3.97
percent in November and December, according to McLean, Virginia-
based Freddie Mac. That’s down from last year’s high of 5.05
percent in February. Loans usually close between one and three
months after applications.  Refinancing Soars  Refinancing applications almost tripled from last year’s
low in February through the week ended Aug. 12, before falling
by 42 percent through late November, according to Mortgage
Bankers Association surveys. As rates moved even lower, giving
more borrowers an incentive to refinance, the pace gained 59
percent, data released today show.  In his State of the Union address last month, Obama said he
wants to give “every responsible homeowner the chance to save
about $3,000 a year on their mortgage by refinancing at
historically low  interest rates .”  TCW’s Whalen said that “the market expectations look to be
correct in that we’ll see a pick-up and some additional
borrowers will refi, but that it’ll fall short of anything
material.” The potential for policy makers to act if prepayment
speeds fail to gain enough in the coming months represents an
“ongoing 2012 risk,” he said in a telephone interview.  “If HARP 2.0 doesn’t really get any legs and the type of
pick-up that the administration wants, you could see more
programs get enacted,” he said. “You have to respect that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  