-- Tottenham Manager Redknapp Cleared of Using Monaco Account to Evade Taxes
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-02-08T14:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/tottenham-manager-redknapp-cleared-of-using-monaco-account-to-evade-taxes.html
Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp , the
favorite to be next coach of  England ’s soccer team, was cleared
of evading taxes after convincing the jury a  Monaco  bank account
was a gift from a friend.  The 64-year-old was accused of working with Sheffield
Wednesday owner Milan Mandaric to avoid taxes on $295,000 by
placing the funds in the account named after Redknapp’s late
bulldog Rosie when both men worked together at Portsmouth, a
club Mandaric owned. Mandaric was also cleared of the two
charges after the jury deliberated for five hours. The men
embraced when the verdict was delivered, and mouthed “thank
you” as the jury filed out.  “It’s been a nightmare,” Redknapp told reporters outside.
“It’s been five years. This is a case that never should have
come to court.”  Redknapp, who guided to Tottenham to European soccer’s
 Champions League  for the first time last season, is U.K. bookies
pick to replace Italian Fabio Capello, who’ll step down after
the European Championships in July. Spurs are in third place in
the Premier League, seven points off the lead.  The case ends almost six years of scrutiny into Redknapp’s
financial affairs. He traveled to Monaco at Mandaric’s request
to open the offshore account where prosecutors alleged he
received a bonus payment of $145,000 in 2002 as his share of the
profits of a player sale and a second one of $150,000 linked to
keeping Portsmouth in the Premier League in 2004. The defendants
both took the witness stand to insist the payments were
unrelated to soccer and were for investments made in U.S. stocks
on Redknapp’s behalf by Mandaric.  Separate Charges  Mandaric, whose daughter flew to the U.K. to join him from
 California , said he was “delighted.”  “I never doubted the truth would prevail, nor the fact
that the British justice system would come to the right
conclusion,” he said.  The jury wasn’t told that Mandaric, 74, and former
Portsmouth Chief Executive Officer Peter Storrie were cleared of
separate tax evasion charges last year. In that case it was
alleged that Mandaric paid cash to former Portsmouth players
Amdy Faye and Eyal Berkovic via accounts in the British Virgin
Islands and Monaco.  “No Regrets”  “We have no regrets about pursuing this case because it
was vitally important that the facts were put before a jury,”
 Chris Martin , the assistant director for criminal investigations
for the U.K.’s revenue service, said.  The City of London Police said it passed information to the
tax agency after conducting a separate probe into soccer
corruption. No one has been brought to trial under that
investigation, which was called Operation Apprentice.  During two days of cross-examination, Redknapp said he lied
to a reporter from the now defunct News Corp.-owned tabloid the
News of the World about the Monaco account because he “wanted
to get him off my back,” telling him it contained a bonus for
sale of striker  Peter Crouch . He later told police and a Premier
League corruption enquiry in 2006 the same thing.  In court, Redknapp said he felt he felt he was “morally”
though not “contractually” owed a bonus after claiming 10
percent of the profits from the sale of Crouch. That was the sum
he was due as Portsmouth’s director of football, before a new
contract as manager reduced the figure to 5 percent following a
hike in his base salary.  Redknapp said he had no idea about the second $150,000
payment, and backed up Mandaric’s claim the money was a loan to
invest in stocks. The jury asked but was not told why there was
no paperwork to account for the investments, which Mandaric told
Redknapp were a “disaster.”  “Repugnant”  News of the World reporter Rob Beasley told the court he’d
paid 8,000 pounds ($12,700) to an undisclosed person for
information that led to him getting details of the case against
Redknapp and Mandaric before they were questioned about it by
police.  Attorneys for the defense described the use of the
newspaper’s information by prosecutors as “repugnant to all
basic instincts of fairness in the criminal justice process.”
The newspaper was closed down last year after its reporters were
found to have accessed the voicemails of celebrities,
politicians and a murdered teenager.  “Compelling Evidence”  Prosecutor  John Black  said the February 2009 interview,
which took place almost a year before the men were charged, was
the “most compelling evidence from the defendant himself about
what all this is about.”  Redknapp denied Black’s claims that he was “telling a pack
of lies” by offering to repeat his oath on the Bible.  “Everything I have told you is the truth, the whole truth
and nothing but the truth, so help me God,” he said as his son,
former soccer player Jamie Redknapp, looked on.  The case centered on whether the payments should’ve been
taxed because they were from an employer to an employee as part
of their professional relationship or a gift from one friend to
another as Mandaric and then Redknapp claimed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Lindsay Fortado in London at 
4806 or  lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  