-- House Gives President a Form of Line-Item Veto
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-02-08T21:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/house-votes-to-give-president-a-form-of-line-item-veto-in-spending-bills.html
The U.S. House voted to give
President  Barack Obama  a limited form of line-item veto in a
rare moment of bipartisanship on the federal budget.  The chamber voted 254-173 today to pass a measure that
would give the president more power to try to cancel individual
provisions in massive spending bills that he currently must
accept or reject in their entirety. The bill, H.R. 3521, heads
to the Senate, where other line-item proposals have died.  “This is an attempt to take one more step on behalf of the
taxpayer to clean up the system on how we spend hard-working
taxpayers’ dollars,” said House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a  Wisconsin (BEESWI)  Republican. “When we pass large spending
bills, we vote on things we’re not even necessarily sure we’re
voting on.”  The budget panel’s top Democrat, Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , co-sponsored the measure. The bill also drew
opposition from both sides of the aisle.  “The line-item veto would strengthen the president’s
ability to give preference to his spending priorities over those
of the Congress and the constituents we represent,” said House
Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky
Republican.  Representative Mike Simpson, an Idaho Republican, said he
worries that the president would use the expanded power to
target opposing lawmakers.  “He’s going to take our Republican priorities and put them
up for a second vote -- and a Republican president would do the
same thing to Democrats,” Simpson said. “This is going to be
about partisan politics.”  Administration Support  The Obama administration said in a statement it
“strongly” supports the plan because it would help root out
waste.  A similar proposal in the Senate sponsored by Arizona
Republican  John McCain  has 43 co-sponsors.  The measure passed today falls short of a true line-item
veto like those granted to many governors and to President  Bill Clinton  in the mid-1990s. The  Supreme Court  ruled in 1998 that
the federal line-item veto violated the Constitution because it
would let the president amend laws without congressional
approval.  The current bill seeks to get around that concern by giving
the president the power to require a vote in Congress, within 60
days and without amendment, on whether to uphold the proposed
cuts. It could be used only to target discretionary spending,
not entitlement programs or individual tax provisions.  The bill would require lawmakers to “think twice” about
adding provisions to spending bills, Ryan said, because they may
end up having to publicly defend the provisions if the president
seeks to cancel them.  “The measure of success of this reform will not be
measured by how many individual spending line items get voted
out of spending by Congress, but how many items don’t get put in
these bills in the first place,” Ryan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomerg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  