-- How to Make Budgets and Politics a Less Toxic Mix: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-02-08T00:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/how-to-make-budgets-and-politics-less-toxic-mix-commentary-by-clive-crook.html
It has come to something when the
 International Monetary Fund , that stone-faced inspector of
fiscal rectitude, advises governments to go easy on austerity.  The IMF’s budgetary advice usually selects from three
options: raise taxes, cut public spending, or raise taxes and
cut public spending. Here’s what it said in its Jan. 24  Fiscal
Monitor . (Don’t let the sparkling prose sway you unduly.)
“Continued adjustment...should ideally occur at a pace that
supports adequate growth in output and employment. Given the
large adjustment already in train this year, governments should
avoid responding to any unexpected downturn in growth by further
tightening policies...as long as financing is available and
sustainability concerns permit. Countries with enough fiscal
space, including some in the euro area, should reconsider the
pace of near-term adjustment.”  To followers of IMF pronouncements, that’s pretty
startling. It makes you wonder just how bad things are. Quite
bad, actually. Last week’s new-jobs figures showed the  U.S.
economy  gathering a little momentum, but the recovery is still
pitifully slow and the circumstances holding it back -- a
flattened  housing market , over-indebted households and anxious
consumers -- haven’t gone away. And there’s no good news from
Europe. Most forecasters expect it to slip back into a  recession 
this year.  The Credibility Gap  Here’s the point: Fiscal policy could be helping, but
mostly isn’t. In the U.S., the stimulus is gone and Congress is
reluctant to extend it. There’s room for stimulus in  Germany  and
other countries, but they have decided not to use it. The U.K.
chose too much austerity too soon; it has clobbered growth and
has put fiscal stability further out of reach.  The IMF’s prescription is right: short-term fiscal
accommodation where possible, and long-term restraint where
necessary (which is almost everywhere). The question is, why is
such advice even necessary? Why is getting fiscal policy right
so hard?  The underlying problem is always the same: credibility. A
severe recession pushes public debt higher. Governments need to
allow this, but within limits. Some of the increase in public
borrowing is self-correcting. Recessions automatically suppress
tax revenue and increase spending on  unemployment benefits  as
well as other safety-net programs. This unwinds when the
recovery comes. Governments then add discretionary stimulus,
which may or may not be temporary. They have to convince lenders
that they will deal with this increase in borrowing later.  Today’s discretionary stimulus, however, means higher taxes
or lower public spending someday. Governments can leave their
successors to pick up the pieces. Lenders know the same thing
might happen again -- the next government leaves tax increases
and spending cuts to its own successors. And so on. This
expectation shrinks the fiscal space, as the IMF calls it, and
the crunch comes sooner than anybody thought.  That’s the bind. Governments have to convince lenders this
isn’t going to happen.  Say “credibility” to an economist and he thinks
“rules.” Governments should force themselves (or their
successors) to do the right thing. Lately,  fiscal rules  have
been catching on. According to the IMF, 80 countries have some
kind of budget rule -- up from seven in 1990.  Their record is mixed. In the U.S., the 1985 Gramm-Rudman-
Hollings Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act rule
was soon subverted; a later version worked better, then fell
into abeyance. The European Union’s Stability and Growth Pact
was a failure. With great fanfare,  Europe  has just agreed to a
new rule, much like the old one. Whether this works any better,
we will find out. All these instances show the trouble with
rules: If you don’t like them, you can ignore them.  Austerity’s Ugly Politics  Some countries are trying another approach, instead of --or
in addition to -- a rule. Edge fiscal policy out of the
political arena by telling an independent council or commission
to come up with answers, or at least referee the discussion. In
some places, this has worked fairly well: in  Sweden , for
instance.  But you need consensus for this to succeed. Where politics
is so polarized that consensus looks impossible, as in the U.S.,
it’s hard to make an independent commission work. The Bowles-
Simpson  commission  did a fine job, then failed for lack of
political support. The biggest mistake of Barack Obama’s
presidency, in my view, has been to let that failure happen.  In the end, though, the details of fiscal policy cannot,
and should not, be taken out of politics. If democracy means
anything, the nuts and bolts of taxes and spending -- choices
about who gets what, who pays for what and how big the
government should be -- are the proper realm of politics. Those
questions, as I say, are irreducibly ideological. But the
macroeconomic aspects of budget policy -- debts and deficits --
are in a different category. Perhaps, with a little ingenuity,
they could be distanced somewhat from politics, and to good
effect.  Imagine an independent agency whose mandate is fiscal
stability. It would be the fiscal equivalent of the central
bank. Suppose that agency had one, and only one, sufficiently
powerful and flexible instrument: a national  sales tax , say. It
could cut this tax in recessions to provide short-term stimulus,
and at other times would set it at whatever rate it judged
necessary to stabilize long-term debt. That would be its dual
mandate: short-term stability and long-term fiscal solvency.  This Fiscal Stability Board would not be deciding which
districts get bridges or defense installations, when people
should retire, what medical treatments should attract public
subsidy, or how mildly to tax manufacturers and private-equity
partners. Above all, it would not be deciding what share of
national income the government should spend. All that would fall
to elected politicians.  In the U.S., Congress could carry on doing what it loves
best: showering favors on its preferred constituencies. But once
the legislature had made its choices, the Fiscal Stability Board
would decide whether the fiscal balance looked right, short-term
and long-term. Much as a central bank sets an  interest rate  and
gives an expected path of future rates, the FSB would then set
the sales tax.  I’d swap one Fiscal Stability Board, thus constituted, for
any number of rules, pacts, triggers, councils and
constitutional amendments. (Speaking of which, in the U.S. its
establishment might require one.) An outlandish idea? Not long
ago, the notion of central-bank independence seemed bold, as
well. If it can be done for monetary policy, I don’t see why it
shouldn’t be done for the relevant aspects of fiscal policy,
too.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 