-- How We Crunched the Numbers to Find the Best Emerging Markets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   R a n k i n g s
-- 2012-02-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/how-we-crunched-the-numbers-to-find-the-best-emerging-markets.html
In the Bloomberg Markets ranking of
the most promising emerging and frontier markets for investors,
countries were classified as emerging or frontier based on their
presence in the FTSE Frontier 50 Index, the FTSE Emerging Index,
the MSCI Frontier Markets Index, the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index, the S&P Frontier Broad Market Index or the S&P Emerging
Broad Market Index.  Both rankings, published in the March issue of Bloomberg
Markets, included the following data for each country:
International Monetary Fund forecasts of GDP growth, inflation,
government debt level and total investment; World Bank
demographic and development data measuring literacy, age of
population, labor participation and infrastructure levels; and
Bloomberg financial markets data about the liquidity and price-
earnings ratio of the stock market plus the volatility
of the local currency.  We also looked at the country’s position in outside
rankings: the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index,
Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index and
the Wall Street Journal/ Heritage Foundation ’s Index of Economic
Freedom.  The frontier markets ranking included an additional
variable: net energy imports as a percentage of all energy used.  We used this  World Bank  data to determine these countries’
vulnerability to volatile energy prices. Countries that rely
heavily on energy exports or imports were considered higher risk
and therefore earned fewer points for this category.  For both rankings, countries were awarded points based on
their relative performance in each category. The worst-
performing country received a score of zero, while the best-
performing country received the maximum number of points
assigned to that variable. Scores for all variables were summed,
with a range for the final score being 0 to 100.  For the frontier markets, greater weight was given to the
macroeconomic forecast data from the IMF because such data are
more reliable than survey or other data in those countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 rankings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Laura Colby at
   lcolby@bloomberg.net . 