-- Toyota Shifts Highlander Output to U.S. From Japan to Blunt Yen
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-02-08T22:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/toyota-highlander-output-shifts-to-u-s-from-japan-to-fight-yen.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s biggest
automaker, will end production of Highlander sport-utility
vehicles in Japan, consolidating assembly of the model in
Indiana to blunt the impact of the yen’s rise on earnings.  Toyota will invest $400 million to expand capacity at its
Princeton, Indiana, plant that already makes the mid-size light
truck to produce an additional 50,000 units annually, the
company said yesterday. The move, which includes production of
the gasoline-electric version of the SUV, will add 400 jobs at
the factory, Toyota said.  “The trend throughout the industry for localization of
production is irreversible,” said  Efraim Levy , an analyst for
S&P Capital IQ, who has a “hold” rating on Toyota’s American
depositary receipts. “There’s clearly strong currency-related
pressure on Japanese automakers.”  Toyota,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , all based in
Japan, are shifting some auto production from their home country
to counter the yen’s 6.9 percent rise against the U.S. dollar in
the past year.  Toyota this week added a second shift at its Mississippi
plant to cut Corolla imports from Japan; Nissan is spending $2
billion on a Mexican factory intended to be a base for auto
exports; and Honda plans to make small cars in Mexico and its
top-of-line Acura NSX supercar in Ohio.  Exports From Indiana  Highlanders will be exported from Indiana to markets
including Russia and Australia after expansion of the plant is
completed next year, instead of from  Japan , the company said.  The project “allows for better utilization of the Indiana
plant, and will help Toyota capitalize on the improving North
American and global auto market,” Steve St. Angelo, Toyota’s
executive vice president for North American engineering and
manufacturing, said in a statement.  Toyota’s plant in Kyushu, Japan, will stop producing the
model by late next year. Most Highlanders will be made in the
U.S. with limited production of the SUV in  China  for sale only
in that market, the automaker said.  The announcement is “great news for this region, for our
American customers, and for the U.S economy because every auto
job creates 3 1/2 ‘spin off’ jobs that support those workers,”
 Yoshimi Inaba , Toyota’s chief operating officer for  North
America , said yesterday at the Economic Club of Chicago lunch at
the Chicago Auto Show.  Along with Highlander, the Toyota City, Japan-based
company’s Princeton plant also builds Sequoia full-size SUVs and
Sienna minivans. The  Indiana  factory employs 4,800 people,
according to the statement. It has capacity to build 300,000
vehicles a year, according to the company’s website.  Toyota’s ADRs rose 1.8 percent to $81.05 yesterday in  New
York .  Is RX Next?  “There’s no doubt there’s more to come if the yen stays at
the current level,” said  Michael Robinet , an analyst with
consultant IHS Automotive in Northville, Michigan. “Currency is
the great equalizer.”  Toyota’s line of luxury Lexus RX crossovers, now built at
both the Kyushu plant that makes Highlander and the company’s
Cambridge, Ontario, plant, “is also on our radar” to be
consolidated in North America, Inaba told reporters yesterday.  “Our exports of ‘made-in-America’ products to 21 countries
have topped 100,000 vehicles, and we’ve just begun exporting
American Camry sedans and Sienna minivans to  South Korea ,”
Inaba said.  Exporting “usually stabilizes your production,” he said.  Toyota this week said net income for the quarter that ended
Dec. 31 fell 14 percent to 80.9 billion yen ($1.05 billion),
while revenue increased 4.1 percent to 4.87 trillion yen.  The company raised its net income forecast for its fiscal
year that ends March 31 to 200 billion yen from 180 billion yen,
due to improving sales in the U.S. and other regions.  Toyota said Feb. 3 its global sales, including those of
subsidiaries Hino Motors Ltd. and Daihatsu Motor Co., will rise
21 percent to a record 9.58 million vehicles this year.  The automaker’s U.S. sales unit is in Torrance, California.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Chicago at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  