-- Panamax Ship Rates Advance Most in 2 1/2 Years on China Demand Speculation
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-02-08T16:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/panamax-shipping-rates-advance-most-since-2009-as-china-buys-raw-materials.html
Hire rates for  Panamaxes (BPRATCR) , the biggest
commodity-carrying ships to navigate the Panama Canal, jumped
the most in more than 2 1/2 years on speculation demand is
strengthening in  China .  Daily average charter costs gained 7.6 percent, the most
since June 2009, to $6,604, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange. Rates are up 22 percent in four sessions. The  Baltic
Dry Index (BDIY) , a broader gauge of costs to transport dry-bulk raw
materials, rose 2.4 percent to 676.  The index had its worst-ever start to a year in January,
plunging 61 percent as the fleet expanded amid speculation
Chinese buyers were curbing purchases before and during the
Lunar New Year holiday. Markets in the Asian nation, the largest
global user of commodities from soybeans to copper, were closed
for a week starting Jan. 23.  “Chinese buyers are coming back with orders,” said Nigel Prentis, research director at HSBC Shipping Services Ltd. in
London. “Rates withered while China was absent. We are heading
for a significant upside from the current very low base.”  Seaborne trade in dry-bulk commodities may rise as much as
6 percent in 2012, analysts led by Frode Morkedal at Oslo-based
RS Platou Markets AS said in an e-mailed report. Vessels hauling
 iron ore , soybeans and forest products will likely make longer
voyages as South American exports to Asia gain, they said.  Cargo Size  Greater distances add to so-called ton-mile demand, gauged
by multiplying the amount of cargo by journey length. They also
tie up vessels for longer periods, effectively curbing the
supply of ships.  Still, the dry-bulk fleet is likely to swell faster than
demand this year, said Platou. It estimated capacity gains at
about 138 million deadweight tons, compared with 96 million tons
in 2011. Demand is set to outpace the fleet’s growth next year,
according to the analysts.  “In 2013, we expect the fleet expansion to be in the
region of 6 to 7 percent, while tonnage demand is likely to
increase somewhat quicker, resulting in increasing capacity
utilization and thereby higher freight rates,” Platou said.  Earnings for the four ship classes in the index may advance
as much as threefold by June, according to HSBC’s Prentis. This
year’s slump was exaggerated by weaker Chinese demand, he said.  “Rates got to such low levels that it’s natural to expect
a bounce,” Prentis said.  Panamaxes are the second-largest ship type in the index.
Average daily rates for Capesizes, the biggest  iron-ore 
carriers, slipped 0.2 percent to $5,233 after gaining yesterday
for the first time since Dec. 16.  Supramax vessels, about 25 percent smaller than Panamaxes,
added 2.2 percent to $6,485.  Handysizes (BHSATCR) , the smallest ships
tracked by the exchange, fell 0.5 percent to $5,517.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  