-- Pennsylvania Lawmakers Pass Bill Allowing County Fees on Natural-Gas Wells
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-02-08T21:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/pennsylvania-lawmakers-pass-bill-allowing-county-fees-on-natural-gas-wells.html
Pennsylvania (STOPA1)  lawmakers passed a bill
to let counties levy fees on natural-gas wells, which the state
estimates may generate about $211 million in revenue this year.  Proceeds, based on gas prices, would mostly go to
communities affected by drilling in Marcellus Shale deposits,
under a bill approved 101-90 today by the  House of
Representatives , the last legislative hurdle for the measure.
Governor Tom Corbett has said he would sign it.  Lawmakers in Harrisburg took the step as several states
consider ways to mitigate the effects of hydraulic fracturing,
the shale-gas extraction method known as fracking. In  Ohio , a
fee on drillers that use the technique is under review, while
 Maryland  is evaluating levies. Pennsylvania also faces revenue
falling 3.5 percent short of budget estimates this fiscal year.  “The benefits of this growing industry are reaching every
corner of our state and we are determined to see this industry
produce new jobs and increased savings,” Corbett, a first-term
Republican, said yesterday after the Senate passed the bill. His
party controls both legislative houses.  Pennsylvania , the only major U.S. natural-gas producer that
doesn’t seek extraction taxes from drilling companies, has more
natural-gas reserves in the Marcellus Shale formation than any
other state. Some revenue from fees over 15 years on so-called
nonconventional wells, which use fracking, would go to
environmental needs. The technique uses water mixed with
chemicals and sand that is pumped deep into shale layers.  Balanced Measure  The measure provides a compromise that meets the needs of
communities without overburdening the industry, Senate President
Pro Tempore Joe Scarnati, a Republican from Brockway, said
yesterday. Municipalities can’t pass more stringent ordinances
against drilling, and companies that run into barriers can sue
or ask a state agency to review local rules.  The bill would let counties decide whether to demand the
fee, and if they don’t, they could be overruled if half of their
municipalities by population agree to seek the levies.  “It’s a woefully inadequate tax when Pennsylvania
desperately needs the money,” said Representative Greg Vitali,
a Haverford Democrat, in debate before the House vote. “It’s a
giveaway to drillers,” he said, with the extraction levy pegged
at an effective rate of 2.4 percent, lower than those in other
states.  In its first year of production, a well would be assessed
in a range of $40,000 to $60,000, based on  gas prices , according
to a committee report this week. With prices averaging about
$2.74 per cubic foot in 2012, Pennsylvania would charge $45,000
for each well in its initial year, including existing wells.  If the average price falls below $2.25 per cubic foot, each
well would be charged $40,000 to start. The fee would be levied
at $60,000 if the average jumped to $6 per cubic foot. By the
11th year and until the end of the fee period, the levies would
decrease to either $5,000 or $10,000 per well, based on prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  