-- Pentagon Oil Spending May Snarl Efforts to Trim $490 Billion
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-02-08T05:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/pentagon-oil-spending-may-snarl-efforts-to-trim-490b.html
The U.S. military’s appetite for oil
may snarl efforts to pare defense spending by about $490 billion
in the next decade.  The  Pentagon (USBODEFN) , the world’s single largest consumer of energy
excluding countries, spent $17.3 billion on petroleum in fiscal
2011, a 26 percent increase from $13.7 billion the previous year,
according to Department of Defense data provided to Bloomberg
Government.  World  oil prices  will average an estimated $145 a barrel in
2035 in 2010 dollars, up from between roughly $85 and $110,
according to Energy Department statistics. Such an increase
might force the military to dedicate more of its budget to fuel
while still trying to cut total spending, said Russell Rumbaugh,
a defense budget analyst.  “The oil prices will further exacerbate the defense
spending cap,” said Rumbaugh, a co-director of the Stimson
Center’s program on budgeting for foreign affairs and defense in
Washington. “They’ll be in competition with other defense
priorities, including procurement and paying soldiers.”  Rising oil prices accounted for the bulk of the Defense
Department’s increased petroleum costs last year. The spending
was the highest since at least fiscal 2005, the last year for
which comparable data is available, according to the Pentagon.
The costs represent about 2.5 percent of the department’s budget
in fiscal 2011, which ended Sept. 30.  BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s second-largest oil company, was the top
supplier of fuel to the Pentagon last year. The London company
had defense contracts valued at $1.35 billion. The No. 2
supplier was  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  of  San Antonio , with $905
million.  More With Less  The physical amount of petroleum purchased by the military
rose 0.4 percent to about 117.0 million barrels from about 116.5
million barrels the previous year. That equates to an average
price of about $148 a barrel in fiscal 2011 and about $118 a
barrel in fiscal 2010.  “This is obviously at a time when the military is already
making budget cuts,”  Phil Flynn , an analyst at PFGBest in
 Chicago , said in an interview. “You’re asking the military to
do more with less, and higher fuel costs are going to make that
more difficult.”  In a budget proposal presented last month, Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta said the department would try to cut $487
billion, or 8.5 percent, from the $5.62 trillion in spending
that had been planned for 2012 to 2021.  Flynn said it was encouraging that the amount of petroleum
purchased by the Defense Department didn’t rise materially last
year.  Average Prices  “The growth was not significant,” he said. “Remember
they were fighting two wars. They were fighting in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  and, of course, we have troops all over the world.
As we see a reduction in these troop levels, one would hope the
demand would drop naturally.”  The military’s petroleum consumption is tied to its
operations, Lieutenant Colonel Melinda Morgan, a Pentagon
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “The department’s efforts to improve our energy use are
focused on increased military capabilities and effectiveness,
not solely decreasing consumption through arbitrary targets at
an enterprise level,” she said.  Average crude oil prices rose 19 percent to $95.11 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  last year.  Brent crude , the
European benchmark, climbed 38 percent to an average of $110.91
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  Oil for March delivery rose $1.50 to settle at $98.41 a
barrel in  New York  yesterday.  Alternative Fuels  The Pentagon’s petroleum costs, mainly for  jet fuel  and
diesel products, have tracked more closely with Brent crude
prices because some of the petroleum is imported at European
prices, said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York.  While the Pentagon has been looking for other energy
sources to reduce its vulnerability to petroleum prices, its
spending for alternative fuels is dwarfed by the outlay for oil.  The military spent $21.6 million on alternative fuels,
including biodiesel and fuel ethanol, last fiscal year, up 36
percent from $15.9 million in fiscal 2010. The Pentagon also is
looking at animal fats, algae and seed oils.  ‘Addicted to Oil’  “They are addicted to oil,” William Hartung, an analyst
at the Center for International Policy, a Washington-based non-
profit research group, said in an interview. There’s also a
“substantial price premium” to move to alternatives, he said.  The Navy in December signed a $12 million contract to buy
450,000 gallons of fuel made from algae and used cooking oil. It
was the largest biofuel purchase in U.S. government history,
according to the Navy.  The Navy wants to derive 50 percent of its total energy
from alternative sources by 2020, according to an agency
website. The Air Force hopes by 2016 to get half of the fuel it
uses for domestic flights from alternative sources.  The  Defense Logistics Agency  buys petroleum for the Defense
Department. It then transfers or “sells” the fuel to military
services at a price negotiated in advance, according to a 2009
Congressional Research Service report. This allows the Pentagon
to take advantage of discounts for bulk purchases and usually
provides the services with a stable price for that fiscal year,
according to the report.  Price Fluctuations  Even so, this doesn’t shield the Defense Logistics Agency
from oil price fluctuations, retired Air Force General Charles Wald, a director at New York-based Deloitte Services LP, said in
an interview.  “It still pays the market price for oil,” said Wald, co-
author of a 2009 Deloitte study on  energy security  and leader of
the company’s  Department of Defense  practice.  The military pays for fuel from its operations and
maintenance budget. If oil prices are higher than expected, the
military may account for the increase by first cutting items
within that budget, the Stimson Center’s Rumbaugh said. Those
reductions might include limiting training hours for pilots or
turning off the lights in gyms for a few extra hours each night,
he said.  “There is a policy choice hidden behind those gas
prices,” Rumbaugh said. “What’s more important to us -- having
guys who are trained up or having stuff to use? If these fuel
prices rise, we, as Americans, are going to face that choice
more and more clearly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in  Washington  at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  