-- Piracy Costing $6.9 Billion as Attacks Off Somalia’s Coast Climb to Record
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-02-08T10:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/piracy-costing-6-9-billion-as-attacks-off-somalia-s-coast-climb-to-record.html
Somali pirates cost the shipping
industry and governments as much as $6.9 billion last year as
average ransom payments advanced 25 percent, according to One
Earth Future Foundation.  Ships are spending an extra $2.7 billion on fuel to speed
up through the area because no vessel has been captured while
traveling at 18 knots or faster, the Colorado-based non-profit
group said in a report today. Governments spent $1.27 billion on
military operations, including warship patrols, and ship owners
another $1.16 billion on armed guards and security equipment.  Attacks in the  Gulf of Aden , the  Red Sea  and off of
Somalia, an area larger than  Europe , jumped fivefold in the past
five years to a record 236, according to the London-based
International Maritime Bureau. An estimated 42,450 vessels a
year passed through the piracy-prone region, One Earth said.
About 20 percent of world trade goes through the Gulf of Aden
between Yemen and Somalia, which is used to get to  Egypt ’s  Suez
Canal , connecting the Red Sea and Mediterranean. It is the
fastest crossing from the Atlantic Ocean to the  Indian Ocean .  “The human cost of piracy cannot be defined in economic
terms,” Anna Bowden, the author of the report, said in a
statement. “We do note with great concern that there were a
significant number of piracy-related deaths, hostages taken, and
seafarers subject to traumatic armed attacks in 2011.”  Attacks off the East African country’s coast last year led
to 1,118 seafarers being taken hostage and 24 killed, One Earth
said. A total of 31 ransoms were paid, with the average amount
increasing by 25 percent to $5 million.  Piracy Costs  Shipping bore about 80 percent of piracy costs, totaling
between $5.3 billion and $5.5 billion, according to the report.  The highest ransoms were paid for tankers carrying oil,
because cargoes are worth around $200 million on the biggest
ships, One Earth’s said. About half of all ships use armed
guards, up from 25 percent a year earlier. Vessels using this
form of protection have been safe from hijacking.  About $530.6 million is paid to maritime security firms a
year, One Earth estimated. Owners and operators were also
spending nearly $37,000 a year on security equipment such as
razor wires and electric barriers for ships.  Re-routing vessels away from the piracy areas probably
added as much as another $680 million to shipping costs and
owners paid $635 million in insurance premiums, One Earth said.
Vessels are diverting from piracy-prone areas by sailing closer
to the western Indian coastline rather than sailing around the
Cape of Good Hope, the standard practice when attacks first
started nearly four years ago, according to the report. About 30
percent of seafarers are paid twice as much for going through
the area, adding an estimated $195 million in labor costs.  Prosecuting Pirates  About $38 million a year is spent on prosecuting and
imprisoning pirates and building up local capabilities to fight
piracy, One Earth said.  About 90 percent of pirates caught by military patrols
aren’t prosecuted, One Earth said, citing a United Nations
report published January 2011.  “The international community seems to be approaching a
saturation of willpower and/or capacity to accept further
pirates for trial,” according to the report.  About a third of pirates caught between 2008 and 2010 were
arrested, with more than 1,000 tried or waiting for trials in 20
countries at the end of 2010, according to the report, compared
with less than 10 percent at the beginning of 2011.  Fewer Patrols  One Earth also said counter-piracy patrols will decline
this year, from around 18 vessels to about 11 or 12, as European
and North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led operations signaled
deployments will be curbed in 2012.  Piracy also cut regional trade and affected tourism in
neighbouring  Kenya , according to the report. Kenya lost between
an estimated $129 million and $795 million in tourism revenue
and between 3 percent and 20 percent of the country’s tourism
jobs after kidnappings in 2011, the report calculated.  India ’s
coal imports from  South Africa  fell in 2011 because of
additional costs moving the commodity through piracy zones,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  