-- Platinum Partners Settles With Razorback Group in Rothstein Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-08T22:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/platinum-partners-settles-with-razorback-group-in-rothstein-ponzi-scheme.html
Platinum Partners Value Arbitrage (PPVAFLP) , a
New York hedge fund, settled a lawsuit today without paying any
money to investors who claimed it aided a $1.2 billion  Ponzi
scheme  run by imprisoned confidence man Scott Rothstein.  The settlement came in state court in  Fort Lauderdale ,
 Florida , where investors known as the Razorback Group accused
Platinum and others of hiding the truth about the nature of the
Rothstein fraud, which unraveled in 2009.  “Platinum and the plaintiffs have agreed to dismiss their
respective claims against one another,” said Platinum spokesman
Ray Casas in an e-mail. “Neither side has paid or promised to
pay any money to the other.”  The settlement also covers Centurion Structured Growth LLC,
a related hedge fund, Casas said. Bill Scherer of Conrad &
Scherer LLP, the attorney for Razorback, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Rothstein, 49, is a disbarred attorney serving 50 years in
prison for a scheme he ran out of his Fort Lauderdale law firm.
He sold stakes to investors in fictitious sexual- and
employment-discrimination cases. Seven other people have been
criminally charged.  Razorback, which claimed losses of $188 million, is
preparing for a civil trial on March 5 against  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  and Gibraltar Private Bank & Trust, among others.  The case is Razorback Funding LLC v. Rothstein, 09-062943,
17th Judicial Circuit in Broward County (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  