-- Poland Leaves Benchmark Interest Rate at 4.5%
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-02-08T11:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/poland-leaves-benchmark-interest-rate-at-4-5-.html
Poland ’s central bank left its main
 interest rate  unchanged for an eighth month, holding off on an
easing of policy as inflation and economic growth exceeded the
central bank’s targets.  The Narodowy Bank Polski left the benchmark seven-day rate
at 4.5 percent, matching the forecast of all 35 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The bank will comment on the decision at a 4
p.m. press conference in Warsaw.  Inflation topped the upper limit of the central bank’s
tolerance range around its 2.5 percent target for all of 2011,
the longest period in 10 years, while growth in the European
Union’s largest eastern economy was the quickest in three years
at 4.3 percent.  “There is a growing probability that monetary-policy
parameters will remain unchanged for the whole year,” Piotr Bujak, Warsaw-based chief economist at Nordea Bank Polska said
in a report dated Feb. 7. “The stronger-than-expected
performance of the economy means our forecast assuming a
reduction of rates in the second half of 2012 is at risk.”  Forward-rate agreements signal borrowing costs may be
unchanged during the next six months compared with a cut of 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage points, priced by the Polish
contract last month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Consumer prices rose 4.6 percent in December from a year
earlier. Inflation data probably won’t improve this month after
increases in regulated energy and transport prices at the start
of the year, according to central banker Andrzej Kazmierczak,
who estimates the  consumer price index  will fall to 3.6 percent,
the upper end of the central bank’s target range, “only” at
the end of the year.  “We are witnessing stubbornly high inflation and the risk
it will remain at an elevated level overturns the risks related
to an economic slowdown,” Kazmierczak said in an interview in
Warsaw on Jan. 26.  The bank should raise rates this quarter to stem inflation,
he said, adding Poland’s economic expansion will slow to about 3
percent this year from an expected 4 percent, backed by inflows
of EU funds and relatively strong consumption.  “The wait-and-see period has come to an end and now it’s
decision time,” Kazmierczak said. “I’m not talking about
radical moves here, but since I don’t expect inflation to slow
in the first quarter, I don’t see any reason to keep rates
unchanged during this period.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  