-- Prologis Reports Fourth-Quarter FFO of $134 Million After AMB Transaction
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-08T13:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/prologis-reports-fourth-quarter-ffo-of-134-million-after-amb-transaction.html
Prologis Inc. (PLD) , the world’s largest
warehouse owner, reported fourth-quarter funds from operations
of $134.1 million as leasing increased after the company’s
 merger  with AMB Property Corp.  FFO, which gauges a property owner’s ability to generate
cash, was 29 cents a share in the second quarter of results
since the merger, San Francisco-based Prologis said today in a
statement. The year-earlier figure, which reflects the legacy
company, was a loss of 1.15 billion, or $4.81 a share.  Prologis and AMB combined in June in the biggest merger of
U.S. real estate investment trusts. The company is selling
properties in smaller markets and areas less important to global
trade while increasing its real estate fund management business.  “The progress they’ve made in the past few quarters has
been pretty impressive,” Craig Guttenplan, an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in  London , said by telephone before the
results were announced. “There’s a pretty good bid for
industrial property out there.”  Fourth-quarter FFO included items including costs relating
to the merger. Excluding those items, so-called core FFO climbed
to $203.9 million, or 44 cents a share, from $99.4 million or 41
cents, a year earlier. Prologis estimated in October that
fourth-quarter core FFO would be 39 cents to 41 cents a share,
and analysts expected FFO of 40 cents, the average of 14
estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  The company had a net loss of $45.5 million in the quarter,
compared with a $1.17 billion loss a year earlier. The
differential between core FFO and FFO in the fourth quarter Of
2011 primarily relates to impairment charges and merger costs.  Prologis released the results before the start of regular
U.S. trading. The stock has risen 31 percent in the last six
months, compared with a 30 percent gain in the Bloomberg REIT
 Index. (BBREIT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at   dtaub@bloomberg.net . 