-- RadioShack Bonds Signal Distress of Thin Mobile Margins: Corporate Finance
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-02-08T16:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/radioshack-bonds-signal-distress-of-thin-mobile-margins-corporate-finance.html
Credit investors are paying the most
ever to protect against a default from  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  on
concern that the consumer electronics retailer’s emphasis on
selling mobile devices will fail to revive its fortunes.  Credit swaps tied to RadioShack rose to a record $971,105
to protect $10 million of debt on Jan. 31, a day after it
reported preliminary fourth-quarter profit that was less than
analysts’ forecasts. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based company’s 6.75
percent bonds due May 2019 have dropped 16 cents since they were
sold in April to 83 cents on the dollar to yield 10.1 percent.  RadioShack, which opened its first namesake store in 1921,
has seen its  credit quality  slide from investment grade in the
past six years, with lackluster sales and growing competition
from retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  Its
fourth-quarter  earnings  estimate of 11 cents to 13 cents per
share is as much as 26 cents less than the analyst consensus
before Jan. 30 as rising reliance on mobile devices and less-
than-expected revenue from Sprint Nextel Corp. cut profits.  “In the past three years, the mobility part of the
business has gone from about a 30 percent part of the business
to a more than 50 percent part of the business, and that’s what
is driving the whole margin erosion,” Mickey Chadha, an analyst
at Moody’s Investors Service in New York, which downgraded the
credit one level to Ba2 last month, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s a tough business to be in.”  Implied Rating  Swaps on RadioShack implied a Caa1 grade as of yesterday,
according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets research group,
four steps lower than Moody’s Investors Service’s  rating  and
three steps below the BB- from  Standard & Poor’s . Moody’s, which
cut RadioShack’s credit rating on Jan. 19, maintains a
“negative” outlook on the company.  RadioShack’s almost 7,300 locations in the U.S. and  Mexico ,
including mobile centers in  Target Corp. (TGT)  stores, “give us a
unique competitive advantage in scale, reach and convenience,”
Eric Bruner, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail.
“Mobility products (smartphones, tablets, e-readers) are a fast
growing segment within the consumer electronics industry. These
products have high consumer interest and offer RSH the
opportunity to drive traffic to our stores.” RSH is the
company’s ticker symbol.  RadioShack’s fourth-quarter earnings prediction compared
with an average 37-cent  estimate  of 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. That’s down from the 51 cents per share earned a year
earlier.  Repurchases Suspended  The report, in which the company also said it would suspend
share repurchases “for the near term,” sent the stock tumbling
as much as 30 percent, the biggest intraday decline in more than
30 years before it closed at $7.18 a share, the lowest since
March 2009. RadioShack shares lost 83 percent of their value
from the end of 1999 through January after accounting for
dividends, while the S&P Midcap 400 index has returned 146
percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company plans to release final figures and hold an
investor conference call to discuss results on Feb. 21.  RadioShack is struggling to increase profitability in its
latest incarnation. The company, known as Tandy between 1959 and
2000, started as a supplier of ship radio equipment and “ham”
gear in the 1920s, according to  a timeline  on its website. It
became a personal computer retailer in the late 1970s and
started selling mobile phones and satellite television systems
and service in the 1980s.  More Mobile  Mobility devices, including mobile phones, prepaid
wireless air time, e-readers and tablet computers, accounted for
46.5 percent of revenue at RadioShack stores, kiosks and
factories in fiscal 2010, from 36.5 percent in 2009 and 29.2
percent in 2008, according to a quarterly filing last April.  “We expect that consumers will increasingly want ‘choice’
at one convenient shopping location and by providing customers
with a positive in-store experience and controlling costs
throughout the organization, we can grow revenues, gross profit
dollars and generate free  cash flow ,” Bruner wrote in the e-
mail.  The shift is cutting RadioShack’s  gross margin , which
represents what it retains after the cost of goods per dollar of
revenue. That measure fell to 35 percent in the fourth quarter
from 41 percent a year earlier, as RadioShack earns less on
certain smartphones, extended promotions and a still faltering
consumer, according to the Jan. 30 earnings statement.  “We recognize that certain smartphones and other mobile
devices, mainly tablets and e-readers, are a growing mainstay of
consumer electronics purchases, and are significantly changing
the margin profile of our mobility business,” Chief Executive
Officer James Gooch said in the statement. “With this in mind,
we are resetting our business expectations for 2012.”  Sprint Changes  The company’s fourth quarter results “are due in large
part to the underperformance of the Sprint postpaid wireless
business and reflect further unanticipated changes in Sprint’s
customer and credit models,” RadioShack said in the statement.
The shifts led to fewer new and upgrade activations and a
decline in postpaid revenue from Sprint in the fourth quarter
from the third quarter and year-earlier period.  Postpaid phones, sold with a contract with a base monthly
amount, often include ongoing revenue for RadioShack.  Gooch said in an October earnings call that Sprint is the
company’s “longest and most well-developed postpaid carrier
relationship.” That means changes that prevent some customers
from getting early upgrades affect RadioShack’s business.  Verizon Partnership  David Schick , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
maintains a “buy” recommendation on RadioShack stock, saying
the company’s partnership with Verizon Communications Inc. that
started last year and the rise in Target Mobile centers have yet
to affect results.  “If you add in businesses in a year in which business
isn’t very good, you have a very sloppy impact and that’s what
has happened to Shack,” Schick said in a telephone interview
from Baltimore.  RadioShack has 4,670 company-operated stores in the U.S.
and Mexico, 1,490 wireless phone centers in the U.S. and 1,100
dealer and other outlets worldwide, according to the earnings
statement.  “There is a rationale for this company to exist, it has a
niche market, which I think is always going to be RadioShack’s,
a neighborhood-type store function,” said  Sabur Moini , a  money
manager  who helps oversee about $2 billion of high-yield debt,
including RadioShack debt, at Los Angeles-based Payden & Rygel.
“They’ve got caught up in what’s been a fairly competitive
electronics environment especially in the wireless side, and the
question is does that get worse or does that stabilize?”  ‘Little Patience’  CreditSights Inc. analyst James Goldstein cut his
recommendation on RadioShack’s 6.75 percent notes to
“underperform” from “market perform” on Jan. 31, according
to a note that day.  “At this point, the market seems to have relatively little
patience for consumer electronic retailing stories,” Goldstein
wrote, citing the drop in the bonds.  RadioShack’s $324 million of the debt, which matures in May
2019, has dropped 7.38 cents since Jan. 27, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The yield, the highest since the securities were issued, is
hovering between the 8 percent on all B graded bonds and 12.7
percent on debt graded CCC and lower, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  AAA Rating  “This is a company that has kind of been teetering on
distressed levels for quite some time,” Jody Lurie, a corporate
credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia,
said in a telephone interview. “Investors are a little more
cautious these days, especially when you look at electronics.
It’s a changing sort of environment.”  S&P, which ranked RadioShack predecessor Tandy as high as
AAA in 1983, cut the company to BB- in November with a
“stable” outlook, citing a “weak” business risk profile
based on “short product cycles, the highly competitive nature
of the retail consumer mobility industry, and the company’s
vulnerability to weak  consumer spending  because of the fragile
economy.”  The retailer lost its investment-grade  credit rating  from
S&P in 2006 and from Moody’s in 2007.  “We currently have significant liquidity with our
approximately $590 million cash position at year-end and our
available credit facility,” Bruner wrote. “We are confident
that our balance sheet is appropriately configured to allow us
to accomplish our business goals.”  ‘Market Has Shifted’  RadioShack had $666.4 million of long-term debt, it said in
its most recent quarterly filing in October.  “The market has shifted on how people buy electronics and
media,” said Marc Gross, a money manager at RS Investments in
New York who oversees $3 billion in fixed-income funds. “The
same market forces that brought down Circuit City are still at
play,” he said. Gross said he doesn’t own RadioShack debt.  Circuit City Stores Inc. (CCTYQ) , the 59-year-old seller of
televisions and computers, filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
November 2008 after losing market share to Best Buy Co. and  Wal-
Mart Stores (WMT)  Inc. while Amazon.com Inc. and other online
retailers undercut it with lower prices.  The cost to protect RadioShack debt from a default for five
years was 971 basis points on Jan. 31, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts, which typically rise as investor
confidence worsens and fall as it improves, declined to 926.6
basis points yesterday.  Good Liquidity  Default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  While RadioShack is suffering from eroding margins, its
current liquidity “remains very good,” preventing further
downgrades last month, Moody’s Chadha said. Its next maturity,
$375 million of convertible debt, is in 2013 and the company has
enough  cash  to pay that off, he said.  The retailer’s adjusted ratio of debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization is likely to rise
above 5 times after the next earnings report, which isn’t
typical for a Ba2 grade, he said.  “The biggest challenge for Radio Shack is to stay relevant
in the face of some stiff competition and that’s a big
challenge,” Moody’s Chadha said. “They need to conform their
cost structure and their  capital structure  to more of a business
model that supports a much lower gross margin business model
than what it used to be historically.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  