-- Rambus Rises After Reaching Patent Settlement With Nvidia
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-02-08T21:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/rambus-shares-climb-as-company-settles-patent-license-dispute-with-nvidia.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , a memory-chip designer
that gets most of its revenue from royalties, rose the most in 1
1/2 months after reaching a patent agreement with  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ,
ending a legal battle over graphics technology.  Financial details weren’t disclosed. The accord covers a
broad range of semiconductor products offered by Nvidia,
Sunnyvale, California-based Rambus said in a statement today.  “This settlement was a surprise,” said Hamed Khorsand, an
analyst at BWS Financial Inc. who recommends buying Rambus
shares. “It also validates patents Rambus has been starting.”  The agreement clears away any threat of a ban on U.S.
imports of products with graphics chips made by  Santa Clara ,
California-based Nvidia, and provides a new source of revenue to
money-losing Rambus, which reported $312.4 million in revenue
last year.  Rambus had filed two patent-infringement complaints against
Nvidia at the U.S. International Trade Commission, which has the
power to block imports of products that violate U.S. patents. In
the first case, the Washington-based agency sided with Rambus,
and a U.S. appeals court heard arguments in October. A trade
judge was scheduled to issue his findings in the second case on
March 2.  Rambus, which has been embroiled in litigation for more
than a decade against companies that refused to license its
patents, reached a five-year agreement with  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  in
December. Broadcom also had been named in the ITC case.  Starting to Settle  “It’s interesting that one by one, the companies involved
in the ITC matter are starting to settle,” Khorsand said.
“Companies might be looking at it from a standpoint where the
patents will be upheld and Rambus would be able to force them to
stop selling into the U.S.”  Rambus  climbed  9.1 percent to $8.24 at the close in New
York, the biggest increase since Dec. 23, when it announced the
Broadcom agreement. The shares are still about 54 percent below
the closing price on Nov. 15, the day before Rambus lost a  jury
trial  in which it alleged that  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  and  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  conspired to prevent its memory chips from
becoming an industry standard. Nvidia  rose  3.6 percent to
$16.31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  