-- Scrutiny of Bonus Was ‘Discomforting’: RBS CEO
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/rbs-s-ceo-says-political-scrutiny-of-bonus-was-discomforting-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said the political
scrutiny of his bonus has been “discomforting to say the least.”  While saying that the spotlight on RBS made the job of
turning round the government-controlled lender harder, Hester
implored staff to be “purposeful, calm and do our jobs to the
best of our ability,” according to an e-mail he sent to
employees yesterday obtained by Bloomberg News.  Hester, 51, has been at the center of a political storm
since it was announced on Jan. 27 he would get a 963,000-pound
($1.5 million) bonus for 2011 even after shares of the bank
slumped. He waived the bonus after the U.K.’s opposition  Labour
Party  said it would seek a Parliamentary vote on the payment.  The government was forced to rescue RBS at the height of
the financial crisis, injecting 45.5 billion pounds of taxpayer
money into the lender, making it the costliest bailout of any
bank in the world. Hester said in the e-mail that the cost of
cleaning up the lender he inherited from former CEO  Fred Goodwin 
totals 38 billion pounds so far.  Goodwin was last month stripped of his knighthood, awarded
in 2004 for services to banking. He led RBS’s takeover of
Amsterdam-based ABN Amro Holding NV in 2007. Goodwin was the
“dominant decision maker” at the time of the bank’s collapse,
the Cabinet Office said in its decision.  The shares tumbled more than 48 percent last year. The
stock rose 0.3 percent yesterday to 28.88 pence in London
trading. The U.K., which owns 82 percent of the lender, paid an
average of 50.2 pence a share for its holding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 