-- RBS Chief Hester Will Remain to Defuse ‘Biggest Time Bomb’
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-02-08T16:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/rbs-ceo-decided-against-leaving-to-focus-on-defusing-time-bomb-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said he decided against
resigning after a dispute about his bonus, choosing instead to
defuse what he called “the biggest time bomb in history.”  While there have been “depressing moments,” he said in an
interview with  BBC  Radio Four’s Today program, it would have
been “deeply indulgent for me to resign.”  Hester, 51, has been at the center of a political storm
since it was announced on Jan. 27 he would receive a 963,000-
pound ($1.5 million) bonus for 2011 even after the shares
slumped. He waived the payment after the U.K.’s opposition
 Labour Party  said it would seek a Parliamentary vote on the
payment.  The government was forced to rescue RBS at the height of
the financial crisis, injecting 45.5 billion pounds of taxpayer
money into the lender, making it the costliest bailout of any
bank in the world. Hester said in an e-mail sent to staff
yesterday that the cost of cleaning up the 82 percent
government-owned bank, inherited from former CEO  Fred Goodwin ,
totals 38 billion pounds so far. Hester has cut the Edinburgh-
based lender’s assets by about 600 billion pounds to 1.61
trillion pounds since replacing Goodwin in 2008.  Hester said he decided to forgo his bonus because “it
would be damaging for RBS to stay in the intensity of the
spotlight that we’d got into.”  ‘Big Time Bomb’  “Not only are we trying to generate wealth in terms of
profit and something that will ultimately get the taxpayer 45
billion pounds back,” Hester told the BBC in his first
interview since declining the bonus. “In addition to that,
we’re defusing delicately this big time bomb and I think that’s
an incredibly valuable thing for the country.”  As British banks this month enter the annual bonus season,
they’ve been on the receiving end of a public backlash. Goodwin
was last month stripped of his knighthood, awarded in 2004 for
services to banking. Goodwin was the “dominant decision maker”
at the time of the bank’s collapse, the Cabinet Office said in
its decision.  RBS (RBS)  reports full-year earnings on Feb. 23. The bank will
probably report a 1.12 billion-pound net loss for 2011, about
the same as the previous year, according to the median estimate
of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The bank lost 3.6 billion
pounds in 2009 and 24.3 billion pounds in 2008, the biggest loss
in British corporate history. RBS  shares  fell by 48 percent last
year as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis eroded revenue at the
securities unit.  The stock dropped 0.1 percent to 28.8 pence at the close of
London trading for a market value of 31.8 billion pounds. The
U.K. paid an average of 50.2 pence a share for its holding.  The CEO of Britain’s second-biggest government-aided bank,
Antonio Horta-Osorio of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , said on Jan.
13 he won’t take a 2011 bonus following his nine-week absence
for exhaustion. The payment could have been as much as 2.39
million pounds, according to company filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  