-- Treasury Seeks to Ease Tax Compliance for Overseas Banks With U.S. Clients
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-02-08T19:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/treasury-issues-proposal-for-overseas-banks-with-u-s-clients.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department and the
 Internal Revenue Service  are trying to make it easier for
overseas banks to comply with a  tax  withholding and information-
collection requirement for some U.S. clients.  Regulations proposed today would allow overseas banks to
use information they already collect to comply with due
diligence requirements, the Treasury said in a press release
today. The proposal would delay the implementation schedule
under which foreign financial institutions must report
information about their customers. The regulations also would
expand the range of financial institutions that won’t be
required to enter into formal agreements with the IRS.  “It’s clear that Treasury has been listening to the
comments and they’re responding to them,” said Denise Hintzke,
global leader for foreign account tax compliance at Deloitte Tax
LLP. “These regulations are moving, I think, forward in making
these provisions workable for the industry.”  The announcement is intended to address concerns of
overseas financial institutions while making it clear that the
U.S. plans to implement the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act,
or FATCA. The 2010 law requires banks to withhold 30 percent
from “certain U.S.-connected payments” to the accounts of U.S.
clients who don’t disclose enough information to the IRS.  “When taxpayers overseas avoid paying what they owe, other
Americans have to bear a disproportionate share of the tax
burden,” Emily McMahon, the Treasury’s acting assistant
secretary for tax policy, said in the press release. “FATCA is
an important part of the U.S. government’s effort to address
that issue and these regulations implement FATCA in a way that
is targeted and efficient.”  Toronto-Dominion  Overseas financial institutions including  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  of Canada,  Allianz SE (ALV)  of  Germany  and  Aegon NV (AGN)  of the
Netherlands have said previous versions of FATCA were too
complex. In some cases, the reporting requirements under U.S.
law conflicted with bank secrecy laws and other banking
regulations.  U.S. citizens living outside the country have complained
about the burden created by the reporting requirement, which can
apply to people who have never lived in the U.S. and whose
parents were U.S. citizens.  The Treasury said it wouldn’t exempt any country from
FATCA’s compliance requirements. The U.S. also issued a joint
statement with France, Germany,  Italy ,  Spain  and the U.K. to
enforce the law.  “The United States is willing to reciprocate in collecting
and exchanging on an automatic basis information on accounts
held in U.S. financial institutions by residents of  France ,
Germany, Italy, Spain and the  United Kingdom ,” according to the
statement. “The approach under discussion, therefore, would
enhance compliance and facilitate enforcement to the benefit of
all parties.”  Step Forward  Michael Mundaca, who preceded McMahon as the U.S.
Treasury’s top tax policy official, said in a statement that the
international cooperation marked a significant step forward.  “I imagine Treasury will now approach other governments
about adopting this model, if they haven’t already done so,”
said Mundaca, now co-leader of the Americas Tax Center at Ernst
& Young LLP. “It will be interesting to see how other countries
and especially other financial centers react.”  Several countries where U.S. citizens hold assets,
including Canada and  Switzerland , weren’t included in the
agreement.  James Mastracchio, a tax partner at  Baker & Hostetler LLP 
in  Washington , said the U.S. is trying to respond to concerns
from other governments and banks around the world about the
reach of the U.S. law.  “If we do this, what’s to stop any other country from
doing this?” he said in an interview.  Bigger Accounts  The changes proposed today also would require the financial
institutions to do paper searches of fewer accounts for U.S.
connections. The rules would limit more labor-intensive efforts
to accounts with more than $1 million.  “It’s really just the bigger accounts,” Hintzke said.  Ken Bentsen , executive vice president for public policy and
advocacy at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association in Washington, said his group welcomes the
additional time to comply with some of the law’s requirements.  “Nevertheless,” he said in a statement, “implementation
of FATCA will impose significant challenges and costs for many
 United States  financial services firms and their customers.  Members of his group include units of Barclays Plc, UBS AG
and BNP Paribas SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  