-- Treasury 10-Year Note Yield Reaches 2% Before $24 Billion Securities Sale
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-08T16:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/treasury-yield-is-three-basis-points-from-two-week-high-before-debt-sale.html
Treasury 10-year note yields reached
2 percent for the first time in two weeks before today’s $24
billion auction of the securities.  U.S. debt   fluctuated  as Greece’s Prime Minister  Lucas
Papademos  worked with the nation’s political leaders to
negotiate terms to unlock a 130 billion euro ($172.5 billion)
rescue package. The Federal Reserve purchased $1.8 trillion of
longer-term Treasuries as part of its policy to bolster the
economy.  “The Greek story is still driving the market, and delays
here and delays there just continue to add uncertainty, which is
supporting Treasuries,” said  Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader at
Societe Generale SA in New York, one of the 21 primary dealers
that trade with the Federal Reserve. “We should continue to
hold the recent range as long as the uncertainty remains, which
means the auction should go fine.”  Yields on 10-year notes were little changed at 1.97 percent
at 11:36 a.m.  New York  time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 2 percent securities maturing in November 2021
traded at 100 9/32. The yield touched 2 percent for the first
time since Jan. 25.  “2.03 percent on the 10-year is an important level we keep
bumping into,” Murphy said. “If we breach that, we could
easily go higher fairly quickly.”  Note Sale  The U.S. 10-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded
1.97 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with the record
low of 1.90 percent the last time the securities were sold Jan.
11. Investors  bid  for 3.29 times the amount of debt offered in
January, versus the average of 3.11 for the past 10 auctions.  The strength of recent auctions and a drop in prices “all
point to a decent auction today,”  William O’Donnell , head U.S.
government-bond strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities primary dealer unit,
wrote in a note to clients. “We advocate that longer-term
investors use back-ups to reload on longs.”  A sale of three-year Treasuries yesterday drew a yield of
0.347 percent, compared with a forecast of 0.346 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of seven of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21
primary dealers, companies that underwrite the U.S. debt.  The U.S. is scheduled to conclude this week’s auctions with
a $16 billion sale of 30-year bonds tomorrow. The three
offerings will raise $22.4 billion of new cash, with maturing
securities totaling $49.6 billion.  Risk Pitch  Investors should hold stocks instead of bonds, according to
Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of BlackRock Inc., the
world’s largest money manager.  “You need to take on more risk,” Fink said on Bloomberg
Television’s “First Up” with Susan Li in  Hong Kong . Treasuries
will have minimal returns with the Fed keeping  interest rates 
low, he said. New York-based BlackRock oversees $3.51 trillion.  The U.S. central bank announced Jan. 25 that it will hold
its target for overnight bank lending at virtually zero until at
least late 2014. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy makers
were considering buying bonds to sustain the expansion.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government is readying
plans for parliamentary votes on a bailout for  Greece  as soon as
next week while Greek political leaders struggle for consensus
on terms of the aid, the deputy floor leader of Merkel’s party
said.  Greek Talks  Lucas Papademos is set to negotiate with leaders of the
political parties supporting his caretaker government after he
missed another deadline to secure a second aid package.  The difference in yields between 10-year TIPS and 10-year
Treasury notes, known as the break-even rate, which represents
traders’ expectations for inflation over the life of the
securities rose for a fifth day to 2.21 percent. The CPI is
forecast to rise 2.1 percent this year, down from 3.2 percent in
2011, according to the median estimate of 66 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The central bank is replacing $400 billion of shorter-
maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program it plans to
conclude in June.  The Fed bought bonds due from February 2036 to May 2041
today, according to the New York Fed’s  website . It also plans to
sell as much as $8.75 billion of Treasuries maturing from June
to November 2013 later today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  