-- REC Profit Misses Estimates as Polysilicon Surplus Curbs Prices
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-02-08T15:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/rec-profit-misses-estimates-as-polysilicon-surplus-curbs-prices.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA , the
Norwegian polysilicon maker, reported higher-than-estimated
fourth-quarter sales as it cut polysilicon prices to clear
inventory. The shares rose.  Sales were 2.87 billion kroner ($499 million), beating the
2.58 billion-krone estimate of 16 analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. The net loss was 2.48 billion kroner, or 2.49 kroner
a share. The company posted a profit of 783 million kroner, or
0.7 kroner a share, a year earlier.  European solar-component makers are under pressure from
Chinese rivals that expanded capacity just as consumption
slowed, causing wafer and cell prices to plummet. REC and peers
Solarworld AG and Q-Cells SE have cut production as demand
shrinks in the region, where Germany, France and  Italy  have
reduced subsidies to cap booming solar installations.  “Although the industry is struggling, REC has a very
strong position within polysilicon and therefore it should
survive what could be an industry shakeout,” Eirik Vegem Dahle,
an analyst with Pareto Securities ASA, said by phone.  The company booked a charge of 2.5 billion kroner on its
Singapore assets in the quarter. Earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization dropped to 178 million kroner from
1.84 billion kroner a year earlier.  Shares Rise  “Overcapacity and inventory reductions led to steep market
price declines throughout the fourth quarter,” the Sandvika-
based company said today in a statement. “With a significant
increase in polysilicon available for sale in the short-term
 spot market , REC has approached the market with aggressive
pricing to secure volume off-take.”  REC  rose  as much as 11 percent, the most since Jan. 12, to
5.455 kroner, and was up 8.8 percent as of 3:34 p.m. in Oslo.
The  stock  has risen 62 percent this year after falling 81
percent in 2011.  Average selling prices for polysilicon fell 42 percent,
wafer prices were down 31 percent and module prices dropped 15
percent, REC said. Polysilicon prices will stabilize in the
first quarter at about $30 per kilogram, Chief Executive Officer
Ole Enger said in an interview.  “The Chinese have stopped production in all products and
the balance is becoming better,” Enger said.  REC produced 5,206 metric tons of polysilicon in the
quarter. Multicrystalline and monocrystalline wafer output was
173 megawatts, missing REC’s 200-megawatt forecast. It produced
168 megawatts of modules, less than the projected 175 megawatts.  REC had talks with its banks on possible changes in
maturity, covenant levels and conditions on factory closures on
its loan agreement. It may conclude a revised deal as early as
the first quarter, Enger said.  “We are not in a desperate  situation  because we have
plenty of liquidity and we are not in breach,” he said. “We
are not in a hurry to do this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  