-- Reckitt Benckiser Sees Sales Beating Market
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-02-08T09:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/reckitt-benckiser-sees-sales-beating-industry-as-earnings-gain.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc,  the
maker of Nurofen painkillers and Dettol handwash, said sales
growth will exceed the industry in 2012 as new Chief Executive
Officer Rakesh Kapoor ramps up investment in its main products.  Non-pharmaceutical revenue will gain 3 percent to 4 percent
this year, compared with growth of 1 percent to 2 percent in the
broader market, the Slough, England-based company said today,
adding that it aims to maintain profitability. Reckitt Benckiser
also reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat estimates.  Kapoor said he plans to invest an additional 100 million
pounds ($159 million) in brands such as Harpic cleaners as he
tries to uphold the growth record established by his predecessor
Bart Becht, who stepped down in September. Under Becht, who had
led the business since it was formed by a merger in 1999, the
company’s market value increased more than sixfold.  “Specific guidance for 2012 was welcome, although in
typical RB fashion, we sense it is overly prudent and ripe to be
increased,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein,
said in a note. The company’s forecast for growth in the
household-goods market “seems very low,” he said.  Reckitt Benckiser  rose  as much as 4.2 percent in London
trading, the steepest intraday gain since April 13. The  stock 
was up 3.3 percent at 3,495 pence as of 9:31 a.m.  The planned increase in brand investment will be funded
partly by savings of 50 million pounds this year from improved
production and transportation efficiency, Kapoor said.  Emerging Markets  Slowing market growth and increased competition mean the
company needs to “reshape our strategy to enable us to continue
our track record of outperformance,” the CEO said.  Kapoor is contending with weakening economies across
 Europe , which accounts for more than 40 percent of sales.  Reckitt Benckiser aims to boost  sales  from  emerging markets 
to half of revenue by 2016, from 42 percent today, he said
today. The target doesn’t include the food and pharmaceutical
units, which the company said it now considers “non-core.”  The company will take a 75 million-pound charge for
restructuring, splitting the emerging-market unit into two
separate groups, and merging  North America  and Europe into a
single reporting entity based in Amsterdam, the CEO said. In a
teleconference with reporters, Kapoor declined to say whether
the shift would result in layoffs in North America or Europe.  Suboxone Strip  Adjusted net income, which excludes one-time items, rose 8
percent to 546 million pounds in the fourth quarter. The average
 estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit
on that basis of 531 million pounds. Full-year adjusted profit
climbed 11 percent at constant exchange rates, compared with the
company’s forecast of 10 percent.  Sales at the healthcare unit fell 17 percent in the quarter
due to higher rebates paid to the U.S. government and a price
increase for Suboxone heroin-dependency tablets. In October, the
company said those events would cause sales to drop “by a mid-
teens percentage, with profit down by a higher percentage.”  The healthcare unit may lose as much as 80 percent of
revenue in the U.S. as generic drugs enter the market after the
loss of the company’s exclusive rights to make Suboxone in
October 2009. Reckitt Benckiser has created a Suboxone film-
strip that dissolves under the tongue, which has captured a 48
percent volume share of the U.S. market, it said today, up from
about 25 percent at this time last year.  Kapoor declined to set sales or profit targets for the
pharmaceuticals unit, due to the potential introduction of
generic versions of Suboxone, which analysts anticipate are
likely to hit the market in the second half of this year.  Generic Suboxone could take as much as 90 percent of
revenue in the U.S., the CEO said. A generic could also lead to
about a 20 percent decline in Suboxone film sales, he said.  Group revenue increased 4 percent in 2011 on a so-called
like-for-like basis, according to the statement. Sales rose 13
percent in developing markets and fell 1 percent in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  