-- Redecard Advances Above Itau Offer Price on Speculation Bid to Be Raised
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-02-08T20:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/redecard-advances-above-itau-offer-price-on-speculation-bid-to-be-raised.html
Redecard SA (RDCD3) ,  Brazil ’s second-biggest
card-payment processor, rose above the price  Itau Unibanco
Holding SA (ITUB4)  offered minority shareholders yesterday on
speculation Itau will raise its bid.  Shares (RDCD3)  of Redecard gained 2.8 percent to 36.40 reais, the
highest since November 2007, at the close in  Sao Paulo . Itau,
which controls half of Redecard, offered yesterday as much as 35
reais a share for the 50 percent it doesn’t own, a bid equal to
11.8 billion reais ($6.9 billion). The benchmark  Bovespa (IBOV)  index
fell 0.1 percent.  Itau may raise its offer to about 42.50 reais per share,
the midway point between its initial bid and the 50 reais price
that Redecard is worth to Itau, according to analysts at Banco
Santander SA. Paulo Ribeiro, a New York-based analyst at HSBC
Securities, said Redecard will raise its offer. He declined to
state a price.  “The 35 reais per share, even though they say it’s the
maximum price they would pay, it’s for me the opening salvo in
this negotiation,” Ribeiro said in a telephone interview. He
maintained his 39 reais price target in a research note today.
“There is more value there that Itau has not fully recognized
in the offer,” he said.  Itau Chief Executive Officer Roberto Setubal said the
company’s offer for Redecard is “fair” during a conference
call with analysts today. A company official didn’t return an e-
mailed request seeking further comment.  Santander analysts Henrique Navarro, Renato Schuetz and
Boris Molina calculated that Redecard may be worth 50 reais to
Itau based on cost cutting from the merger, gains from a
potential Redecard partnership with Hipercard and tax savings
for Itau. A Redecard deal with Hipercard would boost Ribeiro’s
target price to 41 reais, he wrote in his note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  