-- Renesas, Fujitsu, Panasonic Rise on Chip-Unit Merger Report: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-02-08T03:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/renesas-fujitsu-panasonic-rise-on-chip-unit-merger-report-tokyo-mover.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  rose the
most in more than two years in Tokyo trading after the Nikkei
newspaper reported the company will merge its chip unit with
those of  Panasonic (6752)  Corp. and Fujitsu Ltd.  Renesas climbed as much as 14 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since Jan. 28, 2010, to 576 yen and traded 8.7 percent
higher as of the 11:30 a.m. break in Tokyo. Fujitsu rose 3.7
percent while Panasonic advanced 2.2 percent.  The companies are in talks and may agree next month to
merge their large-scale chip operations by March 2013, the
Nikkei reported today, without citing anyone. Their
collaboration would follow a reported alliance between  Elpida
Memory Inc. (6665)  and Micron Technology Inc. as chipmakers seek to
better compete amid a glut of semiconductors.  “Chipmakers may be seeking consolidation as they face a
tough business environment,” said Yukihiko Shimada, a senior
 analyst  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Still,
investors need to be careful whether such a plan will actually
come through. We’ve seen a similar report in the past.”  Renesas,  Fujitsu (6702)  and Panasonic may spin off development
divisions to form a new company, which would receive “several
dozen billion yen” from the government-backed Innovation
Network Corp. of  Japan , the Nikkei reported. Their manufacturing
divisions would be merged into a venture between Innovation
Network and Globalfoundries Inc., it said.  Nothing has been decided, Renesas, the biggest maker of
microcontrollers used in cars and appliances, said in a
statement. Tokyo-based Fujitsu is considering various options
for its business and hasn’t reached any decision, the company
said. Osaka-based Panasonic, Japan’s biggest maker of consumer
electronics, said it isn’t the source of the Nikkei report.  Elpida, based in Tokyo, is seeking a capital alliance with
Micron to expand its share in the market for dynamic random
access memory chips, the Yomiuri newspaper reported Jan. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  