-- Plan B Contraceptive Access Limits Spur New U.S. Court Action Against FDA
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-02-08T18:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/reproductive-rights-group-files-motion-to-reopen-plan-b-case.html
A reproductive rights group asked a
federal judge to reopen a lawsuit over access to the emergency
contraceptive Plan B, claiming the  Food and Drug Administration 
acted in “bad faith” when it placed restrictions on the drug.  The Center for Reproductive Rights , in a filing today in
federal court in  Brooklyn ,  New York , said reopening its 2005
case was the most efficient way for the group to overturn the
FDA’s age restraints on the drug. The group urged the court to
order the agency to make Plan B available within 30 days without
a prescription or age restrictions.  “The FDA has continually treated emergency contraception
completely different than it has any other medication,” Suzanne
Novak, senior staff attorney for the New York-based center, said
in a statement. “We are asking the court to recognize that the
FDA has failed to meet its obligation to the public and make
decisions based on science, rather than politics.”  The group previously supported  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  in a failed bid to make an emergency
contraceptive, Plan B One-Step, available in stores to all ages.  U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius ordered the FDA to reject the application in December
because of the “cognitive and behavioral” differences in girls
of the youngest reproductive age. The reproductive rights group
asked to add Sebelius as a defendant in the case.  Pharmacy Counters  “The administration’s decision to overturn the FDA was a
huge mistake and I hope that the judge will review what the
center has said and show us a path forward for fixing it,” said
Amy Allina, a program director at the  National Women’s Health
Network  in  Washington , in an interview.  The pill and generics are now kept behind pharmacy counters
and sold without prescription only to women 17 and older.
Younger girls may obtain the drug with a doctor’s order. Plan B
One-Step reduces pregnancy risk if taken within three days of
sex.  Denise Bradley, a Teva spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
requests for comment about whether the company supports the
legal action.  “The department does not comment on pending litigation,”
Erin Shields, a spokeswoman for the Health and Human Services
Department, said in an e-mail.  Erica Jefferson, a spokeswoman with the FDA, didn’t
immediately respond.  FDA Sued  The Center for Reproductive Rights sued the FDA in 2005 for
not acting on a request for over-the-counter sales. In 2006, the
FDA granted Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc. permission to sell the
pill without a prescription only to women 18 years of age or
older. Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , now owns Barr.  U.S. District Judge Edward Korman in Brooklyn, New York
said in 2009 that the age restrictions were arbitrary and based
more on political pressure than safety. He ordered the pill be
made available without a prescription to 17-year-olds as well.  The judge also ordered the agency to reconsider whether to
approve Plan B and generics sold on drugstore shelves without
age restrictions.  The case is Tummino v. Hamburg, 05-cv-366, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  