-- ResCap Swaps Soar as Lender Said to Seek Prearranged Bankruptcy
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-02-08T23:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/rescap-swaps-soar-as-lender-said-to-seek-prearranged-bankruptcy.html
The cost to protect against a default
by Residential Capital LLC soared after the  Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) .
mortgage unit was said to be talking to buyout firms to sell
itself through a prearranged bankruptcy.  Credit-default swaps on ResCap jumped 11.6 percentage
points to 51.8 percent upfront, according to data provider CMA.
That means the upfront cost to protect $10 million of ResCap
bonds from default for five years jumped to $5.18 million. The
initial costs are in addition to $500,000 annually.  ResCap and its financial advisers are talking to buyout
firms including  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and Cerberus
Capital Management LP about the option of selling itself through
a pre-packaged Chapter 11 filing, according to people with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the discussions are private.  That is among options being explored as Detroit-based Ally,
ResCap and their advisors aim to craft a plan for the unit by
the end of March, before ResCap encounters financing and
liquidity deadlines, said the people.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit risk reversed an earlier
climb as investors awaited the outcome of negotiations on steps
to tame  Greece ’s debt crisis.  Greece Negotiations  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 0.5 basis point to a mid-price of 94.5 basis points at
4:58 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  began negotiating with
political parties supporting his government on measures needed
to qualify for rescue funds after postponing the meeting
yesterday. Papademos has conducted an unscheduled meeting with
the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  to put the final touches on terms
required for a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) rescue package.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, earlier climbed as much
as 1.2 basis points. On Feb. 6, it touched 94.3 basis points,
the lowest level since August. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  