-- Romanian Premier-Designate Unveils Cabinet, Seeks Approval
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-02-08T11:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/romanian-premier-designate-unveils-cabinet-seeks-approval-1-.html
Romanian Prime Minister-designate
Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu nominated a 17-member government,
replacing the finance and economy ministers, while keeping seven
Cabinet members in place as he seeks to secure the backing of
the ruling coalition ahead of a confirmation vote in Parliament.  Ungureanu proposed Bogdan Dragoi, 31, a former deputy
finance minister, as Finance Minister and  Lucian Bode , 38, as
Economy Minister, and kept Defense Minister Gabriel Oprea and
Foreign Minister Cristian Diaconescu, he said in a televised
speech from Bucharest today.  “This is a young government that deserves trust and I
think we’re ready to prove that this is a change of political
generation and of government principles,” Ungureanu said. “I
hope we’re going to have a good vote tomorrow.”  The premier-designate plans to ask Parliament for a
confidence vote tomorrow to validate his Cabinet, after he
sought to secure the backing of the ruling governing coalition
of the  Liberal Democrats , the ethnic Hungarians, the
independents’ party and the minorities, who hold a majority
following two-day talks in Bucharest.  If Ungureanu, a former foreign minister under a Liberal
government from 2004 to 2007, fails to get the backing of
lawmakers, the president will nominate another candidate. A
second failure to win support may trigger early elections,
according to the constitution.  Presidential Nomination  Romanian President Traian Basescu nominated Ungureanu on
Feb. 6 as a candidate for premier, hours after his political
ally and Liberal Democrat leader Emil Boc resigned to ease
political and social pressure stemming from anti-austerity
nationwide protests.  “The Liberal Democrat lawmakers ended talks with Ungureanu
today and we decided to fully support the new government and
Parliament will convene to hold the vote tomorrow,” Boc told
reporters in Bucharest today.  Support for the coalition headed by Boc had fallen by more
than half after a 25 percent public-sector wage reduction and a
value-added tax increase prompted the most violent protests in
more than a decade on Jan. 14 and Jan. 15, injuring 60 people.  The government pledged to narrow the  budget deficit  to 1.9
percent of economic output this year from 4.35 percent in 2011
to meet the terms of a loan accord with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  