-- Romanian Lawmakers to Vote on New Cabinet
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-02-09T08:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/romanian-lawmakers-to-vote-on-cabinet-as-premier-turns-to-youth.html
Romanian lawmakers will vote on a new
government as Premier-designate Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu looks to
revive support for the coalition with an injection of youth
after a public outcry over wage cuts and tax increases.  Lawmakers will convene at 11 a.m. in Bucharest to discuss
the governing program and ministerial candidates backed by the
ruling coalition, which holds a majority in parliament. The
opposition plans to boycott a vote that will follow the debate.  Ungureanu, 43, has turned to a new generation of
politicians to resuscitate the government’s fortunes after
austerity measures mandated under a bailout loan sparked
protests that turned violent last month. He nominated Bogdan
Dragoi, 31, as finance minister and Lucian Bode, 38, to guide
the economy as  Europe ’s debt crisis damps demand for the Balkan
nation’s exports and limits credit flows.  “An easy and fast vote would provide some relief, but the
market will remain cautious until it has confirmation, or not,
that the new government remains committed” to the loan
program,’’ said  Gaelle Blanchard , a London-based economist at
Societe Generale SA. “For now, uncertainty prevails and I’m
afraid a certain level of uncertainty will remain until the
parliamentary election.”  Leu Reaction  The Romanian leu, the seventh-worst performer among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg so far this
year, was little changed at 4.3542 per euro as of 10:49 a.m.,
after rising 0.1 percent yesterday to 4.3523 per euro. The leu
had posted two days of losses following the resignation of the
government on Feb. 6. The Bucharest Stock Exchange’s BET index
rose 0.6 percent to 5,059.89.  “The new government will likely be approved by Parliament
today” after the ruling  Liberal Democrats  “replaced all the
ministers with low-profile young politicians in an attempt to
gain support after falling in polls,” Erste Group Bank AG
analysts wrote in a note to clients today. “The continuation of
the IMF and EU agreement and an increase in the living standards
of the population are key elements of the new government’s
program.”  Europe’s debt crisis has roiled financial markets, sparked
protests and taken a political toll as well. Former Premier Emil
Boc, who resigned on Feb. 6, is among seven European Union
leaders who have already given up power, while Slovakia will
hold snap elections in March. Romanians are scheduled to cast
ballots in a nationwide vote later this year.  Budget Cutting  Romania ’s government has pledged to narrow the  budget
deficit  to 1.9 percent of economic output this year from 4.35
percent in 2011 to meet the terms of the loan accord with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  The coalition is trying to regain voter support, after
accusations of corruption and two years of tax increases and
government spending cuts, including a 25 percent reduction in
public-sector wages, under an IMF-led agreement. The austerity
measures prompted the most-violent protests in a more than a
decade, leaving 60 people injured.  The EU said yesterday that Romania needs to take “stronger
action” to ensure transparency and revamp its judiciary, though
“progress is visible.”  Bailout Loan  Romania relied on a 20 billion-euro ($27 billion) loan from
the IMF and the EU from 2009 to 2011 to help it emerge from the
deepest recession on record. The government secured another 5
billion-euro precautionary accord with the lenders to reassure
investors it will keep fiscal discipline ahead of the elections.
It doesn’t plan to draw on the money set aside.  The country’s  economic growth  will probably slow to as low
as 1.5 percent this year, after output grew an estimated 2.5
percent in 2011, on declining exports to western Europe and weak
domestic demand, according to IMF forecasts.  “Our top priority is to ensure economic growth through
investments and European-fund absorption,” Dragoi said
yesterday. “We’ll seek to attract 6 billion euros in European
funds this year, which roughly means about 5 percent of GDP.”  If Ungureanu, a former foreign minister and head of the
Foreign Intelligence Service, fails to get the backing of
lawmakers, President Traian Basescu will nominate another
candidate for the post of prime minister. A second failure to
win support in 60 days may trigger early elections, according to
the constitution.  Basescu nominated Ungureanu on Feb. 6 as a candidate for
premier, hours after his political ally and Liberal Democrat
leader Emil Boc said he was resigning “to ease political and
social pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  