-- Romney’s Latest Dilemma Is Too Much Good News: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-02-08T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/romney-s-latest-dilemma-is-too-much-good-news-margaret-carlson.html
When good news happens to a bad
candidate like  Mitt Romney , it makes an already difficult
situation worse. He has enough trouble communicating any
message, much less a mixed one.  What’s he to do with good economic news, a source of joy to
most of his fellow Americans but a real downer for the self-
styled business genius who says he is so much better at creating
jobs than the community organizer occupying the White House?  The government reported last week that the unemployment
rate fell in January to  8.3 percent , the  lowest level  since
February 2009. In more “negative” news, the stock market rose
this week to  highs  it hasn’t seen since the spring of 2008, when
there was still a Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. A  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  of 13,000, which is  dangerously close , is the
kind of number that travels straight to the bloodstream of
Romney’s homeboys on  Wall Street . Even independent economists
are cautiously optimistic. Discussing three months of declining
unemployment, some actually appeared to smile on TV.  How much good news can one candidate take? Romney’s dilemma
is exacerbated by the shaky ground he already walks on. Enough
doubt and resentment rumble just below the surface of his
presumed nomination that a candidate as ludicrous as  Newt Gingrich  can tap into it just by speaking in full sentences at a
debate, and a candidate as unlikely as  Rick Santorum  can attract
attention merely by wearing sweater vests. Imagine what a
revived economy would do.  Challengers’ Lament  Romney isn’t the first candidate to wish for the worst.
Challengers frequently find themselves hoping for bad news at
the right time, or dreading good news at the wrong time. Senator
 John Kerry  based much of his 2004 presidential candidacy on
ending the  Iraq War . Never a happy fellow, you could almost see
the pain on his face at George W. Bush’s successes in  Baghdad ,
however transient they would prove to be. Although he was
careful to support the troops, Kerry needed the mission to fail
so he could succeed.  Ronald Reagan  was a more adept communicator. He never
criticized  Jimmy Carter  for not ending the Iranian hostage
crisis. But with John Wayne swagger, Reagan kept up a steady
stream of talk about how restoring America’s honor and power in
the world would prevent such a thing from ever happening again.
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini delivered a Hollywood ending: As
Reagan raised his hand to take the oath of office on Jan. 20,
1981, the hostages were freed.  Romney’s no Reagan. He’s not even Kerry. When he’s not
expressing his lack of concern for the very poor, or his
enjoyment at firing people, he’s issuing bromides on his one-
note ( but 59-point !) job-creating platform. Supporters and  elite
conservative pundits  are anxiously urging him to broaden his
appeal.  But how? He can’t make an issue out of the health-care
crisis because Romneycare is an epithet to many in his own
party. On immigration, he’s moved so far right, he’s at odds
with his own church (he’ll no doubt inch his way back in the
general election in an effort to win the Hispanic vote, but he
can’t do that now).  Tax reform  is a difficult subject because he
pays a  13.9 percent rate  and has as many shelters in the Cayman
Islands as houses in the U.S. He has no foreign policy
experience, unless you count his stint as a Mormon missionary in
 France , which I don’t. (Has anyone else noticed that he almost
never utters the word “Mormon”?) He could talk about his four
years as governor of  Massachusetts , except they include the
unmentionable Romneycare and a shameful rate of  job creation ,
the  fourth-lowest  in the country.  A Lovely Family  There are a few bright spots, for Romney if not the rest of
us. We all appreciate that he has a lovely family and can sing
“America the Beautiful.” Meanwhile, gasoline prices continue to
rise, ditto a quart of milk and a loaf of bread. And have you
put your house on the market lately? Bummer. But none of this is
enough for a platform.  After his win Saturday in  Nevada , Romney instructed his
supporters not to believe for a second that the economy is
getting better. From his alternate universe he criticized
President  Barack Obama  for taking “a bow for 8.3 percent
unemployment. Not so fast, Mr. President.” He continued: “We
welcome any good news on the jobs front, but it is thanks to the
innovation of the American people in the private sector and not
to you.” Of course the private sector creates jobs, though it’s
less clear how much Romney’s little subdivision did on that
front: 22 percent of 77 businesses Bain invested in during
Romney’s tenure either  went bankrupt or shut down  within eight
years. What’s abundantly clear is that leading a private-equity
firm is a very good way to amass a $200-million-plus fortune.  That 8.3 percent  unemployment rate  obviously hurts. So
Romney found another figure more to his liking: The
underemployment rate, which accounts for those with part-time
jobs who wish they had full-time jobs. That’s  15.1 percent . It’s
a figure Republicans usually don’t mention, as it plays into
Democratic appeals for continued  unemployment benefits , and it’s
down from a high of 17.2 percent in the fall of 2009. Still, for
a candidate as desperate as Romney, any bad number will do.  Obama and Romney now face parallel dilemmas. Obama has to
be careful not to make too much of this good news lest he look
callous. Romney has to be careful not to make too little of it
lest he look churlish.  Maybe Clint Eastwood can sort it all out. It’s halftime, if
not morning, in America, he told Americans in  an ad  that aired
during halftime in Sunday’s Super Bowl. Hard times come, said
the former mayor of Carmel,  California , but Americans get right
back up again -- “because that’s what we do. We find a way
through tough times, and if we can’t find a way, then we’ll make
one.” He ended, “Our second half is about to begin.”  Dirty Harry made Obama’s day and ruined Romney’s. Yet
there’s hope for the challenger yet. The stronger the economy
gets, the more folks will come out of their depressed holes and
start looking for work. Then the unemployment rate will tick
back up. So Mitt Romney’s got to ask himself one question: Does
he feel lucky?  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at  mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor of this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 