-- Rubber Settles at Highest Level Since September as Crude Climbs
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-02-08T08:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/rubber-settles-at-highest-level-since-september-as-crude-climbs.html
Rubber climbed to the highest close
in more than four months as a rally in oil boosted the appeal of
the commodity as an alternative to synthetic products, and on
increased optimism that  Greece  is set to secure a second bailout.  The July-delivery contract advanced 2.1 percent to end at
325.9 yen a kilogram ($4,228 a metric ton), the highest
settlement since Sept. 22, on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange.
Futures have surged 24 percent this year on the demand outlook.  The euro traded near an eight-week high against the dollar
after a Greek official said his government and international
creditors are working on the final draft on measures needed to
obtain the second rescue. Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is
scheduled to meet the heads of three political parties today. A
weaker dollar boosted oil and metals.  “Optimism about the Greek bailout increased investor
appetite for riskier assets,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at
broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo, said today by phone. “Rubber
advanced in tandem with oil and other industrial commodities.”  Futures also gained on expectations that supply from
Thailand, the largest producer and exporter, will decline amid
the low-production season, he said. During the period, known as
wintering, trees shed leaves and latex output slows.  The Thai  cash price  gained 0.8 percent to 127.80 baht
($4.15) per kilogram today, also boosted by the Thai
government’s price-support policy,  the Rubber Research Institute
of Thailand  said on its website.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai rose 2.9 percent to end at
29,170 yuan ($4,634) a ton, the highest close since Sept. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  