-- Rusal Extends Gains as Aluminum Demand Rises: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-02-08T08:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/rusal-extends-gains-as-aluminum-demand-rises-hong-kong-mover.html
United Co. Rusal , the world’s biggest
aluminum producer, rose to a three-month high in Hong Kong
trading as the company expects demand for the industrial metal
to keep increasing.  The shares climbed 6.1 percent to HK$6.80, the highest
since Nov. 2, as of the 4 p.m. close. The stock gained 38
percent this year, beating the 14 percent increase in the
benchmark  Hang Seng  index.  Manufacturers are increasingly switching to aluminum, used
in electric cables and wires, after copper climbed to almost
four times the price of the light metal, Rusal’s Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Oleg Mukhamedshin said in an interview in
Moscow. Aluminum has risen 11 percent in  London  after slumping
18 percent last year as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis spread
and the world economic recovery stalled.  Three-month delivery aluminum was at $2,216 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange, while copper was at $8,362 a ton.
Rusal is due to report its fourth-quarter production Feb. 13.  The shares have also gained after banks gave Rusal more
leeway on the terms of its debt. The Moscow-based aluminum
producer will have the option to introduce a 12-month covenant
holiday, starting from any quarter this year, the company said
Jan. 18.  Rusal completed an $11.4 billion debt refinancing in
October that involved borrowing $4.75 billion from 13 lenders
including BNP Paribas SA and ING Groep NV.  “The debt covenant has been troubling the stock, but now
that’s lifted, investors are accumulating,” Robin Tsui, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at BOC International Holdings Ltd., said by
telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 Myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Hong Kong at 
 Rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 