-- Sanofi Sees 2012 Profit Dropping as Much as 15% on Generics
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-02-08T16:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/sanofi-expects-profit-dropping-15-on-generics.html
Sanofi (SAN) , France’s biggest drugmaker,
said profit may drop as much as 15 percent this year, hurt by
generic competition to its Plavix blood thinner and Avapro
hypertension drug in the U.S.  Earnings per share excluding some costs will probably
decline by 12 percent to 15 percent at constant exchange rates,
Paris-based Sanofi said in a statement today. Analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg expect earnings to drop 12 percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  has expanded in
areas such as emerging markets and bought  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ)  in April
to gain treatments for rare diseases, seeking to shield Sanofi
from another wave of patent expirations. Cheaper copies of
Plavix and Avapro will wipe out about 1.4 billion euros ($1.86
billion) in profit this year, when the impact of the so-called
patent cliff is the greatest.  “2012 has been marked red in my diary for years,”
Viehbacher said in an interview on Bloomberg Television today.
“We cannot compensate for that in one year but we can
compensate over time. As we come out of the cliff, Sanofi is
extremely well positioned for growth.”  Cautious by Tradition  Sanofi fell 1.7 percent to 55.57 euros in Paris. The stock
has returned 14 percent over the  past year  including reinvested
dividends, compared with 17 percent for the  Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   “The drop in earnings Sanofi forecast for 2012 is a bit
greater than some analysts had expected,” Jerome Forneris, who
helps manage $9.9 billion, including Sanofi shares, at Banque
Martin Maurel in Marseille, said in a phone interview. “This is
hurting the shares today.”  The French drugmaker reported a 13 percent increase in
fourth-quarter profit, boosted by the Genzyme acquisition and
higher demand for its Lantus diabetes medicine. Profit excluding
some costs climbed to 2.08 billion euros, or 1.56 euros a share,
matching the  average estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of 11
analysts.  The 2012 profit estimate is in line with Sanofi’s 2012-2015
plan announced in September, Viehbacher said in an interview.  “I think 12 to 15 percent is where we saw the market
expectations,” Viehbacher said. Sanofi must abide by a
“tradition of being a little on the cautious side,”
particularly in the current economic environment, the 51-year-
old executive said.  ‘Solid, Quiet’  Sales rose 8.8 percent to 8.51 billion last quarter, in
line with the average estimate of 18 analysts. Genzyme sales
reached 831 million euros. Revenue from Lantus, the company’s
best-selling product, surged 18 percent to 1.05 billion euros,
exceeding 1 billion euros in quarterly sales for the first time,
Sanofi said.  The company reported a “solid, quiet quarter which will
help build investor credibility,”  Tim Anderson , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note to clients.  Stockholders will receive a  dividend  of 2.65 euros a share,
a pay-out ratio of 40 percent. That’s up from 2.50 euros a year
earlier. Sanofi reiterated today it plans to increase the
percentage of earnings it pays out in dividends to 50 percent by
2014 from 35 percent in 2011.  Plant Trouble  Sanofi said last month that the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  approved a new plant in Framingham,
 Massachusetts , that will help Genzyme eliminate shortages of its
rare-disease medicines Fabrazyme and Cerezyme. Production
recovery is “well under way,” the company said today.  “The approval of the Framingham plant was a key milestone
to reassure investors on Sanofi’s ability to fix the Genzyme
issues and the credibility of the management,” Vincent Meunier,
an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris, wrote in a Feb. 6 note
to clients. He has an “outperform” recommendation on Sanofi.  The company plans to increase earnings by more than 5
percent annually and trim costs by 2 billion euros through 2015,
Sanofi said in September. It reiterated today that sales should
rise by at least 5 percent a year in the period. It’s counting
on growth in  emerging markets , diabetes products, vaccines,
consumer health care, veterinary medicines and new patented
drugs to more than replace sales lost to generics.  Sanofi said today Genzyme is still gathering documents to
submit its experimental drug Lemtrada as a treatment for
relapsing multiple sclerosis to U.S. and European Union
regulators in the second quarter. The company said Nov. 3 it was
expecting to file for Lemtrada’s approval this quarter.  Sanofi also said a new formulation of Lantus started being
tested in a late-stage clinical trial program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  