-- Santorum Sweep Casts Doubt on Romney’s Drive
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-02-08T18:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/santorum-wins-non-binding-primary-in-missouri.html
Rick Santorum shook up the race for
the Republican presidential nomination by sweeping three
contests yesterday, casting doubt on front-runner  Mitt Romney ’s
hold over the party’s core voters.  Santorum beat Romney by 30 percentage points in  Missouri (BEESMO) ’s
non-binding primary, where former U.S. Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
wasn’t on the ballot. He topped his nearest competitor in
 Minnesota (NFSEMN) ’s caucuses, U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , by
18 points, with Romney placing third. He beat Romney in  Colorado (STPICO) 
by 5 points.  The results suggest a lingering weakness for Romney,
especially among the most conservative Republicans who are
focused on issues such as banning abortion. At the same time,
Santorum’s new strength may aid Romney in a prolonged fight for
the nomination. A revitalized Santorum campaign may mean that he
and Gingrich will continue to split the anti-Romney vote,
leaving neither with a commanding count of delegates.  While no delegates were awarded yesterday, Santorum, 53,
now has four victories in the nomination race and Romney has
three. Santorum last night told supporters in St. Charles,
 Missouri , that he was the candidate best suited to take on
President  Barack Obama  in November’s general election.  ‘Same Positions’  “Mitt Romney has the same positions as Barack Obama,” the
former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania  said. “I don’t stand here
to claim to be the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. I
stand here to be the conservative alternative to Barack Obama.”  “We definitely are the campaign right now with the
momentum,” Santorum said today on CNN. “We’re doing very, very
well raising money,” with about $250,000 raised online last
night, he said.  Romney, 64, told supporters in Denver last night that he
was focused on the contests to come.  “This was a good night for  Rick Santorum ,” the former
Massachusetts governor said. “We’ll keep on campaigning down
the road, but I expect to become our nominee, with your help.”  Santorum won 55 percent of the vote in Missouri’s non-
binding primary with all precincts reporting, according to the
 Associated Press . Romney had 25 percent and Paul had 12 percent.  Minnesota Results  In Minnesota’s caucuses, Santorum led with 45 percent of
the vote with 98 percent of precincts reporting in the AP tally.
Paul had 27 percent, followed by Romney with 17 percent and
Gingrich with 11 percent.  Paul, 76, told supporters in Golden Valley, Minnesota, his
second-place finish should earn him a cache of delegates.  “It’s the cause of liberty that we must restore, and we
are well on our way, and we’re going to keep this momentum,” he
said.  In Colorado, Santorum had 40 percent of the vote, with all
precincts reporting in the AP tally. Romney had 35 percent,
followed by Gingrich with 13 percent and Paul with 12 percent.  The  Minnesota  and Colorado caucuses represent the first
step toward awarding convention delegates, though yesterday’s
results are non-binding on that process. Missouri’s primary is a
symbolic, so-called beauty contest; the state’s delegates will
be allocated at caucuses later this year.  Even so, the outcomes slow Romney’s momentum and offer
openings to rivals. Romney had reclaimed the mantle of front-
runner after easily winning the two previous contests,  Florida (BEESFL) ’s
Jan. 31 primary and  Nevada (BEESNV) ’s Feb. 4 caucuses.  Romney also won the Jan. 10 New Hampshire primary and
Santorum got a victory in the Jan. 3 lead-off Iowa caucuses.  2008 Results  Romney won 60 percent of the vote in Colorado’s 2008
caucuses in his unsuccessful bid for the Republican nomination,
and 41 percent of the vote in winning that year’s Minnesota
caucuses.  His aides said that this year in  Minnesota (BEESMN)  the political
dynamics worked against him. Four years ago, Romney ran as the
fiscal and social conservative alternative to  Arizona  Senator
 John McCain , who won the party’s nomination. Today, he is viewed
as the establishment pick, after gaining endorsements from party
leaders and elected officials.  The Romney team had lowered expectations in Minnesota, a
state that has seen an increase in power for social and fiscal
conservatives who nominated a Tea Party-backed gubernatorial
candidate in 2010. Santorum, a Catholic with an anti-abortion
record, spent the bulk of his time over the past week in the
state.  Scheduling Romney to be in Denver last night, though, was a
sign of the campaign’s expectations in  Colorado .  What Missouri Showed  Santorum’s victory in Missouri, while meaningless in the
delegate count, may better illustrate the challenge Romney has
in winning conservative voters and the benefit he gains from
Santorum and Gingrich, who was boosted by a win in  South
Carolina ’s Jan. 21 primary, each remaining in the race.  With Gingrich, 68, not on the ballot in Missouri, Santorum
had a clear path to claim the conservative bloc of votes.  “Yesterday, we saw something that the Santorum and
Gingrich camps have known for a long time: Mitt Romney is
falling,” said R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s campaign spokesman.  Gingrich didn’t mention last night’s results or Santorum
and Romney by name during a speech this morning at Jergens Inc.,
a closely held company in  Cleveland  that manufactures products
such as specialty fasteners. Gingrich also spent yesterday in
 Ohio , which has begun early voting ahead of its March 6 primary.
He will return to  Georgia  next week for a two-day campaign swing
in his home state, which also holds its primary on “Super
Tuesday,” March 6.  Conservative Conference  Later this week, Romney and his rivals are to address
activists at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference
in  Washington . The reception Romney receives will be closely
watched, especially following yesterday’s results.  Last night represented the second time Santorum has staged
a surprise surge in the Republican race.  He spent more time in  Iowa  than any other candidate and
began to make headway with voters only in the final days before
the caucuses. Romney was initially declared the winner in that
contest, edging Santorum by eight votes. More than two weeks
later, the Iowa Republican Party said the final returns showed
Santorum victorious, beating Romney by 34 votes.  Romney has more campaign cash than his remaining three
opponents, and that gives him an advantage in organizing
operations in primaries on Feb. 28 in Arizona and  Michigan  and
the 11 contests that follow on March 6.  Bracing for possible defeats, Romney’s campaign yesterday
circulated a “reality check” memo from his political director
emphasizing that none of the 1,144 delegates needed for the
nomination would be awarded in yesterday’s contests.  “We expect our opponents to notch a few wins,” Rich Beeson wrote in the memo. Romney should do well, though, in the
races in Arizona and Michigan, Beeson said.  “It is difficult to see what Governor Romney’s opponents
can do to change the dynamics of the race in February,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net 
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  