-- Sappi Falls on Focus to Reduce Net Debt Before Resuming Dividend Payments
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-02-08T15:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/sappi-plan-to-reduce-debt-may-delay-dividend-payout-avior-research-says.html
Sappi Ltd. , the world’s largest
producer of fine-coated paper, dropped the most in two months
after Chief Executive Officer Ralph Boettger said the company
will consider resuming dividends once its debt has been cut.  The company wants to ensure dividends are “reliable and
predictable,” he said today in an interview at Sappi’s annual
general meeting in Johannesburg. “It’s in shareholders’
interests to reduce debt to more acceptable levels.”  Sappi plans to reduce net debt to less than $2 billion in
“at least” the next 18 months, Boettger said in a telephone
interview earlier. Debt climbed to $2.18 billion at the end of
December compared with $2.1 billion at the end of September.  The company halted dividend payouts in  fiscal  2009 to lower
debt that stood at $2.58 billion and in March 2010 pledged to
resume payouts to shareholders as soon as possible. Over the
past year, Sappi announced plans to shut mills in  South Africa 
and  Switzerland  and cut about 800 jobs in the nine months
through June as part of its reorganization. Rising costs and
weaker paper sales have also led Helsinki-based competitors
 Stora Enso Oyj  and  UPM Kymmene Oyj  to close mills.  “Sappi’s debt targeting plans may mean that it won’t
resume paying dividends next year,” Sean Ungerer, an analyst at
Avior Research (Pty) Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg.  The stock  fell  4 percent to 25.50 rand at the close in
Johannesburg, the biggest drop since Dec. 1.  Second-quarter operating profit excluding one-time items
will improve from the $100 million posted in the three months
through December, Sappi said in a statement.  “Although market conditions remain uncertain, we are
experiencing reasonable demand in our major markets,” the
company said in a statement. “Our focus is on delivering the
benefits of the restructuring and cost reduction actions
announced and implemented in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  