-- Sarkozy Most Unpopular as Election Nears Confronting Unprecedented Rebound
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-02-09T16:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/sarkozy-most-unpopular-as-election-nears-confronting-unprecedented-rebound.html
Nicolas Sarkozy , the most unpopular
incumbent French president since World War II, is counting on
his stewardship of the debt crisis to deliver a second term in
what would be an unprecedented election victory.  Sarkozy, 57, has promised to be “ captain in the storm ”
after the weakening economy cost France its AAA credit rating
for the first time. With the vote 74 days away, Sarkozy trails
his Socialist opponent in the polls with an approval rating of
32 percent. No French president so disliked has been re-elected
in the nation’s current Fifth Republic.  “His main asset, and maybe his last card, is that he looks
more like a statesman,” said Pascal Perrineau, an analyst at
the Paris-based Cevipof political studies institute. “He has to
hammer home this point.”  Sarkozy said in a  Figaro Magazine  interview released today
that he’ll work “for as long as possible” before announcing
his candidacy. Addressing a television audience of 16.6 million,
or about 25 percent of  France ’s population, on Jan. 29, he said
that he has confidence in his record of the past five years. He
aims to avoid becoming the eighth victim of a sovereign debt
crisis, which since 2010 has ousted leaders in Ireland,
 Portugal ,  Greece , Spain,  Italy , Slovenia and Slovakia.  At the start of his term, Sarkozy was France’s most popular
leader since General  Charles de Gaulle , World War II hero and
founder of the Fifth Republic.  S&P Rating Cut  He now trails Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande  by 16
percentage points in the latest opinion poll. Hollande may get
34 percent of the vote in the first round on April 22 against
Sarkozy’s 26 percent, and win 58 percent to 42 percent for
Sarkozy in the decisive second-round election on May 6,
according to a poll published Feb. 6 by Paris-based  BVA .  While France has weathered the economic malaise better than
countries such as Spain, with its 23 percent unemployment rate,
Sarkozy’s prowess has become harder to sell with the country on
the brink of recession and after  jobless claims  jumped by 5.6
percent last year to a 12-year high.  Standard & Poor’s  stripped France of its AAA credit rating
by one level on Jan. 13, saying European policy makers haven’t
done enough to address the “systemic stresses in the euro
zone.” Sarkozy called the downgrade a non-event, saying it
“changes nothing” and he has found vindication in the markets.  Better Returns  Yields on benchmark 10-year French bonds are at 2.9
percent, down 17 basis points since the rating was cut. Credit-
default swaps on government debt tumbled to 160 basis points
from 219 on Jan. 13, according to CMA. The drop signals
improvement in investor perceptions about the country’s credit
quality. The  CAC 40  stocks index has gained 7.2 percent.  French bonds are delivering better returns this year than
 Europe ’s AAA rated debt, aided by the  European Central Bank ’s
unprecedented 489 billion euros ($649 billion) in three-year
loans that have flooded banks with funds.  Sarkozy held interior, budget and finance ministry
 positions  before running for president in 2007, while his
opponent Hollande, 57, has never held a ministerial post.
Members of Sarkozy’s government have criticized Hollande’s lack
of experience, warning it would hurt France’s credibility.  “Experience does matter,” Prime Minister  Francois Fillon 
said during a January visit to  Brazil . “And for me, that’s why
Sarkozy should be re-elected.”  Global Crises  Sarkozy’s presidency has been marked by global economic
crises almost from the start. He took over on May 16, 2007,
three months before Europe began coping with fallout from
subprime mortgage losses in the U.S.  On his watch, the French economy slowed to 1.6 percent in
2011 from 2.3 percent in 2007, while the  trade gap  widened to a
record 69.6 billion euros from 42.5 billion euros in the same
period.  Fillon cut the growth forecast for Europe’s second-largest
economy by half to 0.5 percent for 2012. France may grow by no
more than 0.2 percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund 
estimates. Insee, the national statistics office, expects 61,000
job losses in the period.  Hollande said in a July speech that Sarkozy’s government
widened deficits with tax breaks to the rich, swelling the
public debt to 1.69 trillion euros, or 85 percent of gross
domestic product from 64.2 percent in 2007.  Not Enough  To regain the upper hand after Hollande unveiled his
economic plan on Jan. 26, Sarkozy announced measures to bolster
growth and job creation, including an unpopular increase in the
country’s value-added-tax to compensate for cuts in labor
charges and the imposition of a financial transaction tax.  “Courageous economic moves, even in the current
circumstances, aren’t a big enough argument,” said Jerome Sainte-Marie, who heads Paris-based CSA’s public-opinion
department. “Since his Socialist opponent hasn’t shown
irresponsibility in his platform or in his words, Sarkozy’s case
as the only economically credible candidate is falling short.”  Hollande says Sarkozy’s moves are too little too late.  “They’re trying to do in less than three months what they
haven’t done to fight the crisis in the past years,” he said
during a Jan. 30  press conference .  Hollande advocates forcing banks to separate consumer and
investment operations and stop awarding  stock options  to
executives. He said he’ll raise taxes on the wealthy to help
fund the addition of 60,000 public school teachers and shrink
the state  budget deficit . He also would boost levies on banks
and large companies.  New World  “There are parts of Hollande’s platform that lack
guarantees for the debt and deficit cuts requirements, while
Sarkozy looks efficient in  crisis management ,” said Perrineau
of Cevipof, whose essay entitled “ Marianne’s Choice : for Whom
and What We Vote” is being published this month.  For his part, Sarkozy says his own package shows  courage ,
not unlike Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  of  Spain  whose election
campaign succeeded after he pledged austerity measures to slice
the budget deficit.  “The split is not between the Left and the Right,” he
said during his television appearance on Jan. 29. “It’s a new
world out there. One has to adapt and not be trapped in an old
model believing France is exonerated from efforts required of
other countries.”  In his Figaro Magazine interview to be published on Feb.
11, Sarkozy said he plans to change France’s unemployment
benefits to focus on training and encouraging the jobless to go
back to work.  Personality  Sarkozy’s unpopularity stems at least in part from the
“President Bling-Bling” reputation he earned during his first
months in power when he was photographed with Ray-Ban aviator
glasses, providing fodder for celebrity magazines. He also is
the first French president to get divorced while in office. He
married former Italian model-turned-singer Carla Bruni at the
Elysee presidential palace in February 2008.  The French, more attuned to aloof presidents who keep their
private lives private, haven’t always appreciated his flamboyant
style. Hollande often makes references to Sarkozy’s “behavior”
in his campaign speeches.  Sarkozy has attempted to tone down his image, becoming more
discreet about his private life. In October, he and Carla went
out of their way to ensure that the birth of their baby girl,
Giulia, was kept out of the media spotlight.  For all his determination to win, Sarkozy says he’s
prepared for defeat. On a trip last month to  French Guiana , he
said over dinner with reporters that he would “quit politics”
if he loses the May ballot.  “I’ve always envisaged defeat,” he told them, according
to two transcripts of the discussion obtained by Bloomberg News.
“One must always envisage all possibilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  