-- SAS Reports Wider-Than-Estimated Loss on Spanair Writedown
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-02-08T12:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/sas-reports-wider-than-estimated-loss-on-spanair-writedown.html
SAS Group , the Nordic region’s
largest airline, posted a wider-than-expected fourth-quarter net
loss as the collapse of its former Spanair brand last month led
to a writedown on assets from their remaining ties.  The loss was 2.08 billion kronor ($312 million) compared
with a 47 million-krona profit a year earlier, Stockholm-based
SAS said today in a  statement . The loss was wider than the 1.29
billion-krona average of four analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales fell 4.6 percent to 10.2 billion kronor.  SAS, which hasn’t made an annual  profit  since 2007, and
mainline competitors such as  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG  are struggling to sustain earnings as discount
carriers including Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA expand. SAS said
today that 2012 will pose “greater challenges” as the company
reorganizes amid a “weakening” economy and oil-price growth.  “They’re warning of a difficult year as they’re suffering
from higher fuel costs and pressure on prices,” said Finn Bjarke Petersen, a Nordea Markets analyst in Copenhagen who
recommends selling SAS’s stock and is predicting a “small
negative result for the year.”  SAS said Jan. 18 that it will eliminate 300 administrative
jobs in a program begun in September to reduce costs by as much
as 5 percent. SAS, which owns the Scandinavian Airlines brand,
has a strategy to enhance the bottom line by 5 billion kronor in
2012 and 2013 through spending reductions and measures to boost
revenue, the carrier said today.  Profit Forecast Missed  The full-year net loss narrowed to 1.69 billion kronor from
2.22 billion kronor. The pretax loss was 1.63 billion kronor
versus a loss in 2010 of 3.07 billion kronor. Revenue rose 0.8
percent to 41.4 billion kronor. Before Spanair folded, SAS had
forecast that it would be profitable on a pretax level.  “It’s of course worrisome there’s no annual profit since
2007, and it’s extremely irritating we didn’t post a marginally
positive result on the bottom line” for 2011, Chief Executive
Officer Rickard Gustafson said today in an interview in
Stockholm. “What’s pressuring us in the short term are the high
fuel prices and the massive competitive pressure. We must
continue to cut costs, and therefore we’re accelerating the pace
of the key cost savings.”  Air France-KLM ,  Europe ’s biggest airline, said on Jan. 25
that it will post a loss of “several hundred million euros”
for 2011 after fuel costs increased. The Paris-based company,
which has been hampered by a four-day strike this week in a
dispute over a proposed strike-notification law, is freezing pay
and hiring as part of a 1 billion-euro savings program.  Lufthansa’s Plan  Lufthansa, the region’s second-largest carrier and a
partner with SAS in the Star Alliance marketing group, said
yesterday that a program to integrate administration for its
brands is intended to add 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) to
 earnings  by 2014. The Cologne, Germany-based company also owns
Austrian Airlines, Swiss, Brussels Airlines and Germanwings.  SAS’s spending reductions through next year include 1
billion kronor in labor costs, and unions have “shown
responsibility” in agreeing on the cutbacks, Gustafson said at
a press conference in Stockholm. At the same time, the company
can’t rule out further job cuts, the CEO said in the interview.  The reorganization at SAS, which is jointly controlled by
the governments of Sweden, Norway and  Denmark , contrasts with a
growth strategy at Fornebu-based  Norwegian Air Shuttle , which
ordered 222 narrow-body airliners from Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. 
in January valued at a combined $21.5 billion.  Norwegian Air’s Traffic  Norwegian Air Shuttle, whose only destination beyond Europe
and the southern and eastern Mediterranean coast is Dubai, said
today that traffic rose 17 percent from a year earlier in
January. That compares with a 0.4 percent increase in SAS’s
traffic, measured as the number of passengers multiplied by the
distance flown, which includes Scandinavian Airlines’
intercontinental routes.  “Because we’re flying so much short-haul, where we’re in
direct competition with low-cost carriers such as Norwegian, we
probably have to take tougher actions than some others,”
Gustafson said. “So we have more to do than many others, but we
are doing that. We’re on the ball.”  SAS  fell  as much as 2.8 percent to 8.55 kronor and was
trading down 0.6 percent at 12:35 p.m. in  Stockholm . The stock
has gained 9.4 percent this year.  Malev’s Collapse  The writedown on SAS’s remaining 11 percent stake in
Spanair and extra operating costs stemming from the Barcelona-
based carrier’s collapse totaled 1.7 billion kronor in the
fourth quarter. Spanair, which SAS sold in 2009, filed for
bankruptcy and halted flights Jan. 27. The airline’s failure was
followed a week later by the collapse of  Hungary ’s six-decade-
old state airline Malev Zrt.  Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, taxes and one-time
gains or costs at Scandinavian Airlines dropped 79 percent while
jumping 64 percent at SAS’s Wideroe brand. The Blue1 division’s
Ebit loss excluding one-time items almost tripled.  Blue1 will probably start to “show profit” in 2013, and
the brand has “come far” with its reorganization, Gustafson
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  