-- Scene at the Ballet: Donya Bommer, Jill Kargman, Diana DiMenna
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-02-08T15:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/scene-at-the-ballet-donya-bommer-jill-kargman-diana-dimenna-giants-win.html
Donya Bommer was in a quant mood
yesterday at the  New York City Ballet  Annual Luncheon, held on
the promenade of the David H. Koch Theater.  The wife of Scott Bommer, founding partner and president of
SAB Capital Management LP, she was a co-chairman of the event
and spoke as guests finished plates of chicken and lentil salad.  “We raised $300,000 today. Each year we spend $600,000 on
point shoes,” said Bommer, in a taupe Lanvin dress. “That’s
two annual lunches.”  Bommer knows her point shoes: She is an NYCB board member
and an amateur ballet dancer.  “I’ve been taking lessons since I was three,” she said.  And can her husband dance?  “He’s an adorable dancer,” Bommer replied.  As for the  Super Bowl : Bommer watched. “I had to see
Madonna,” she said.  And what did she think of her dancing? “She would have had
an easier time had she not worn a crazy headdress and those
high-heeled boots,” Bommer said.  Olivia Chantecaille, creative director of Chantecaille
cosmetics, also tuned in to the NFL championship game.  “I found it more interesting than the Golden Globes,” she
said. “It was more dynamic -- but maybe that’s because my
husband was explaining it to me.”  Chantecaille’s favorite commercials: “The Fiat one was
great,” she said. “It was just cute and unexpected and fun.
Not so commercial, more sophisticated.”  Even Curling  Author Jill Kargman, soon to become Drew Barrymore’s
sister-in-law, is “obsessed” with the Super Bowl, she said.  “Anytime  New York  is involved in a championship game, even
if it’s curling, I get into it,” Kargman said.  Diana DiMenna, who with her husband Joe DiMenna helped
create the children’s museum at the recently reopened New-York
Historical Society, said the Giants-Patriots contest had caused
some conflict in the family.  Her daughters are Giants fans, her mother a Patriots fan.
“My kids called my mother and taunted her,” DiMenna said.  Among the 500 guests yesterday were Julia Koch and Peggy
Siegal, who talked about the Oscars; and Sue Ann Weinberg, whose
late husband headed  Goldman Sachs (GS)  in the ‘70s and ‘80s.  Also attending were  Studio Museum in Harlem ’s director,
Thelma Golden, and actress and New York City Ballet board member
Sarah Jessica Parker.  Asked if she watched the Super Bowl, Parker replied, “Are
you kidding? If I had four hours, I’d much rather be at the
ballet.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or
on Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 