-- SEC Delays Decision on NYSE Proposal to Attract Retail Orders
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-02-08T21:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/sec-delays-decision-on-nyse-proposal-to-attract-retail-orders.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission extended its review today of the New York Stock
Exchange’s proposal to draw more orders from retail brokers.  NYSE and NYSE Amex  sought permission  in October for a one-
year pilot program to attract orders from individual investors
by offering them potentially better prices than are publicly
available. Postponing a decision isn’t an indication of whether
the SEC is likely to approve or reject the rules proposed by the
two NYSE Euronext stock exchanges.  The SEC received 28  letters  commenting on NYSE’s plan
including from the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, Bats Global Markets Inc., UBS AG, TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. and Knight Capital Group Inc.  The proposals “raise novel market structure issues that
warrant further comment,” the SEC said in a  notice .  The programs would require an exemption from a rule that
prevents exchanges from accepting orders priced in increments of
less than 1 cent, the SEC said. They would also allow a new type
of order to be available only to a subset of market
participants, it said.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , said in an e-mail that the exchanges will respond “in
the coming weeks.”  Individual investors and securities firms liquidating
positions acquired from trading with retail brokers away from
exchanges could use a new type of order as part of the program,
according to the SEC. The inclusion of proprietary orders from
brokers who traded with individual investors makes it “unclear
whether the benefits of the sub-penny price improvement
ultimately would reach the retail investor,” the agency said.  “Questions are raised as to the scope of the requested
exemption under the sub-penny rule, and whether the exchanges
have fairly and reasonably determined the subset of market
participants that would be allowed to access retail price-
improvement orders,” the SEC wrote in its notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 