-- Senate Committee Approves U.S. Highway Bill Without Needed Funds
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-02-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/senate-committee-approves-u-s-highway-bill-without-needed-funds.html
A U.S. Senate committee sent a
highway-funding bill to the full chamber after backing away from
proposals to increase gasoline taxes and force early
distributions on some individual retirement accounts.  The Democratic-controlled Senate’s finance committee
yesterday approved the legislation, 17-6. Chairman  Max Baucus , a
Montana Democrat, said he will look for additional money,
without providing details. The Senate public works committee
previously approved a two-year, $109 billion spending plan.  “This bill doesn’t get the job done and we know it doesn’t
get it done,” Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat,
said while voting for the bill. Kerry has co-sponsored a bill,
championed by President  Barack Obama , to create a U.S.
infrastructure bank.  Senator Mike Enzi, a Wyoming Republican, withdrew an
amendment to raise the U.S. gasoline tax by indexing it to
inflation, which was supported by Senator  Tom Coburn , an
Oklahoma Republican. The gasoline tax, which has been 18.4 cents
a gallon since 1993, raises most of the money spent by the U.S.
Highway Trust Fund on  road construction .  The tax would be 18.9 cents a gallon this year if indexed
for inflation, Enzi said. “That is not much of an increase, but
it would be enough to fund what we need now,” Enzi said before
the vote.  Obama and Republicans in Congress have said they oppose an
increase even as the  Congressional Budget Office  forecasts the
trust fund’s highway account may be unable to meet its
obligations as soon as October. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
the largest business lobby, and Obama’s deficit-reduction
commission recommended increasing the tax by 15 cents a gallon.  Road Revenue  The finance committee must find about $30 billion over two
years to cover the bill’s proposed spending, according to the
CBO. The committee proposal would transfer certain tariff
revenue to the Highway Trust Fund, close tax loopholes related
to alternative-energy credits and use penalties levied against
some low-mileage vehicles.  Baucus proposed raising $4.6 billion over the next decade
by requiring younger beneficiaries of inherited IRAs to pay
taxes over five years instead of spreading them over their
lifetime. Financial advisers and tax lawyers said Baucus’s
proposal would have significantly altered retirement and estate
planning.  “IRAs were meant to be used for retirement,” Baucus said.
“The inherited IRAs are being used not as a retirement tool but
more like an estate-planning tool.”  The House transportation committee approved a five-year,
$260 billion spending plan last week. It would rely partly on
money raised by expanded domestic oil and gas drilling. The
House Ways and Means Committee approved a revenue measure that
would take the share of gasoline-tax revenue dedicated to mass
transit and spend it on highways and bridges.  The Senate transportation bill is S. 1813. The House
version is H.R. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  