-- U.S. Senator Pat Toomey Warns SEC He Will Fight to Protect Money Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-02-08T16:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/senator-toomey-warns-sec-he-will-fight-to-protect-money-funds.html
U.S. Senator  Pat Toomey , a
Pennsylvania Republican, said he wouldn’t rule out proposing
legislation to protect money market mutual funds from new rules
being planned at the Securities and Exchange Commission.  “If much of this comes to pass it really threatens to wipe
out this product,” Toomey said today in a speech to the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce in  Washington . “This is a problem for
investors and borrowers who use this mechanism.”  The mutual funds industry is fighting new rules being
prepared by the SEC staff, saying they would destroy the $2.6
trillion money fund business. Regulators have debated how to
make the funds more stable since the September 2008 collapse of
the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, which triggered an
industrywide run by clients and helped freeze global credit
markets.  Should the SEC proceed with its planned reforms, which
would require approval by at least three of five commissioners
to enact, Toomey said he “wouldn’t rule out introducing
legislation that would push pack.”  Toomey echoed an argument made yesterday by the  Investment
Company Institute , a fund company trade group, that some
regulators are out to kill money funds, aiming his comments at
the U.S. Federal Reserve.  ‘Exactly the Intent’  “The Fed has long sought to change the way  money market
funds  operate,” said Toomey, who serves on the Senate Banking
Committee. “In the process, of course, it would tend to drive a
lot of money to banks, which is exactly the intent of some of
the people in favor of this.”  The first of two SEC proposals would force money funds to
abandon their traditional $1 share price, adopting a so-called
floating net-asset value. Industry executives have fought the
idea since it was raised in January 2009 by a think tank headed
by former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker .  The second plan would require funds to build a capital
cushion designed to absorb potential losses and hold back at
least 3 percent of client withdrawals for 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  