-- Singh Turns to India State Vote for Succor After Scandals
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-02-08T11:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/singh-turns-to-india-state-vote-for-succor-after-year-of-scandal.html
India ’s government gets a chance to
rebuild its political support after a year of setbacks and gauge
the popularity of  Rahul Gandhi , its touted next leader, as
voters go to the polls in the nation’s most populous state.  The Congress party, which leads the ruling federal
coalition, is set to more than triple its strength in the
provincial legislature of Uttar Pradesh and play the role of
kingmaker in forming the next administration even as it fends
off criticism over corruption scandals, opinion polls show.
Results in the monthlong elections that began today will be
announced March 6.  A higher tally in the state, where Congress holds 22 of 403
seats, would bolster Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  who in
December pledged to resurrect plans to allow foreign retailers
like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to open supermarkets that were stymied
by political allies.  Uttar Pradesh , with 200 million people, is
India’s biggest political prize, electing about a seventh of the
545 lawmakers in parliament’s lower house.  “There’s an opportunity for Congress to rebound after the
problems of last year,” said Satish Misra, a political analyst
at the New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation. “If it
improves its position as expected it will give them some fresh
momentum, which means they can be bolder in trying to push
through some of the difficult reforms.”  The fortunes of Gandhi, scion of Congress’ president and
three prime ministers, also ride on the result. A strong showing
in a state where he led campaigning raises the likelihood of his
succession, said B.G. Verghese, an analyst at the Centre for
Policy Research in  New Delhi  and a former aide to ex-Prime
Minister Indira Gandhi, Rahul’s grandmother.  Caste Politics  “If he does really well, then it will be something of a
personal triumph,” Verghese said in an interview. “Then people
will be rooting for him to take over the party.”  Indians took to the streets in 2011 to protest alleged
graft in an award of mobile-phone licenses and  inflation  that
stayed above 9 percent for a year. In a blow to Singh, the
 Supreme Court  decided Feb. 2 that mobile permits won by 11
companies in a 2008 sale would be canceled and will be auctioned
at a later date.  In Uttar Pradesh, which straddles the Ganges River,
politics is dominated by allegiances of caste and religion. Over
the last two decades, the rise of regional parties appealing to
identity has eroded support for Congress from the 269 seats it
won in 1985.  Since it lost control of  Uttar Pradesh  in 1989, the party
has needed coalition allies to rule nationally. The next general
election must be held by May 2014.  Poll Predictions  Opinion surveys suggest that no clear winner will emerge
from the election. Chief Minister Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj
Party, which draws its support mainly from those on the lower
rung of the traditional caste system and which won a majority
206 assembly seats in 2007, may see its strength slashed in half
to 101 seats, according to a poll conducted by  Nielsen Holdings
NV (NLSN)  and the Star News television channel.  “Mayawati has scored a number of own goals, this is the
reason Congress will benefit,” said Verghese. “She has led
what is seen as a rather corrupt government. The personal
extravagance has been quite astonishing.”  In October, Mayawati attended the official opening of a
park on the outskirts of New Delhi that used taxpayers’ money to
build statues of herself and icons of lower-caste leaders. The
project cost $139 million, the Times of India reported.  Main Contest  Her main opponent, the Samajwadi Party of Mulayam Singh Yadav, is likely to emerge as the biggest party with 135 seats,
38 more than in the previous vote, according to the opinion
 poll . Congress may win 79 seats, with its chief rival on the
national stage, the  Bharatiya Janata Party , coming fourth with
61 members in the state legislature.  Nielsen  questioned  35,973 people in 202 constituencies from
Jan. 4-20. It didn’t give a margin of error. Another opinion
poll carried out by India Today magazine and ORG also showed the
Samajwadi Party winning the most seats.  A poor result could plunge Singh’s government into renewed
crisis management as it prepares to present the federal budget
in March and revive plans to allow greater overseas investment.
Business leaders have urged steps to improve confidence in the
$1.7 trillion economy, which the central bank forecasts will
grow 7 percent in the year through March, the slowest expansion
in three years.  ‘More Pressure’  India’s benchmark stock market had its second worst year on
record in 2011, falling 25 percent as concerns about policy
paralysis caused an exodus of investors. The rupee fell 16
percent, the worst performing currency in  Asia .  If Congress helps the Samajwadi Party form a government it
may get support from Yadav’s 22 lawmakers in the lower house of
parliament, where Singh relies on parties outside his United
Progressive Alliance for a majority.  If Gandhi and Congress fail to significantly improve on
their performance in the state’s last election in 2007,
parliamentary allies may step up efforts to distance themselves
from the ruling coalition, said Mohan Guruswamy, chairman of the
Centre for Policy Alternatives in New Delhi.  “This would heap more pressure on the government after a
very tough year,” Guruswamy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  