-- Small Caps Rally as U.K. Investors Anticipate More BOE Stimulus
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   S i m o n a   F e r r a r i
-- 2012-02-08T00:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/small-caps-rally-as-u-k-investors-anticipate-more-boe-stimulus.html
U.K. small-cap companies are
outperforming, as investors anticipate additional stimulus from
the Bank of  England .  The FTSE SmallCap Index -- currently made up of companies
with market capitalization of less than 392.1 million pounds
($623 million) -- has risen  10 percent  so far this year,
compared with a  5.7 percent  gain for the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , which
represents about 80 percent of the U.K. equity market.  These stocks “snapped back” after about four months of
underperformance when concerns about another euro-area recession
peaked, said Graham Bishop, an equity strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in London. The possibility of further
stimulus measures has created a “pro-growth bias” for this
asset group, he said.  The Bank of England’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee
will increase the ceiling on its bond-purchase program by 50
billion pounds to 325 billion pounds at the meeting that begins
today, according to the  median forecast  of 50 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Policy decisions are scheduled to be
announced tomorrow.  Adam Posen , a member of the committee, is “leaning”
toward more stimulus because “there’s a case” for raising bond
purchases by 75 billion pounds, he said in a Feb. 2 interview
with Bloomberg Television.  The central bank has left the door open for further asset
purchases to prevent inflation from falling below its 2 percent
target, Governor  Mervyn King  said Jan. 24 during a speech in
Brighton, England. As price and wage growth have eased, there
also “is scope for  interest rates  to remain low,” he said.  Record Low Rates  The bank will hold its benchmark rate at a record low  0.5
percent  at the meeting, according to 56 economists in a separate
Bloomberg survey.  Small caps, with higher risks and potential rewards,
experienced a “real and immediate boost” on King’s
announcement, as the FTSE SmallCap broke its three-month high
relative to large-cap peers, according to Jim Stellakis, founder
and director of research at New York-based research company
Technical Alpha.  The possibility of more so-called quantitative easing has
spurred “a general increase in risk appetite,” so “investors
are going back to smaller stocks because they feel they’ll get
more bang for their buck,” said Keith Wade, chief economist at
Schroders Plc in London.  ‘Classic Policy’  Using “classic policy,” the central bank is encouraging
investors to move out of low-return Treasury assets and into
equities, said  David Hensley , director of global economic
coordination at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . It may be more
aggressive in trying to stimulate economic activity,
particularly “if the U.K. looks like it’s  contracting again ,”
he said. Britain emerged in 2009 from the deepest recession
since World War II.  U.K. small caps generate about half their revenue
domestically, so another slowdown might hurt their performance,
Bishop said. Gross domestic product shrank 0.2 percent in the
fourth quarter from the third, according to data released Jan.
25 by the  Office for National Statistics .  Wade and his colleagues are forecasting a 0.4 percent
contraction for 2012, following an estimated 0.9 percent
expansion in 2011, because of a “knockdown effect” from a
euro-area recession, he said. That probably will create a
sluggish backdrop for consumer demand and business investment,
while causing further job cuts and a drop in exports, he added.  ‘Buying Time’  This means central-bank policy may be “buying time” for a
liquidity-driven rally, said  Gary Baker , head of European equity
strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Along with the
fourth-quarter slowdown, credit availability for small
businesses remains “very tight,” so these companies “need
economic growth more than any other group,” he said.  Earnings forecasts for equities have moderated, so
investors may cherry-pick companies that can establish new
business drivers or take market share from larger competitors to
spur revenue, said  John Leahy , a  fund manager  at Hermes
Investment Management in  London .  When making selections for its small- and mid-cap  fund ,
Hermes focuses on “higher-quality stocks that should outperform
in a world where growth is scarce,” he said. Even though small
caps may be attractive now, “investor risk appetite can change
very quickly.”  Spirit Pub Co (SPRT) ., owner of the Chef & Brewer and Flaming
Grill chains, has outperformed the  FTSE SmallCap Index (SMX)  by 16
percent since Dec. 30. So-called like-for-like sales at its
managed-pub locations rose 6.2 percent in the 16 weeks ended
Dec. 10, the Staffordshire, England-based company said Dec. 16.  Intellectual Property  IP Group Plc (IPO) , which develops intellectual-property-based
businesses, has led the FTSE SmallCap by 20 percent since Dec.
30. The London-based company owns a 21.5 percent stake in Oxford
Nanopore Technologies Ltd., which is planning to market DNA
strand-sequencing products directly to customers this year.  Even with the  Bank of England  helping to create a “pretty
bullish outlook” for small-cap stocks, the group still is
trading at a discount of about 13 percent relative to large caps
on a price-to-earnings ratio, compared with a 10 percent premium
during the past decade, Bishop said.  “There’s still upside potential even after the latest
rally,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Simona Ferrari in London at 
 sferrari10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  