-- Solar Tulip Targets Facebook Generation With Designer Power
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-02-08T10:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/solar-tulip-targets-facebook-generation-with-designer-power.html
Aora Solar Ltd. is aiming to win
clients from the “Facebook generation” with community-scale
generators that double as giant sculptures, according to the
designer of its tulip-shaped solar towers.  The facilities, which use a combination of mirrors and
fuels such as natural gas or biomass to generate 100 kilowatts
of power, combine style and function to persuade design-
conscious consumers to erect generators close to their homes,
Haim Dotan said at the inauguration of the company’s second
plant.  “This project should be put on Facebook so all the
children of the world can see it, not only in professional
magazines,” said Dotan, who  also designed   Israel ’s pavilion at
the 2010 World Expo in  Shanghai . “Beauty doesn’t mean that it’s
more expensive. It’s down to fun and hard work.”  Aora this month began feeding power to the grid from its
second prototype plant in Almeria, southern  Spain , and aims to
install about 50 of generators this year, Chief Executive
Officer Zev Rosenzweig said. He’s seeking to raise $35 million
to $40 million of new capital so that he can build several
hundred generators in 2013.  The micro solar-thermal plants generate about 100 kilowatts
of power and cost about $550,000 each. They’re designed to allow
developers to build up capacity slowly without the project loans
needed by the biggest solar plants.  ‘Many Orders’  “I need the working capital to grow explosively,” he said
in an interview at the site of the Almeria plant. “If you’re
putting up 200 megawatts of concentrating solar power, you need
to find someone who’s going to trust you with a billion dollars
and that’s a declining demographic. I believe I will receive
many, many orders in next nine months.”  The solar tulip’s combination of solar and combustion-
fueled generation means it can guarantee to supply power 24
hours a day with its computer software blending the two energy
sources as the weather conditions fluctuate. The cost of power
from a solar tulip “compares very favorably” with any other
solar-thermal project that has been announced, Rosenzweig said.  The plants use an array of 50 computer-controlled mirrors
to focus the sun’s rays on a receptor atop a 35-meter tower,
which heats compressed air to 1,000 degrees centigrade and
powers a turbine. By using air rather than the steam turbines
most other solar-thermal plants have, Aora reduces the plant’s
water consumption to less than 230 liters a megawatt-hour
compared with 3,000 liters for a steam plant, Rosenzweig said.  Sun and Water  “This was developed for use in desert environments where
you have the most sun and the least water,” Rosenzweig said.  The plant in Almeria, the only desert in continental
 Europe , uses water for washing the mirrors and for cooling the
air sucked into the compressor when the atmospheric temperature
breaches 35 degrees centigrade.  Aora’s strategy contrasts with the approach of rival solar-
thermal developers such as  BrightSource Energy Inc (BRSE) . and Seville-
based  Abengoa SA (ABG)  that have been building ever larger plants in
southern Spain and the southwestern U.S. in a bid to drive down
the cost of equipment. BrightSource is building the world’s
largest solar power plant, a 392-megawatt generating complex at
Ivanpah in  California .  “I gain efficiencies by building a small, simple plant
over and over again,” Rosenzeweig said.  The solar tulip can match the power of a utility-scale
plant like BrightSource’s by building 100 or more units
together. Dotan, a former construction worker with offices in
 Tel Aviv  and Shanghai, imagines the towers painted in different
colors stretching out across the desert floor.  Deserts as Gardens  “Deserts are beautiful, but we want to turn them into
gardens,” he said. “The sun is going to make the desert
bloom.”  Aora, based in Rehovot, Israel, was spun off by EDIG
Industries last year and is majority owned by the CPC investment
fund. EDIG retains a 17.5 percent stake.  Rosenzweig said the technology can supply power to small
communities or business or directly to power companies. Aora is
in talks with an architect in California who wants to build one
$555,000 plant as the  power source  for a 60-home development
that will be independent of the  power grid .  A dairy cooperative in Spain is considering building a
tulip and using its excess heat for pasteurizing milk and,
through a technique called absorption chilling, to cool the
processed milk while producing biogas for the burner from its
cow dung.  “It’s a closed loop,” Rosenzweig said. “Anything that
comes out of the cow goes back” into the cycle.  Still, Rosenzweig, who previously worked in the nuclear
power and defense industries, isn’t relying on the generation
that has grown up with Facebook, the largest social network, to
deliver his business plan.  “It’ll take about 10 years to catch on with them,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  