-- Solution to Europe’s Crisis Lies in Mona Lisa’s Smile: Gill
-- B y   A . A .   G i l l
-- 2012-02-08T00:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/solution-to-euro-crisis-lies-in-mona-lisa-s-smile-commentary-by-a-a-gill.html
They discovered another  Mona Lisa  at
the Prado in  Madrid , just hanging about in the stock room.
“What do you think that is?” asked some Spanish curator.
“Let’s clean it and see. Caramba. It’s another  Mona Lisa ,”
painted contemporaneously by  Leonardo da Vinci ’s favored pupil,
perhaps his significant other.  It’s been a good year for Leonardo. His exhibition at the
 National Gallery  in London was praised as the greatest in living
memory. There were lines around Trafalgar Square and a thriving
black market for tickets. The show came as a startling reminder,
even to people who work in the art world, of what a toweringly
subtle and moving painter he was. We get blase and forget.  But the genius and peerless beauty of Leonardo reminded us
of something else we’d forgotten in the slow convulsions of the
euro crisis and all its miserable consequences. As a continent,
what we do well, we do better than anyone anywhere. Yet  Europe 
is now suffering a huge crisis of confidence. Not just
confidence in our banks and our chancelleries, but confidence in
our politics and our social fabric.  France  is having an election which, even by French
standards of insouciance, is a choice between the unappealing
and the unexciting. Britain is unpicking its own seams. Ireland,
 Portugal ,  Spain ,  Italy  and poor, benighted  Greece  are slipping
back into a black economy of make-do-and-moan. The new
democracies of eastern and central Europe are reverting to
strong men and xenophobia.  Angela Merkel  was going to be Mary
Poppins, now she seems more like  Rosa Klebb .  Cruise Liner Analogy  The strain and the weariness of hard times are ripping the
fabric of the continent. The Italian cruise liner on its side
was so obviously an allegory. Europe is tetchy and short-
tempered. Frightened, it passes round the catharsis of hot
blame. Bankers are humiliated out of their bonuses and their
knighthoods.  There aren’t ropes hanging from lampposts quite yet, but
this continent is suffering from the lowest morale, its worst
ego deficit, since the  Cold War . It’s not just about money and
jobs. It’s the disappointment, the sadness, the sense of loss.  It had all been going so well, one small improvement after
another since the  Berlin Wall  came down. All of Europe’s
collective institutions, its protocols and regulations were
built on the interest of a rich, companionable comfort and
conviviality. We honestly thought we’d cracked it, got an
elegant mix of market and society, common sense and regulation,
firmness and softness, back-scratching and nose-tapping. We
could, after all, be both Italian and German, Danish and
Hungarian, all at once, all together.  It doesn’t feel like that now. What it feels like is a big,
bitter pity party. And don’t think we haven’t noticed the lack
of sympathy out there in the other six continents. There is a
buoyant schadenfreude. The world has spent enough centuries
being lectured, patronized and mocked by Europe’s airs and
graces, its effete manners and diplomatic etiquettes, its
pontifications and cheese. A bit of fiscal pain couldn’t have
happened to more deservingly smug people.  What to do? Europe needs to go and visit its galleries and
museums, its theaters and concert halls. It needs to stand and
look out over its skylines and down its avenues at the
continent’s beggaring achievements, the fruit of the ebb and
flow of inspiration that bound together this bit of the world
long before the treaty of  Rome , or NATO.  Rigor, Craft, Panache  These things are not just dead and gone; they’re not
heirlooms or archaeology of a place that will never come again.
Europe’s collective culture is its greatest asset, worth more
than oil or gas. More than acres of black soil or forest, more
than cheap labor and command economies, more than all the
steepling graphs of mammon. Culture isn’t something that comes
out of nothing, and it doesn’t vanish into nothing. It isn’t the
icing or the dew. It isn’t decoration or a luxury. It’s the
sedimentary laying-downs of generations of brilliance, of rigor,
craft and panache. It is the intellectual mine that produces
more things that more people the world over want and value.  The desire of developing economies and countries is for
ideas and their fruits that are indigenously European, as they
have been for 2,000 years. From the houses they’d like to live
in, the furniture they want to sit on, the suits and frocks on
their backs, the food on their table, the books on the shelves,
the pictures on the walls, the music in their heads, the poetry
in their hearts, the ideas in their computers, the future of
their children.  The benchmark, the highpoints of civilization in any
discipline you care to consider, comes from this fret of land
between the Arctic and  Africa , the Bosporus and the Atlantic.
What the world aspires to is European -- its dolce vita, its
craic, its gusto, its charm, its gemuetlichkeit and its
sangfroid. This may all sound like awful hubris and saloon bar
boasting, but Europe could do with a bit of pride at the moment.
We’re spending such a lot of energy and worry looking down for
what we’ve lost, we’ve forgotten to look up at what we have.  (A.A. Gill, the restaurant and TV critic of the Sunday
Times of  London , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
A.A. Gill in London at  aagill1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 