-- Some Allen Stanford Assets Were Profitable, Former CFO Davis Tells Jurors
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-08T13:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/some-stanford-assets-were-profitable-before-u-s-seizure-ex-cfo-testifies.html
R.  Allen Stanford ’s businesses
collapsed in part because the stock market plunged and a court-
appointed receiver destroyed much of the companies’ value after
they were seized by the government, James M. Davis, Stanford
Financial Group Co.’s former finance chief, told jurors.  Davis, testifying yesterday for the government under a plea
deal at Stanford’s federal court trial in Houston, was shown a
letter he wrote shortly after regulators seized Stanford’s
companies in February 2009.  “There was from the start never a thought to put the
clients in harm’s way in this process, never a hint of criminal
intent,” Robert Scardino, a lawyer for Stanford, read from the
letter, which Davis said he wrote to an attorney he was trying
to hire to defend him at the time.  “The underlying global business growth model remained
strong,” Davis wrote in the letter, adding that some of
Stanford’s businesses were moving toward profitability.  “Isn’t that 180 degrees opposite from what you’ve been
telling this jury?” Scardino asked Davis. “You said these
companies had no value.”  Davis responded, “A number of the companies Stanford owned
were growing; they were worth something.” The 2009 letter
“could be true under certain circumstances,” he said.  The former finance chief told jurors he changed his mind a
month after writing that letter, when he met with his current
attorney, who persuaded him to seek a plea deal. “But at the
time I was still lying,” he said of the letter. “I was still
in the middle of it.”  Stanford’s Defense  Davis’s testimony may bolster Stanford’s defense that he
never intended to defraud investors of $7 billion through what
the U.S. says was a  Ponzi scheme  built on bogus certificates of
deposit at Antigua-based Stanford International Bank.  Stanford’s lawyers claim accountants were in the process of
consolidating companies the financier funded with $2 billion in
secret bank loans onto the Antiguan bank’s portfolio when
regulators stepped in and stopped the process.  “It would’ve been a last-ditch effort to hide the fraud
that had been going on and plug the hole” between the bank’s
reported and actual assets, which was revealed when investors
accelerated CD withdrawals from the bank, Davis testified.  “Was it to hide the fraud or save the bank?” Scardino
asked.  “It was one and the same,” the ex-CFO replied. “The show
would be over without something happening pretty quick.”  ‘Given Away’  Scardino said Stanford Group Co., the financier’s broker-
dealer, was “given away” by a court-appointed receiver who
recovered no value for it.  “It was carried on your books for half a billion
dollars,” Scardino said. “Oppenheimer offered more than that
for it.”  Davis testified that in December 2008, he received a
flowchart of a Stanford International Bank consolidation
project, which would have placed most of Stanford’s private
companies in a new umbrella company, Stanford International Bank
Ltd. Holdings. Jurors were also shown a solvency analysis Davis
received stating the consolidated companies’ fair market value
exceeded $8 billion at the end of 2008.  Davis said he received both e-mails from Gil Lopez,
Stanford’s former chief accounting officer, who worked on the
business consolidation. Lopez was charged along with Stanford in
June 2009 and is set to be tried in September.  Courtroom Visitors  Lopez, who says he’s innocent, has been in the courtroom
since Davis took the stand last week.  Mark Kuhrt , Stanford’s
former global controller, who is indicted with the other
Stanford executives, has also been a courtroom visitor.  Davis read the jury an e-mail he sent Stanford in November
2005, begging Stanford to spend more time with him discussing
“the many details of running these huge companies.”  Stanford’s attorneys have told the jury that their client
was a hands-off visionary who left the details of running his
companies to others, primarily Davis.  “So you were running the company?” Scardino asked Davis.  “No sir,” Davis replied. “His attention was desperately
needed.”  Davis testified that he hopes his cooperation will lead to
leniency when he is sentenced. Under the terms of his plea,
Davis, 63, faces as long as 30 years in prison.  Davis said while he doesn’t wish to spend the rest of his
life in prison, he’d rather be there than free and “bound as I
was for the last 20 years with Allen Stanford.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  