-- South Korean Lawmakers Vote for Limits on Greenhouse-Gas Emissions
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-02-08T08:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/south-korea-moves-closer-to-setting-limits-on-carbon-emissions.html
Lawmakers in  South Korea  voted to
impose greenhouse-gas limits on the nation's largest companies,
overruling industry opposition and laying groundwork for the  
third  emissions-trading  program in the Asia-Pacific region.    A special committee of the National Assembly on  climate
change  passed legislation today to establish a so-called 
cap-and-trade system in 2015. The bill now goes to the nation's
Legislation and Judiciary Committee, and then to the assembly's
plenary session on Feb. 16, the last step for the law.  South  Korea , the world’s eighth-largest carbon emitter
based on 2009 figures from the  International Energy Agency ,
approved limits after disagreements between opposition and
the ruling  Grand National Party  postponed the effort last year.
The nation said in November 2009 its target for 2020 is to cut
emissions by 30 percent from forecast levels, following similar
programs in Australia and  New Zealand .  “The legislation is the first step toward becoming an 
advanced country,” Kim Jae Yun, an opposition party member, said
at thecommittee meeting today. “We can resolve what companies
are concerned with.”  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s proposal sets emission targets
for almost 500 of Korea's largest polluters starting this
year as a lead-up to cap and trade in 2015. Manufacturing 
groups in Korea oppose the plan.   “Our position remains intact,” Im Sang Hyug, deputy
secretary general of the Federation of Korean Industries, told
lawmakers at today’s meeting. The association has about 509 
large companies as members. “We are opposing the legislation
on carbon-emissions trading. It’s doubtful whether we need the
bill, as government targets for cuts already began this year.”  Competitive Disadvantage  The Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, which counts
steelmaker  Posco (005490)  and Samsung Electronics among its 120,000
members, joined the Federation of Korean Industries in asking
the government to delay the plan. They said it will increase
costs and make them less competitive against countries that
don’t impose charges on emissions linked to climate change.  “Our major industries, such as semiconductor, steel,
refining and petrochemicals, are competing with rivals in  China ,
the U.S. and  Japan , which didn’t implement emission trading,”
Kim Tae Yoon, head of the Strategic Industries Team of the
Federation of Korean Industries, which has 500 company members,
said in an interview. Emission limits may reduce sales by 4
trillion won to 14 trillion ($3.5 billion to $12.5 billion)a
year, he said.  Added Burden  A majority of South Koreans think emission trading will be
an added burden, the federation said on Nov. 7, citing a survey
it conducted. The percentage of respondents against the
legislation was 67.5 percent, compared with 18 percent in favor,
according to the survey of 800 respondents between April 8 and
April 10.  Australia , which burns coal to produce about 80 percent of
its electricity, plans to start a cap-and-trade system in 2015.
It will allow companies that emit less that their cap to sell
unused permits to other polluters. New Zealand already started
emissions trading in 2009, and the European Union has operated
the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program since 2005.  “It’s not proper to compare our case with Australia and
New Zealand whose agricultural sectors account for a majority of
their economies,” Kim said. “They didn’t restrict the
emissions in their major industries tightly as much as our
government plans to do. The extent of the current scheme shows
our government is going backward.”  The government agreed to delay the start of cap and trade
to 2015 after consulting with companies, the vice minister said.  “We need to give incentives to companies that made
faithful commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions,” 
Yoon Jong Soo, vice minister for the environment, said today.
“The bill will give more flexibility to companies by allowing
the trade of emission rights.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  