-- Sprint’s Widening Loss Signals IPhone Not Helping Turnaround
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-02-08T21:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/sprint-reports-wider-than-estimated-loss-on-costs-for-subsidizing-iphone.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  reported widening
losses for the first quarter it offered the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone,
signaling the best-selling device may not be helping Chief
Executive Officer Dan Hesse turn around the carrier’s business.  Sprint sold 1.8 million iPhones last quarter, fewer than
some analysts projected and trailing larger rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
Verizon Wireless. The device also ate into Sprint’s margins by
boosting its subsidy expenses by about 40 percent. Sprint and
competitors sell the device at a loss to get consumers to sign
up for multiyear contracts.  “With the addition of the iPhone in the fourth quarter,
Sprint joined Verizon and AT&T in becoming a victim of Apple’s
success,”  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in New York, said today in a note to clients. He rates
Sprint shares “market perform.”  While the iPhone increased costs, it wasn’t enough to help
Hesse deliver on his promise to reverse a five-year decline in
contract subscribers for  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint.
Hesse, who is banking on the device to win subscribers from AT&T
and Verizon Wireless and to get existing ones to spend more,
declined to offer a customer-growth forecast for 2012.  Hesse did forecast service revenue growth of 4 percent to 6
percent for 2012, in line with analysts’ estimates. He also said
he expects the next iPhone edition to arrive around October, as
it did last year, and that the new version is “in our
guidance.”  Sprint  fell  1.6 percent at $2.41 at the close in New York.
It lost 45 percent last year, while Verizon and AT&T rose.  ‘Good Decision’  UBS AG predicted Sprint would sell 1.9 million iPhones.
 Verizon Wireless , the biggest U.S. wireless carrier, sold 4.3
million iPhones last quarter and AT&T activated 7.6 million of
the devices.  “Sprint was the only operator in the U.S. in which the
iPhone represented less than half of smartphone sales,” said
Walt Piecyk, an analyst with BTIG LLC.  Since the 2007 arrival of the iPhone at AT&T, Sprint has
been losing contract customers, who are lucrative because they
spend more each month than so-called prepaid users. In the past
five years, Sprint has lost 8.8 million, or 21 percent, of its
contract subscribers, while AT&T has gained 39 percent and
Verizon Wireless increased by 60 percent, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hesse said that while this was just the first quarter of
iPhone sales, he was confident of its benefits.  “Going with the iPhone was a good decision for a variety
of reasons,” said Hesse in a phone interview. For example, he
said, “40 percent of iPhone buyers were new customers to
Sprint.”  Money to Cupertino  The iPhone helped boost Sprint’s subsidy expenses to about
$1.7 billion from about $1.2 billion a year earlier. The device
from Cupertino, California-Apple carries higher subsidy cost
than other handsets, Sprint said. Hesse said he expects the
payback to come in the form of lower customer churn and higher
 average revenue  per user, or ARPU.  In the fourth quarter, the monthly ARPU for contract
customers climbed to $58.59, while the churn for such users
increased to 1.98 percent. Sprint’s net loss widened to $1.3
billion, or 43 cents a share, from $929 million, or 31 cents, a
year earlier.  “The financials are weak due to the amount of money they
are sending to Cupertino,”  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at
 Barclays Capital , said before the report. “This year and next
are going to be unattractive financially. I think people who own
Sprint might be looking more toward the prospects in 2014.”  Hesse said one of the main benefits for the iPhone is that
it brings Sprint on the same line with competitors. Dallas-based
AT&T and New York-based  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the parent
of Verizon Wireless, both also posted fourth-quarter losses
because of iPhone subsidy costs and one-time items. Apple’s net
income of $13.1 billion for the period ranked among the highest
quarterly profits on record.  “What’s been great since we’ve had the iPhone, is that
they have always been on the other team,” Hesse said. “Now
they are on our team and that’s a great feeling. We earned the
right to carry the iPhone and I’m glad that we did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  