-- Stanford Got 100-Foot Yacht While CFO Says He Settled for 12-Foot Boat
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/stanford-got-100-foot-yacht-while-cfo-settled-for-12-foot-boat.html
R. Allen Stanford was portrayed by
his ex-finance chief, James M. Davis, as the mastermind and
prime beneficiary of what prosecutors said was a $7 billion
 Ponzi scheme  built on bogus certificates of deposit at
Stanford’s Antiguan bank.  “Who ran the companies, you or Mr. Stanford?” Assistant
U.S. Attorney William Stellmach asked Davis, who has been
testifying under a plea agreement at Stanford’s fraud trial in
federal court in Houston. “Who profited overwhelmingly from the
conduct you described with the CD money?”  “Mr. Stanford,” Davis replied to both questions.  Davis identified a photo of an ocean-going sport yacht as
one of several Stanford owned before regulators seized his
assets on suspicion of fraud in early 2009. Davis told jurors
yesterday he owned a small boat on the pond at his Mississippi
farm.  “Mr. Stanford’s boat was 100 feet long; your boat was 12
feet long,” Stellmach asked Davis. “Is that a fair reflection
of how this was all divvied up,” referring to proceeds each man
realized from the alleged Ponzi scheme.  “Yes, that’s a fair reflection,” Davis told the jury.
“Follow the money,” he added, pointing across the courtroom at
his former boss.  Stanford, 61, has denied all wrongdoing and is fighting
charges he misled investors about the safety and oversight of
deposits at his bank. Prosecutors claim Stanford skimmed more
than $2 billion to fund a lavish lifestyle and dozens of private
companies that ranged from Caribbean airlines and real estate
developments to cricket tournaments.  Presented Evidence  Stanford’s attorneys presented evidence during the five
days Davis spent on the stand trying to paint the ex-CFO as a
thief who stole millions of dollars from Stanford’s operations
and ran the companies with little input from his boss.  “He had his finger on the pulse,” Davis testified
yesterday, repeating previous assertions that Stanford directed
him to falsify financial records, lie to Antiguan regulators and
bribe bank auditors to conceal Stanford’s borrowings and keep
investors’ cash flowing into Stanford International Bank.  “They were bamboozled by a smoke and mirrors show,” Davis
said of investors who lost more than $7 billion through
Stanford’s bank. “We reported to investors one way when in
actuality their money was being handled the opposite way.”  Bribes to Regulator  Kalford Young, an Internal Revenue Service criminal
investigator, also testified yesterday about banking records and
internal e-mails he said supported Davis’s claim that Stanford
bribed Leroy King, then Antigua’s top banking regulator, to
conceal the fraud. According to the documents, Young said,
Stanford gave King thousands of dollars in cash and club-level
tickets to National Football League Super Bowl championship
games.  Under questioning by Ali Fazel, another of Stanford’s
lawyers, Young said he didn’t know why the financier would
document such bribes with a paper trail Fazel described as “big
enough for anyone and their mother to find.”  “Are you saying Mr. Stanford is bribing someone and
copying his lawyer on it?” Fazel asked about e-mails in which
Stanford discussed King’s tickets. “He’s bribing Mr. King,
putting it on his  credit card , and having the bill sent to his
accountant?”  Stanford leaned forward at the defense table, grinning and
chortling quietly as his lawyer questioned the IRS agent.  Under resumed questioning by prosecutors, Young testified
that most white-collar criminal cases are built on paper trails.
He said investigators obtained Stanford’s records after he lost
control of the bank.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco 
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 