-- Stora Enso Rises as More Cost Cuts Are Uncovered: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-02-08T16:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/stora-enso-rises-as-more-cost-cuts-are-uncovered-helsinki-mover.html
Stora Enso Oyj (STERV)  rose to the highest
price in almost two weeks in Helsinki trading as Europe’s
biggest papermaker said it will be able to reduce costs further
and return more cash to investors.  Stora Enso advanced 1.2 percent to 5.73 euros, extending
the stock’s gain this year to 24 percent. The manufacturer,
based in the Finnish capital, is valued at 4.7 billion euros
($6.22 billion).  “It is part of the strength of the company that they can
find various, substantial cost savings through relatively simple
measures,” Lars Kjellberg, an analyst at Credit Suisse in
 London , said by phone today. “This is a new Stora, they will
continue to do small things to bring down costs.”  Chief Executive Officer Jouko Karvinen has trimmed costs
and restructured operations since 2007, seeking to counter
rising expenses and declining demand for newsprint and magazine
paper. UPM-Kymmene Oyj,  Europe ’s second-biggest papermaker, and
Sappi Ltd., the Johannesburg-based maker of fine-coated paper,
have also shuttered mills and eliminated jobs.  Stora Enso said today it will restructure its magazine
paper operations in Finland, France and  Germany , and improve the
efficiency of its Swedish maintenance operations, cutting a
total of 240 jobs. The papermaker said annual savings will be
69 million euros, with full impact of the cuts reached in the
third quarter of 2013.  Stora Enso proposed to pay 0.30 euros a share, the  highest
dividend  since 2008. Bloomberg had estimated the papermaker
would maintain the dividend at 0.25 euros a share.  A higher dividend “signals that they’re actually quite
comfortable, they can continue to do what they’re doing, cutting
costs,” Kjellberg said. “They will improve profitability in
the course of the year and the  cash flow  will continue to look
very good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  