-- Stryker Says CEO MacMillan Resigns for Family Reasons; CFO Takes Over Post
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-02-09T21:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/stryker-says-ceo-macmillan-resigns-for-family-reasons-cfo-takes-over-post.html
Stryker Corp.  Chief Executive Officer
Stephen MacMillan led the company’s expansion efforts and helped
the maker of artificial hips and knees navigate an industrywide
probe before his resignation yesterday for family reasons.  Curt Hartman, the chief financial officer, will serve as
interim CEO while Stryker searches for a permanent successor to
MacMillan, 48, who also served as board chairman and president,
the Kalamazoo, Michigan-based device maker said in a statement.
William Parfet, the board’s lead independent director, was named
the nonexecutive chairman.  MacMillan, who joined Stryker in 2003, took over as chief
executive officer on Jan. 1, 2005. Under his leadership, Stryker
acquired at least a dozen companies, including three in the past
year, adding medical implants and surgical products to grow
revenue, said  Joanne Wuensch , an analyst with BMO Capital
Markets in  New York .  “He initiated the diversification practices,” Wuensch
said in an interview. “He’s been at the forefront of saying,
‘How do I take this company and move it into a very different
orthopedic market?’”  MacMillan also guided Stryker through a U.S. Justice
Department investigation into the orthopedic industry, as well
as four warning letters from the  Food and Drug Administration ,
she said.  Share Performance  Stryker fell 1.4 percent to $53.96 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
trading. The stock had increased about 2.5 percent a year since
MacMillan became  CEO , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company reported Jan. 25 that fourth-quarter profit rose 36
percent on higher sales of medical and neurotechnology products.
Sales may climb this year as much as 6.5 percent on a constant
currency basis, Stryker said then.  “The board is thankful for Steve’s leadership over the
past nine years as the company has continued to grow in the
midst of a difficult economic period,” Parfet said in the
statement announcing MacMillan’s resignation.  MacMillan’s departure “is not good news” for Stryker,  Tao Levy , an analyst at Collins Stewart LLC in New York, said in an
interview. “He’s clearly had a good track record since he’s
been there. He’s navigated the company well during some very
difficult market times. He’s done a good job in growing and
diversifying the company over the last couple of years.”  MacMillan called it “an enormous privilege” to have led
Stryker during a period of change. “As I look ahead to the next
chapter in my life, I remain confident that the team will
continue to execute Stryker’s strategy with distinction and that
the company will enjoy continued success in the future,” he
said in the company’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  