-- Suntech Leads N.Y. Stock Climb on Solar Demand: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-02-08T22:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/suntech-leads-n-y-stocks-advance-on-solar-power-demand-china-overnight.html
Chinese solar companies climbed,
driving an index of the nation’s stocks traded in  New York  to
gain the most in a month, as  Renewable Energy  Corp. ASA said
demand for the technology is shifting to  Asia  and the U.S.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar-panel
maker, jumped 6.9 percent while  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  rose to a
three-week high.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International
Corp. (SMI) , a Shanghai-based circuit-chip maker, advanced after
saying first-quarter sales will increase from the previous three
months and traded at the biggest discount in two weeks to stock
in Hong Kong. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded
Chinese equities in the U.S. advanced 1.6 percent to 106.13
yesterday in New York.  Oversupply in the global solar industry is showing signs of
abating with demand expected to shift from  Europe  to Asian and
U.S. markets,  Renewable Energy (REC) , a Sandvika, Norway-based maker
of polysilicon used for producing solar modules, said in its
earnings presentation yesterday.  China ’s government aims to
double solar installations this year and has set preferential
power tariffs designed to encourage manufacturers and developers
to move into cleaner energy sources.  “Chinese solar stocks rebounded after a big loss last year
as we see a natural dynamic of geographical diversifications
from Europe to Asia,” Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an analyst who
covers the Chinese solar industry at Auriga USA LLC in New York,
said in an interview yesterday. “There is optimism in rising
China demand and it needs to adopt policies to greatly increase
solar installations, which will favor its own manufacturers and
the industry globally.”  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 1.7 percent to $40.40,
the biggest jump in three weeks.  Suntech Power rose to $3.85, the highest level since
September, extending its advance in the U.S. this year to 74
percent. The stock slid 72 percent in 2011 as solar module
prices fell amid industry overcapacity.  Trina Solar, China’s fifth-largest solar-panel supplier
based in Changzhou in the eastern Jiangsu province, surged 13
percent to $9.23, the most in four weeks.  Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. (YGE) , a Baoding, China-based maker of solar modules, rose
7.5 percent to $4.90, the highest level since Jan. 18.  China plans to develop three gigawatts of solar capacity
this year, double its existing capacity, the National Energy
Administration said on its website on Jan. 11. Installations in
China may reach four gigawatts this year, Zhenrong Shi,
Suntech’s chief executive officer, said in a Bloomberg TV
interview in Davos on Jan. 25.  Not Enough  The addition of three to four gigawatts in installations
annually is not enough for China, according to Auriga’s
Polavarapu. Installations may reach as much as seven gigawatts
this year, and the annual level should be 10 gigawatts in the
next five years should the government provide support to the
industry, he said. Polavarapu recommends investors “hold”
Suntech Power shares and “buy”  Trina Solar  and Yingli Green.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  added 0.2 percent to a
seven-month high of 1,349.96, while the Shanghai Composite Index
rose 2.4 percent to 2,347.53 yesterday, the highest level in two
months.  American depositary receipts of Semiconductor Manufacturing
increased 4.6 percent to $2.74. The ADRs, each representing 50
common shares in the company, traded 3.4 percent  below  stock in
Hong Kong, which surged 4.8 percent to HK$0.44 per share
yesterday, the equivalent of 5.6 U.S. cents and the biggest
discount since Jan. 26.  ‘Ahead of Street’  The company’s revenue for the first quarter this year will
rise between 7 percent and 9 percent from the last three months
of 2011, according to a filing with the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange
yesterday. Analysts had forecast a decline.  Fourth-quarter sales fell 5.6 percent from the previous
three months to $289.6 million, Semiconductor said. That was
lower than the $296.1 million average estimate of seven analysts
in a Bloomberg survey. The fourth-quarter net loss was $165.6
million, widening from $88.1 million in the previous quarter.  Semiconductor’s revenue guidance was “far ahead of street,
which was looking for a decline,” Steven C. Pelayo, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at HSBC Securities Asia Ltd. said by e-mail.
He maintained a “neutral” rating on the stock and a 12-month
price target of $2.65, citing “continued concerns over finding
profitability, which will come in more than a year away at
least,” he said.  Melco Earnings  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , the Macau casino operator,
will release its financial results for the fourth quarter today.
Adjusted  net profit  rose more than fivefold from a year earlier
to 15.6 cents for each ADR, according to the average forecast of
seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.                    Melco
Crown’s ADRs, which are equal to three common shares, climbed
4.1 percent to $11.91, the biggest gain in a week. That
represents a 2.3 percent  premium  to its shares in Hong Kong, the
most in three days.  Chinese consumer prices probably rose 4 percent in January,
compared with a 4.1 percent advance in December, according to
the median of 33 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The inflation data is due to be released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  