-- SuperGroup Falls on ‘Lower End’ Profit Forecast
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-02-08T09:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/supergroup-falls-on-forecast-of-lower-end-profit-london-mover.html
SuperGroup Plc , the owner of the
Superdry clothing chain, fell the most in four months after
predicting that annual pretax profit will be at the “lower
end” of analyst estimates because of a tough start to 2012.  The U.K. retailer  declined  as much as 18 percent, the most
since Oct. 5, after saying that revenue growth slowed in January
as shoppers held back on spending after Christmas.  Sales suffered in the last three weeks of January as
Britons were lured by heavy discounting at competitors, Chief
Executive Officer Julian Dunkerton said in an interview today.
The retailer, which doesn’t offer in-store price cuts, expects
that trading will “normalize” in the fiscal fourth quarter as
spring clothing reaches stores, he said.  “Although January is a small proportion of full-year
sales, we expect caution to prevail and for market forecasts to
be downgraded by around 5 percent,” said Mark Photiades, an
analyst at Singer Capital who recommends buying the shares.  The slowdown marks a backward step in the expansion of a
company that has increased sales almost 10-fold in four years
and plans to open 20 stores in the U.K. this fiscal year.
Retailers had their second-worst January on record last month,
with same-store sales falling 0.3 percent as consumers pared
spending, according to the  British Retail Consortium .  Pretax profit will be at the lower end of a range of 50
million pounds ($79.6 million) to 54.1 million pounds predicted
by analysts, the Cheltenham, England-based retailer said today
in a  statement . The average estimate for 2012 pretax profit in a
Bloomberg survey of nine  analysts  is 52.9 million pounds.  ‘Not Very Exciting’  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 4.4 percent in
the 13 weeks ended Jan. 29 from a year earlier, compared with
growth of 9.3 percent in December.  “If you’ve got three weeks of not very exciting sales,
it’s better to be cautious,” Dunkerton said in a phone
interview. “But I don’t see a reason for that to continue as
our competitors come out of discounting.”  The executive said the retailer is reviewing planned store
openings, with a preference for adding fewer, larger stores in
key locations.  “We will continue opening but we will be more selective
because it’s quite obvious the high street is changing, so what
you’ll probably see is a focus on larger, premium stores,”
Dunkerton said. “We could open 150 but the reality is we will
probably open less but larger.”  Share Performance  The stock was down 17 percent at 584 pence at 9:32 a.m.,
extending the 12-month decline to 67 percent and giving
SuperGroup a  market value  of 469 million pounds.  In December, SuperGroup reported a 3.7 percent drop in
first-half earnings caused by warehouse capacity shortages that
affected product availability. Problems experienced at the
Barnwood distribution center in western  England  have been
resolved, the company said at the time.  “Our focus in the coming year will be on rolling out our
new ranges in the U.K. and internationally, and making
improvements to the operational side of our business,”
Dunkerton said today in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  