-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed; Temenos Falls as Roche Advances
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-02-08T16:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/swiss-stocks-advance-ubs-credit-suisse-rise-as-temenos-drops.html
Stocks in Switzerland  were little
changed as  Greece ’s political leaders discussed an austerity
plan needed to obtain European Union-led financial aid.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  dropped 7.8 percent after the company said
that Misys Plc shareholders will hold a majority stake in a
merger of the two financial-software companies.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) 
advanced 0.8 percent as the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs obtained a priority review from the U.S. Federal Drug
Administration for its Pertuzumab treatment.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, lost less than 0.1 percent to
6,155.86 at the close in Zurich. The benchmark gauge has
advanced  3.7 percent this year  amid optimism that policy makers
will contain the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis. The broader
Swiss Performance Index was also little changed today.  “Investors are betting Greece will conclude a deal,” said
Jakup Petur Baerentsen, a chief equity adviser at Nordea Private
Bank in Copenhagen. “Patience will last till the end of this
week.”  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  postponed a meeting
yesterday with the heads of the three political parties that
support his government.  Papademos instead met the troika -- the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund  -- to haggle over the terms needed to secure
further aid, a spokeswoman said.  Bailout Conditions  George Karatzaferis, leader of Greece’s Laos party which
backs Papademos’s government, has received a draft document from
the troika of the requirements the country must meet to secure
additional aid, according to an unnamed spokeswoman from the
party’s press office.  Temenos tumbled 7.8 percent to 17.75 francs after saying
that Misys investors will own 53.9 percent of the company that
will be created from the merger of the two businesses. Temenos’s
Chief Executive Officer Guy Dubois will head the new entity.  Novartis AG, which makes up about 18 percent of the SMI,
dropped 0.7 percent to 51.30 francs.  Roche rose 0.8 percent to 162.30 francs after the FDA
awarded priority review status to the company’s breast-cancer
drug Pertuzumab. The board of Illumina Inc. advised shareholders
to reject a $5.7 billion bid from Roche to acquire the maker of
gene-mapping tools, calling the offer “grossly inadequate.”
Roche said it’s open for negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  