-- Syngenta Seeds Integration Ahead of Plan, Lifts Market Share
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-08T08:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/syngenta-2011-profit-rises-on-demand-in-latin-america.html
Syngenta AG , the world’s largest
maker of agricultural chemicals, said the redesign of the
company along crop lines is ahead of schedule, helping boost
market share and lift profit 16 percent last year.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization gained to $2.91 billion from $2.51 billion, the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. Sales increased 14 percent to $13.3 billion in 2011.  Syngenta’s results mirror those of U.S. competitor  Monsanto
Co ., which also benefited from stronger demand from Latin
America and the U.S. The integration of the Swiss company’s
crop-protection and seed units will be completed by the middle
of this year and probably already yielded a 1 percentage-point
gain in market share in  Latin America , Chief Executive Officer
Mike Mack said in an interview.  “We got the benefit on the top line of some early wins
where our strength in seeds in some markets pulls along crop
protection and the strength of crop protection pulls along
seeds,” Mack said in the interview. “We’re already seeing some
of that.”  Syngenta gained as much as 1.1 percent to 297 francs in
Zurich trading and the stock was at 296 francs as of 9:11 a.m.
local time. The stock has gained 7.5 percent this year, boosting
the company’s market value to 27.7 billion francs ($30.4
billion).  Syngenta is proposing a dividend of 8 francs a share, up
from 2010’s 7 francs, it said today. Both earnings and revenue
for the year were in line with the average analyst estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  War Chest  The integration may have secured an extra 20 to 30 basis
points of market share in  North America  and potentially a
similar amount in  Europe , Mack said. The revamp also saved the
company money with $112 million in efficiency gains last year as
it targets $650 million in savings by 2015.  The maker of agricultural chemicals, which competes with
Dow Chemical Co., DuPont Co.,  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and Bayer AG, expects
“sustained” sales growth this year and further gains in market
share, it said in the statement. The Ebitda margin will also
improve at constant exchange rates, Syngenta said.  The Swiss company, which had record cash flow of $1.5
billion in 2011, is seeking acquisitions to grow both its crop
protection and seeds businesses, and plans to keep enough cash
on hand to move quickly should an opportunity present itself,
Chief Financial Officer John Ramsay said in the interview.  “We have a full mergers and acquisitions team working
continuously on a number of targets of different sizes,” Ramsay
said. “And we’d like to pull more of those over the line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  