-- U.S. Senators Going to Egypt Amid Dispute Over American Workers
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-02-08T18:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/u-s-senators-going-to-egypt-amid-dispute-over-american-workers.html
U.S. Senator  John McCain  said he’ll
be among a group of senators traveling to Egypt as early as next
week amid a dispute over charges against American pro-democracy
workers.  McCain, the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, told reporters yesterday that the visit will include
discussions about U.S. military aid to Egypt.  Obama administration officials and lawmakers have
criticized Egypt’s plans to prosecute 43 people associated with
non-governmental organizations, including U.S. citizens. The
dispute has strained ties between the U.S. and Egyptian military
leaders over the pace of the country’s transition to democracy
and raised questions about the future of U.S. aid to Egypt.  U.S. General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, will continue to press the case of the Americans
during a separate, previously planned visit to Egypt later this
week, a U.S. military official said.  Dempsey plans to meet with his counterpart, Lieutenant
General Sami Hafez Enan, and other Defense Ministry officials in
Cairo, the official said on condition of anonymity because the
trip hasn’t been announced.  Egyptian authorities said they have charged 19 Americans
while U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland
yesterday put the number at 16, about half of whom aren’t now in
Egypt. Several of the Americans in Egypt have taken refuge in
the U.S. embassy in Cairo, according to Nuland, who withheld
both the precise number and the names.  President  Barack Obama  must certify to Congress that Egypt
is making progress toward democracy for U.S. aid to continue.  Aid ‘in Jeopardy’  “Congressional support for Egypt -- including continued
financial assistance -- is in jeopardy,” McCain  of Arizona
said yesterday in a joint statement with Republican Senator
 Kelly Ayotte  of  New Hampshire  and  Joseph Lieberman , a
Connecticut independent.  “A rupture in relations would be disastrous, and the risks
of such an outcome have rarely been greater,” the senators
said.  U.S. aid to Egypt, linked to the 1979 peace treaty with
 Israel , has averaged about $2 billion a year since then,
according to the  Congressional Research Service , the nonpartisan
research arm of Congress. Most of the aid goes to  Egypt ’s army.  Sam LaHood, who works for the International Republican
Institute, and Julie Hughes, the Egypt country director for the
National Democratic Institute, are among those who face
prosecution, Judge Ashraf el-Ashmawy told reporters in Cairo
Feb. 6. The groups are accused of “accepting funds and benefits
from an international organization” to pursue an activity
“prohibited by law” and carrying out “political training
programs,” the judge said.  Congressional Interest  The Washington-based groups are close to Republicans and
Democrats in Congress. LaHood is the son of U.S. Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood, a former Republican House member.  The senators’ trip to Egypt will involve stops in other
countries. McCain didn’t specify the itinerary or identify other
senators who will be on the delegation.  Dempsey’s visit will be his first to Egypt since taking
office, and the agenda also includes discussions of joint
military exercises, common threats and the new U.S. defense
strategy, the official said.  Pentagon officials including Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
have emphasized the need to resolve the dispute over non-
governmental organizations while continuing to maintain a
military relationship that is important to U.S. interests in the
region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  