-- Ex-DuPont Workers, Pangang Charged in Trade Secret Theft Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-09T03:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/u-s-charges-california-businessman-walter-liew-with-conspiracy.html
China ’s  Pangang Group Co. (PISZ) , California
businessman Walter Liew and two former  DuPont Co. (DD)  employees face
charges they conspired to steal  trade secrets  about titanium
dioxide technology from DuPont, according to the U.S.  Justice
Department  and a revised indictment.  The defendants made a “long-running effort” to obtain
U.S. trade secrets for Chinese companies, U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag in San Francisco said yesterday in a statement.  China sought to develop a manufacturing process for
developing chloride-route titanium oxide, a white pigment used
in paint, plastics and paper, and state-owned Pangang conspired
to steal the technology developed by DuPont, she said.  “The theft of America’s trade secrets for the benefit of
China and other nations poses a substantial and continuing
threat to our economic and national security,” Lisa Monaco,
assistant attorney general for national security, said in an e-
mailed statement  Pangang runs the largest titanium complex in China and is
one of the country’s largest titanium pigment producers,
according to its website.  Liew, of Orinda,  California , and the other defendants sold
information on DuPont’s trade secrets to Pangang so it could
develop a large-scale titanium-oxide factory in Chongqing,
China, Haag said.  The company began building the plant in 2010, with the
first phase scheduled to be commissioned at the end of this
year, according to Pangang’s website.  Conspiracy Charges  Pangang was charged in an indictment with conspiracy to
commit economic espionage, attempted economic espionage and
conspiracy to commit trade-secrets theft. A former vice director
of Pangang’s chloride process titanium oxide project department
who is a Chinese citizen was also charged and a warrant issued
for his arrest, the Justice Department said.  A former DuPont employee who had access to information
about a company titanium oxide plant in  Taiwan  was arrested
today in Harbeson, Delaware, and charged. A second ex-DuPont
employee who lives in  Newark , Delaware, was also charged, the
agency said. Arraignment is scheduled for March 1.  Liew was charged with attempted economic espionage,
according to a superseding indictment filed yesterday.  He was previously charged with witness tampering and
threatening a former employee to prevent the disclosure that he
had hired two former DuPont workers to help design manufacturing
facilities for customers in China.  Dupont Civil Suit  The threat allegedly came just days after Liew and the
employee were sued in a civil case by DuPont and accused of
giving confidential information about the manufacturing process
to competitors in China, according to a 2011 indictment. DuPont,
based in Wilmington,  Delaware , the world’s largest manufacturer
of titanium dioxide, reported the technology theft to the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation , leading to a federal
investigation starting last March, prosecutors said.  Since then, the government has obtained documents that it
alleges show that Liew was directed by a Chinese government
official to obtain technology needed to build the pigment
manufacturing factories, according to a Jan. 31 court document.  A magistrate judge in San Francisco on Feb. 1 ordered that
Liew remain in custody after his lawyers sought his release.  Liew’s lawyer,  Thomas Nolan , declined to comment yesterday
on the revised indictment.  Liew owned Oakland-based USA Performance Technology Inc.,
according to the first indictment, filed in August. DuPont sued
the company in April.  Company General Counsel  “We are disappointed that former DuPont employees working
together with certain companies allegedly stole our proprietary
technology,” Thomas Sager, DuPont general counsel, said in an
e-mail. “Upon learning of the apparent breach, we took prompt
action and filed a civil suit. We also referred the theft of our
technology to  law enforcement .”  China’s  Anshan Iron & Steel Group  won government approval
in May 2010 to merge with rival Pangang Group. Calls to Pangang
spokesman Zhou Jun seeking comment about the charges weren’t
answered. An Anshan spokeswoman, who declined to be identified
due to a company policy, declined to comment about the case. The
Chinese consulate in  San Francisco  couldn’t be reached
immediately for comment on the charges.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Liew, 3:11-cr-00573, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 