-- U.S. Faces Downgrade If No Plan: Chambers
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-02-08T17:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/u-s-faces-downgrade-if-no-plan-chambers.html
The U.S., lacking a plan to contain
$1 trillion  deficits , faces the prospect of another rating cut
in six to 24 months depending on the outcome of November
elections, according to  John Chambers  of  Standard & Poor’s .  America has had an AA+ rating with a negative outlook since
Aug. 5 when the New York-based unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. stripped
the nation of its AAA ranking for the first time, citing the
government’s failure to agree on a path to reduce deficits.
The U.S. has a one-in-three chance of another downgrade, Chamber
said today during an S&P sponsored Webcast.  “What the U.S. needs is not so much a short-term fiscal
tightening, but it has to have a credible medium-term fiscal
plan,” said Chambers, managing director of sovereign ratings.
“That is going to have to say something about entitlements, and
that is probably going to have to say something about
revenues.”  Bond investors ignored the downgrade, driving Treasury
yields to the lowest levels in history, amid concern the  U.S.
economy  was stalling and as  Europe ’s debt crisis intensified.
Treasuries have returned 3.9 percent since the rating cut and
gained 9.8 percent last year, the debt’s best performance since
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “I don’t think anything is going to happen between now and
the election in November,” Chambers said.  S&P said in August that political brinkmanship over
increasing the government’s debt ceiling year showed the U.S. is
becoming “less stable, less effective and less predictable” as
the Treasury almost reached its borrowing limit before the
government reached a compromise.  The “political brinkmanship hasn’t gone away,” Chambers
said today. “That simply doesn’t happen in other AAA
economies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  