-- U.S. Troop Shift to Guam May Ease Tensions With Japan Over Okinawa Bases
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-02-08T16:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/u-s-japan-to-announce-troop-relocation-plan.html
The U.S. and  Japan  agreed to move
thousands of Marines to Guam from Okinawa in a cost-cutting move
that circumvents a disputed base relocation agreement that has
frayed bilateral relations.  “We are committed to reducing the burden on Okinawa,”
Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  said at a press conference today
in Tokyo in announcing the agreement. “This marks a major step
forward in deepening the Japan-U.S. alliance.”  The realignment separates the troop shift from an agreement
to relocate the Marine Corps  Air Station Futenma  on Okinawa to
another part of the island that has stalled over local
objections. Okinawans have repeatedly called for the facility to
be moved elsewhere, citing crime and pollution, and the issue
led to the 2010 resignation of Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama 
after he submitted to U.S. pressure to confirm the deal.  While Gemba gave no details of troop numbers, President
Barack Obama will send about 4,500 Marines stationed in Japan to
Guam as he curtails a plan costing as much as $21.1 billion to
expand the military’s presence on the island, according to
people familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of
anonymity. The U.S. will rotate an additional 4,000 troops
through Australia, the Philippines and Hawaii, the people said.  “Futenma is virtually impossible to move, and the U.S.
must evolve its military posture without waiting for Japan,”
said Kunihiko Miyake, a former Japanese diplomat and now
director of research at the Canon Institute for Global Studies
in Tokyo.  Camp Schwab  Today’s statement reaffirmed the intention of both
governments to move the air station to a new facility at Camp
Schwab, near the Okinawan town of Henoko.  “Under no circumstances does this mean that the Futenma
air base will remain in place for good,” Gemba said.  The U.S. and Japan have “agreed to delink the movement of
Marines to Guam” from progress on replacing Futenma,  George
Little , a Pentagon spokesman, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Both countries are continuing discussions on the next steps
and ways to “mitigate the impact of the Marine presence on the
Okinawan people,” Little wrote. “It’s premature to discuss
troop numbers or specific locations associated with the
relocation of Marines from Okinawa,” until the negotiations
between U.S. and Japan are complete, he said.  Guam will continue to be developed as a “strategic hub
with an operational Marine Corps presence,” Little said.  Realigning to Asia  Obama is realigning Asia-Pacific forces as his
administration moves to blunt  China ’s expanding influence in an
area that accounts for half the world’s economy. At the same
time, the Pentagon is seeking to cut about $490 billion from
projected  spending  over a decade.  As part of a 2006 agreement with Japan, 8,000 Marines and
9,000 dependents were to be transferred from Okinawa almost
1,500 miles (2,414 kilometers) south to Guam by 2014. Japan pays
about 188 billion yen ($2.4 billion) a year to host  38,000
American military personnel and 43,000 dependents as part of a
52-year security treaty. More than 75 percent of the bases are
on Okinawa, about 950 miles south of  Tokyo .  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , Japan’s sixth leader in five
years, hasn’t been any more successful than his predecessors in
persuading Okinawa residents to accept the base transfer. He was
forced to replace his defense minister after a ministry official
was fired for comparing the relocation to rape, recalling a 1995
incident in which three American soldiers sexually assaulted an
Okinawan schoolgirl.  Australia, Philippines  Last May, Democratic U.S. Senators  Carl Levin  of Michigan
and  Jim Webb  of Virginia joined Republican Senator  John McCain 
of Arizona in calling on the Defense Department to save money by
reducing the Marine Corps expansion on Guam.  U.S. troops will be stationed in northern  Australia  under a
plan that Obama and Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  announced in
November. The U.S. and the Philippines last month agreed to
“deepen and broaden” maritime security cooperation as
Philippine officials seek closer ties to deter China from
operating in disputed waters in the  South China Sea .  “The U.S. is shifting its projection of power to the
Pacific region amid China’s rise,” said Tomohiko Taniguchi, a
former Foreign Ministry official and a visiting professor at
 Keio University  in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  