-- Humm’s $340 Bespoke Menu Offers Foie Gras, Perfect Duck: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/humm-s-340-bespoke-menu-offers-flawless-foie-gras-dry-aged-duck-review.html
Danny Meyer  has left Eleven Madison
Park. His signature service has not.  Sure, chef and co-owner Daniel Humm serves outstanding
French-American fare. But it’s the hospitality, at once studied
and effortless, that secures  Eleven Madison Park’s  place among
New York’s great restaurants.  The telepathic wait staff and the luxe Art Deco space --
with cushy banquettes and cathedral ceilings -- helps take the
sting out of the $340 per person you’re spending for a wine-
paired tasting menu. That buys you 17 courses, 13 glasses of
wine and one giant kettle of New England clam chowder.  You dispense it yourself into Japanese-style teacups.  Too much work given these prices? I’d call it self-
regulation.  Creme fraiche smooths the bivalves’ briny edges without
overpowering the oceanic bite. The “wine” pairing is lemony
Southampton Saison Deluxe beer, which is unassailably perfect.  Your host, general manager and co-owner Will Guidara
beckons you into the kitchen for your liquid nitrogen course.
Applejack brandy freezes into sorbet that sublimates into a
bracing yet ethereal spirit on your tongue.  Lemon Lobster  Back at your table, the linens have been replaced and set
with a lobster tail poached in Meyer lemon butter, a charred
leek and a dark gash of shellfish bisque made with black garlic,
squid ink and shellfish stock.  Dewazakura Ginjo sake ($11) adds a cherry blossom sting to
complete the effect.  House-smoked sturgeon, firm and oily, arrives with a tin of
Sterling Royal caviar. Consider a fizzy flute of  Pierre Gimonnet 
Champagne for $19.  Meyer, who continues to seed  Wall Street , Main Street and
 Kuwait  with more  Shake Shacks , would be proud. He transferred
ownership of the restaurant to Humm, 36, and Guidara, 32, after
it received its third Michelin star late last year.  Change was already in the works. Two Septembers back,
Eleven Madison Park’s management tossed a quarter of the dining
room’s seats, hiked the entry-level dinner price to $125 and
streamlined the menu.  Guests who don’t opt for the longer unwritten tasting get
to pick four courses from a list of sixteen ingredients.  There are no menu descriptions and no supplemental charges.
No need to do mental math for the langoustine course, because it
doesn’t cost extra.  More Foie Gras  Let other establishments issue “no substitution” decrees.
Eleven Madison Park encourages guests to help tailor the bespoke
culinary experience.  Your waiter asks for preferences. I tell the kitchen I’m a
spicy sort of guy. Out comes curried cauliflower four-ways:
roasted, sous-vide, pureed and crumbled into a lemony couscous.
Fantastic.  I ask for foie gras. Out comes sea urchin, caviar and duck
liver torchon, three rich delicacies under the adult supervision
of a puckery apple gelee.  That’s your light preparation. A snappy Austrian Riesling
(Jager 2009) is the right pairing.  Humm’s not done yet. Dry-aged duck for two, Beijing by way
of Provence, is the belt-loosening deal closer. The breast,
perfumed with lavender, has a crackling lacquered skin. The fat
is rendered; the flavor, bold and gently gamy.  Then comes the parfait: bowls of potato mousseline, white
fluff hiding leg confit and still more foie gras.  Strong, Man  This is all calls for a muscular American Rhone blend, so
get the job done with an Esprit de Beaucastel from Tablas Creek,
 California  ($75 for 375 ml, two or three glasses).  Dinners include infinite amuses, intermezzos, petits fours
and parting gifts like salty yogurt lollipops (no thanks), goat
cheesecake (now we’re talking), orange egg creams (too sweet),
olive oil egg creams (luscious and salty) and white truffle ice
cream balls (sensational).  It’s impossible to leave Eleven Madison Park without
feeling that you’ve experienced greatness. And it’s not just the
brandy talking -- a bottle of Guillon-Painturaud (or sometimes
applejack) is left on your table at the meal’s end for free
pouring. Smooth indeed.
Rating: ****  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: $125 for four courses; $195 for tasting; lunch, $74
for four course, $125 for tasting.  Sound Level: Subdued; rarely over 70 decibels.  Date Place: Same-side banquette seating for intimacy.  Inside Tip: Wines by the glass ($9-$35) and pairings ($95-
$145) best the bottle list for the long menus.  Special feature: Killer coconut sorbet for dessert.  Back on My Own Dime? At the bar.  Eleven Madison Park is at 11 Madison Avenue. Information:
+1-212-889-0905;  http://www.elevenmadisonpark.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 