-- Hungary Bond Yields Reach 2-Month Low Before Offering on IMF Aid Prospect
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-08T16:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/hungary-bond-yields-reach-2-month-low-before-offering-on-imf-aid-prospect.html
Hungary’s bond yields fell to the
lowest in more than two months before an auction tomorrow on
speculation Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will take steps needed
to obtain an international bailout.  The state is offering 43 billion forint ($198 million) in
notes maturing in 2015, 2017 and 2022 at tomorrow’s biweekly
sale. A seventh day of gains in the 2017 securities cut yields
14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 8.245 percent at
5:10 p.m. in Budapest, the lowest since Nov. 17. The forint
appreciated 0.2 percent to 289.74 per euro.  Orban is ready to compromise for the good of the country,
he said in his annual state of the nation address in Budapest
yesterday, echoing statements from the last month that he is
ready to yield on most laws criticized by the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund  to reach a deal on aid.  “Bonds have extended their gradual rally,” Sandor Jobbagy, a Budapest-based fixed-income analyst at  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA  unit CIB Bank Zrt., said in a telephone interview
late yesterday. “That’s partly because the market expects an
agreement with the IMF.”  Hungary may start financial aid talks with the EU and IMF
by late February or early March, Vilaggazdasag reported today,
citing an EU official. The government is ready to accept a
European Commission demand that an age-limit for judges should
be scrapped to settle a dispute that has obstructed talks on the
bailout agreement, news website Origo reported yesterday, citing
a letter the government sent to the EU.  ‘Conciliatory’  The debt agency, known as AKK, bought back 15 billion
forint in bonds due this year at an auction today. The cost of
insuring against default on  Hungary ’s debt with credit-default
swaps fell to 545 basis points from 548 basis points yesterday,
according to data provider CMA.  “It remains apparent that the government is striking a
more conciliatory tone toward the international organizations,”
Zoltan Arokszallasi, a fixed income analyst at Erste Group Bank
AG in Budapest, wrote in an e-mailed report today, commenting on
yesterday’s speech by Orban. “The most likely outcome is that
the deal with the IMF and the EU on aid will be done in the
first half of the second quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  