-- UniCredit, IBM Signs $200 Million Agreement on Outsourcing
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-02-08T13:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/unicredit-ibm-signs-200-million-agreement-on-outsourcing.html
UniCredit SpA’s Ukrainian unit  signed
a $200 million agreement with  International Business Machines
Corp.  to outsource information technology systems as the bank
seeks to cut costs and improve  customer service .  “This is the first instance of full outsourcing in the
region and marks a new era” “in the development of Ukraine’s
financial service sector,” Joseph Benaroya, vice president of
IBM Global Technology Services, said of the 10-year agreement in
a statement. “Banks across growth markets are currently under
enormous pressure to reduce costs and operational complexities
while at the same time improve the customer experience.”  Armok, New York-based IBM wants to expand in the former
Soviet republic. UniCredit’s unit is the country’s fifth-largest
lender by assets as of Jan. 1, according to central bank  data .
It has a network of nearly 400 branches and provides services to
over 2 million customers across Ukraine.  “By outsourcing our informational technology activities to
IBM we are able to focus on our core business priorities,”
Francesco Pusateri, head of UniCredit’s Global Banking Services
Division, said in the same statement. It “will help us to
strengthen our leadership in the Ukrainian banking sector.”  The cooperation with UniCredit’s Ukrainian unit will result
also “in growing interest in the region in the same type of”
services, said Alexander Bloch, the IBM’s head of financial
services in Russia and CIS, by phone from Kiev. It may bring
other deals for IBM as “competitors don’t want to be left
behind and they will have to look for potential outsourcing of
their own IT.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  