-- Unions Lula Loved Test Rousseff’s Brazil Austerity Plan With Strike Threat
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-02-08T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/unions-lula-loved-test-rousseff-s-brazil-austerity-plan-with-strike-threat.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ,
whose Workers’ Party rose to power because of ties to the labor
movement, is being tested by public employees threatening to
strike for higher pay.  Civil servants won eight years of wage increases above
inflation under former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva . They
now believe Rousseff has become a “hostage” of the global
financial crisis during her first year in office, denying raises
to keep spending down, said Pedro Armengol, public sector
coordinator of CUT, Brazil’s biggest labor confederation.  “If by March we don’t have a real negotiation, with
numbers on the table, workers will use their fighting tools to
pressure the government,” Armengol said in a telephone
interview from Brasilia. “It could come to a general strike.”  Rousseff, 64, is trying to curb spending that her mentor
Lula inflated so the central bank can continue the cycle of
interest-rate cuts it began in August to shield Brazil from
 Europe ’s debt crisis. The task is being complicated by calls for
spending from her coalition in Congress and 140 billion reais
($80 billion) in infrastructure investments that Brazil needs to
host the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Olympics.  Total federal public wages rose 2 percent above last year’s
inflation rate, which was 6.5 percent. The average annual
increase for public servants during Lula’s second term was
around 7 percent in real terms, according to  Tendencias
Consultoria Integrada , an economic research firm in  Sao Paulo .  Major Raise  Federal employees last won a major raise in 2008, during
Lula’s second term, when he granted them 35 billion reais to 
be spread over five years, according to the Planning Ministry. 
This year, public workers and retirees are asking for 40 
billion reais, about 22 percent of personnel costs last year.  If Rousseff yields to pressure, it could put at risk fiscal
targets already strained by slowing economic growth, said
Braulio Borges, chief economist of  LCA Consultores . Brazil this
year is seeking to boost to 139.8 billion reais its  budget
surplus  before interest payments for the federal, state and
local governments, the equivalent of 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product.  “To meet the primary surplus target, she has to hold down
civil service expenses,” said Borges in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo. “It’s a fight that’s worth pursuing.”  Rousseff’s Secretary General Gilberto Carvalho, who is
responsible for negotiations with the public employee unions,
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Stalled Economy  Latin America ’s biggest economy contracted in the third
quarter for the first time in more than two years. To boost
growth that Rousseff hopes will reach 4.5 percent this year --
above the 3.3 percent forecast by analysts -- the government is
lowering  interest rates , cutting taxes and loosening lending
requirements.  Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock  index  has risen 16 percent
this year, after an 18 percent plunge in 2011, while the real
has rallied 8.2 percent. The extra yield investors demand to own
Brazilian government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has
fallen 22 basis points this year to 203, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The payroll for Brazil’s 1.4 million active and retired
civil servants consumed 22 percent of the federal government’s
net revenue last year. That compares with 5.8 percent it spent
modernizing roads, ports and other infrastructure that it needs
to make the economy more competitive.  Heavy Tax Burden  With the minimum wages used to calculate pension payments
set to rise 14 percent this year -- more than double last year’s
6.5 percent inflation -- the room for more spending is limited,
said Tendencias economist Felipe Salto. He estimates  Brazil ’s
tax burden in 2011 at 34 percent of GDP, one of the highest
among  emerging markets , making it “very difficult” for the
government to increase taxes to fund more spending.  As part of her bid to trim 60 billion reais in spending
last year from the 2.3 trillion reais budget, Rousseff froze
federal hiring and shelved Lula’s plans to buy a fleet of
fighter jets. She’s also fired seven ministers amid allegations
of corruption, moves that sparked criticism from coalition
parties that grew accustomed under Lula to using control of
ministries to award contracts to allies.  Rousseff plans to announce another round of belt tightening
this month. She’s also pushing Congress to pass legislation that
would replace the state-run pension system for federal employees
with a privately-managed one, a move that would gradually
eliminate a shortfall responsible for a third of Brazil’s 94
billion reais public deficit last year.  Cold Shoulder  The last time public servants carried out a general strike
was in 2001, at the end of President  Fernando Henrique Cardoso ’s
second term. The work stoppage lasted 45 days before unions
began returning to work.  Paulo Pereira da Silva, head of Forca Sindical, the second-
biggest union umbrella group in the country, said that Rousseff
has turned a cold shoulder to the  labor movement .  While Lula, during his two terms as president, talked to
the union leader “almost every day,” Rousseff has met with him
briefly just twice since she was elected in October 2010, Silva
said.  “It’s hard not to get along with someone who negotiates
like Lula,” said Silva, who is also a lower house lawmaker for
a party belonging to Rousseff’s coalition. “We had a direct
link.”  Calling in Lula  Unlike Lula, 66, who grew up in poverty and helped found
the Workers’ Party in the 1980s as head of the metalworkers’
unions near Sao Paulo, Rousseff didn’t join the PT until the eve
of his election in 2002. An economist by training, she’s a lover
of opera and French literature.  “Dilma is new in the party, without Lula’s history,
leadership and emotional appeal,” said Rogerio Schmitt, a
political analyst for consulting firm Eyes on Future in Sao
Paulo. “Lula could actually be the exception, not the rule,
regarding general strikes, since he’s the only one who managed
to avoid them.”  Unions have become more combative since Rousseff took
office. A monthlong strike last year by postal workers forced
consumers to wait in long lines to pay undelivered utility
bills. Bank workers, teachers and metal workers have also walked
off the job in the past year to demand higher wages.  Still, a general strike now would damage the PT’s standing
with union campaign contributors heading into October’s
municipal elections more than the president’s, said Leonardo Barreto, a political scientist at the University of Brasilia.
Rousseff has a 59 percent approval rating, the highest of any
president after the first year in office since direct elections
resumed in 1989, according to a Jan. 22 survey by Sao Paulo-
based polling firm Datafolha.  If a strike does appear imminent, Rousseff also has an ace
up her sleeve: Lula.  “Defusing the bomb is something he would gladly do,” said
Schmitt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  