-- United Technologies Is Said to Weigh Sale of Pumps Unit for Goodrich Deal
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-02-09T14:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/united-technologies-is-said-to-weigh-sale-of-pumps-division.html
     Feb. 9 (Bloomberg) --  United Technologies Corp.  is studying
the sale of a pump- and compressor-making division to raise cash
for the planned purchase of aerospace supplier  Goodrich Corp. (GR) ,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising on the potential
divestiture of some or all of that business, which is part of
the  Hamilton Sundstrand  unit, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private. The
company may decide not to go ahead with a  sale , which may value
the unit at $2 billion or more, the people said.  The industrial products unit, which makes Milton Roy pumps
and Sullair compressors, is among the few at  United Technologies 
not focused on aviation or commercial buildings. Executives have
been weighing asset sales to limit the amount of stock needed
for the $16.5 billion cash purchase that will add Goodrich to
the maker of Otis Elevators and Sikorsky helicopters.  “There’s absolutely no synergies I can really think of
between one of those Sullair compressors on two wheels at a
construction project and anything else they do,” said Brian Langenberg, an analyst at Langenberg & Co. in  Chicago .  Potential buyers may include construction-equipment makers
betting on a rebound in the non-residential market, Langenberg
said yesterday in a telephone interview. Hartford, Connecticut-
based United Technologies may be able to raise $1 billion more
by selling assets in its fire and security unit, he added.  Rocketdyne Unit  Also under way is an effort to find a buyer for Rocketdyne,
a maker of engines for civilian and military rockets, the people
said. Deutsche Bank AG and Moelis & Co. are advising on that
sale, which may raise $400 million or more, the people said.  John Moran , a spokesman for United Technologies, declined
to comment. Spokesmen for Goldman Sachs, Moelis and Deutsche
Bank also declined to comment.   United Technologies  acquired most of the industrial-
products business in the 1999 purchase of Sundstrand Corp. The
unit’s annual sales probably exceed $1 billion, according to
estimates from analysts such as Robert Stallard at  RBC Capital
Markets .  Rocketdyne, a part of the Pratt & Whitney unit, typically
reports $700 million to $800 million in revenue, based on
presentations and filings. Rocketdyne President Jim Maser said
last year that the unit got about 60 percent of its revenue from
 NASA , which flew the last space shuttle mission in 2011.  ‘Actively Working’  Chief Financial Officer Greg Hayes said at an investor
conference in  New York  yesterday that United Technologies was
“actively working with some banks and some potential buyers”
on asset sales, without specifying the assets under review.  The shares rose 1.6 percent to $83.06 at 9:50 a.m. in New
York. They fell 2.6 percent in the past year through yesterday.  The company agreed to buy Goodrich in September. Goodrich
and  Hamilton Sundstrand  will be combined into a new unit, UTC
Aerospace Systems, and be based in Goodrich’s hometown of
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert ’s plan at the time
called for financing about 25 percent of the deal with stock and
the rest with new debt. Since then, executives have discussed
the idea of selling assets to shrink the equity portion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  