-- University of Memphis Will Join Big East Conference in All Sports in 2013
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-02-08T19:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/university-of-memphis-will-join-big-east-conference-in-all-sports-in-2013.html
The  University of Memphis  joined the
 Big East Conference  for all sports beginning with the 2013-14
academic year, moving the league’s football membership to 12
schools eventually and 17 total.  “Many years ago we set as a departmental goal the task of
being the best that we could be in every athletic endeavor,”
 Memphis  Athletic Director R.C. Johnson said in a statement.
“With today’s invitation to join many of our friends in such a
prestigious conference means we have achieved one of our top
missions.”  Memphis is a member of Conference USA. By switching to the
Big East, it will resume a league rivalry with the University of
Louisville.  Memphis, which plays 10 men’s sports and nine women’s,
joins the Providence, Rhode Island-based  Big East  two weeks
after the U.S. Naval Academy said it would join the conference
in football as of 2015. Memphis’s addition will give the
conference 11 football teams until Navy begins play, one short
of the 12 teams necessary under National Collegiate Athletic
Association rules to hold a conference title game.  Pittsburgh and Syracuse announced their departure from the
Big East for the Atlantic Coast Conference in September, which
was followed by  West Virginia ’s announcement that it would join
the Big 12. Texas Christian backtracked on a plan to join the
Big East and also landed in the Big 12.  The Big East responded by adding Navy, Boise State and San
Diego State for football, as well as Southern Methodist,  Central
Florida  and Houston for all sports.  The conference will reach more than 31 million homes,
almost 28 percent of all U.S. television households, when
Memphis joins the league,  according to the Big East .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 