-- Turkey Calls for a Broad Coalition to End ‘Intolerable’ Violence in Syria
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-02-08T16:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/turkey-calls-for-a-broad-coalition-to-end-intolerable-violence-in-syria.html
Syria’s violence is heading toward an
“intolerable point,” Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu 
said, as he called for an international coalition to stop
President Bashar al-Assad’s deadly crackdown.  “Very clear and decisive statements need to be delivered
to the Syrian regime,” Davutoglu said in an interview on NTV
television in Ankara today before leaving for the U.S., where he
will meet with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . Syria can’t
be left to solve its problems alone and “we are determined to
establish a broad international consensus,” he said.  Turkey’s initiative follows  Russia  and  China ’s Feb. 4 veto
of a United Nations resolution supported by the Arab League, the
European Union and the U.S. aimed at ending the violence, which
has led to more than 5,400 deaths since March. The veto gives
the impression the deaths will “go unanswered” by the world
and it would be “naive” to expect change from Assad, Davutoglu
said.  Turkey  is looking to establish the “most broad-based”
coalition, which should include members of the UN Security
Council, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and Arab
states, Davutoglu said.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  told Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  that a “coordinated approach”
must be found to help resolve the conflict without outside
interference. The leaders spoke by telephone today, according to
a statement e-mailed by the Kremlin.  Lost Credibility  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov was yesterday in
Damascus, where Assad pledged a new constitution and asked
Russia to broker talks with the opposition.  “The promises made to Mr. Lavrov yesterday had been made
to us numerous times before,” Davutoglu said. “We can no
longer allow the bloodshed of our brothers with these time-
saving tactics.”  The head of  Syria ’s main opposition bloc, Burhan Ghalioun,
said Russia has lost its credibility by supporting Assad as
Syrian forces continue their killing. Ghalioun, of the Syrian
National Council, spoke to  Al Jazeera  television by telephone.  The prospect of civil war has been growing as the daily
death toll mounts and Assad uses tanks and artillery in cities
where protesters are calling for the end of his rule.  Army Shelling  Syria’s army shelled residential districts in the city of
Homs, killing 43 people, Al Jazeera reported today, citing
unidentified Syrian activists. Five Syrian soldiers were killed
and two armored vehicles were destroyed in fighting in Idlib in
the north, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Economic activity in Homs has came to a halt and people are
starving, Davutoglu said.  Syria’s government has blamed “terrorists” and foreign
provocateurs for fomenting the protests and rejected an  Arab
League  plan for Assad to transfer power to a deputy, who would
then begin talks with the opposition to form a unity government
within two months.  EU governments are moving toward stiffer sanctions on
Syria. The 27-nation bloc is considering a freeze on central
bank assets and a ban on imports of phosphates and precious
metals, an EU official told reporters in Brussels today on
condition of anonymity. EU foreign ministers are expected to
iron out details in time for approval on Feb. 27, the person
said. Syria sells 40 percent of its phosphate production to
European clients, the official said.  France “will not abandon” the Syrian people and will work
with allies to strengthen ties to opposition groups, Foreign
Minister  Alain Juppe  told parliament today. He called the
Russian and Chinese vetoes of the UN resolution a “stain” on
the  Security Council ’s reputation and expressed little hope that
Lavrov’s visit to Damascus will end the violence. “Assad will
make the usual promises that he has no intention of keeping,”
Juppe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  