-- Turkey’s Lira Rallies as Greek Debt Deal Expectation Fuels Risk Appetite
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-08T16:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/turkey-s-lira-rallies-as-greek-debt-deal-expectation-fuels-risk-appetite.html
The lira advanced for a second day,
heading for its strongest level in more than three months on
speculation a deal between  Greece  and international creditors
will fuel appetite for emerging-market assets.  The Turkish currency appreciated 0.2 percent at 1.7461 per
dollar as of 5:19 p.m. in Istanbul. A close at this level would
be the strongest since Oct. 28.  Yields  on the benchmark two-year
bond fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 9.33
percent, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index of the securities
showed.  “The euro is recovering with positive reports coming out
of Greece and this increases demand for higher-yielding
countries,” Suha Yaygin, deputy chief of emerging markets
trading at Toronto-Dominion Bank in  London , said in e-mailed
comments.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  met with the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund  to put the final touches on terms required for a
130 billion-euro ($172 billion) rescue package. He will meet
with the leaders of Greek political parties in Athens today. The
euro touched $1.3287, the highest since Dec. 12. European
countries buy roughly half of Turkish exports.  The lira slumped 18 percent in the biggest decline
worldwide and yields soared 390 basis points last year as a
widening  current-account deficit  and worries about the European
debt crisis and Middle East revolts shook investor confidence in
Turkey.  Turkey’s currency has gained 8.3 percent this year on
account of stronger risk appetite for emerging-market
currencies. The lira strengthened in January after the U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said  interest rates 
will remain exceptionally low for longer and hinted there would
be a third round of quantitative easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  