-- Turkey Banks to Struggle Renewing Loans, HSBC’s Erelcin Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-02-08T15:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/turkish-banks-may-struggle-to-renew-loans-hsbc-s-erelcin-says.html
Turkish banks may struggle to renew
syndicated loans this year as European banks reduce their
exposure and increase capital, according to Ahmet Erelcin,
managing director for  HSBC (HSBA)  Investment Services in  Turkey .  “Banks will incline toward lowering their exposure more
and more, so Turkish banks will have difficulties renewing their
syndicated loans that are coming due in 2012,” Erelcin said in
a presentation at a conference in Istanbul yesterday. “Appetite
and availability of loans will be less and less.”  Turkish banks need to refinance foreign currency loans
totaling at least $12.9 billion this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, as banks in  Europe  pare lending due to
the euro area crisis. Demand for dollars from Turkish corporates
to repay loans pressured the lira last year, which fell 18
percent, the biggest decline among global currencies.  Turkish companies including banks have about $200 billion
of external debt and 75 percent of that overseas lending comes
from Europe, Erelcin said. They had $120 billion of debt
maturing between November 2011 and November this year, according
to the latest central bank data on its website.  Akbank TAS, the bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc. will need
to repay or roll over $3.47 billion in foreign currency loans
this year, according to Bloomberg records of the transactions.
For  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  the total is $2.84 billion, for
 Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISATR)  AS the figure is $2.48 billion and for  Yapi &
Kredi Bankasi AS  it is $2.25 billion, according to the data.  Top Underwriters  The top underwriters for Turkish loans in 2011 were
Citigroup Inc, Standard Chartered Plc. and West LB AG, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.                      “The euro zone crisis will have implications on the
availability of financing in Turkey,” he said. “Appetite and
availability of new loans will be less, cost of borrowing will
increase and foreign exchange risk will increase as well.”  Central bank governor Erdem Basci has said Turkish
companies will get the loans they need.  “Even if there is a serious problem with European banks,
other banks will still extend credit to Turkey because there’s
still plenty of cheap financing at about zero percent interest
rate in the world,” Basci told executives in the western city
of Bursa on Jan. 6. “They’ll come to a sound country, and
Turkey is a sound country so there are no issues.”  Refinancing  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , part-owned by Citigroup Inc. and Turkey’s
second-biggest bank by market value, will borrow more on
international markets this year than the $10 billion it got in
2011, Chief Executive Officer Sabri Hakan Binbasgil said in
Istanbul late yesterday. He didn’t provide details about the
bank’s borrowing strategy.  Turkish companies “shouldn’t have a major problem”
borrowing from abroad this year’’ and banks were able to
refinance 165 percent of their debt in the first 11 months of
last year,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . said on Jan. 20. Turkish
corporates refinanced 122 percent in the period, analysts and
economists including Yarkin Cebeci in Istanbul said.  The more difficult financing environment for banks will
have a knock-on effect for Turkish non-financial companies,
which account for more than half of the total $200 billion in
private sector debt, Erelcin said.  “It will hit corporate lending both directly, from abroad,
and indirectly through domestic banks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  