-- Vestas Falls After 2011 Loss Widens, CFO Quits: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-08T16:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/vestas-falls-after-2011-loss-widens-cfo-quits-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  fell the most
in a month after the world’s biggest wind-turbine maker reported
a loss four times wider than analyst forecasts and Chief
Financial Officer Henrik Norremark resigned.  Norremark quit late yesterday, less than a month after
being promoted and hours before Aarhus, Denmark-based Vestas’s
announcement of a 166 million-euro ($220 million) loss in 2011.
Sales and margins missed guidance given in January when Vestas
issued a second profit warning in three months. The shares today
slid as much as 15 percent in Copenhagen.  Vestas last month said it was dismissing 10 percent of its
workers. It attributed profit warnings in October and January to
production delays at a new generator factory and higher-than-
expected costs developing its V112 turbine. Profits have been
squeezed by Chinese competition and may be hurt further in the
U.S. should federal subsidies expire.  “It’s chaotic and 2012 looks bleak also,”  Jacob Pedersen ,
an analyst in Aabenraa,  Denmark , at Sydbank A/S, said today in a
phone interview. “It’s a bad signal for the industry. You have
the player that has won by far the most orders over the past two
years, the company probably with the best products in the
industry and they’re not able to deliver just a little profit.”  Chairman Bent Erik Carlsen, Deputy Chairman Torsten Erik Rasmussen and board member Freddy Frandsen won’t stand for re-
election at the annual general meeting on March 29, according to
a Vestas filing today.  ‘Very Busy Year’  The company expects 2012 revenue of 6.5 billion euros to 8
billion euros and shipments to rise to about 7 gigawatts from 5
gigawatts in 2011, Vestas said without providing a forecast for
its order intake.  “The guidance is disappointing to investors because more
than 1 billion euros of sales and about 340 million euros of
EBIT were deferred from last year, which means that 2012 should
have been an unusually strong year,” Maurice Rosenthal, an
analyst at ING Groep NV in Brussels, said in a phone interview.
“That’s not the case.”  Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said in a telephone
interview from Aarhus that while he expects 2012 to be a “very,
very busy year” with activity 40 percent higher than last, next
year may be tougher.  “We have to prepare Vestas for what can be a very
challenging 2013,” Engel said, referring to the U.S. market
where a tax credit is due to expire at year-end.  Engel said Jan. 12 that it would be “unnatural” for him
to leave the company while it was still facing challenges.  With a new chairman coming in, “everything is open”
concerning Engel’s position though he’s likely to stay,
according to Sydbank’s Pedersen. “If you want a spark of
continuity in the company I don’t see who is going to provide
that if it’s not Ditlev Engel.”  ‘Brings Accountability’  The resignation of Norremark, 45, came almost four weeks
after he was promoted to deputy chief executive and chief
operating officer. He remained CFO while a successor was sought.  “The departure brings accountability to the poor
developments last year, and brings potential that the company
will see a strong CFO join that has experience dealing with
financial markets,” Rupesh Madlani, an analyst in London at
 Barclays Capital , said today in a note to investors.  Last year’s loss compared with a 156 million-euro profit a
year earlier, Vestas  records  show. Analysts expected a loss of
40.3 million euros, according to the average of 16 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Not Canceled, Postponed  Free  cash flow  rose more than 800 million euros to 79
million euros, the first positive free cash flow in four years.
Revenue was 5.8 billion euros in 2011, short of the company’s
initial 7 billion-euro target and missing guidance a month ago
of 6 billion euros. Fourth-quarter sales declined 35 percent to
2 billion euros. The margin before interest and tax was minus
0.7 percent, lower than guidance of 0 percent issued on Jan. 3.
The company attributed the misses to project delays.  “The projects in question have not been canceled but
postponed,” Vestas said. “They are expected to be handed over
and recognized as income in 2012, however, at a lower
contribution margin due to higher costs than originally
anticipated.”  U.S. Jobs  Weather delays and difficulties connecting wind farms to
the grid previously forced the company to defer 1 billion euros
of revenue to 2012 from 2011.  Norremark was promoted as part of a Jan. 12 restructuring
plan that included cutting 2,335 employees and halting factory
production to save 150 million euros by year-end. The costs of
that plan will total about 50 million euros, Vestas said today.
Engel said another 1,600 jobs are at risk in the U.S. if
lawmakers don’t extend a tax credit for the industry beyond
year-end.  Vestas (VWS)  fell as much as 15 percent, the biggest decline
since Jan. 4. The stock closed down 14 percent at 57.50 kroner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  