-- Chinese Official Met With U.S. Diplomats at Consulate Before Taking Leave
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-09T08:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/vice-mayor-of-chongqing-takes-vacation-style-treatment-for-work-stress.html
A deputy mayor who was the protege of
one of  China ’s most powerful leaders went on leave for overwork
after meeting U.S. diplomats, fueling speculation of a political
shakeup ahead of the country’s leadership transition this year.  Wang Lijun, the deputy mayor of Chongqing, requested a
meeting that took place earlier this week at the U.S. consulate
in Chengdu, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  told
reporters yesterday. Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai
called Wang’s visit a “very isolated case” that was “resolved
relatively smoothly.”  Wang, 52, headed Chongqing’s police force from 2009 until
last week, overseeing a crackdown on gangs that raised the
profile of his patron Bo Xilai, Chongqing’s Communist Party
secretary. Wang’s loss of his police portfolio and subsequent
leave indicate that China’s leaders have spurned Bo and his
development model, which focused on increased state-led social
spending, political analyst  Li Cheng  said in an e-mail.  “The Chongqing model is over,” Li, a senior fellow at the
Washington-based  Brookings Institution , said in reference to
Bo’s strategy, which also included a resurgence of songs and
sayings lionizing socialism and Chairman  Mao Zedong . “It means
a landscape change in Chinese elite politics.”  Potential Candidate  Bo, who sits on China’s 25-member Politburo, had been seen
as a potential candidate for membership in the elite Politburo
Standing Committee, which now has nine members, according to Li
and other analysts. The Communist Party meets later this year to
choose the next generation of top leaders.  “It is a real blow for Bo,” Li said.  On Feb. 2, the Chongqing government said Wang had been
relieved of his police duties and  put in charge of  areas
including sanitation, athletics and education. Yesterday, after
Wang met with U.S. officials, the Chongqing government said in a
statement that he was suffering from “immense mental stress and
serious physical discomfort,” and had been put on “vacation-
style treatment.”  Chinese state media have so far kept quiet about Wang’s
meeting at the U.S. consulate. Posts about Wang and discussions
of Bo’s political future were widely available on Sina Corp.’s
Weibo  microblogging service .  Zhou Yongkang  The official Xinhua News Agency published a story today
from a Chongqing paper extolling the city’s progress in reducing
crime and corruption since 2009, the year Wang became head of
the local police, without mentioning him or Bo. Zhou Yongkang,
China’s top law official and a member of the Politburo Standing
Committee, was in Chongqing yesterday for a legal conference,
the Communist Party’s People’s Daily  reported .  Nuland said the U.S. does not comment in issues of refugee
status or asylum and said the meeting with Wang had been
previously scheduled. She said Wang “left the consulate of his
own volition.”  Richard Buangan, a spokesman for the American Embassy in
Beijing, said in an e-mail today that the U.S. had no further
contact with Wang after he left the consulate and has no
information on his whereabouts. Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen
Harper  is scheduled to meet Bo in Chongqing on Feb. 11.  Buangan would not comment on what Wang discussed at the
meeting or address reports of increased Chinese police presence
outside the consulate during Wang’s stay. He said there was
never any threat to the Chengdu consulate, the closest U.S.
diplomatic post to Chongqing.  Wang’s meeting won’t have any effect on Vice President  Xi Jinping ’s visit to the U.S. next week, Cui said at a briefing in
Beijing today.  Before taking his position in Chongqing, a South Carolina-
sized municipality with a population of about 30 million, Wang
served as an official in northeastern China’s Liaoning province.
Bo, the son of one of the founders of the People’s Republic of
China, was governor there in 2001-2004, according to his
official biography.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  