-- Vinci Braces for Building Slowdown as Crisis Hits Governments
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-02-08T15:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/vinci-braces-for-building-slowdown-as-crisis-hits-governments.html
Vinci SA ,  France ’s largest builder,
is among the nation’s construction companies bracing for a
slowdown as the collapse of municipal lender Dexia SA
exacerbates the debt crisis.  Vinci, based in Rueil-Malmaison, will protect its margins
even if it means temporarily reducing the size of its business,
Vinci Chief Executive Officer Xavier Huillard said at a press
conference today. The company will also strive to grow abroad to
make up for the potential shortfall, he said.  “The slowdown is ahead of us, and all the problem comes
from Dexia’s restructuring,” Joel Rousseau, chairman of NGE, a
public works company based in Tarascon, southern France, which
had sales of about 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) in 2011,
said in an interview. Prices for carrying out roadworks
“continue to be very tight. Some players will stumble.”  Local governments face a shortfall of up to 10 billion
euros ($13.1 billion) to fund this year’s investments as banks
face more stringent rules and Belgium and France are dismantling
Dexia, once the world’s leading lender to municipalities,
France’s mayors association says. The debt crisis and looming
recession in parts of  Europe  pushed  confidence  among builders to
the lowest in 18 months in December and raised concerns that a
price war for road contracts may intensify.  “We’re delaying all investments,” said Philippe Laurent,
chairman of the finance commission of AMF, France’s mayors
association. “Renovating a street can always wait another year,
same for a gymnasium or a crèche. We’re going to see a big wave
of postponements.”  Austerity  Central and local  government spending  on infrastructure may
fall as French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and rival Socialist
Party candidate Francois Hollande jostle for support ahead of
elections, with pledges to eliminate the country’s public
deficit. The shortfall amounted to 5.3 percent or 5.4 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011, according to Sarkozy.  “With France having some of the best infrastructure in the
world, it could be easy to let it age a little to save euros,”
said Ian Osburn, an analyst at ING. France “requires some of
the greatest austerity measures.” That threatens investment in
public construction projects, and the growth outlook remains
poor, he said. “Spending could come down after the election
whoever wins.”  Laurent of the French mayors association is urging state-
owned lender Caisse des Depots et Consignations, which is
planning to take over some of Dexia’s activities with the
government, to increase loans to local governments and partly
make up for the shortfall created by the collapse of the lender.  Vinci SA (DG) , Europe’s biggest builder, yesterday reported a
7.2 percent increase in net income in 2011, and predicted that
it will maintain operating margins this year as a record backlog
offsets an economic slowdown in Europe.  ‘Orders from some customers such as local governments may
be more moderate in coming months than in previous months,”
Vinci’s Huillard said. “That may have direct consequences on our
business at the end of 2012. We could have 5,000 fewer temporary
staff rapidly if we were to face a drop in local government
orders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at  