-- Virgin Media in Talks to Add Streaming Video to TiVo, CEO Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-08T09:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/virgin-media-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-faster-web-tivo-service.html
Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) , the U.K’s second-
largest pay-television company, is in talks with video-streaming
providers to add shows and movies to its TiVo recording service,
Chief Executive Officer Neil Berkett said.  While it’s still “early days,” and no announcements are
imminent, Berkett said he wants the platform to give customers
access to content from services such as Amazon.com Inc.’s
Lovefilm and Netflix Inc.  “We want TiVo to be completely open,” Berkett said in an
interview. “We’re talking to everyone.”  TiVo set-top boxes record TV programs so that users can
view them later. Subscribers to the service, who pay extra to
connect their TVs to the Web, helped Virgin Media report a 5
percent increase in fourth-quarter operating profit, beating
analysts’ estimates. Berkett, who took over in 2008, has focused
on offering faster Internet speeds to win customers from larger
competitor  BT Group Plc. (BT/A)  The company signed up 435,100 TiVo
subscribers to the service by year end.  Virgin shares rose 2.2 percent to 1,563 pence in London
trading at 9:36 a.m. The stock has gained 13 percent this year.  Netflix CEO Reed Hastings last month forecast the company
will attract millions of subscribers within a few years to the
Internet film and television service it started in the U.K. and
Ireland. Lovefilm last month signed a deal to offer Walt Disney
Co. shows such as “ Desperate Housewives ,” “Happy Endings,”
“Grey’s Anatomy” and “Lost” in the U.K.  Rising Profit  Virgin Media’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization and other one-time charges
increased to 424 million pounds ($675 million) from 403.6
million pounds a year earlier, the Hook, England-based company
said. Analysts had estimated 415 million pounds in a Bloomberg
survey. The company today said it will start a new $250 million
share buyback program.  Making TiVo a hub for content and selling customers more-
expensive bundles of services may help the company win and keep
customers as growth in the broadband and TV markets in the U.K.
slows. The company added 1,100 TV customers and 17,500 broadband
subscribers in the quarter. That’s down from additions of 12,100
TV and 44,100 web customers a year earlier.  Virgin has said it will invest 110 million pounds this year
to double most of its customers’ broadband speeds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  