-- Visa Beats Estimates as Spending Increases
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-09T00:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/visa-beats-estimates-as-spending-increases.html
Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest
payments network, said fiscal first-quarter  profit  climbed 16
percent as consumers increased use of credit and debit cards.  Net income for the three months ended Dec. 31 rose to $1.03
billion, or $1.49 a share, from $884 million, or $1.23, a year
earlier, the San Francisco-based company said today in a
statement. The average  estimate  of 26 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for earnings per share of $1.45. Visa authorized a
new $500 million share repurchase program.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders,
66, is positioning Visa for its next phase of growth after U.S.
regulators capped so-called swipe fees, or interchange, that the
company charges merchants for debit-card purchases. Visa, which
derived about 56 percent of  revenue  from the U.S. in fiscal
2011, has said it intends to generate more than half from
markets abroad by 2015.  “We remain intensely focused on further growing our
international business,” Saunders said in the statement. “At
the same time, we are moving forward on our innovation
strategy.”  Visa advanced 3.2 percent to $111.78 at 6:36 p.m. in
extended trading in  New York  after gaining 45 percent in the
past year, the second-best performance in the 71-company
Standard & Poor’s 500  Information Technology Index (S5INFT)  after
Purchase, New York-based  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the No. 2 network,
which climbed 58 percent. Shares of both companies closed at
all-time highs today.  Worldwide Spending  Operating revenue was $2.55 billion, beating the average
estimate of $2.47 billion by analysts in the Bloomberg survey.
Worldwide spending on Visa credit and debit cards, adjusted for
currency fluctuations, climbed 11 percent to $994 billion in the
first quarter from a year earlier, the company said.  Cross-border volume, a measure of spending by consumers
outside their home countries, surged 13 percent. Processed
transactions worldwide rose 8 percent to 13.6 billion as
consumers continued to shift from cash and checks to electronic
payments.  There are signs of “modest” expansion of worldwide gross
domestic product for the rest of the fiscal year, “with
emerging markets continuing to grow at rates faster than the
global average,” Saunders said in a conference call with
analysts after results were announced. “That being said, we are
closely watching economic conditions that could impact our
business, including continued volatility in  Europe .”  2012 Outlook  Visa updated its 2012 outlook, forecasting net revenue
growth in the “low teens” and earnings-per-share growth in the
“high teens.” The company previously expected “high single to
low double-digit” revenue growth and EPS growth in the “mid to
high teens,” according to its fourth-quarter statement.  In December, Visa announced a plan to help develop  Rwanda ’s
payments system and connect the African nation’s 11 million
citizens to the global economy. The company also has rolled out
prepaid accounts linked to mobile phones across  Africa  and the
 Middle East .  MasterCard said Feb. 2 that fourth-quarter profit climbed
24 percent to $514 million. The company reported 2011 profit of
$1.91 billion.  MasterCard took a $495 million charge representing its
portion of a potential settlement to price-fixing litigation
that challenges credit-card interchange fees, which generate
about $40 billion a year for U.S. banks. Merchants sued Visa,
MasterCard and banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in 2005,
claiming that the companies stifled competition by banning
merchants from steering customers to cheaper forms of payment.  Interchange Litigation  An accord may cost $4 billion, and last February, the
defendants agreed that Visa would be responsible for two-thirds
of any settlement and MasterCard would pay about one-eighth.  In December, Visa said it would deposit $1.57 billion into
its litigation escrow account to prepare for any settlement. It
now has $4.3 billion in the account, Saunders said.  “Visa is unwilling to agree to any significant or long-
term credit interchange rate reductions or any settlement
agreement that doesn’t provide a full resolution to that and
other key issues,” Saunders said during the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  