-- Vitro’s Defaulted Debt Restructuring Sparks Stock Rally: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-02-08T21:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/vitro-s-defaulted-debt-restructuring-sparks-stock-rally-mexico-city-mover.html
Vitro SAB (VITROA) , the glassmaker that
defaulted on $1.5 billion of bonds in 2009, jumped the most in
three weeks after a Mexican judge approved its restructuring.  Vitro  rose  4.9 percent to 14.96 pesos in Mexico City, the
steepest advance since Jan. 19. The benchmark IPC index rose 0.2
percent. The price on the company’s defaulted dollar bonds due
2017 rose 0.6 cent to 69.9 cents on the dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Monterrey, Mexico-based Judge Sandra Lopez’s approval
concludes a three-year legal battle in which Vitro challenged
the country’s bankruptcy law by borrowing from itself to qualify
as its own biggest lender. The judge accepted the plan after 74
percent of creditors backed it, allowing $1.9 billion of Vitro’s
own so-called intercompany debt to be included in the vote.  “After all the problems, they’re finally letting the
company carry out this plan,”  Gerardo Copca , an analyst at
Metanalisis SA, said by phone from Mexico City. “This is a step
forward for the company.”  U.S. bondholders, including Elliott Management Corp.,
opposed the plan in Mexican and U.S. courts, arguing that the
inclusion of intercompany debt let Vitro dictate restructuring
terms.  The refinancing plan swaps the defaulted debt for $814.6
million of new bonds maturing in 2019 with an interest rate of 8
percent and $95.8 million of debt convertible to shares with a
12 percent rate.  Vitro missed debt payments in February 2009 after the U.S.
recession slashed demand for construction and auto glass. It was
also hurt by $340 million of derivative losses from wrong-way
bets on natural gas and currencies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  