-- Volkswagen Said to Be Considering Proton Partnership for Malaysian Car Hub
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-02-09T07:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/volkswagen-said-to-be-considering-proton-partnership-for-malaysian-car-hub.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  is considering
expanding production in Malaysia and has sent senior executives,
including management board members, to review  Proton Holdings
Bhd. (PROH) ’s operations for a potential partnership, a person familiar
with the matter said.  Europe ’s largest carmaker is considering producing vehicles
at Proton factories after its partner  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)  agreed last
month to buy 43 percent of the Malaysian company, the person
said, declining to be identified because the talks are private.  The high-ranking executives are considering whether the
plants are equipped to produce VW models as it considers
creating a production hub in Malaysia to target Southeast Asian
markets, the person said.  “ Volkswagen (VOW3)  is expanding because they have yet to have a
big presence in  Southeast Asia ,” Ahmad Maghfur Usman, an
analyst at OSK Holdings Bhd., said by phone in  Kuala Lumpur .
“They can start growing their market share in countries like
Indonesia and  Thailand .”  Volkswagen has considered a Proton partnership in the past.
The German carmaker called off cooperation talks with Proton in
June 2010. The two companies also failed to reach an agreement
in November 2007 after 12 months of negotiations. The
partnership with DRB-Hicom was agreed in December 2010.  “Volkswagen continually examines local market
opportunities,” the company said in an e-mailed reply today.
“The Malaysian market in general is of high importance for the
Volkswagen Group.”  Declining Profit  Selangor-based Proton was set up in 1983 by Malaysia’s
former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad to steer the Southeast
Asian nation’s industrialization plan. The carmaker is headed
for its second year of  profit  declines as it struggles to
compete with rivals such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Proton was unchanged at 5.40 ringgit as of the midday
trading break in Kuala Lumpur. The  stock  has gained 12 percent
this year after advancing 7.1 percent in 2011.  The Proton deal gives DRB control of two Malaysian car
plants with the capacity to make a combined 350,000 vehicles per
year. Proton’s vehicles are driven by taxi drivers across
Malaysia and are among the cheapest cars sold in the country.  VW started its partnership last year with DRB-Hicom, which
also makes vehicles for  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz. The two
companies agreed to invest about 1 billion ringgit ($332
million) to assemble Passat sedans from parts produced at other
factories.  Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW has been expanding production
in a bid to overtake  General Motors Co. (GM)  as the world’s largest
automaker. VW plans to add a factory in Ningbo,  China , by 2014,
adding to plants being built in Yizheng and Foshan. A new U.S.
assembly site opened last year in Chattanooga, Tennessee.  Mohd Khamil Jamil, managing director of DRB, couldn’t be
reached for comment at his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  