-- Wall Street Groups Seek to Delay CFTC Limits on Speculation
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-08T16:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/wall-street-groups-seek-to-delay-cftc-position-limits-rule-1-.html
Two Wall Street groups asked a
federal judge to delay a U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission rule that limits speculation, saying the regulation
is already imposing “significant, irreversible costs.”  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
filed a request yesterday with U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins in  Washington , urging him to put the rule on hold while
he considers their legal challenge.  “Compliance efforts will include restructuring of
corporate relationships and divestment -- irreversible changes
in ownership,” Eugene Scalia, a lawyer for the groups, said in
the filing. “These costs are being incurred now and will
continue to rise absent a preliminary injunction, and they will
be impossible to recoup if the rule is invalidated -- as it
likely will be.”  The groups, in one of the financial industry’s highest-
profile efforts to weaken 2010’s Dodd-Frank law, filed lawsuits
in two federal courts in Washington in December challenging the
rule setting caps on the number of contracts a trader can have.  Wilkins today ordered the commission to respond to the
request by Feb. 17 and scheduled a hearing for Feb. 27.  Steven Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, didn’t respond to e-mail
messages seeking comment on the groups’ filing.  The groups made an almost identical request to delay the
rule with the U.S. Appeals Court in Washington, which dismissed
the case after ruling it must first be considered by the
district court.  Flawed Analysis  They argue that the CFTC used a flawed analysis of Dodd-
Frank when it decided to impose the restrictions. The
associations also said the CFTC failed to properly weigh the
rule’s costs and benefits.  The two associations represent  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , among other banks
and asset managers.  The rule is among the most controversial provisions of
Dodd-Frank, and spurred more than 13,000 public comments to the
CFTC from supporters including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
opponents such as  Barclays Capital . The agency voted 3-2 at an
Oct. 18 meeting to approve the final regulation, with Jill E. Sommers and  Scott O’Malia , both Republicans, voting in
opposition.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 