-- Washington State Lawmakers Pass Legislation to Allow Same-Sex Marriages
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-02-09T00:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/washington-state-lawmakers-approve-bill-to-allow-same-sex-couples-to-marry.html
Washington (STOWA1)  lawmakers approved a bill
that would grant same-sex couples the right to marry, lacking
only the governor’s signature for the state to become the
seventh in the U.S. to make the practice legal.  The state House of Representatives voted 55-43 today in
favor of the  legislation , which has the support of Governor
Christine Gregoire, a 64-year-old Democrat.  “Thousands of same-sex couples in our state deserve the
respect and protection from our government that only marriage
can convey, and our children deserve to grow up in a state that
treats their family with equal dignity,” state Representative
Jamie Pedersen, a gay Seattle Democrat, said ahead of the vote.
The Senate passed the measure Feb. 1.  If Gregoire signs the bill,  Washington  will join  New York ,
 Massachusetts ,  Connecticut , Iowa,  New Hampshire ,  Vermont  and the
District of Columbia in allowing same-sex weddings. The vote
follows a decision yesterday by a federal appeals court in San
Francisco that California’s Proposition 8, which defined
marriage to be only between a man and a woman, was
unconstitutional.  “Marriage is about life,” Representative Jay Rodne, a
Republican from North Bend, said during debate on the bill.
“It’s about joining that man and that woman as husband and wife
and mother and father, linking them with their natural-born
children.”  Legal Underpinnings  The bill severs the cultural, historical and legal
underpinnings of marriage, harming families and children, Rodne
said.  The law, which would take effect 90 days after the end of
the legislative session on March 8, may face a repeal campaign
by opponents that would put it on hold pending a referendum,
said Karina Shagren, a spokeswoman for Gregoire. To get on the
November ballot, petitions would have to be signed by more than
120,000 registered voters, according Brian Zylstra, a spokesman
for Secretary of State Sam Reed.  “I like our chances,” Joseph Backholm, executive director
of the  Family Policy Institute of Washington  in Lynnwood, which
opposes what is says is a redefinition of marriage and will help
gather signatures, said in a telephone interview.  “Most people are not immersed in the politics of this
issue,” he said. “When the question is asked, ‘What is
marriage?,’ most people understand that it’s a relationship
between a man and woman.”  Zach Silk, campaign manager of Seattle-based  Washington
United for Marriage , which supports making same-sex marriage
legal, said he anticipates overcoming the challenge.  “We feel like we have the coalition that can take them on
and win this at the ballot box in November,” Silk said today in
a telephone interview. “We believe the majority of
Washingtonians are with us.”  The legislation allows religious denominations to decide
who qualifies for their wedding ceremonies and which marriages
to recognize.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 