-- Wheat Prices in Japan May Fall Most Since 2009, Cutting Retail Food Costs
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-02-08T07:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/wheat-prices-in-japan-may-dip-most-since-2009-cutting-retail-food-costs.html
Wheat prices in  Japan ,  Asia ’s second-
largest importer, may decline in April by the most since October
2009, putting food makers including  Yamazaki Baking Co.  and
 Nisshin Seifun Group Inc.  under pressure to cut prices.  The price of wheat imported by the government for sale to
flour millers may drop about 10 percent from 57,720 yen ($748) a
metric ton on average, according to SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
That would help the milling industry save almost 29 billion yen
in costs a year, Japan’s Flour Millers Association estimates.  The reduction, the first in two years, may increase
deflationary pressure after  consumer prices  in Japan declined
for a third straight year in 2011. Lower food costs could boost
personal spending, which has shown signs of  reviving  amid a
deepening export slump.  “A drop in the grain costs will increase price-cutting
requests to food makers from retailers,” Yoshiyasu Okihira,
senior analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities in  Tokyo , said in an
interview. “Bread makers will have no other options but to
lower prices, probably around July.”  The government will decide whether to adjust wheat prices
in late February based on purchasing costs in the previous six
months, said Hiromi Iwahama, director for grain trade and
operation at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries.  Iwahama declined to comment further on possible changes
ahead of the announcement. Masaaki Kadota,  executive director  at
the Tokyo-based flour millers association, said a 10 percent cut
is likely.  Costs of importing wheat in the five months ended Jan. 31
declined about 15 percent from the previous pricing period,
according to ministry data. The expected drop would be the
largest since October 2009, when the government slashed prices
by 23 percent to 49,820 yen a ton on average.  Yen Rally  The decline came after the Japanese currency rallied to a
postwar record against the dollar. Wheat in  Chicago  retreated
after reaching a 29-month high in February 2011, as high prices
spurred more planting and boosted a global glut.  Wheat futures lost 17.8 percent last year on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the biggest decline since 2008. The price
reached a record $13.495 a bushel in February 2008. The March-
delivery contract was at $6.6575 a bushel at 4:42 p.m. Tokyo
time.  Japan  imports  almost 90 percent of its wheat and sourced
about 60 percent of the grain last fiscal year from the U.S.,
the biggest exporter. Overseas purchases and domestic sales are
controlled by the agriculture ministry, which reviews the
selling price to flour millers every six months.  Increased Buying  Millers may accelerate wheat purchases in coming months,
taking advantage of a cut in the government-set prices, as cold
weather in  Europe  boosts speculation the price may increase in
October, said Charlie Utsunomiya, director at the Tokyo office
of U.S. Wheat Associates.  Last year, the government raised the wheat price by 2
percent in October after boosting it by 18 percent in April, the
most in three years.  Yamazaki Baking Co. , the largest bread
maker in Japan, raised its prices by about 6 percent on average
in July, the first gain since 2008. Media relations executives
at Yamazaki and Nisshin declined to comment or be identified
when contacted by Bloomberg News, citing company policy.  Japan paid 27,103 yen a ton on average for 474,705 tons of
milling wheat from the U.S.,  Canada  and  Australia  in January,
the ministry data show. The price, dropping from 27,255 yen in
December, was 28 percent less than a year ago.  World  food prices  tracked by the  United Nations ’  Food and
Agriculture Organization  reached the highest ever in February
2011 on surging grain prices, before slipping 11 percent through
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  