-- Winsway Hit by Short Sellers as Coal Deal Offers 115%: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-02-08T23:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/winsway-targeted-by-short-sellers-with-coal-deal-returning-115-real-m-a.html
Traders can double their money
betting Winsway Coking Coal Holdings Ltd.’s $1 billion takeover
of a Canadian coal miner won’t be derailed by an allegation the
Chinese acquirer’s financial statements aren’t accurate.  Calgary-based  Grande Cache Coal Corp. (GCE)  yesterday traded 65
cents below Winsway and Marubeni Corp.’s cash offer of C$10 a
share after Jonestown Research, an anonymous short seller, said
that Winsway’s imports were less than the Hong Kong-listed coal
transporter stated. Winsway said the report was “dead wrong,”
and arbitragers buying Grande Cache before today’s open of
trading could make a 115 percent profit on an annualized basis
if the deal closes by the end of February as planned, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese companies have faced increased scrutiny in  North
America  after short seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC
alleged  Sino-Forest (TRE)  Corp. overstated assets,  Longtop Financial
Technologies Ltd. (LFT)  was delisted following a probe by U.S.
regulators and  China MediaExpress (CCME)  Holdings Inc. lost almost all
its value as its auditor quit. While Jonestown is betting shares
of Winsway and Grande Cache will drop, UOB Kay Hian’s  Helen Lau 
says the analysis is flawed and investors can profit from the
takeover by purchasing the target company’s stock.  “We think it will go through,” UOB’s Lau, a Hong Kong-
based analyst with a “buy”  rating  on Winsway, said in a
telephone interview. Winsway is “fully confident that the deal
will go through. Investors should go ahead and buy” shares of
Grande Cache, she said.  Flora Cao, an investor-relations officer for Winsway in
Beijing, declined to comment.  ‘Entirely Without Merit’  A spokeswoman for Tokyo-based  Marubeni (8002)  reiterated the
company’s statement on Jan. 20 that it will proceed with the
deal as planned. Ian Bootle, Grande Cache’s chief financial
officer, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call or e-
mail seeking comment.  “Grande Cache Coal has no reason to believe that there is
any merit to the allegations,” the company said in a statement
on Jan. 19. Grande Cache Coal “has been assured by Winsway that
the report is entirely without merit,” it said.  No contact information for Jonestown is listed on
 InvestDOOR’s website , where the  report  on Winsway was published.
There don’t appear to be any results for a research firm named
Jonestown Research using Google Inc.’s Internet search engine.  InvestDOOR, which said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg
last month it doesn’t research or analyze companies and that
Jonestown doesn’t publicly disclose contact information, didn’t
respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking further comment.  Today’s Trading  Grande Cache climbed 3.9 percent to C$9.71 today in
Toronto, the sixth-biggest gain among 253 companies in  Canada ’s
benchmark  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX) . The stock rallied after the
company said in a statement that Canada’s Minister of Industry
approved the acquisition by Winsway and Marubeni and determined
that the deal satisfies the Investment Canada Act because it’s
“likely to be a net benefit” to the country.  Earlier today in Asian trading,  Winsway (1733)  advanced 3.4
percent to HK$2.12 (27 cents) in  Hong Kong , while Marubeni rose
0.2 percent to 540 yen ($7.02) in  Tokyo .  Winsway and Marubeni, a 153-year-old Japanese trading house
founded by linen seller Chubei Itoh, agreed on Oct. 31 to buy
Grande Cache in an acquisition that valued the company at C$1.05
billion ($1.06 billion), including about C$54 million in  net
debt , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Grande Cache, which rose to within 6 cents of the
C$10-a-share agreement last month, fell 5.8 percent in its
biggest drop in three months after Jonestown Research published
a report alleging Winsway made “ material misstatements ”
regarding its inventories and the amount of coal it imported,
and that the company is committing  securities fraud .  ‘Not a Fraud’  Jonestown said in the Jan. 19 report that it is betting
against shares of both Winsway and Grande Cache. In a short
sale, traders sell borrowed shares in anticipation that the
securities will decline and they can buy them back at a profit.  Winsway Chief Financial Officer Jerry Xie said on
conference calls with investors that “this report is dead
wrong” and the company is “absolutely not a fraud.”  “It’s a misunderstanding in the market,” said David Lam,
an analyst at Guosen Securities Co. in Hong Kong, who has a
“buy” rating on Winsway. “The deal’s going ahead.”  While Jonestown doesn’t appear to be a credible source, the
risks the deal will unravel may now outweigh the potential
rewards, according to John Maysles, an event-driven analyst at
Elevation LLC.  ‘Hairy Deal’  Winsway said on Jan. 19, the same day the Jonestown report
was published, that it asked the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for
 more time  to submit a filing it needs to complete the
acquisition of Grande Cache. Winsway now expects to submit the
so-called circular by Feb. 22.  “It’s a high-risk, hairy deal,” Maysles said in a
telephone interview from  Los Angeles . “The fact that the delay
was announced on the same day that this Jonestown report was put
out, that definitely raises an eyebrow.”  Because Winsway is also one of  Grande Cache’s customers ,
any fraud allegations that are substantiated could hurt Grande
Cache more than a typical takeover target, he said.  Allegations from  Muddy Waters  last year that Hong Kong- and
Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest overstated its timber
holdings caused the stock to plummet  74 percent , costing
investors including  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. C$3.3 billion.  Sino-Forest, which has denied committing fraud, was
suspended from trading in Canada by the Ontario Securities
Commission in August and is also being investigated by the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police.  ‘Lost Confidence’  Longtop Financial, the Hong Kong-based maker of financial
software that went public in 2007, was delisted from the  New
York  Stock Exchange in August following an inquiry by U.S.
securities regulators over its financial reports.  China MediaExpress lost more than 99 percent of its value
after the provider of advertising on buses in  China  said in a
March regulatory filing that its auditor,  Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu , quit after saying that it “lost confidence in the
representations of management.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has also been
investigating reverse takeovers, in which a closely held firm
becomes public by buying a shell company that already trades.  The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO)  of U.S.-listed
companies retreated  51 percent  in the past year through
yesterday. Shares of more than 35 non-U.S. companies had their
trading halted on American exchanges because of inaccurate
financial statements and other issues, according to the SEC.  Harbin Electric  Some allegations have created a buying opportunity for
traders betting on the Chinese companies that have been targeted
by short sellers.  Short interest in Harbin Electric Inc., which was being
acquired by its Chief Executive Officer Tianfu Yang in a
management-led buyout, almost tripled to a record in June after
Citron Research raised questions about its accounting practices
and amid rumors that Yang had gone missing.  While the  stock  fell 51 percent to a low of $6.98 a share
in June, Yang closed the deal in November by paying Harbin
holders $24 a share. That means purchasing shares of Harbin
after the plunge would have generated a return of as much as 244
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Jonestown’s allegation increased the gap between the deal
offer and Grande Cache’s stock, giving traders the chance to
reap the largest annualized profit for any all-cash takeover in
Canada, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  If they hold the shares until the end of February, when the
acquisition is projected to close, the annualized gain would be
115 percent, the data show. Without taking into account when the
transaction will be completed, the difference to the deal offer
is currently about 7 percent.  “I’m leaning towards that at the end of the day, Jonestown
is nonsense because of their lack of credibility,”  Sachin Shah ,
a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based merger strategist at Tullett
Prebon Plc, said in a telephone interview. “Ultimately, I
believe the deal is going to close.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 