-- Yahoo’s Shakeup as Bostock Departs Adds Pressure for Sale of Asian Assets
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-08T03:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/yahoo-s-shakeup-as-bostock-departs-adds-pressure-for-sale-of-asian-assets.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s board shakeup that led
to the departure of Chairman Roy Bostock adds to pressure on the
company to sell Asian assets valued at more than $10 billion and
reverse the sales slump that’s plagued management since 2008.  Yahoo added two new board members and announced the
departure of four others, including Bostock, who won’t stand for
re-election at the company’s shareholder meeting this year.
Yesterday’s overhaul means all of Yahoo’s directors will have
joined in the past two years, generating optimism that new
officials will be more aggressive about revamping the company.  Under Bostock and co-founder  Jerry Yang , who severed ties
to Yahoo last month, the company has faced criticism for
spurning a takeover offer by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , losing search-
market share to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and failing to extract value from
Asian assets, including a stake in  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (1688) 
The board, aiming to please investors, may make more of an
effort to sell the Asian investments, said  Herman Leung , an
analyst at Susquehanna International Group in San Francisco.  “With Jerry gone and now Bostock gone, it’s kind of a
changing of regime in its entirety -- something needs to happen
with the Asian assets,” said Leung, who rates the stock
“neutral.” “There are no more excuses.”  Yahoo, the largest U.S. Web portal, embarked on a review of
its strategic options in September, following the ouster of
Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz . It weighed proposals for
equity investments without receiving an attractive offer, Yahoo
said yesterday in a statement.  Talks Continue  The company also said it continues to discuss a possible
sale of its holdings in Asian assets and that it’s devoting
“significant resources to these discussions.” Yahoo has
minority stakes in Yahoo  Japan  and Alibaba, the biggest e-
commerce company in  China .  The value of those assets is about $11.5 billion, according
to Sameet Sinha, an analyst at B. Riley & Co. in San Francisco.
The current board may aim to announce a deal to sell the assets
before the  shareholders’ meeting , he said. Yahoo hasn’t
announced the timing for this year’s meeting, though it
typically occurs in June.  Shares of Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo gained less
than 1 percent to $15.83 at the close in  New York  yesterday.  The
stock (YHOO)  has dropped 1.9 percent this year.  Yahoo is searching for more independent directors, an
effort being led by board member Patti Hart, CEO of
International Game Technology Inc. Yahoo didn’t name a chairman
to replace Bostock yesterday.  Fresh Outlook  “We believe that this reconfigured board, with a fresh set
of perspectives and diverse set of skills, will enable the
company to move forward even more aggressively,” Yahoo said in
the statement.  Alfred Amoroso, a former International Business Machines
Corp. executive who served as CEO of  Rovi (ROVI)  Corp., and Maynard Webb, EBay Inc.’s ex-chief operating officer, will join the
board. Besides Bostock, directors Gary Wilson, Arthur Kern and
Vyomesh Joshi won’t seek re-election.  Amoroso ran Rovi, a provider of digital home-entertainment
products, through the end of 2011. He helped transform it from a
company that offered digital-rights management for CDs and DVDs
into one focused on video distribution. Amoroso also was CEO of
META Group Inc. and CrossWorlds Software Inc., and served as a
member of IBM’s worldwide management committee.  ‘Logical Choice’  He has significant experience in the business of digital
content, said  Michael Olson , a media analyst at Piper Jaffray in
 Minneapolis . “Given Yahoo is pointing to an increased focus on
content, Fred would be a logical choice for the board.”  Webb has been chairman of  LiveOps Inc. , a provider of call-
center technology, since 2006 and served as CEO until July 2011.
He also was a senior vice president and chief information
officer at Gateway Inc. Webb is known throughout Silicon Valley
for his deep technical knowledge and ability to execute, said
Douglas Carlisle, managing director at Menlo Ventures, who
recruited Webb to LiveOps in 2006.  “He’s a guy with a lot of experience running very large
and complex Web properties from an operations perspective,”
said Carlisle, who still serves on the LiveOps board with Webb.
“He’s very highly regarded around the Valley as someone who is
very good at getting things done.”  Bostock’s tenure as chairman was tainted by market-share
declines, management upheaval and the rejection of a $47.5
billion takeover bid from Microsoft in 2008. Yahoo’s market
value is now $19.6 billion, less than half the offer price.  Demanded Resignation  While Yang, a Yahoo co-founder and then CEO, handled much
of the negotiations with Microsoft, it was Bostock who co-signed
a letter announcing that takeover talks were over. The company
said Microsoft’s bid was “not in the best interests of Yahoo
stockholders.”  Yahoo investor  Third Point  LLC ramped up pressure on the
company’s board last September, when the firm increased its
stake and reiterated a demand that Bostock step down.  Daniel Loeb , CEO of Third Point, said he told Bostock and Yang in a
phone conversation that he planned to “pursue whatever efforts
were necessary to remove Mr. Bostock from the board,” according
to a filing. The dialogue ended when “Bostock terminated the
call,” Loeb said.  Bostock’s departure follows that of Yang, who resigned from
the board and all other positions at the company last month.
Scott Thompson, the new CEO, joins from  EBay (EBAY) , where he served as
president of the company’s PayPal unit.  Better Chances?  “The more of the men who turned down the Microsoft deal
leave, the better a chance is we get an Asian deal done
faster,” said Laura Martin, an analyst at Needham & Co. in
 Pasadena ,  California . She recommends buying the shares, which
she doesn’t own herself.  The year after the failed Microsoft takeover, Yahoo brought
in Bartz as CEO to help drive a turnaround. When she struggled
to revive revenue and  Yahoo’s stock price , Bostock fired her by
phone on Sept. 6. Sales have declined for the past three
straight years.  “We all take pride in the fact that we are positioning
Yahoo for success in the future,” Bostock said in yesterday’s
statement. “I have every expectation that under Scott’s
leadership, working together with the reconstituted board, the
company will thrive for many years to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  