-- Repsol YPF Boosts Argentine Oil Resources to 23 Billion Barrels
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-02-08T23:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/ypf-argentine-unit-said-to-boost-shale-oil-estimate-to-23-billion-barrels.html
Repsol YPF SA’s (REP)  Argentine unit said
its shale oil resources at the Vaca Muerta formation in the
south of the country probably hold about 23 billion barrels,
almost half the size of  Brazil ’s so-called pre-salt reserves.  The new estimates come after further drilling in the
Connecticut-sized area of  Argentina ’s Neuquen province and
reviews of the area by independent auditor Ryder Scott, YPF said
late yesterday in a statement. YPF, the local unit of Madrid-
based Repsol, previously discovered about 927 million barrels at
the Loma La Lata field, which is located in the formation.  YPF, producer of more than half Argentina’s crude, is
boosting exploration to arrest output declines amid government
criticism that local  oil companies  are failing to invest in
production. The resources at Vaca Muerta compare with the 50
billion barrels of oil Brazil estimates it’s found underneath a
thick layer of salt beneath the seabed and which include the
largest fields discovered in the Americas in three decades.  “There’s a tremendous amount of resource potential for YPF
to develop,” Matthew Portillo, an analyst at Tudor Pickering
Holt & Co., said yesterday in a telephone interview from
Houston. “It’s an impressive number in terms of the potential
size and scope of Vaca Muerta within Argentina.”  American depositary receipts in Buenos Aires-based YPF
climbed as much as 12 percent to $36.30 yesterday in  New York 
and closed 11 percent higher at $35.90. Repsol rose 0.5 percent
to close at 20.68 in  Madrid , before the news was announced.  Repatriate Revenues  In October, the government ordered oil and mining companies
to repatriate export revenues and in November opposed a dividend
payment for YPF as it seeks to stem capital flight. YPF was one
of nine companies that also lost financial incentives for oil
exploration and production on Feb. 3., following speculation
that the government may consider nationalizing the company.  The government could use central bank reserves to pay for a
takeover of YPF, Sebastian Vargas, an economist at Barclay’s
Capital, said yesterday in a report to clients.  YPF’s previous 927 million barrel estimate came from
surveying 3 percent of the 12,000 square kilometers of Vaca
Muerta licensed to the company, Chief Executive Officer
Sebastian Eskenazi said in November. The 927 million resources
are so-called prospective resources while the 23 billion are so-
called contingent resources. Contingent resources include
resources that may not be commercially viable.  Vaca Muerta  The Vaca Muerta formation, located in Patagonia, is almost
the size of  Connecticut , which is 12,997 square kilometers, or
5,018 square miles. Ryder Scott’s study covered an area of 8,071
square kilometers, in which YPF holds 5,016 kilometers.  The Loma la Lata discovery was Repsol’s largest ever and
YPF’s largest since at least the early 1990s. The new resources
may be the biggest in the Americas since at least the 1970s if
the contingent resources are transformed into reserves.  Argentina’s government has discussed nationalizing YPF,
Pagina/12 newspaper reported Jan. 29, without saying where it
got the information. Pagina/12 regularly runs interviews with
top government officials such as Vice President  Amado Boudou ,
who have said that the company needs to do more on production.  YPF (YPF)  may not be able to sustain dividend payments equal to
90 percent of the company’s annual net income amid pressure from
the Argentine government, Deutsche Bank AG said in a Feb. 6 note
to clients. Repsol,  Spain ’s largest oil company, owns a 57
percent stake in YPF, while the Eskenazi family’s Petersen
Energia SA owns about 25 percent of YPF and operates it.  Brufau Visit  Antonio Brufau , chief executive officer of Repsol, met
Argentina’s planning and economy ministers Feb. 6 to discuss the
government’s criticism, news agency EFE reported, citing people
close to the meeting which it didn’t identify.  Repsol said in November that Loma la Lata’s shale oil is
similar in volume to YPF’s existing reserves and its largest
find. The company said Vaca Muerta is among the world’s largest
and highest quality so-called non-conventional oil and gas
resources. YPF is the world’s second-largest company in non-
conventional acreage, auditors Wood Mackenzie said at the time.  Repsol is also exploring in Brazil’s Santos, Espirito Santo
and Campos basins, including minority stakes in the Guara and
Carioca discoveries where the company estimates recoverable
reserves of as much as 3 billion barrels.  Repsol last year sold a 40 percent stake in its Brazilian
business to China Petrochemical Corp. for $7.1 billion in a deal
that valued the Spanish company’s remaining stake at about $10.7
billion. It invested $2 billion in exploring the site.  Brazil Discovery  The discovery of offshore oil in Brazil led to a surge in
the market value of state-controlled oil producer  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , which has about 16 billion barrels of reserves.
Discoveries including the Lula and Franco fields contain
billions of barrels and are the largest finds in the western
hemisphere since  Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976.  Total world resources of oil shale, which is more expensive
to produce than conventional oil, are conservatively estimated
at 2.6 trillion barrels, and the amount of shale oil that can be
recovered depends on “many factors,” according to the Energy
Minerals Division of the  American Association  of Petroleum
Geologists.  Shale formations contributed to a boom in U.S. oil output
that reached a 9-year high in October, according to Energy
Department data.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  