-- Hyundai Seeks U.S. Elantra Sales Boost With Coupe, Hatchback
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-08T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/hyundai-seeks-u-s-elantra-sales-boost-with-coupe-hatchback.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s
largest automaker, is unveiling two additional versions of its
Elantra compact to grab a bigger share of the U.S. small-car
market from competitors including  Honda Motor Co.   Hyundai is showing the 2013 Coupe and five-door GT
hatchback today at the Chicago Auto Show. The two-door version
of the Elantra goes on sale early this year, and the Elantra GT
will arrive this summer in the U.S., Hyundai said in a
statement. Price and sales goals for the cars, built at Seoul-
based Hyundai’s Ulsan, South Korea, plant, won’t be announced
today, said Jim Trainor, a company spokesman.  Both models target drivers who want a sportier ride and
handling, Hyundai said. The GT, based on Hyundai’s European i30,
“is the latest example of how Hyundai is redefining the compact
car and setting new standards in automotive design, efficiency
and functionality,” Mike O’Brien, U.S. vice president of
product planning, said in a statement.  Hyundai has been among the fastest-growing carmakers in the
U.S., aided by improved styling, more fuel-efficient engines and
more standard features than competing Honda and Toyota Motor
Corp. models. After rising 61 percent since 2008, Hyundai’s U.S.
deliveries may expand at a slower pace this year because of
tight plant capacity and a push to further boost quality, U.S.
sales chief  John Krafcik  has said.  ‘Headroom’ to Grow  Elantra sales grew 41 percent last year to 186,361
vehicles, the first full year the latest version of the compact
was sold in the U.S. It was named North American Car of the Year
last month at the North American International Auto Show in
 Detroit .  The company may have some “headroom” to boost U.S.
Elantra sales this year, Krafcik said in an interview in  Las
Vegas  on Feb. 3, without elaborating.  Sales of Honda’s Civic, redesigned last year to mixed
reviews, dropped 15 percent in 2011. Production of the car
plunged after natural disasters in Japan and  Thailand  cut parts
supplies to Honda’s North American plants. Civic sales rebounded
50 percent in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  