-- Zuma’s Hands Are Tied on Jobs Targets as South Africa’s Economy Struggles
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-02-09T10:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/zuma-s-hands-tied-on-jobs-as-south-african-economy-struggles.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
may have little room to pledge new money to meet job targets in
his state-of-the-nation speech today as economic growth slows,
hindering his bid to be re-elected party leader this year.  Zuma, 69, will address lawmakers as the government prepares
to cut its growth forecast for a second time in four months to
below 3 percent and struggles to rein in a  budget deficit  of 5.5
percent of gross domestic product. He is scheduled to speak in
Parliament at 7 p.m. in Cape Town.  “There is nothing else in the policy cupboard,” Frans
Cronje, deputy chief executive officer of the Johannesburg-based
 South African Institute of Race Relations , a policy-research
group, said in a telephone interview. “His hands are tied.”  The threat of  Europe ’s second recession in three years is
undermining Zuma’s promise to create 5 million new jobs by 2020
and reduce the jobless rate from the highest of 61 countries
tracked by Bloomberg. Zuma is already under pressure from his
labor union allies and the youth wing of the ruling  African
National Congress , who want him to nationalize mines and spend
more on projects to create jobs.  “Unless we embrace radical economic programs and in
particular develop the capacity of the state to intervene in the
economy and drive development, we are doomed,” the Congress of
South African Trade Unions, the nation’s biggest labor group of
2 million members, said in an e-mail on Feb. 7.  No New Initiatives  The ANC Youth League, led by suspended leader  Julius Malema , has threatened to oppose Zuma’s re-election at a party
conference in December in favor of Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe .  “Zuma’s state-of-the nation address will be shadowed, if
not overshadowed, by the ANC election,” Pierre du Toit, a
politics professor at the University of Stellenbosch, near Cape
Town, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think he has got
any new initiatives up his sleeve.”  Africa’s biggest  economy  expanded an annualized 1.4 percent
in the third quarter, close to a two-year low, as manufacturing
and mining contracted. The government estimates the economy
needs to expand 7 percent annually to cut the jobless rate to 14
percent by 2020 from 23.9 percent currently. The  International
Monetary Fund  on Jan. 24 lowered its forecast for South African
growth to 2.5 percent from 3.5 percent.  Tax Breaks  The rand has strengthened 6.3 percent against the dollar
this year, reaching as high as 7.5366 today. The yield on the
benchmark rand bond due in 2015 has dropped 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 6.62 percent.  Last year, Zuma pledged 39 billion rand ($5.2 billion) to
stimulate  job creation , including tax breaks for the
manufacturing industry and investments by state-owned Industrial
Development Corp. Since then, Gordhan has pledged to narrow the
budget deficit to 3.3 percent of GDP in the next three years to
curb government debt.  “Challenging global conditions are expected to persist in
2012,” Johannes Khosa, an economist at Nedbank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in a note to clients. “Job creation is
likely to remain slow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  