-- ‘Hobbit’ Holds Off Debut Films to Finish Atop Rankings Again
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-12-31T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/-hobbit-holds-off-3-debut-films-for-third-box-office-victory.html
“The Hobbit: An Unexpected
Journey,” the first of director Peter Jackson’s trio of movies
based on the J.R.R. Tolkien novel, was the top-grossing film at
U.S. and Canadian theaters for a third weekend, collecting $32.9
million in sales.  “The Hobbit” outdrew three new films,  Hollywood.com Box-
Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Those movies,
Quentin Tarantino’s “Django Unchained,” the musical “Les
Miserables” and “Parental Guidance” with Billy Crystal and
Bette Midler, finished second through fourth, respectively.  The performance of the new films and the strength of “The
Hobbit” this past weekend contributed to a year that saw U.S.
movie attendance rise about 6 percent, according to
 Hollywood.com . That marked the first uptick in ticket purchases
in two years and boosted moviegoing from a 16-year low in 2011,
according to Hollywood.com.  “‘The Hobbit’ led the way, but there were several strong
and different films to choose from on the way to another strong
weekend at the box office, following a great year for the movie
business,” Gitesh Pandya, editor of Box Office Guru, said in a
telephone interview.  Hollywood studios are expected to take in a record $10.8
billion for the year, Hollywood.com estimated.  Dwarves, Dragon  “The Hobbit” stars Martin Freeman as Bilbo Baggins. Ian McKellen returns as Gandalf the wizard from the Rings trilogy,
and Andy Serkis again plays Gollum, the slimy, half-naked
creature from the Rings trilogy. In the film, Baggins is
recruited by Gandalf to join an expedition of dwarves seeking to
reclaim their homeland and a treasure lost to the dragon Smaug.  “The Hobbit” has taken in $222.7 million since it was
released Dec. 14.  “Django,” from Weinstein Co., had sales of $30.7 million.
The film stars Jamie Foxx in the title role as a former slave.
He joins Christoph Waltz’s Dr. King Schultz, a bounty hunter, to
collect rewards and save his wife, a slave held by Leonardo DiCaprio’s Calvin Candie. Samuel L. Jackson plays Candie’s house
slave Stephen.  “‘Django’ is rated R, certainly isn’t your typical holiday
film, opened at far less theaters than the ‘Hobbit’ and yet
still bucked the typical holiday trend with a spectacular
opening,” Pandya said. “It’s on pace to be Tarantino’s
highest-grossing film ever.”  French Turmoil  “Les Miserables” took in $28 million in its third-place
debut. The film from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures features
Hugh Jackman, Russell Crowe, Anne Hathaway and Amanda Seyfried
in a musical drama set amid the social and political turmoil of
19th century  France . Box Office Guru’s Pandya predicted sales of
$30 million after the film set the second best-ever Christmas
Day opening.  Jackman plays Jean Valjean, a reformed ex-convict who has
been sought for years by the policeman Javert, played by Crowe,
after he violated parole. Hathaway is the ill-fated Fantine,
while Seyfried is her daughter, Cosette.  “Musicals typically appeal to a certain segment, and for
what it is, this is a terrific start,'' Pandya said.  The family comedy “Parental Guidance” from News Corp.’s
Fox Film, collected $14.8 million to finish in fourth place. The
film stars Crystal and Midler as a couple who must care for
their unruly grandchildren. Marisa Tomei is also featured.
Pandya forecast weekend ticket sales of $15 million.  Cruise Thriller  Among returning films, the Tom Cruise thriller “Jack
Reacher” collected $14 million in receipts for  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s
Paramount Pictures to place fifth.  “Zero Dark Thirty,” director Kathryn Bigelow’s account of
the hunt for and killing of Osama Bin Laden, took in $315,000
and has collected $1.4 million since it opened in five theaters
on Dec. 19. The movie, from  Sony Corp. (6758) , is scheduled for wide
release on Jan. 11.  Separately, “Skyfall,” the latest installment in the
James Bond franchise, eclipsed $1 billion in revenue worldwide
this past weekend, becoming the first film of the franchise to
do it, Sony said. “Skyfall” was the 11th best-performing film
in U.S. markets.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 29 percent to
$179.6 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
box-office sales this year have totaled $10.76 billion, up 6
percent from a year earlier. Attendance is up 6 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Dec.
28 and Dec. 29 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  