-- Arabtec Retreats Amid Depa’s Qatar Contract Dispute: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-12-30T11:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/arabtec-tumbles-amid-depa-jv-contract-dispute-dubai-mover.html
Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  fell to a one-
month low after Qatar Airways said it’s filing a legal claim
against a joint venture of  Depa Ltd. (DEPA) , which is partly owned by
the United Arab Emirates construction company.  The shares tumbled as much as 4.9 percent to 2.14 dirhams
before closing at 2.24 dirhams in Dubai, the lowest level since
Nov. 28. Arabtec was the  second-biggest decliner  on the
benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , which gained 1.1 percent. Arabtec
in November bought almost a quarter of Depa, the interior
contractor that fitted out the world’s tallest tower in Dubai,
at a 47 percent premium.  Qatar Airways is filing a $600 million legal claim against
Lindner Depa Interiors for causing a delay of as much as one
year in the opening of the new Doha International Airport, the
airline said yesterday. Lindner Depa, a German-Emirati joint
venture, planned to build 19 airport lounges by summer this year
as part of a $250 million contract, Qatar Airways said. The
airport had been scheduled to open this month, it said.  “This is a set back for the company as it will get
embroiled in lawsuits and might distract its focus from
operations, plus the impact on the profitability in case they
lose the case,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based
Al Fajer Securities. “In the long run, the share price for Depa
will probably decline on the news, thus causing Arabtec to
record losses on their investment.”  Lindner Depa said it’s seeking legal counsel after Qatar
Airways statement, which it considers “false and misleading.”
The venture hasn’t received claims by Qatar Airways, it said.  Contract Termination  Depa shares have dropped 17 percent in 2012 to 35 cents,
compared with a gain of 48 percent for Arabtec, which bought 150
million shares of Depa at 44 cents each last month.  Depa, which fits out luxury hotels, yachts and apartments,
 may post a loss  of 94 million dirhams ($26 million) in 2012
after a profit last year, according to the median estimate of
four analysts on Bloomberg. The company said in June the Doha
International Airport terminated the joint-venture contract to
refurbish the facility. Arabtec  will probably post  an 18 percent
decline in full-year profit to 214 million dirhams, according to
the average estimate of 11 analysts on Bloomberg.  Three analysts recommend investors hold Depa shares, while
four analysts advise on holding Arabtec shares and 10 say to
sell them, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  