-- Baer Confirmed as U.S. Justice Department Antitrust Chief
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-12-30T19:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/baer-confirmed-as-u-s-justice-department-antitrust-chief.html
William Baer , a Washington antitrust
lawyer and former Federal Trade Commission official, was
confirmed to head the U.S.  Justice Department ’s antitrust
division.  Baer’s nomination as assistant attorney general, which had
been stalled in Congress for most of the past year, was
confirmed today by a Senate vote of 64-26.  Baer, a partner at  Arnold & Porter  LLP, 62, will become the
first fully confirmed head of the antitrust division since
former chief  Christine Varney  left in August 2011. Since then,
the division has been run by acting chiefs, including Sharis
Pozen,  Joseph Wayland  and Renata Hesse.  Baer, named one of the “Decade’s Most Influential
Lawyers” by the National Law Journal in 2010, is a former
director of the Federal Trade Commission’s competition bureau
and has represented corporate clients including  General Electric
Company Co. (GE) , Intel Corp. and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in private
practice.  “He’s an experienced enforcer who knows how to make hard
judgments in both directions,” said Janet McDavid, a partner
with Hogan Lovells US LLP who has worked with Baer on numerous
cases. “He’s aggressive, but sensible.”  Baer’s decision to block a proposed merger between  Staples
Inc. (SPLS)  and  Office Depot (ODP)  in 1997 was viewed as risky at the time,
yet set the FTC on a path as an aggressive enforcer, McDavid
said.  McDavid said Baer is also a tough negotiator, as shown by
his work on the Exxon-Mobile merger, which the FTC approved in
November, 1999, after he had left the agency, with a consent
decree that required the two oil giants to divest more than
2,400 gas stations and other outlets.  Antitrust Action  While at the FTC he also brought an antitrust action
against chipmaker  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and oversaw challenges to  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s acquisition of Turner Broadcasting System, the
merger between Ciba-Geigy AG and Sandoz AG to create  Novartis AG (NOVN) 
and the exclusionary tactics of Toys ’R’ US.  On one transaction McDavid handled with him, Baer rejected
her client’s offer for a remedy and cleared the merger because
“he thought it was the right thing to do,” McDavid said. “He
could’ve had an easy consent decree, but he didn’t take it,
because he’s principled.”  Arnold & Porter was lead outside counsel advising  AT&T Inc. (T) 
in its proposed $39 billion buyout of Deutsche Telekom AG’s  T-
Mobile USA Inc. (DTE)  Baer wasn’t personally involved in the
transaction.  Diverse Experience  Baer’s colleagues  Richard Rosen  and Donna Patterson handled
the transaction, which the Justice Department sued on Aug. 31 to
block. AT&T abandoned the deal Dec. 19 after meeting opposition
from regulators.  “Bill Baer has all the diverse experience and personal
character for the job,” said Bert Foer, the president of the
American Antitrust Institute, which favors vigorous enforcement
of antitrust laws.  “The Antitrust Division will benefit from having a strong
leader with the stamp of Senate approval, in a period in which
it will be challenged by budget cuts, a growing wave of mergers
and an economy that is increasingly concentrated,” Foer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  