-- Beijing Opens Four New Subway Lines to Ease Congestion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/beijing-opens-subways-to-ease-congestion-amid-urbanization-drive.html
Beijing put four subway lines and
extensions into operation yesterday as part of the Chinese
capital’s efforts to expand its public urban transport network
and ease traffic congestion.  The openings bring the number of lines in the Chinese
capital to 16 with a total length of 442 kilometers (275 miles),
according to a statement on the website of government-owned
Beijing Subway Operation Co. which runs the system.  China’s economy  has quadrupled in size over the past decade,
boosting  car ownership  that’s led to clogged roads and forced
some cities to impose traffic restrictions. The nation, home to
16 of the world’s 20 most polluted cities, according to the
 World Bank , has this year accelerated approvals for the
construction of local transport networks across the country.  As many as 300 million of the nation’s 1.4 billion people
will move from the countryside by 2030 to join the 600 million
already living in cities, according to estimates from the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Li
Keqiang , who became No. 2 in the ruling Communist Party
hierarchy last month in a once-a-decade  power transfer , is
championing urbanization as a new growth engine.  The  National Development and Reform Commission  this month
approved plans to build 456 kilometers of subway in Changsha,
the capital of  Hunan province , involving initial investment of
63.7 billion yuan ($10 billion) and has allowed similar projects
in cities including Fuzhou and Urumqi. Xi’an and Lanzhou are
among regional capitals in northwestern  China  building or
planning metro systems.  First Subway  Wuhan, capital of central Hubei province, this month opened
a subway line under the  Yangtze River  to link the city’s two
biggest urban areas. Hangzhou, capital of the eastern province
of Zhejiang, last month opened its first subway line and plans
to build another nine by 2020, according to a Nov. 24 Xinhua
report.  Beijing’s four new subway lines cost about 83 billion  yuan ,
according to a report on the government’s website. The network
will extend to 664 kilometers in 2016, connecting all seven
newly established districts around the city’s main urban area,
it said.  With a population of 20 million, Beijing already caps the
number of new auto registrations and limits the use of private
vehicles on designated days based on their license plate numbers.
The government is planning to build a system for imposing road-
congestion charges on motorists, the city’s transport commission
said in August.  Shanghai, Guangzhou and Guiyang are among cities that also
impose restrictions on vehicle ownership. Xi’an, capital of
Shaanxi province, will broaden traffic controls in the city
starting Jan. 1, according to a Dec. 28 statement on the
government’s website. Vehicles deemed heavily polluting based on
emissions will be banned inside the city’s second ring road, it
said. They are currently not allowed within the first ring road.  --Nerys Avery, William Bi. With assistance from Regina Tan in
Beijing. Editors: Paul Tighe, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  