-- BRIC Dominance Fades as State Meddling Curbs Equity Returns
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-12-31T21:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/bric-dominance-ebbs-as-state-meddling-means-equities-trail-world.html
Stocks in the biggest developing
markets are lagging behind global  equities  for a record third
year as faster economic growth proves no lure for investors amid
concerns over government interference in markets.  The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and
China rose 11 percent this year through Dec. 28,  trailing  the
MSCI All-Country World Index by 1.6 percentage points. The trend
will probably persist in 2013, according to John-Paul Smith, a
Deutsche Bank AG strategist. Mutual funds that invest in BRIC
nations have posted $1.65 billion of outflows as Brazilian
politicians intervened to cut utility rates, China maintained
control of its biggest  companies  and Russian businesses spent
shareholder money on projects favored by the government.  “This whole revolution of going from a socialistic
mentality to a market economy mentality is not complete,”  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $40 billion as the executive chairman
of Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group and has invested in
developing countries for more than 25 years, said in a Dec. 12
phone interview from Nairobi. “We’re still in the middle of
that and have a long way to go.”  Stocks of BRIC companies beat global equities by 403
percentage points in the eight years after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. coined the term in 2001, as their economies grew more than
threefold. Gross domestic product is now expanding at the
slowest rate compared to the rest of the world since 1998. The
 International Monetary Fund  sees average growth in the four
countries of 4.5 percent this year, down from 8.1 percent in
2010, compared with 3.3 percent for the world economy.  Volumes Drop  The BRIC index rose less than 0.1 percent in New York
today, while the All-Country measure jumped 0.8 percent.  While the BRIC  gauge  increased this year, the  value  of
shares traded on local bourses fell to a three-year low and the
measure is still 36 percent below its October 2007 peak. The
outlier is India, where the benchmark  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
surged 26 percent as the government responded to the threat of a
credit-rating downgrade with its biggest push in a decade to
open up the economy to foreign investment.  “Governments typically only carry out reforms when they
have their back to the wall,” Ruchir Sharma, the New York-based
head of emerging-market equities and global macro at Morgan
Stanley Investment Management, which oversees about $330
billion, said in a Nov. 29 phone interview. “It’s moving in the
right direction in some of these countries, but the task is so
enormous that I’m not sure it’s enough.”  Foreign Finance  The drop in stock  trading  makes it harder for governments
to revive growth.  Brazil may face an “equity gap” of more than $1 trillion
this decade as companies’ financing needs outstrip investor
demand for shares, according to the McKinsey Global Institute.
Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  has said a growing
securities industry will help the nation diversify its economy
away from oil. Chinese companies need funding sources outside
the banking system, according toJeff Urbina, an emerging market
money manager at William Blair & Co. India relies on foreign
inflows to fund its current-account deficit.  Many investors in BRIC companies prefer to buy shares on
overseas exchanges. Brazil’s state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) 
and Russia’s OAO Gazprom are more actively traded abroad than on
local bourses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-
day average value of trades in 10 Russian companies including
Gazprom is 62 percent higher in  London (OGZD)  than the same companies’
Moscow-listed shares, the data show.  India’s Potential  “You need good publicly traded markets if you’re really
going to develop long term,” Urbina, the Chicago-based money
manager whose $958 million  William Blair Emerging Markets Growth
Fund (BIEMX)  has outperformed 90 percent of peers tracked by Bloomberg
during the past three years, said in a Dec. 3 phone interview.  India has taken steps that make it the most promising of
the four countries in terms of long-term stock gains, said  Jim O’Neill , who created the term BRIC for economies his colleagues
projected would join the world’s biggest by 2050 and now
oversees about $716 billion as the chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management in London.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration removed
barriers this year on foreign investment in the retail and
aviation industries, opened the stock  market  to individual
investors abroad and cut fuel subsidies.Palaniappan Chidambaram, India’s finance minister, is also seeking to open
up the insurance and pension industries to overseas capital.  “The measures we have announced are important to bring
back growth in the economy,” the finance minister told
reporters in New Delhi Dec. 12.  Investor Confidence  International investors bought a net $24 billion of the
nation’s shares in 2012, the second-most among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg after Japan.  India’s government “is taking the issues head on to
stimulate growth and get back investor confidence,” said Soren Beck-Petersen, a London-based director at HSBC Global Asset
Management, whose $1.3 billion BRIC equity  fund  has increased
its Indian holdings this year.  Foreign investors reduced holdings in Kolkata-based  Coal
India Ltd. (COAL) , 90 percent owned by the government, to 5.5 percent
of outstanding shares as of Sept. 30, from 6.3 percent a year
earlier. The world’s largest coal producer has agreed to
increase wages and curb price increases this year as politicians
urge it to protect power utilities from higher raw-material
costs. Mobius said he’s been selling Indian mining stocks
because of government restrictions on the industry.  Leadership Transition  In China, where the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has climbed
1.5 percent this year, the worst performance among the BRICs,
the government cut trading fees and dividend taxes for long-term
investors while more than doubling the amount of shares overseas
money managers can own to restore confidence as trading volumes
sank to a four-year low last month. Trading has since increased
by about 14 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The ruling Communist Party, which began its once-a-decade
leadership transition this year, has also widened the  yuan ’s
trading band and emphasized the need to shift the world’s
second-biggest economy to a growth model based on consumer
consumption rather than government-led investment spending.  “The kind of changes that China is going through are very
exciting, are very positive,” said O’Neill, who issued a note
this month that was bullish on Chinese equities.  Officials at the CSRC’s media department didn’t respond to
two phone calls and a faxed list of questions seeking comment.  State Control  Policy makers so far have focused on increasing the pool of
buyers for Chinese assets, rather than boosting the role of free
markets and privately-run companies in the broader economy,
Deutsche Bank’s Smith said in a Dec. 3 phone interview.  The eight largest companies by market value in the Shanghai
Composite are state-controlled, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
More than 25 percent of China’s government-run enterprises are
unprofitable and productivity growth has trailed non-state firms
by about 66 percent the past three decades, the  World Bank  said
in a February report. State businesses may become a long-term
drag on economic growth, the Washington-based lender said.  Equity investors are shunning government enterprises in
favor of smaller, private companies that cater to Chinese
consumers. An MSCI gauge of Chinese  financial stocks , dominated
by state-owned banks that were compelled to lend to local
governments during the financial crisis, is valued at 8 times
reported earnings, 36 percent below its five-year average.
MSCI’s index of  consumer staples  companies trades for 28 times
profits, a 34 premium to its historical mean, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Corporate Governance  “You have this contest between the un-investible and the
overvalued,” Smith, who prefers holding cash to investing in
BRIC shares, said from London.  Russia joined the  World Trade Organization  and upgraded its
financial trading systems this year. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov told reporters in Sochi Dec. 4 that the government is
committed to improving access to the market for foreigners. “We
are going to continue this work,” he said.  Investors are more concerned about a lack of corporate
governance in Russia than how they access local markets, said
William Blair’s Urbina.  The Micex index, which rose 5.4 percent in 2012, is valued
at 5.9 times profits, the lowest level among gauges for 45
emerging and developed markets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rousseff Economy  Shares of Moscow-based Gazprom dropped 16 percent this year
even as analysts estimated the company will earn about $38
billion in 2012, making it the world’s most profitable energy
producer. The state-run gas-export monopoly is using its cash to
finance the industry’s largest capital expenditure program, part
of which goes to fund projects favored by President  Vladimir Putin .  “You can create all the value you want at these companies,
but if there’s no corporate governance, it’s not going to get to
the shareholders -- and that is a real big issue in these
markets, particularly in Russia,” Urbina said.  Investors also are punishing stocks in Brazil, where
PresidentDilma Rousseff and her ruling Workers’ Party have
focused on improving infrastructure, boosting consumers’
spending power and reducing costs for domestic manufacturers as
economic growth weakened to 0.6 percent in the third quarter
from the previous three months.  Bovespa Earnings  Rousseff announced plans this year to cut utility rates by
as much as 28 percent, called on banks to reduce borrowing costs
to levels that would leave them with “civil” profits and
approved new phone industry rules designed to increase
competition. Economists surveyed by Brazil’s central bank on
Dec. 21 predicted GDP will increase 3.3 percent next year.  For stock investors, the measures are reducing  earnings 
prospects for industries with a combined weighting of about 70
percent in the benchmark Bovespa index. Intervention in the
currency market sent the Brazilian real down more than 8 percent
this year against the dollar, the second-worst performer among
16 major currencies after the yen.  “Foreign investors are paying a price for having had too
rosy a perception of what the  Labor party  and the federal
government was about,” saidPaulo Bilyk, the chief investment
officer at Rio Bravo in Sao Paulo, which oversees about $3.5
billion in Brazilian equity and fixed-income investments.  Stock trading by local individuals this year through
November shrunk to the smallest proportion of total transactions
since 1999, data from the Sao Paulo-based Bovespa exchange show.  Relative Value  “It’s not true that we are interventionists, but we have
done reforms,” Guido Mantega , Brazil’s finance minister, said
in a Dec. 4 interview in the capital, Brasilia. “Some of them
hurt and would go against very minority interests.”  If stock valuations are a guide, investors have low
expectations that policy makers in the BRIC countries will
loosen control over their economies. The MSCI BRIC index is
valued at 10 times reported earnings, a 13 percent discount
versus its three-year average and about 30 percent less than the
multiple on MSCI’s All-Country gauge, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Should governments actually deliver, the markets that
Goldman predicted were on pace to join the U.S. and Japan as the
top economies will reward investors, saidAllan Conway, who
manages Schroder Investment Management’s $2.5 billion BRIC
equity  fund  from London.  “The fact that we talk about how much further there is to
go -- that shows the opportunity,” Conway said in a Dec. 4
phone interview. “If it was all done and dusted and in the
price, from an investment perspective it wouldn’t be interesting
anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  