-- Chelsea Beats Everton 2-1 in League, Liverpool Wins 3-0 at QPR
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-12-31T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/chelsea-rallies-to-beat-everton-2-1-move-to-third-in-league.html
Frank Lampard  scored in each half as
Chelsea rallied to win 2-1 at Everton yesterday and move into
third position in soccer’s Premier League. Liverpool beat last-
place Queens Park Rangers 3-0.  The Blues, now on a run of four league victories, have 38
points, four behind second-place Manchester City, with
 Manchester United  on 49. Chelsea has played one fewer game than
the top two.  “It was a great win,” Chelsea interim manager  Rafael Benitez  said in comments on the club’s website. “Everton were
pushing and we made mistakes at the beginning but the reaction
under pressure was really good.”  Luis Suarez  got two of Liverpool’s goals as the Reds
climbed one spot to ninth, ahead of Swansea on goal difference.
 Daniel Agger  also scored at Loftus Road.  The Reds were without manager  Brendan Rodgers , who missed
the game with a virus. Glen Driscoll, the club’s head of
performance, and goalkeeper  Brad Jones  also were absent to help
stop the bug spreading to other players and staff.  At Goodison Park,  Steven Pienaar  gave Everton a lead within
two minutes before the Toffees slumped to their first home
league defeat of the season.  It was the first goal allowed by Chelsea in three league
matches. Phil Jagielka crossed from the right and Victor
Anichebe headed against a post, with Pienaar following up to
fire into the net.  Fast Goal  At 63 seconds, it was Everton’s fastest league goal since
Aiyegbeni Yakubu scored after 47 seconds against Portsmouth in
March 2008, according to Infostrada Sports.  The hosts continued to push forward and almost doubled the
advantage on nine minutes from a free kick by Nikica Jelavic
which struck the base of a post.  Goalkeeper Petr Cech, playing his 400th match for Chelsea,
then dived to push clear a low effort from the edge of the
penalty area by  Leon Osman  in the 26th minute.  The Blues had one of their first clear opportunities two
minutes later, with Everton keeper  Tim Howard  denying  Juan Mata .
Ashley Cole just failed to connect with a cross from Spain
midfielder Mata soon after.  Cech turned a low shot by Jelavic behind for a corner on 36
minutes and Chelsea tied it six minutes later when Ramires
lifted the ball into the area and Lampard planted a header into
the bottom corner of the net.  Pressing Forward  Both teams pressed for a second goal after the interval,
with Ross Turnbull, who replaced Cech at halftime, making a
couple of saves from Osman in his second appearance of the
season. Turnbull was unable to stop a 69th-minute diving header
from Jelavic that smashed against the bar.  At the other end of the field,  Fernando Torres  hit a
powerful shot at goal that Howard dived to stop.  Lampard’s second goal came on 72 minutes. The England
midfielder, out of contract at the end of the season, followed
up to score from close range after Howard saved from Mata.  Everton’s best chance to earn a draw came in injury time,
as Jelavic shot weakly into the arms of Turnbull. It ended his
team’s seven-game unbeaten run, leaving Everton in sixth spot.  “It was always going to be very close and we did ride our
luck at times,” Lampard told the British Broadcasting Corp.
“We have to keep believing this season. There’s a long way to
go.”  Suarez Double  Liverpool’s top-scorer Suarez now has 16 goals this season
after getting two in the opening 16 minutes at Loftus Road.  The Uruguayan surged past Clint Hill before placing the
ball into the bottom corner of the net on 10 minutes, then six
minutes later finished with a low shot after Nedum Onuoha had
blocked his initial cross.  The Reds extended their lead further in the 28th minute
with a header from Agger.  A shot by Reds captain  Steven Gerrard  was cleared off the
line, Jordan Henderson fired just wide and Suarez had an effort
tipped onto the bar by  Julio Cesar .  “The first half was probably the best we’ve played this
season,” Gerrard told Sky Sports. “We deserved the three
points.”  QPR has now lost three successive games since recording its
only league win. It is eight points behind 17th-place  Aston
Villa , which occupies the spot just above the three-team
relegation positions.  Two days ago, Manchester United beat West Bromwich Albion
2-0, Manchester City won 4-3 at Norwich, Arsenal defeated
Newcastle 7-3 and 10-man Stoke rallied to tie 3-3 against
Southampton.  Reading beat West Ham 1-0, Tottenham defeated Sunderland 2-
1, Wigan won 3-0 at Aston Villa, while Swansea beat Fulham 2-1.  The next round of games are on Jan. 1 and Jan. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  