-- China Chicken Probe Hurts Profit as KFC Ends Deal: Liuhe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-31T07:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/china-tainted-chicken-probe-affects-profits-new-hope-liuhe-says.html
China ’s biggest poultry supplier
said profits will be hurt by a report that some of its chicken
wasn’t properly inspected, as  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  and  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD)  said they stopped buying meat from the company.  Sales and profit will sustain a “certain amount of
impact,”  New Hope  Liuhe Co. said in a Dec. 29 statement to
Shenzhen’s stock exchange. State-broadcaster China Central
Television reported Dec. 18 that Liuhe and other suppliers
weren’t properly inspecting chicken bought from farmers for
antibiotics and hormones.  In its statement, Liuhe said it shut the deep-freeze plant
in the northern city of Pingdu that was cited in the CCTV report
and is cooperating with a government probe. It also apologized
for the negligence of its workers and said it will “ensure a
comprehensive test system is in place.”  Concerns about antibiotics and hormones in chicken add to a
series of food safety incidents that have included reprocessed
cooking oil and the sale of tainted milk powder in 2008 that
killed at least six children. Chinese leaders including  Li Keqiang , who is in line to become premier next year, have
pledged harsh punishment for those who violate regulations as
the government seeks to assuage public outrage.  Liuhe Shares  The poultry supplier’s shares reversed an earlier fall to
rise about 1  percent  to 12.49 yuan at the close in Shenzhen,
compared with a 1.6 percent gain for China’s benchmark  Shanghai 
Composite Index. Liuhe’s stock has dropped more than 25 percent
this year as the Shanghai Composite Index rose 3.2 percent.  New Hope Liuhe was created when the listed arm of Chengdu,
Sichuan-based New Hope Group Co., co-founded by chairman
billionaire Liu Yonghao, acquired Liuhe Group last year,
according to the company’s website.  New Hope Group said in a  statement  posted on the Shanghai
Clearing House’s website today that livestock authorities in
Shandong and Sichuan found its subsidiary’s poultry products met
standards after carrying out checks.  Liuhe Group has also spent 100 million  yuan  ($16 million)
bolstering food safety measures since Dec. 18, New Hope said,
adding that its own operations continue as per normal and are
not “badly affected.”  Yum, Mcdonald’s Sales  Yum, which operates the KFC and Pizza Hut chains in China,
said Dec. 28 that it stopped buying from Liuhe’s Lingyi factory
in 2011 after checks on samples from the supplier found problems
with the chicken.  The Shanghai  Food and Drug Administration  said on Dec 20.
that tests conducted by a third-party agency from 2010-2011
found eight batches of chicken supplied to Yum by Liuhe had
levels of antibiotics that didn’t meet prescribed standards.  The Louisville, Kentucky-based company, which got 44
percent of its revenue from China last year, said it stopped all
supplies from Liuhe in August this year.  McDonald’s, which plans to have 2,000 stores in China by
the end of next year, said Dec. 19 that it had stopped
deliveries from Liuhe the day before that.  The cities of Beijing and Shanghai also said they were
planning steps to tighten oversight of  food safety  following the
CCTV report. Beijing’s municipal government will introduce a
strict food-safety law, including banning producers and vendors
for life if they are found to be making or selling unsafe food,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported. Shanghai is also
considering harsher punishments, Xinhua said.  China will take “strong” action against businesses
violating food safety regulations to ensure people’s health over
the New Year and Chinese New Year holidays, Xinhua reported
yesterday.  The government in 2010 created a food safety commission
under the State Council, China’s cabinet, and appointed Vice
Premier Li its head. Li was named the Communist Party’s second-
highest ranking official last month, putting him in line to
replace  Wen Jiabao  as premier next March.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  