-- Dubai Islamic Bank Needs Capital to Avoid Downgrade: Arab Credit
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-12-30T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/dubai-islamic-bank-needs-capital-to-avoid-downgrade-arab-credit.html
Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the world’s
oldest Shariah-compliant lender, may need to boost capital to
absorb bad loans stemming from a real estate slump to avert a
possible ratings downgrade.  The biggest the United Arab Emirates lender complying with
Muslim banking rules was placed on ratings watch because loan
quality “remains very weak compared to peers” and it hasn’t
set aside enough money to cover losses, Moody’s Investors
Service said Dec. 6. Competitor Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank sold
perpetual debt in November to raise capital so it can lend more
as the U.A.E. economy recovers from a property crash that sent
Dubai home prices tumbling more than 65 percent.  “Dubai Islamic will soon need to find fresh capital, or
alternatively cut back on loan growth substantially,” Jaap Meijer, a director of equity research at Dubai-based Arqaam
Capital Ltd., said in an e-mail Dec. 26. He cited DIB’s “high
dividend payout and low capital-generation capacity.”  The bank’s five-year Islamic bonds, sold in May, have
fallen since the credit warning, pushing the yield up 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 3.49 percent on Dec. 28.
That contrasts with a four basis-point drop to 2.89 percent in
the average yield on emerging-market financial debt tracked by
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai’s U.S. Dollar Sukuk Financial Services Index.  Perpetual Bonds  Dubai Islamic’s Tier-1 capital ratio, the core resources
used to cushion against losses, stood at 13.6 percent at the end
of last year, below the U.A.E. average of 15.4 percent,
according to Moody’s.  By selling $1 billion of Islamic notes that don’t mature
 Abu Dhabi Islamic (ADIB)  will raise its Tier-1 capital ratio to 19.3
percent in 2013 from 13.7 percent at the end of September,
Arqaam said last month. Perpetual bonds can be counted as equity
and thus used to supplement capital.  “An adequate Tier-1 ratio for Dubai Islamic Bank will be
in the 16 percent to 17 percent area,” Montasser Khelifi, a
Dubai-based senior analyst at Quantum Investment Bank Ltd., said
in an e-mail Dec. 27. “We believe that it is more plausible for
Dubai Islamic to sell a perpetual sukuk in 2013 than a
conventional capital increase.”  The lender didn’t respond to a phone call seeking comment
on Moody’s ratings-watch decision.  Bad Loans  Bad loans at the Dubai-based bank comprised 16.8 percent of
the total at the end of 2011 and are expected “to remain
elevated through to year-end 2013,” Moody’s said. That’s above
the U.A.E. average ratio of 10.6 percent, it said.  Banks in the second-largest Arab economy, which comprises
seven emirates including Abu Dhabi and Dubai, are struggling to
recover after boosting lending by more than 30 percent annually
in the four years through 2008, as regulations allowed
foreigners to buy properties in some parts of Dubai, sparking a
real estate boom.  As speculators fled with the onset of the credit crisis,
and many state-linked businesses grappled with debt they
couldn’t pay off, banks were left to shoulder mounting non-
performing loans. Moody’s downgraded three Dubai banks this
month, including the biggest one,  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , because
they haven’t done enough to address the pile up of bad debt.  Building Capital  Still, Dubai Islamic has reduced its exposure to real
estate. Credit to the property industry comprises 27 percent of
its loan book, down from 40 percent at the end of 2008, Moody’s
said. The bank’s profit is set to grow 14 percent in 2013 after
declining this year, according to the median forecast of three
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The “issues with banks in the U.A.E. not making enough
provisions and not recognizing the full extent of the losses on
their loan book are well known,” Aliasgar Tambawala, a Dubai-
based fixed income fund manager at Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd.,
said by e-mail on Dec. 27. “I don’t see any material change in
their credit profile on the back of these ratings action.”  U.A.E. banks are looking to boost capital to support
lending, which in Dubai Islamic’s case grew 6 percent in the
nine months through September. Emirates Islamic Bank PJSC, a
unit of Emirates NBD, received shareholder approval this month
to raise 1.5 billion dirhams ($408 million) from a sale of
equity to existing share owners to help shore up capital.  Selling perpetual notes may attract investors seeking
higher returns, Khelifi at Quantum said. The average yield on
financial services sukuk was 2.89 percent on Dec. 28 after
dropping 15 basis points this year.  Abu Dhabi Islamic’s notes, the first of their kind, secured
$15.5 billion in bids and were priced to yield 6.325 percent.
Demand has since pushed that down to 5.99 percent on Dec. 28.
Dubai Islamic would probably be able to price perpetual notes at
between 7 percent and 8 percent, Khelifi said. “Sukuk investors
appreciate the high yield of such issues,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  