-- Egypt Shares Rise on Step to Guard Reserves; Saudi Petchems Gain
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-30T14:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/egypt-shares-rise-on-step-to-guard-reserves-saudi-petchems-gain.html
Egyptian stocks advanced to a week
high after the central bank started foreign-exchange auctions to
avert a currency crisis. Some Saudi petrochemical shares rose
after the nation announced a record 2013 budget.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) ,  Egypt ’s largest publicly
traded company, climbed for a third day.  Telecom Egypt Co. (ETEL) 
gained to the highest level in almost two months after it said
it will receive a mobile-phone license. The EGX 30 climbed 0.5
percent to 5,442.37, the highest close since Dec. 20, at the
close in Cairo. Trading volume was about 13 percent higher than
the 20-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shares gained as the central bank moved to ease pressure on
Egypt’s foreign currency reserves, which plunged almost 60
percent to $15 billion, or the equivalent of three months of
imports, since the revolt that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  almost two
years ago. The regulator sold $75 million to banks at its debut
auction today. President Mohamed Mursi yesterday called for
unity to end more than a month of escalated protests.  “The market is reacting to the measures paving the way for
the International Monetary Fund deal,” said Mohamed Radwan,
head of equities at Pharos Holding for Financial Investment in
Cairo. “The foreign-exchange auctions and sales taxes are seen
as part of IMF measures, even though their impact on the people
hasn’t been tested yet.”  Unrest in the past month led Egypt to ask the IMF to delay
its decision on a $4.8 billion loan until the government has
time to pursue social dialog on policies including a planned
increase in taxes. The pound, subject to managed float, has
weakened 1.2 percent this month while forward contracts show
investors expect a 15 percent drop in 12 months. The  EGX 30 (EGX30) 
Index has advanced 50 percent so far this year.  Mobile License  Orascom Construction Industries climbed 0.4 percent to
252.60 Egyptian pounds, the highest level since Dec. 19. Telecom
Egypt, the Arab country’s monopoly fixed-line phone company,
advanced 0.6 percent to 14.17 Egyptian pounds, the highest close
since Nov. 6. The cost of the company’s mobile phone license
will be determined in cooperation with a global adviser, the
phone operator said in a regulatory filing today.  Advanced Petrochemicals Co. (APPC)  in Saudi Arabia gained 1.9
percent after the government yesterday unveiled a 2013 budget
that raises expenditures by almost a fifth to a record 820
billion riyals ($219 billion).  Saudi Budget  The benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  retreated 0.8 percent
as global investors watch budget talks in  Washington  aimed at
averting more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts that are set to take effect in January.  “The Saudi budget was expansionary as expected, but the
Tadawul is exhibiting cautious behavior until U.S. cliff issues
are seen to make some progress,” said  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-
based head of institutional trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  Elsewhere in the Gulf Cooperation Council, Dubai’s DFM
General Index advanced 1.1 percent and Bahrain’s measure gained
1 percent. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  added 0.1 percent,
Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  climbed 0.8 percent and Kuwait’s  gauge 
increased 0.1 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the
biggest companies in the GCC decreased 0.3 percent as Qatar’s  QE
Index (DSM)  slipped 0.1 percent.  Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  gained 0.2 percent at the close in Tel
Aviv. The yield on the benchmark 5.5 percent bonds due 2022 fell
three basis points to 3.63 percent, the lowest on record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  