-- Egypt Pound Weakens to Record After Central Bank Sells Dollars
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-12-31T15:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/egypt-to-start-dollar-auctions-as-reserves-hit-critical-level.html
The Egyptian pound fell to a record
after the central bank held a second dollar auction, even as
President Mohamed Mursi voiced confidence the currency would
soon stabilize.  The pound weakened almost 1 percent to 6.3649 a dollar at
3:45 p.m. in Cairo after the central bank sold $74.8 million at
a cut-off price of 6.3050 a dollar, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The daily auctions, which followed the government’s delay
in securing a $4.8 billion  International Monetary Fund  loan, are
designed to cap demand for dollars after foreign-currency
reserves plunged almost 60 percent since last year’s uprising.
Political tensions may escalate as the government is forced to
cut costs amid worries by Egyptians the moves will harm an
impoverished population.  The weakening is a “mini-devaluation,” Mohamed Abu Basha,
an economist at Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE, said in a report. The central bank’s main target is “to
instate a transparent mechanism to value the pound through the
market with an aim to limit speculation.”  The currency depreciated 2.6 percent in the year to Dec.
27, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Still, Mursi said the
pound’s drop relative to the dollar “doesn’t worry or scare
us,” the state-run Middle East News Agency reported. The
situation ‘will even out in a few days,” he said.  Black Market  Tarek Amer, chairman of the National Bank of  Egypt , the
country’s biggest lender, said the mechanism has “dealt a blow
to the black market.”  Government assurances, including a public appeal to limit
the use of dollars, haven’t allayed broader worries fueled by
the delay in the IMF loan and warnings of an even greater budget
deficit. Some exchange houses in Cairo turned customers away
before the central bank’s auction, while others said they didn’t
have enough dollars to meet demand.  “What we’re seeing now is the real price of the pound,”
Wael Samir, manager of Al-Tawheed Exchange in Cairo, said in an
interview yesterday. “There has been huge demand and not enough
supply over the past few days. People were expecting a
devaluation and were trying to buy dollars to hold.”  Currency Rationing  The central bank sold $74.9 million to banks yesterday at a
cut-off price of 6.2425 a dollar, a 0.9 percent depreciation
from the Dec. 28 closing price, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark EGX 30 Index gained 0.3 percent today,
bringing a rally this year to 51 percent.  In announcing the auction, the central bank called on
Egyptians to “ration” their foreign-currency use after
reserves fell to a “critical” level.  The central bank’s step “should have been taken months
ago, instead of using limited reserves to defend an arbitrary
level of the pound,” Raza Agha, chief regional economist for
VTB Capital Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “It would have prevented reserves from falling as
dramatically as they have.”  Egypt, the world’s biggest wheat importer, abandoned a
dollar peg in favor of a managed float in 2003 after foreign
reserves plunged. The crisis gave rise to a black market for
dollars before Central Bank Governor Farouk El-Okdah introduced
an interbank market to ease access to the U.S. currency.  IMF Loan  Whether or not the central bank’s move yields the intended
result is “really based on how soon we’re going to get the IMF
loan in order to start having foreign inflows in the country,”
 Mona Mansour , chief economist at CI Capital in Cairo, said by
phone. Securing the loan in the first quarter of 2013 would mean
“we’re still in safe levels. Afterward, if things get worse,
this could create a panic, but for the time being I don’t see
that at all.”  Egypt delayed the IMF agreement, originally slated for this
month, amid protests over a divisive constitution that Mursi
pushed to a referendum. He also suspended tax increases linked
to the economic program presented to the fund after their
announcement sparked new turmoil. Standard & Poor’s, citing the
political unrest, lowered Egypt’s credit rating to the same junk
level as Greece and  Pakistan  on Dec. 24.  The government is seeking to conclude the IMF agreement in
January, and will set a date to impose the suspended taxes
pending a national dialogue, Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed
said in a statement today.  Debt Sales  Officials say the loan is critical to winning backing from
other lenders such as the World Bank, the European Union and the
U.S. Foreign support has “stalled” pending a final deal with
the IMF, Planning and International Cooperation Minister Ashraf el-Arabi said in an interview yesterday.  The unrest has reflected on the government’s efforts to
sell debt. It raised 1 billion pounds selling nine-month notes
today, missing a 3 billion-pound target, central bank data on
Bloomberg show. It had canceled the sale of 6 billion pounds
($970 million) in six-month and one-year treasury bills Dec. 27.  “Egypt needs an IMF program,” Agha said. “Concurrently,
the government must work to attain broad-based political
stability” or the pound will remain “vulnerable.”  “I would not be surprised if the CBE is forced to use
interest rates or liquidity measures to defend the pound if the
currency continues to weaken at the current pace,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  