-- Ten Truly Terrible Domestic Policy Ideas of 2012
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-30T23:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/ten-truly-terrible-domestic-policy-ideas-of-2012.html
Each year, policy makers survey the
economic and political landscape before commencing the hard work
of refashioning molehills into mountains (and vice versa). While
we enjoy celebrating lofty goals and smart ideas, from time to
time it’s important to acknowledge the bad and the ugly along
with the good. What follows is a list of policies that, frankly,
we wish we’d never heard of.  Clean Coal: Both  Mitt Romney  and President  Barack Obama 
promoted  coal-powered electricity  this year, never more so than
when stumping through the carbon-loaded swing states of Virginia
and  Ohio . While “clean coal” doesn’t actually exist, there is
abundant and growing evidence that global warming is real, and
that coal emissions are a prime contributor to rising
temperatures. This is not the way to power the future.  Immigration Insanity:  Arizona  is not unique in legislating
self-harm. Alabama and Georgia both  chased immigrants  out of
their states this year, then watched crops rot in the fields as
a result. In  Washington , Congress again  failed to expand  H1-B
visas for graduates in science, technology, engineering and
math, cashiering American dreams and sending would-be immigrants
to create jobs -- and wealth -- elsewhere.  Pain for Homeowners: Thumbing his nose at everyone from his
boss (the president) to  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Edward DeMarco, the acting director of the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , in July  refused to allow   Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  to provide debt relief to borrowers who owe much
more than their homes are worth. It was a missed opportunity.
According to one analysis, such principal reductions could have
saved the taxpayer-backed mortgage giants as much as $3.6
billion while helping hundreds of thousands of borrowers in
danger of default. The source of that analysis? DeMarco’s own
agency.  Farm Subsidies: Congress this year replaced a  wasteful  $5
billion annual subsidy to farmers with a new insurance program
designed to cover even minor losses on harvests. With record-
high commodity prices serving as the program’s baseline,
analysts estimate that a crop-price decline -- to more normal
levels -- could trigger $7.5 billion in insurance payments to
farmers.  The Mono Mandate: Is the purpose of economic policy to
improve human welfare? Not to some inflation-obsessed lawmakers.
A proposal to reduce the Federal Reserve’s dual mandate (to
maintain  price stability  and full employment) to a  single
mandate  of price stability made the rounds in Congress this
year. It went nowhere, but the call to ignore the human fallout
of hard times will probably be back.  A Shady JOBS Act: In April, Obama signed the Jumpstart Our
Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act, which lawmakers in both
parties claimed would relieve small businesses of burdensome
regulations. The  law actually guts  investor protections and
exempts “startups” with as much as $1 billion in revenue from a
host of disclosure and governance rules. Did Congress just
jumpstart the next Enron Corp.?  Do-It-Yourself Cybersecurity: With an assist from the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, Congress this year  scuttled legislation  to
mandate cybersecurity standards for critical infrastructure,
including electrical grids, the banking system and
telecommunications networks. Opponents argued that “voluntary”
compliance by companies will suffice to safeguard consumers and
the nation. Customers of JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co.
and Bank of America Corp. -- to name just a few recent victims
of malicious computer attacks -- might disagree.  9-9-9:  Herman Cain , a Republican presidential candidate and
former chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc.,
claimed he could  replace  the U.S. tax code with a 9 percent tax
on personal and corporate income accompanied by a 9 percent
national sales tax. The plan -- and we’re being generous
labeling it so -- combined regressive  tax policy  with fiscal
make-believe. Altogether cheesy.  Recall Elections: The effort to  recall  Wisconsin Governor
 Scott Walker  in June fell flat, but only after  wasting  more than
$13 million of taxpayer funds and pitting Wisconsinites against
one another. Elected officials regularly have to answer to the
electorate; should they also have to answer irregularly? Not
unless the goal is to waste resources and maximize bitterness.  Armed Guards in Every School: This National Rifle
Association proposal to institutionalize its own myopia (at an
 estimated expense  to taxpayers of $8 billion a year) was
probably never intended to be a serious “contribution” to
 discourse  on guns. But if you’re looking for an expressway to
despair, it’s hard to beat this vision of fully militarized
kindergartens across the land.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 