-- Lessons for Both Parties From the 2012 Elections
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-12-30T16:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/lessons-for-both-parties-from-the-2012-elections.html
The 2012 U.S. elections, though they
weren’t seminal, revealed much about the nature of the body
politic and the direction of American politics.  Divided Government May Be Ingrained: At the presidential
level, Democrats start with a decided advantage. Changing
demographics -- more Hispanics and other minorities solidly
behind the party; women and young voters moving that way and
forming hard-to-break voting habits -- cut the Democrats’ way.  Look at the electoral map that decides presidential
contests. It tilts Democratic. President  Barack Obama  won the
national popular vote by 3.7 percent, and carried the electoral
map -- the number of electors from each state is based chiefly
on population -- by 332 to 206. If you took 1.9 percent from
Obama and added it to  Mitt Romney ’s tally, the Republican would
have won by more than 125,000 votes. Yet if that formula then
were applied to every state, the only ones that would change
would be Florida and Ohio. Obama, losing the popular vote, still
would have won the Electoral College, and the presidency, 285 to
253.  This is why some states that are reliably Democratic at the
presidential level and where Republicans now control the
statehouse are trying to change the Electoral College system.
Each state controls its own rules; only two smaller ones, Maine
and  Nebraska , award electors by congressional district;
everywhere else, it’s winner-take-all.  Pennsylvania Test  Republicans are pondering a shift to the Maine and Nebraska
approach. They see a possible test case in Pennsylvania, where
Obama won the popular vote by more than five points, rolling up
huge margins in Philadelphia and its suburbs and in Pittsburgh.
Romney, however, carried 13 of the 18 congressional districts.
If this new system were in effect, the Republicans would have
gotten 13 of the state’s 20 electoral votes while getting
trounced in the popular vote. If this occurred in mainly blue
states, it would erase the Democrats’ Electoral College
advantage.  In House elections, Republicans already have a structural
advantage. Democratic voters, especially minorities, tend to be
bunched in a relatively small number of districts.  “The high density Democratic population makes it more
difficult for Democrats to create more competitive districts,”
says  Nathan Gonzales , congressional analyst for the Rothenberg
Report.  It’s this bunching, more than any redistricting edge, that
enabled Republicans to retain a 234 to 201 lead in the House
this year even though Democrats received a million more votes
overall in House races. There is little to suggest this
advantage will lessen in the years ahead.  Conventions Matter More Than Debates: The news media treat
the political conventions as irrelevant dinosaurs; the
presidential debates are depicted as the  Super Bowl  or  World Cup 
of politics.  It didn’t work out that way. The conventions mattered more.
Romney and the Republicans blew a chance at the convention in
Tampa, Florida, to reset his candidacy. In Charlotte,  North
Carolina , the Democrats stepped up to the challenge, especially
with former President  Bill Clinton ’s powerful speech that set
the predicate for more positive public attitudes about the
economy.  Obama’s disastrous performance in the first debate with
Romney certainly mattered, though the duration of the Republican
nominee’s bounce was exaggerated. Before that debate, the
president was about four points ahead nationally; that was his
final margin.  Primary Strategy  Moving to the Center Is Tough in the Media Age:  Richard Nixon  advised Republicans to run to the right in the primaries
and quickly move to the center in the general election. This
formula worked as recently as 1980 for  Ronald Reagan . For
Democrats, it’s run to the left in the primaries and move to the
center in the general.  This is much harder to do today with an omnipresent media
tracking and assembling every public pronouncement. Romney tried
to pivot in the general; there is little evidence that it worked
well. He couldn’t escape earlier assertions that alienated
Hispanics (calling for undocumented workers to self-deport) or
women (boasting that he would kill any funds for  Planned
Parenthood ).  There Are Polls and Polls: Polls done on the cheap,
automatic phone calls, some online surveys and partisan polls
all missed the mark. More professional polls, with telephone
interviews, conducted for media and other sources, were
accurate in most instances.  Campaigns Matter: Improving attitudes about the economy
and, to a slight degree, the president’s response to  Hurricane
Sandy , moved the needle in the closing weeks. Obama indisputably
was a better political candidate.  The contrasting campaigns widened the margin. Post-election
forums at  Harvard University  and the  University of Pennsylvania ,
and the instant campaign e-book, “The End of the Line,” by
Politico’s Jonathan Martin and Glenn Thrush, illustrated the
Obama campaign’s supremacy on tactics: polling, the use of
digital and social media, advertising, identifying and turning
out voters.  The biggest advantage was overarching, strategic. “We knew
who our guy was and where the country was,” said  Stephanie Cutter , Obama’s deputy campaign manager. “They didn’t seem to
have a sense of either.”  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Albert Hunt  in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 