-- Levi-Montalcini, Italian Nobel Laureate, Dies at 103
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-12-30T16:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/levi-montalcini-italian-nobel-prize-laureate-dies-at-103.html
Rita Levi-Montalcini, the Italian
scientist whose home experiments on chick embryos while facing
Nazi persecution laid the foundations for her  Nobel-Prize 
winning  brain research , died. She was 103.  Her passing “isn’t a loss just to  Rome  and  Italy  but to
humanity as a whole,” Rome Mayor Gianni Alemanno said in an e-
mailed statement today.  In a life spanning most of the 20th century, the senator-
for-life was a pioneer in the medical and social fields. She
carried out revolutionary experiments in a make-shift laboratory
while hiding from the Nazi army in fascist Italy that
contributed to her  Nobel Prize  for medicine. In the last decade
of her life, she set up a  foundation  with her twin sister to
give scholarships to young, talented African women.  Levi-Montalcini discovered the  nerve growth factor , a
naturally occurring protein that prevents cell death and that
today is the basis for the treatment of  Alzheimer’s Disease .  “You’ve been thinking about something without willing to
for a long time,” she once said of the discovery. “Then, all
of a sudden, the problem is opened to you in a flash and you
suddenly see the answer.”  Rita Levi-Montalcini was born on April 22, 1909, in  Turin 
to Adamo Levi, a mathematician, and Adele Montalcini, a painter.
Rita and her twin Paola were the youngest of four children and
grew up in what she described as a “highly cultured” Jewish
household with memories clouded only by her father’s opposition
to his daughters’ desire to study and work.  ‘Respect for Women’  “He loved us dearly and had a great respect for women, but
he believed that a professional career would interfere with the
duties of a wife and mother,” Levi-Montalcini wrote in a self-
penned note reproduced in the book “The Nobel Prizes 1986”
( Stockholm , 1987).  As a teenager she considered becoming a writer, mostly born
out of her admiration for  Sweden ’s  Selma Lagerlof , the first
female author to win the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1909, the
year Rita was born.  While her twin began to pursue painting, it wasn’t until
Rita turned 20 that she discovered her scientific vocation and
decided to challenge her father’s wishes. The death of a family
friend of cancer helped make up her mind. Entering medical
school in Turin, she studied under Giuseppe Levi, who also
taught two of her colleagues and future Nobel laureates Salvador Luria and Renato Dulbecco.  “We are indebted for having learned to approach scientific
problems in a most rigorous way at a time when such an approach
was still unusual,” Levi-Montalcini said of her mentor in her
1988 autobiography “ In Praise of Imperfection, My Life and
Work.”   Rise of Fascism  Her university years coincided with the rise of fascist
dictator  Benito Mussolini . By the time she graduated with top
marks, the so-called racial laws of the late 1930s directed
against the Jewish community cut short a promising academic
career begun as Levi’s assistant.  After a stint in Brussels, Rita returned to Italy soon
after World War II broke out and with the Nazis on the verge of
invading  Belgium . Faced with the choice of staying put or moving
abroad indefinitely, Rita chose to remain in her homeland.  “I then decided to build a small research unit at home and
installed it in my bedroom,” Levi-Montalcini said about how she
began her ground-breaking research. “The heavy bombing of Turin
made it imperative to abandon Turin and move to a country
cottage where I rebuilt my mini-laboratory and resumed my
experiments.”  Forced Underground  Once the Nazi army invaded Italy in 1943, Rita was forced
underground and came into contact with the Resistance movement
in Florence. In the closing stages of the war, she interrupted
her research to work as a doctor in Allied war camps.  In 1947, she was invited to resume her experiments at the
 Washington University  in  St. Louis . What was meant to be a one-
year stint instead turned into a 30-year stretch in the U.S. It
was there that she carried out her research into the growth of
nerve cells in the 1950s.  The Nobel Prize assembly described her work with fellow
winner Stanley Cohen, as “a fascinating example of how a
skilled observer can create a concept out of apparent chaos.”
Both were awarded the 1986 prize for medicine.  A quarter of a century later, Levi-Montalcini was made a
senator for life, a largely honorary position held by ex-
presidents of the republic and a handful of other illustrious
Italians.  At the age of 97, the oldest of the seven life senators,
Levi-Montalcini played an unexpectedly pivotal role in domestic
politics after the tightly contested April 2006 elections left
Prime Minister  Romano Prodi  with only a one-seat majority in the
upper house of parliament.  Sharp and lucid till the end, Levi-Montalcini’s long silver
hair was always immaculately woven into a bun, making her
instantly recognizable among the swathes of senators. Though
virtually blind and hard of hearing, Levi-Montalcini was
unfailing in showing up to cast critical votes that on more than
one occasion saved Prodi’s ruling coalition from collapse.  The one time the government did fall short of needed votes
in the Senate, Rita was in Dubai, attending a conference with
fellow Nobel Prize winner  Muhammad Yunus . In the end she
survived the Prodi government, which fell in 2008 after less
than two years in power.  On the home page of her  foundation’s website , Rita hand-
picked the following quote from the  Diary of Anne Frank : “In
spite of everything, I still believe that people are really good
at heart.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  