-- Ford Brand Tops 2 Million Sales in U.S. for Another Year
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-12-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/ford-brand-tops-2-million-sales-in-u-s-for-another-year.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s namesake brand will
top 2 million vehicles in U.S. sales this year and its Focus
compact car was the top-selling model line worldwide through
September, the automaker said today.  Ford will be the only auto brand to exceed the 2 million
sales level in the U.S. this year, the Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker said in a statement. Ford models are on track to reach
2.2 million U.S. sales up from 2.1 million last year,  Erich Merkle , the company’s sales analyst, said in an interview.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  is trying to boost
profits by selling the same models globally, rather than
different versions for various regions. His One Ford strategy
aims to leverage the second-largest U.S. automaker’s economies
of scale to improve profit margins. Ford earned $4.07 billion in
the first nine months of 2012, down from $6.6 billion a year
earlier as losses overseas dragged down profit.  “Over the last three years, we’ve been moving toward
global vehicles,” Merkle said yesterday. “And it’s playing out
very well here in the U.S., where the Focus will be up 40
percent this year, and in  Asia , where Focus is one of the best-
selling vehicles in the region.”  Including its Lincoln luxury line, Ford will remain the
second-best selling automaker in the U.S. for 2012, behind
 General Motors Co. (GM) , Merkle said. While  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  has
narrowed the gap with Ford this year, the Toyota City, Japan-
based automaker trailed Ford by 141,746 cars and light trucks
through November, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  F-Series, Fiesta  In addition to the Focus, Ford said its F-Series pickup
line is the world’s fourth-best selling nameplate and its Fiesta
subcompact ranks fifth. Ford cited registration data gathered by
auto researcher R.L. Polk & Co.  “Focus and Fiesta represent the best of our One Ford
plan,”  Jim Farley , Ford’s global sales and marketing chief,
said in a statement. “In just three years, Ford has transformed
our global small-car lineup.”  Ford said no other auto brand has topped 2 million in sales
in the U.S. since 2007, before the  U.S. economy  plunged into a
recession.  “Before the recession, 2 million in sales was fairly
common,” Merkle said. “After the recession, of course, that
all changed. We’re the first one back to pre-recession levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  