-- This Is a Perfect Editorial
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-30T23:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/this-is-a-perfect-editorial.html
Young children, defined as anyone
under the age of about 50, might find this hard to believe, but
there was a brief time when “groovy” was used without irony as
a term of approbation.  “Feelin’ groovy” was a good way to feel.  This didn’t last, of course. They never do. Dating back at
least to “cool” in the 1950s, there has always been some word
that is shorthand for approval among younger people. (And one of
the irritations of life is the discovery by every generation
that however young you might feel -- or actually be -- someone
else is younger.)  The life cycles of these words are generally similar,
though always somewhat mysterious. They surface among teenagers,
are adopted by their younger siblings and parents, spread to the
adult population generally and end up in television commercials
for mundane products, at which point they are no longer suitable
for use by teenagers because they are uncool.  We at Bloomberg View, as grown-ups, cannot state where
things stand regarding “cool” and its descendants with the
same certainty that we bring to less important issues such as
the future of the euro. We can offer a few tentative theories.  The life span of these terms seems to be about three or
four years.  Each one starts out with some degree of irony -- if only
that of exaggeration. Then it is used seriously for a while.
Finally, the air quotes are welded on permanently, and the term
becomes a joke.  “Cool” had a double run. First in the 1950s, when it was
associated with jazz, which was coolness incarnate. Then it had
another good run in the 1990s or so, when the irony came from
the fact that it was such an antiquated term. At the turn of the
present century there was “hot” -- prized for the humor of its
meaning roughly the same thing as “cool,” and for its sexual
overtones.  The most obviously ironic term was “bad” -- meaning good,
a usage popularized by blacks in the late 1960s and 1970s. Its
appeal was partly the mock sense of speaking in code to fool the
Man.  But the Man caught on soon enough. (He always does.) When
college marching bands took up “Bad, Bad Leroy Brown” to play
at halftime, it was definitely time to move on. Other shorthand
expressions of approbation during the last half of the 20th
century included “boss,” “rad” (short, obviously, for
“radical” and therefore not too interesting) and, of course,
the embarrassing “groovy.”  As for the 21st century: The first decade or so was
dominated by “awesome.” Nothing was too mundane and too
obviously not awesome to avoid this label. Have you picked up
the dry cleaning? You have? Awesome. Is it raining today?
Awesome. There’s a dead body in the middle of the living room.
Awesome.  Obviously if everything is awesome, then nothing is truly
awesome. But rather than hector you about remembering what is
truly awesome -- the smell of the dawn or the wonders of
childhood or that sort of stuff -- we will use the last dregs of
your patience to tell you what’s next. A preteen of our
acquaintance said that among her friends, the one-word
expression of approval is “sick.” At first we thought she was
teasing us, but at least one parent has confirmed this. Another
parent insisted that “sick” has actually been around for
years.  Two crucial elements here are one-upmanship and secrecy. By
definition, once grown-ups start to use a word, it is past its
sell-by date. Any assertion on this subject (as opposed to any
other subject) cannot be authoritative.  Nevertheless, we proceed and state that the word most
likely to succeed in the tradition of “cool” is “perfect.”
Once again, the joke lies in the inherent exaggeration.  Nothing is really perfect. But perfect it is, and all we
can say is, “cool.”  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 