-- Job Market Probably Held Gains in December: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-12-30T05:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/job-market-probably-held-gains-in-december-u-s-economy-preview.html
Employers probably added jobs in
December at about the same pace as the prior month, showing the
U.S. labor market held up as lawmakers struggled to resolve the
fiscal impasse, economists said before a report this week.  Payrolls rose by 150,000 workers after a 146,000 gain in
November, according to the median forecast of 54 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Labor Department figures due Jan.
4. The  unemployment rate  may have held at 7.7 percent, the
lowest since December 2008.  “Job growth around 150,000 is a decent way to end the
year,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “Businesses are worried but
not panicked. We’ll see much stronger employment gains in the
second half of 2013.”  The path to faster hiring was made difficult by the
possibility of more than $600 billion in tax increases and
government spending cuts in 2013. Other reports this week that
are projected to show stability in manufacturing and expansion
in the services industry underscore a resilient economy.  Stocks fell last week amid concern talks between President
 Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans would fail to yield a
budget deal. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 1.9
percent last week.  The Labor Department’s report this week is projected to
show that private employment, which excludes government
agencies, climbed by 153,000 in December following a 147,000
increase, economists predicted.  ‘Wait-and-See’  Cintas Corp. (CTAS) , a Cincinnati-based provider of uniforms,
supplies and safety products, is among businesses that noted a
“wait-and-see attitude” among clients on concern about the
possibility of fiscal tightening, according to William Gale,
chief financial officer.  Monthly job gains of 250,000 or more “should start
impacting our types of customers and hopefully we’ll see that as
we get into 2013, but I think it’s not a sure thing by any means
right now,” Gale said on a Dec. 20 earnings call with analysts.  Payroll gains this year through November have averaged
about 151,000 a month compared with 147,000 in the same period
of 2011. The U.S. had recovered 4.6 million of the 8.8 million
jobs lost as a result of the 18-month recession that ended in
June 2009.  The goal of faster progress in the labor market is one
reason Federal Reserve policy makers decided on Dec. 12 to
expand stimulus to spur the more than three-year-old recovery.
The central bank, which has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
close to zero since 2008, said it would hold borrowing costs low
“at least as long” as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5
percent and inflation projections are for no more than 2.5
percent.  Job Competition  Competition for available positions remains high.  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s second-largest carrier, received 22,000
applications for about 300 flight attendant jobs in the first
week after posting the positions outside the company. The
applications arrived at a rate of two per minute, Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  told workers in a weekly
recorded message. Interviews are slated for January, and those
hired will begin flying in June, for the peak travel season.  Businesses that had said they’d step up holiday hiring
compared to last year’s season included  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-
biggest U.S. department-store chain, and Toys ‘R’ Us Inc., the
world’s largest toy retailer.  Manufacturing Stable  Stabilizing global and U.S. demand may be reflected in
other data this week. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 manufacturing index , due Jan. 2, rose to 50.3 in December from
49.5 the prior month, according to the Bloomberg survey median.
Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  Bigger gains at factories may be hard to attain as
companies await clarity on taxes and  government spending . While
gross domestic product rose at a 3.1 percent annual rate from
July through September, the fastest this year, corporate
spending on equipment and software fell by the most since the
second quarter of 2009.  A report on Jan. 4 may show the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM
group’s  services index , which covers almost 90 percent of the
economy, also sustained growth. Economists forecast the measure
came in at 54.3 in December after the prior month’s 54.7
reading.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  