-- Obama Calls Newtown Shootings His ‘Worst Day,’ Talks Second Term
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-12-30T14:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/obama-calls-newtown-shootings-his-worst-day-talks-second-term.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
push immigration reform and efforts to control firearms violence
early in his second term -- issues that have been stalled since
before he took office by deep political divisions in the U.S.  In a wide-ranging interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
that also covered the budget standoff and foreign policy, Obama
said his second-term priorities also included expanding energy
production and building roads, bridges and schools.  He didn’t put entitlement reform atop his priority list,
saying Republicans need to be willing to raise taxes on the
wealthy before he would consider cutting programs for the
elderly, students and the disabled.  Obama called Dec. 14 -- the day a gunman in Newtown,
 Connecticut , killed himself and 27 others, mostly children --
“the worst day of my presidency.”  Obama said he’s not ready to embrace gun-rights advocates’
support for placing armed guards at schools throughout the
country.  “I am skeptical that the only answer is putting more guns
in schools, and I think the vast majority of the American people
are skeptical that that somehow is going to solve our problem,”
he said.  Obama said the Newtown shootings strengthened his resolve
for an assault-rifle ban and other measures, such as regulating
high-capacity ammunition clips, he expects to ask Congress to
pass early next year. Vice President  Joe Biden , a gun-control
advocate since his days in the Senate, has begun preparing
options for the president to propose.  ‘Full Weight’  “I’m going to be putting forward a package, and I’m going
to be putting my full weight behind it,” Obama said.  Obama also said he would introduce legislation for “fixing
our broken immigration system” next year.  “I think we have talked about it long enough. We know how
we can fix it. We can do it in a comprehensive way that the
American people support,” he said. “That’s something we should
get done.”  In the interview, taped yesterday, Obama described himself
as “a pretty practical guy” who is “not driven by some
ideological agenda.”  Obama said it’s “just not true” that the gridlock in
Congress is the result of an equal unwillingness by both parties
to cooperate. He laid the blame on Republicans, saying the
stalemate on the deficit-reduction talks reflects “how far
certain factions inside the  Republican Party  have gone.”  ‘Sensible Deal’  “Anybody objectively who’s looked at this would say that
we have put forward not only a sensible deal but one that has
the support of the majority of the American people, including
close to half of Republicans,” he said.  “At a certain point, it is very important for Republicans
in Congress to be willing to say, ‘We understand we’re not going
to get 100 percent. We are willing to compromise in a serious
way in order to solve problems,’ as opposed to be worrying about
the next election,” Obama said.  Obama also defended former Republican Senator Chuck Hagel’s
character against Republican and Democratic critics of his past
stances on gays and  Israel .  The criticisms surfaced after Hagel’s name was informally
circulated as a leading contender for defense secretary in
Obama’s second term. Obama said in the interview that he hasn’t
decided on a nominee.  Defending Hagel  “I’ve served with Chuck Hagel. I know him. He is a
patriot. He is somebody who has done extraordinary work both in
the United States Senate. Somebody who served this country with
valor in  Vietnam . And is somebody who’s currently serving on my
intelligence advisory board and doing an outstanding job,”
Obama said.  Hagel, while in the Senate, said a a gay ambassadorial
nominee might not be able to do an effective job. He has since
apologized, which Obama said is “a testimony to what has been a
positive change over the last decade in terms of people’s
attitudes about gays and lesbians serving our country.”  Asked whether he will commit to getting “significant”
reform on entitlements passed by Congress in the first year of
his second term, Obama said “no.”  Noting he has shown a willingness to limit inflation
adjustments to  Social Security , against the wishes of other
Democrats, Obama said he has also made clear to Republicans that
“you are not only going to cut your way to prosperity.”  “It is very difficult for me to say to a senior citizen or
a student or a mom with a disabled kid, ’You are going to have
to do with less, but we’re not going to ask millionaires and
billionaires to do more.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  