-- Obama Makes Last-Minute Fiscal Appeal as Time Grows Short
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-12-30T17:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/obama-makes-last-minute-fiscal-appeal-as-time-grows-short.html
President  Barack Obama  made a last-
minute appeal for compromise as three senators said the chances
were greater than 50-50 for a deal to avert more than $600
billion in tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to take
effect Jan. 1.  In an interview broadcast today on NBC’s “Meet the
Press,” Obama warned of “an adverse reaction in the markets”
if Congress doesn’t act.  Republicans “say that their biggest priority is making
sure that we deal with the deficit in a serious way, but the way
they’re behaving is that their only priority is making sure that
tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans are protected,” Obama
said, adding that his offers to Republicans have been “so fair
that a lot of Democrats get mad at me.”  In a statement, House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio
Republican , called Obama’s comments “ironic, as a recurring
theme of our negotiations was his unwillingness to agree to
anything that would require him to stand up to his own party.”  The president’s interview with NBC was taped yesterday at
the White House. At the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, Senate
negotiators from both parties were seeking compromise
legislation to prevent at least some of the tax increases and
spending cuts from taking effect.  ‘Exceedingly Good’  Appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” Senator  Lindsey Graham , a
South Carolina Republican, said the prospects for a deal before
Jan. 1 are “exceedingly good.” They will include tax increases
on upper-income Americans, he said, and represent a “political
victory to the president.”  “Hats off to the president, he won,” Graham said. “He
stood his ground. He’s going to get tax rate increases -- maybe
not $250,000, but upper-income Americans.”  Graham said the “sad news for the country” is that any
deal now won’t address  debt  and will guarantee a fresh fight
over  deficit  reduction when the  debt ceiling  debate resurfaces
early next year. He called on Republicans to have the “courage
of our convictions.”  Senators  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, and  Jon Kyl 
of Arizona, the Senate’s No. 2 Republican, assessed the odds of
a deal before Jan. 1 at better than 50-50. “I think a little
higher than that,” Schumer said on ABC’s “This Week,” while
Kyl said, “I don’t disagree with Chuck.”  At the same time, Schumer said there are “no breakthroughs
yet” by bipartisan negotiators in the Senate. Kyl said there is
a “significant effort” by “responsible people on both sides
of the aisle” because “if we are not able to reach an
agreement, it will be dire.”  ‘A Chasm’  Not all senators were as optimistic. Appearing on CBS’s
“Face the Nation,”  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, the Senate’s No. 2
Democrat, said, “There’s still a chasm here,” though he
declined to say that a deal is impossible. Senator  Tom Coburn ,
on the same program, said the two sides are “far apart.”  Obama said on NBC that “if all else fails,” when a new
Congress convenes on Jan. 3 “the first bill that will be
introduced on the floor will be to cut taxes on middle-class
families.”  Asked about the immediate economic impact of going over the
fiscal cliff -- a term used by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  in February -- the president said, “It’s hard to
speculate on the markets, but obviously I think business and
investors are going to feel more negative about the economy next
year.”  ‘Adverse Reaction’  If Americans’ taxes rise and  consumer spending  is
depressed, Obama said, “then obviously that’s going to have an
adverse reaction in the markets.”  Markets dropped last week as the stalemate continued. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell for a fifth day on Dec. 28, by
1.1 percent to 1,402.45 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The
benchmark Treasury 10-year yield declined four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.7 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, plan to
brief party members in closed-door caucuses this afternoon on
the status of private weekend talks between their staffs.  Boehner has called the House into session at 2 p.m.
 Washington  time to be ready for possible action on the budget
dispute. The Senate convenes at 1 p.m.  Sticking Point  Whether to extend all tax cuts or only tax cuts on incomes
up to $250,000 has been a key sticking point, with Republicans
resisting raising wealthier earners’ taxes. When asked what
income levels House and Senate Republicans are likely to approve
as the cutoff for tax-cut extensions, Graham said on Fox that
Republicans know “the votes are there for $400,000 or
$500,000” among Democrats.  Schumer said on ABC that there is bipartisan agreement to
patch the alternative minimum tax, adjust the Medicare payment
for doctors and extend some business and middle-class taxes,
while disagreements remain over how far to extend tax cuts on
incomes above $250,000, extending  unemployment benefits  and
using revenue increases to pay down automatic spending cuts,
among other provisions.  In the event the Senate can’t reach a compromise on all of
those issues, Obama has asked Reid to ready a bare-bones bill
for a vote by Dec. 31 that extends unemployment benefits and tax
cuts on family incomes up to $250,000.  In that scenario, Obama said, “Republicans will have to
decide if they’re going to block it, which will mean that
middle-class taxes do go up.” Any compromise also needs
approval by the  House of Representatives .  Military Spending  Obama said if Republicans agree to raise taxes on wealthy
Americans, the revenue would be “sufficient to turn off” the
sequester provisions of the so-called fiscal cliff, stopping
automatic military spending cuts from going into effect -- a
sticking point for many Republicans.  Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee,
said he had discussed the impact of the spending cuts on the
U.S. military with Defense Secretary Leon Panetta last night and
was told that it would mean 800,000 layoff notices at the
beginning of the year. The result would be destroying “the
finest military in the world at the time we need it the most,”
he said.  Tax policy  remains the most stubborn divide in the dispute.  Republicans have resisted rate increases for any income
level, maintaining that such a move would hurt the economy and
hinder  job creation  -- especially by businesses that pay their
taxes on their owners’ individual returns.  While the economy has shown resilience, politicians are
wary of reactions by the public, employers and the markets if a
deal isn’t reached by the Jan. 1 deadline.  Tax Burden  Failure to address the expiring tax breaks, enacted under
President  George W. Bush , would mean heavier burdens on
taxpayers during the coming filing season, on their regular
paychecks and their 2013 tax bills. The nonpartisan  Tax Policy
Center  in Washington estimates the average effect per taxpayer
at $3,446 for 2013 if Congress does nothing.  Any last-minute deal wasn’t expected to address a debt
ceiling agreement, making the limit on U.S. borrowing authority
the next major issue forcing a fiscal debate. The government
will hit the $16.4 trillion limit tomorrow, and the Treasury
Department will begin using so-called extraordinary measures to
finance about $200 billion of deficits into 2013. That would
typically be enough to last about two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  