-- Hollande’s 75% Tax Rate Loss Shows Limit of Ability to Tap Rich
-- B y   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2012-12-30T12:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/hollande-s-75-tax-rate-loss-shows-limit-of-ability-to-tap-rich.html
A court’s rejection of President
 Francois Hollande ’s 75 percent millionaire tax shows the limits
on his ability to tap high earners, even as the ruling is
unlikely to attract investors and executives back to  France .  “For investors and entrepreneurs, it shows that France
can’t be confiscatory, that there are rules that have to be
followed,” says  Laurent Dubois , a professor at the Institute of
Political Studies in Paris. Still, “the government won’t drop
the idea, and the commentary from the highest levels of
government is anti-rich, and that’s a red flag.”  The tax, one of Hollande’s campaign promises, had become a
focal point of discontent among entrepreneurs and other wealth
creators, some of whom have quit French shores as a result. The
ruling comes as the president seeks to cut the public deficit to
3 percent of gross domestic product next year from a projected
4.5 percent this year.  The  Constitutional Court  ruled yesterday that Hollande’s 75
percent band wasn’t acceptable because it applied to
individuals, when French income taxes are generally based on
household revenue. As a result, two households with the same
total income could end up paying different rates depending on
how earnings are divided among their members, counter to the
rule of equal tax treatment, the Paris-based court said.  Actor  Gerard Depardieu , France’s highest-profile tax exile,
said the ruling changes nothing, Le Parisien reported today.
Depardieu, who is moving to the Belgian community of Nechin,
just across the border, has been engaged in a war of words with
the government over his decision.  Green Card  His plan was described as “pathetic” by Prime Minister
Jean-Marc Ayrault. Depardieu, who gained fame in the U.S.
playing a cigarette-smoking, wine-swilling French bon vivant in
the 1990 movie “Green Card,” replied in a letter published in
the Journal du Dimanche this month. Depardieu wrote that he is
leaving “because you consider that success, creativity, talent,
anything different, are grounds for sanction.”  Billionaire  Bernard Arnault , chief executive officer of
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , filed an application for
Belgian nationality in September. While he promised to continue
paying taxes in France, Arnault’s action prompted fierce
criticism from Hollande and his supporters.  Yesterday’s ruling, which also lowered maximum tax rates on
 stock options , a form of retirement benefit, and bearer bonds,
cuts about 500 million euros ($660 million) from the
government’s expected receipts in 2013, Ayrault said. The
government plans to submit a new proposal as part of the next
budget bill in 2013, he said.  Goal Remains  “We’ll be obliged to adjust the mechanism, but the goal of
calling for a national effort, for a patriotic effort, from
those with professional revenues of more than 1 million euros,
that remains,” Ayrault said on France Info radio late
yesterday.  Possible options include a similar tax applied to
households with at least two people and total revenue of 2
million euros, Budget Minister Jerome Cahuzac said on France
Info radio today.  “This government thinks it needs to tackle people with
money in order to address its budgetary problems,” said  Eric Chaney , Paris-based chief economist at insurer  Axa SA. (CS)  “As a
result, we can’t bring high-level managers to France. They work
in an international market and the market price for those
salaries is well above 1 million euros.”  Amsterdam, London  Major French companies are instead beginning to look into
hiring senior managers in Amsterdam or in  London , which is
already the site of almost all new private equity recruitment,
Chaney said.  The constitutional court’s specific objection was that
Hollande’s plan would have added extra levies of 18 percent on
individuals’ incomes of more than 1 million euros, while the
calculation of income taxes and a 4 percent exceptional
contribution for high earners would have been based on  household
income .  The court found a series of other tax increases excessive
or violations of the equality of treatment for taxpayers. The
tax rate on stock options and free shares was lowered to a
maximum of 64.5 percent from as much as 77 percent. The marginal
tax rate on a private retirement benefit known as “retraites
chapeau” was cut to a maximum of 68.34 percent from a planned
rate in 2013 of 75.34 percent.  Former President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s opposition Union for a
Popular Movement political party had asked the court earlier
this month to overturn the measure.  New Measure  The tax, which Hollande said would be in place for two
years, would have gone into effect Jan. 1. The proposed new
measure will be in the 2014 budget bill and apply to 2013
revenue, Ayrault said. Income taxes in France are paid the year
after the revenue is earned.  Hollande has also added new charges on  capital gains , an
increased tax on wealth, a boost to inheritance charges and an
exit tax for entrepreneurs selling their companies. His
government has created a new 45 percent tax bracket for annual
incomes exceeding 150,000 euros. That tax band was approved by
the court.  “There is the feeling that this government is not only
nominally socialist, but actually leftist, and it will continue
to try to tax capital more than labor,” Dubois of the Institute
of Political Studies said. “We’re far from the German situation
in which business competitiveness is a political value on all
sides.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Katz in Paris at 
 akatz5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  