-- Osborne Will Miss Labour U.K. Budget-Deficit Target
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-12-31T00:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/osborne-will-miss-labour-u-k-budget-deficit-target.html
Britain’s Tory-led government, which
set out in 2010 to implement tougher austerity plans than its
Labour predecessor, would be set to break Labour’s own fiscal
constraints had it not repealed the law after taking power.  The  Fiscal Responsibility Act  of 2010, one of the final
pieces of legislation passed by  Gordon Brown ’s government before
it lost power, was intended to show that Labour was serious
about  deficit reduction . It required whoever was in power to cut
the deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product in half by
2014 and ensure that debt was falling by 2016. Forecasts from
the Office for Budget Responsibility this month showed the
government on course to miss both targets.  While Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  repealed the act in 2011, his failure to meet even goals
that he argued two years ago weren’t tough enough shows how hard
cutting the deficit is turning out to be. Osborne’s plans were
thrown off course by a  double-dip recession  that lasted into the
first half of this year.  Labour Treasury spokeswoman Rachel Reeves accused Osborne
in a statement yesterday of having “gambled that deeper and
faster tax rises and spending cuts would secure the recovery and
get the deficit down.” She said this plan was “choking off the
recovery and pushing up long-term unemployment.”  The deficit was 11.1 percent of GDP in the year ending
April 2010. The latest OBR forecast suggests it will be 6.1
percent in the year ending April 2014. It also says public-
sector net debt will not fall as a percentage of GDP until the
year ending April 2017, a year behind both Labour’s and
Osborne’s targets.  “We inherited a terrible situation, made worse by the
collapse of the  euro zone ,” Brooks Newmark, a Conservative
lawmaker who sits on Parliament’s Treasury Committee, said in a
telephone interview. “We’ll probably miss our targets, but the
idea that Labour, who haven’t identified any spending cuts,
would have done any better is laughable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  