-- House Committee Chief Backs Plan to Avoid Milk Price Jump
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-12-30T23:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/house-committee-chief-backs-plan-to-avoid-dair-price-jump.html
House Agriculture Committee Chairman
Frank Lucas and Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman  Debbie Stabenow backed a short-term extension of a farm law that lapsed
Sept. 30 as the Obama administration warned that unless Congress
acts, retail milk prices could almost double.  “It is no longer possible to enact a five-year farm bill
in this Congress,” Lucas, an Oklahoma Republican, said in a
statement today. The “responsible thing to do,” he said, “is
to extend the 2008 legislation for one year. This provides
certainty to our producers and critical disaster assistance to
those affected by record drought conditions.”  Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, said in a separate
statement: “While the Senate passed a bipartisan five-year farm
bill in June that cut subsidies and reduced the deficit, the
lack of action by the House Republican leadership has put us in
a situation where we risk serious damage to our economy unless
we pass a temporary extension.”  The agreed-upon  draft bill  would extend current law, along
with disaster aid for producers affected by this year’s U.S.
drought and changes to current milk policy, through Sept. 30. It
would reduce mandatory outlays by $30 million through fiscal
2022, according to the Congressional Budget Office. The bulk of
the spending would come in the first year, and as such it would
actually increase spending by an estimated $555 million through
fiscal 2017.  Three Bills  The proposal is one of three farm-related draft bills
released yesterday in the House of Representatives; all of them
would stave off the potential jump in consumer milk prices
should government commodity programs begin to lapse Jan. 1.  The second measure would extend most of the current law
through Jan. 31, and the third would protect only against
possible dairy-price spikes. Those two are opposed by House and
Senate Democratic agriculture leaders. Representative Collin Peterson of  Minnesota , the top Democrat on the House Agriculture
Committee, called a 30-day extension a “poor joke on farmers
that offers no certainty.”  The most recent farm law, enacted in 2008, expired after
attempts to pass a new five-year proposal failed. Without that
plan, agricultural programs automatically return to rules passed
in 1949, the basis of all subsequent legislation.  The effects of that transition have been delayed because of
the growing seasons of different crops. Dairy production, a
year-round business, is the first major commodity affected. In
November, the U.S. Department of Agriculture put the price of a
gallon of fresh whole  milk  at just under $3.54.  Price Doubled  Under President Harry S. Truman’s farm policy, the
government bought supplies of a product until its price reached
“parity” with the cost immediately before World War I.
Adjusted for a century of inflation, the Agriculture
Department’s milk-support price today would be $39.08 per
hundred pounds, more than double the dairy futures price in
 Chicago  on Dec. 28.  Under the revised dairy plan, written by Peterson, the
government would manage the milk supply by setting milk-
production limits for farmers who enroll in a market-
stabilization program. The proposal eliminates programs that pay
farmers when prices fall below a certain level, replacing them
with initiatives designed to protect profit margins through
insurance programs and by limiting output, which would raise
prices.  Perpetual Problem  Oversupply of milk that drives down prices has been a
perpetual problem for dairy producers. The National Milk
Producers Federation, an organization of farmers and dairy
cooperatives, has supported the plan, while the International
Dairy Foods Association, which represents milk processors such
as Dallas-based  Dean Foods Co. (DF) , has opposed it for potentially
driving up the cost of their raw materials.  The market-stabilization plan was included in both the
Senate’s 10-year, $1 trillion version of the farm bill it passed
in June and a bill approved in July by the House Agriculture
Committee but not taken up by the full chamber. It wasn’t in the
2008 farm law, which the one-year draft legislation would extend
-- adding the new dairy program. House Speaker John Boehner, an
Ohio Republican, has called the current dairy program “Soviet-
style” management of the farm economy that the Peterson plan
would worsen.  Milk-Price ‘Ripple’  Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack today warned that
consumers will pay the price without a new farm bill.  “Consumers, when they go in the grocery store, are going
to be a bit shocked when instead of seeing $3.60 for milk, they
see $7 a gallon for milk,” he said on CNN’s “ State of the
Union ” program. “That’s going to ripple throughout all of the
commodities if this thing goes on for an extended period of
time.”  Lawmakers are considering a farm package as part of a
resolution to the larger budget dispute involving more than $600
billion in tax increases and spending cuts set to take effect
Jan. 1. Stabenow said she has been frustrated with congressional
inaction on the agriculture law, which funds food aid to poor
families as well as subsidies to growers of corn, cotton and
other crops while lowering projected federal spending, according
to the Congressional Budget Office.  “If the leadership were waiting until the last minute,”
said Senator Pat Roberts of  Kansas , the top Republican on the
Senate Agriculture Committee, “we’re sure as hell there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  