-- How China Is Sealing Holes in Its Internet Firewall
-- B y   P h i l i p   S h i s h k i n
-- 2012-12-30T23:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/how-china-is-sealing-holes-in-its-internet-firewall.html
Two things struck me when I first
flew into Beijing: lack of sunlight and lack of Internet.  The sun, on many days, hangs behind a haze of pollution,
its light filtered down to a soupy dusk. The Internet is stuck
behind a government firewall, its main offerings obstructed to
those living in China.  That neither the sun nor the Web is fully gone, merely
crippled, makes dealing with their abbreviated selves especially
annoying. You know their full versions are out there somewhere
because they tease you most days. The sun’s orange halo might
appear briefly at dawn, only to be engulfed by the smog. Gmail’s
homepage might begin to load tentatively, only to stumble and
freeze.  In many parts of the world (with some notable exceptions),
we have come to count breathable air and unfettered  Internet
access  among basic human conveniences, alongside indoor plumbing
and access to education. That’s why it is so jarring and
disorienting to suddenly lose them in Beijing to man-made forces
of breakneck industrialization and censorship. No amount of
reading or hearing about Beijing’s air pollution and the Great
Firewall, as the system of Internet censorship is inevitably
known, is enough to prepare you to deal with them.  For the moment, I’ll leave the sun where I hope it still
is, wrapped away in a blanket of smog so thick I can barely see
the high-rises less than a mile away. It smells faintly as if
someone is burning tires.  Registration Required  The Great Firewall is a more complex and nuanced
phenomenon, and it appears to be getting more capable in
tripping up undesirable  Web connections .  Like many foreigners in  China , I signed up for a virtual
private network, or VPN, geek-speak for a link to an overseas
server, which allows you to leapfrog the Chinese Internet and
plug straight into the real thing, as if you were sitting in  New
York  or  London . Twitter, the New York Times and Gmail loaded
seamlessly on my iPad, ending a tense couple of days of
withdrawal symptoms. And then it all crashed.  My VPN provider, a major player in the market, explained in
an e-mail that the disruption was due to a recent update of the
Great Firewall, referred to as the GFW, which “now has the
ability to learn, discover and block VPN protocols
automatically.”  The next day, the Global Times, a Chinese newspaper, ran an
article  headlined , “Foreign-run VPNs illegal in China: govt.”
In it, the man known as the founding father of the Great
Firewall was quoted as saying that foreign VPN providers needed
to register with the government. “I haven’t heard that any
foreign companies have registered,” Fang Binxing, who is now
president of Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications,
 told  the newspaper.  Fang gained notoriety in 2011 when a student threw a shoe
at him while he was delivering a lecture on cybersecurity. The
shoe connected with the target. The student fled the scene and
went into hiding, becoming an instant celebrity among the
country’s many opponents of Internet curbs. Sometime later,
hackers broke into the homepage of Binxing’s university and
defaced it with an image from something called Angry Shoes, a
spoof on the wildly popular “Angry Birds” game. The birds at
the slingshot are replaced with shoes, and the pigs in the
wooden house are  replaced  with Binxing’s face.  The most recent VPN disruption seemed intended to target
mobile devices, which are fast becoming an important way to
access the Internet. As my VPN provider promised to find a way
to outwit the Great Firewall, several articles in state-run
media reminded readers of the dangers lurking on the Web.  China’s Rationale  On Dec. 18, for instance, a commentary piece on Xinhua,
China’s official news agency,  called  for new laws to govern the
Internet: “If there is no strict legal punishments on the
violators in cyber space, the negative factors will run wild to
destroy the Internet order and even incite online violence,
which will bring great damage to people and society.” This is
the Chinese government’s original rationale for erecting the
Great Firewall, an elaborate network of blocks, network
slowdowns and censorship rules that keep many of China’s half-
billion Internet users in the dark about events in the world and
in their own country.  The unease about the broader issue of curbs on free speech
was stoked anew recently when Mo Yan, the Chinese writer who won
this year’s  Nobel Prize  for literature, seemed to liken
censorship to airport-security checks: an indispensable
nuisance.  China’s Internet is a strange place. Twitter and Facebook
are blocked, their ability to disseminate unwelcome news and
serve as organizing platforms for all sorts of protests deemed
too grave a threat. Some of Google Inc.’s services, including
Gmail, are intentionally slowed down to a snail’s pace, which is
arguably even worse than being blocked outright because it gives
customers an impression of poor service.  At the same time, Chinese clones of these American
companies operate freely and load lightning-fast, their searches
carefully scrubbed for sensitive terms by in-house censors.
Western Internet companies that choose to enter the booming
Chinese market have to play by the government’s rules.  The most striking example is Skype Inc., owned by  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  As detailed by Greatfire.org, a website tracking all
things related to the Great Firewall (and, of course, blocked by
it), when you download Skype software in China, you are actually
getting a product tweaked in a crucial way. Chinese Skype, a
joint venture majority-owned by a local company,  allows  the
government to monitor your chats.  Among the many curious things about the Chinese Internet,
one apparent contradiction stands out. Xinhua, the mouthpiece of
the government that insists on blocking Twitter, recently opened 
a Twitter account, sending out more than 3,000 tweets, and 
attracting 8,000 followers -- following no one itself. Xinhua’s 
appearance on Twitter, and the one-way nature of its boosterish 
account, invited an avalanche of  ridicule  in the Chinese 
blogosphere.  Blocked Sites  Western news outlets that touch taboo subjects are blocked,
too.  Bloomberg.com  and nytimes.com are both blocked because of
their recent investigative reports on the financial dealings of
top Chinese leaders.  How effective is the Great Firewall, given the many ways of
leaping over it? China’s Internet sleuths aren’t overly
concerned with how foreign companies and individuals access the
Web, or what they read there. They are concerned about Chinese
public opinion, and about ways to influence it by regulating
what the Chinese people are and aren’t allowed to see on the
Internet.  By that second measure, the firewall achieves its
objectives just fine, despite the availability of VPNs and other
technical tricks, many of them free.  Of China’s 500 million Web users, only about 1 percent
“use these tools to get around censorship, either because most
do not know how or because they lack sufficient interest in --
or awareness of -- what exists on the other side of the ‘great
firewall,’” Rebecca MacKinnon writes in “Consent of the
Networked,” a book on Internet freedom around the world.  Meanwhile, the wizards at my VPN provider finally found a
way around the firewall’s latest crackdown on smartphones and
tablets. My iPad is useful again, until the firewall catches on
and a new round of cat-and-mouse begins.  Sadly, there’s no good news to report on breaching the wall
of smog blocking the sun. No one has yet invented a virtual
private network to transport one through the Beijing pollution.  (Philip Shishkin is a fellow at the  Asia Society  and the
author of “ Restless Valley : Revolution, Murder and Intrigue in
the Heart of Central Asia,” to be published in May by Yale
University Press. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Philip Shishkin at  Philip.Shishkin@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 