-- Pimco’s Gross Sees Less Return, Stubborn Unemployment
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-12-30T18:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/pimco-s-gross-sees-less-return-stubborn-unemployment.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, expects
stocks and bonds to return less than 5 percent in 2013 as high
unemployment persists, he wrote in a Twitter post.  Gross’s message reaffirms what he wrote this month in his
December investment outlook, which said “structural headwinds”
may lower real economic growth below 2 percent in the U.S. and
other developed nations. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index has
gained 14 percent this year including reinvested dividends. The
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate and Government
Index is up 5.2 percent in 2012, and gold has risen 4.8 percent.  Newport Beach, California-based Gross wrote today in the
 post : “2013 Fearless Forecasts: 1) Stocks & bonds return less
than 5%. 2) Unemployment stays at 7.5% or higher 3) Gold goes
up.”  U.S. bond markets are scheduled to close early tomorrow and
remain shut on Jan. 1 for the New Year’s Day holiday.  Stock
trading  in  New York  will be closed on Jan. 1.  With globalization, technological and demographic changes
restricting growth, investors should seek returns from
commodities such as oil and gold, U.S. inflation-protected
bonds, high-quality municipal debt and non-dollar emerging
market stocks, Gross wrote in his  outlook  article on Dec. 4,
reiterating earlier recommendations.  “While there are growth potions that undoubtedly can
reduce the fever, there may be no miracle policy drugs this time
around to provide the inevitable cures of prior decades,” Gross
wrote in the article, posted on Pimco’s website. “These
structural headwinds cannot just be wished away.”  The firm’s  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  has gained 10.4 percent this
year, ranking in the 95th percentile among its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
 managed  $1.92 trillion as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  