-- India Scales Back New Year Events as Rape Victim Mourned
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-12-31T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/police-charge-rape-accused-with-murder-as-india-mourns.html
India  scaled back celebrations to
mark the new year as it mourned the death of a 23-year-old woman
whose gang rape triggered public outrage.  Army units were asked not to hold parties, the  Press Trust
of India  reported, while the president of the ruling Congress,
 Sonia Gandhi , decided there will be no official party
celebration this year. The governments of Punjab and Haryana
provinces canceled programs to mark the beginning of 2013.  The body of the physiotherapy student, who was beaten and
raped in the back of a moving bus in New Delhi on Dec. 16, was
cremated Dec. 30 at a private ceremony amid tight security. The
woman, whose name can’t be revealed under Indian laws, was flown
to  Singapore  for specialist treatment, paid for by the Indian
government.  Her death generated new protests in the Indian capital,
where the brutality of the attack has led to days of soul
searching and increased pressure on the government and police to
crack down on sex crimes.  In  New Delhi , hundreds of demonstrators yesterday gathered
at Jantar Mantar, an 18th-century observatory and traditional
rallying point, to demand speedy punishment for the alleged
rapists and tougher laws. Some called for those responsible to
be given the death penalty, while others offered prayers and
called for society to change the way it treats women.  “Before coming here, my parents told me to get home before
evening. That’s the kind of fear we all have,” said Surabhi
Suri, 20, a student at the protest venue. “It’s the right time
to take the movement forward, to make our nation safer for
women,” she said. Suri held aloft a placard with the message
“I am at fault, I elected such worthless leaders.”  Murder Charges  While Delhi police did not impose restrictions on year-end
revelers beyond the usual security steps, they deployed
additional personnel, spokesman  Rajan Bhagat  said. An order
preventing the gathering of large groups of people in central
parts of the capital remained in force, he said.  “To show solidarity with the feelings of the nation” the
Delhi Gymkhana Club, one of the city’s leading private clubs,
scrapped its New Year’s Eve celebration, its secretary O.P.
Malhotra said. Members had been asked to light candles instead.  Police have brought murder charges against six men accused
of raping and assaulting the woman. The trial will start after
police file charge documents on Jan. 3, Bhagat said Dec. 30.  Police Failings  “We have already seen the emotions and energies this
incident has generated,” Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in
an e-mailed statement Dec. 29. It’s up to all Indians to
“ensure that her death will not have been in vain.”  Singh has appointed a retired Delhi High Court judge to
investigate the crime and suggest ways to fix lapses in
policing. He also pledged to consider tougher penalties for sex
crimes after the assault prompted demonstrations organized
through social media. The protesters, who fought water cannons
and tear gas on Dec. 22 and Dec. 23, demanded more be done to
protect women in the capital and across India.  After tricking the woman and her 28-year-old male friend
into boarding the unauthorized chartered bus with tinted windows
and heavy curtains, the crew of the vehicle and accomplices
assaulted the two over a period of about 45 minutes, stripped
them and then threw them out.  Data provided by India’s National Crime Records Bureau show
about 24,200 cases of rape and 228,650 cases of crimes against
women were reported in 2011. United Nations figures show 1.8
cases of rape for every 100,000 people in India, compared with
63 in  Sweden , 29 in the U.K. and 27 in the U.S. Most instances
of rape go unreported in India.  Overburdened Courts  Singh has vowed to hasten prosecution of the accused and a
panel led by the former chief justice of India has been asked to
rewrite criminal codes to allow harsher penalties to be imposed,
including capital punishment in the “rarest of rare” rape
cases.  It typically takes years for ordinary Indians to get
justice because of a slow-moving legal process and overburdened
courts. Long-running trials and lax enforcement of laws have
also fueled protests in the nation’s capital. About 63,342 cases
were pending in the  Supreme Court  as of July 31, of which 67
percent have been on the roll for more than a year, government
data show.  Before the November execution of Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, a
Pakistani gunman involved in the 2008 Mumbai attacks, India last
carried out the death penalty in 2004, when a convict was hanged
14 years after he raped and murdered a school girl.  India has about 15 judges for each million of its 1.2
billion people, according to UN data. In  China , there are about
159 judges for each million people, while in the U.S. the figure
is about 108.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  