-- Rinehart and Singleton May Seek Fairfax Break Up
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2012-12-31T03:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/rinehart-and-singleton-may-seek-fairfax-break-up.html
Billionaire  Gina Rinehart  and John Singleton may seek control of Australia’s  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  to
pursue asset sales after teaming up to boost their say at the
newspaper publisher, analyst  Mark McDonnell  said.  Rinehart, who failed in a bid for a board seat this year,
and Singleton own 15.14 percent of Fairfax and agreed to consult
on key issues related to boosting “ shareholder value ,”
according to a filing today. They joined forces after the
publisher of the Australian Financial Review rejected a sale of
assets to Singleton’s  Macquarie Radio Network Ltd. (MRN)  last year.  Rinehart “may not require long-term retention of the radio
stations at Fairfax, so it’s entirely possible a deal has been
struck or is under discussion” between her and Singleton,
McDonnell, a Sydney-based  analyst  at BBY Ltd., said in an e-mail
yesterday. “Singleton’s remarks suggest that he is still more
interested in the radio stations than anything else.”  Fairfax,  Australia ’s second-largest newspaper publisher,
posted a A$2.7 billion ($2.8 billion) loss for the year ended
June as it cut jobs, closed print sites and wrote down the value
of its newspapers as readers and advertisers switch to the
Internet. Rinehart,  Asia ’s richest woman, was rebuffed from her
request to become a director after disagreeing with conditions
set by the board, including signing its  Charter of Editorial
Independence .  “Both Gina and I believe that the lifeblood of Fairfax is
the integrity and accuracy of its journalism,” Singleton said
in a Dec. 28 statement. “This in no way would be compromised if
Hancock Prospecting and Gutenberg Investments had a significant
say in the future of Fairfax.”  Shares Surge  Fairfax  shares  surged 7.4 percent to 51 Australian cents at
2:10 p.m. close in Sydney, paring this year’s decline to 29
percent. The stock, which dropped to a record low of 35 cents in
October, has lost almost 90 percent of its value since May 2007.  Singleton bought shares in Sydney-based Fairfax through
Gutenberg Investments, which he formed with  M.H. Carnegie & Co. ,
a venture capital and buyout firm founded by investment banker
Mark Carnegie, according to the Dec. 28 statement.  Antonia O’Neill, an external spokeswoman for Singleton and
Carnegie at Map and Page, declined to comment on their plans for
Fairfax. E-mails to Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting weren’t
returned.  Rinehart owns 352.5 million shares, or about 15 percent of
Fairfax, while Gutenberg holds 3.55 million, according to
today’s filing to the Australian Securities Exchange.  Fairfax also publishes the Sydney Morning Herald and
operates radio stations in that city as well as Melbourne,
Brisbane and Perth. The company this month sold its remaining
stake in online auction site  Trade Me Ltd. (TME)  for A$616 million.  Radio Stations  Singleton’s Macquarie network operates the 2GB radio
station in Sydney, the most popular commercial talk broadcaster
in Australia’s largest city.  “Clearly a split might make sense,” said Simon Marais,
managing director at  Allan Gray Ltd. (EQTORBA) , Fairfax’s biggest investor
after Rinehart with an 11.4 percent stake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “There is phenomenal value in the
company and we are keen for it to be realized,” Marais said by
phone.  Fairfax this year took a A$2.8 billion writedown of items
including newspaper mastheads, goodwill and customer
relationships. The company said June 18 it would cut 22 percent
of its workforce, close printing sites and introduce digital
subscriptions to halt sliding sales and a stock price slump.  Sale Abandoned  Fairfax scrapped plans to sell its radio assets in October
2011 after failing to receive an acceptable proposal, it said.  “For the amount of money I was prepared to pay for the
radio assets of Fairfax I could buy a significant amount of all
the assets of Fairfax at a far lower price to earnings
multiple,” Singleton said. “With my preferred direct route
closed, I have decided to pursue another path.”  Fairfax Chief Executive Officer Greg Hywood has expressed
his preference for a bid for the entire company rather than a
split of assets, BBY’s McDonnell said.  If Singleton “acts in concert with Rinehart and others, he
may well achieve a separation of the radio businesses via a
change of control,” McDonnell said. “I’d expect the radio
assets to be valued on a higher earnings multiple than the metro
papers.”  New York-based News Corp., the media company controlled by
 Rupert Murdoch , is Australia’s largest newspaper publisher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  