-- Shell Says Arctic Drilling Rig Kulluk Recaptured in Stormy Seas
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-12-30T19:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/shell-says-arctic-drilling-rig-kulluk-recaptured-in-stormy-seas.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said an Arctic
drilling barge, headed to  Seattle  for maintenance, was safely
recovered yesterday after being set adrift during a storm in the
Gulf of  Alaska .  Crew of the Shell-owned barge, Kulluk, were evacuated last
night as a precaution after towing resumed, said  Curtis Smith ,
an Alaska-based Shell spokesman, in a telephone interview today.
The offshore tug Aiviq recovered the Kulluk.  Shell has invested $4.5 billion in offshore leases and
equipment and fought at least 50 lawsuits from environmental
groups to begin drilling in the Chukchi and Beaufort seas this
year, the first wells in U.S. Arctic waters in about 20 years.
The Kulluk was in need of maintenance after starting a well in
the  Beaufort Sea , Smith said.  The other Arctic drilling vessel used by Shell this year,
the Noble Discoverer owned by  Noble Corp. (NE) , was held by the Coast
Guard in Seward, Alaska, in November after it lost propulsion
and inspectors found safety discrepancies. That ship will be
towed to Seattle for repairs, a Coast Guard spokesman said.  Sea ice ended Arctic drilling earlier this year.  Shell expects to resume drilling once sea ice withdraws
next year, Smith said. This year’s drilling plans were crimped
by damage to a dome designed to capture any underwater spill.  Second Tug  The U.S. Coast Guard dispatched a cutter and rescue
helicopters Dec. 28 after the Aiviq reported its tow line to the
Kulluk had parted in heavy seas, the Coast Guard said in a
 statement . Aiviq recaptured the barge, then went adrift itself
when all four  diesel engines  quit because of contaminated fuel,
Smith said.  The vessels were at risk of running aground, according to
the Coast Guard.  Aiviq’s crew restored all engines yesterday after two Coast
Guard helicopters delivered replacement fuel injectors, Smith
said. The parts weighed more than a ton (907 kilograms) and were
delivered in winds of 30 miles (48 kilometers) per hour and seas
of 20 feet (6 meters), the Coast Guard said in a statement
yesterday.  Winds in the area today are 20 miles an hour to 40 miles an
hour, Smith said.  A second offshore tug, the Nanuq, has joined the 360-foot
(110-meter) Aiviq in towing the barge south until winds subside,
Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  