-- South Korea’s Inflation Slows Even as Economy Gaining Momentum
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-12-30T23:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/south-korea-s-inflation-slows-even-as-economy-gaining-momentum.html
South  Korea ’s inflation eased to the
slowest pace in four months in December, staying below the
nation’s price target even as an economic recovery shows signs
of gaining momentum.  Consumer prices increased 1.4 percent from a year earlier
after a 1.6 percent gain in November, Statistics Korea said in
an e-mailed statement today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 13 economists was for a 1.5 percent gain. Prices
rose 0.2 percent from the previous month.  South Korea’s  industrial output  exceeded estimates in
November and the current-account surplus rose to a record,
further evidence that a slowdown may have hit bottom last
quarter. Pressures on consumer prices “are not expected to be
large” as Asia’s fourth-largest economy recovers slowly, the
Bank of Korea said in a statement on Dec. 27.  “Inflationary pressures remain contained for the time
being,” Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC Holdings
Plc, said before the release. “Given the level of overall
demand remains weak, policy makers will likely maintain an
easing bias on both the monetary and fiscal fronts.”  The Bank of Korea cut interest rates twice this year to
support growth and will next decide borrowing costs on Jan. 11.
The central bank is adopting a narrower target range for
inflation for the next three years, of between 2.5 percent and
3.5 percent, from the current 2 percent to 4 percent band.  Core consumer prices, which exclude oil and agricultural
products, advanced 1.2 percent in December from a year earlier.  The won completed a sixth weekly gain last week, closing at
1,070.53 per dollar on Dec. 28 in  Seoul , while this year’s 7.7
percent advance is the biggest among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies. The Kospi stock index gained 0.5 percent on Dec. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  