-- My Admittedly Eclectic List of New Year’s Wishes
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-12-30T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/my-admittedly-eclectic-list-of-new-year-s-wishes.html
Christmas has gone, and 2013 is
looming. I would therefore like to share my own wishes for the
New Year. Some are lighthearted, and some more serious, but all
of them are heartfelt.  -- For Democrats and Republicans in  Washington : To
understand that if you take off the table in advance everything
the other side wants, you aren’t actually negotiating.  -- For the brave men and women throughout the  Middle East 
and North Africa who risked so much to bring about the Arab
Spring: The fortitude to resist being disheartened by the
example of  Egypt , and to be instead emboldened by the example of
 Tunisia .  -- For the  National Rifle Association : A realization that
absolutism for its own sake is not a terribly persuasive public
posture.  -- For my beloved  Washington Redskins : A march through the
playoffs this year, and many more years of success behind
quarterback Robert Griffin III; and serious consideration to
selecting a new name.  Slow Down  -- For the regulators and legislators of both parties, who
too often seem to think they are not doing their job unless they
do more: A careful rereading of Federalist 62, a document that
is often quoted but rarely appreciated.  The essay’s author,  James Madison , is presenting a
justification for the existence of the Senate. One of his
arguments is that the Senate, as a longer-tenured body than the
House, will slow down the rate at which the laws change. Thus
the crucial paragraph:  “The internal effects of a mutable policy are still more
calamitous. It poisons the blessing of liberty itself. It will
be of little avail to the people, that the laws are made by men
of their own choice, if the laws be so voluminous that they
cannot be read, or so incoherent that they cannot be understood;
if they be repealed or revised before they are promulgated, or
undergo such incessant changes that no man, who knows what the
law is today, can guess what it will be tomorrow. Law is defined
to be a rule of action; but how can that be a rule, which is
little known, and less fixed?”  -- For Internet trolls who rejoice in hijacking comment
threads: An understanding that by using “gay” and “retard” as
pejoratives in their unsigned posts, they are only making
themselves look like bigoted cowards.  -- For any city in negotiations to help finance a new
stadium in order to win a sports franchise (yes,  Los Angeles ,
this means you): A careful study of the voluminous literature
demonstrating pretty clearly that helping a billionaire build a
place for his team to play games is a losing proposition for
government.  -- For the supremely talented and too-often-overlooked
 Laura Linney : An Academy Award for her bravura performance in
“Hyde Park on Hudson.”  Get Along  -- For today’s hyperpartisans, for whom no disagreement is
too small to bring forth a flood of hate: A close and thoughtful
reading of the title essay of Umberto Eco’s excellent  new book ,
“Inventing the Enemy.”  -- For my beloved Episcopal Church: A rapprochement between
the progressive hierarchy and the traditionalist congregants who
are leaving the church in droves. Although estimates vary, the
church has shrunk by more than 50 percent over the past 40
years, and has lost as many as 200,000 members in the past five
years alone. One increasingly has the sense that the hierarchy
is uninterested in questions that trouble its flock, except when
those questions match the preferences of the powerful few.  Thus the Episcopal Church vilifies and sues its
traditionalists, ignoring their pleas. But when the General
Convention in June  adopted prayers  for departed pets and other
animals, Bishop George Wayne Smith of Missouri offered as
justification the “steady, dare I say, unrelenting call for
rites like these.” Paging  George Orwell : It turns out that some
calls, like some animals, are more equal than others.  -- For  J.J. Abrams  and the other smart people behind the
rebirth of the “Star Trek” franchise: That they will decide,
very soon, to bring back the Borg.  -- For members of Congress rewriting our tax laws: To come
up with whatever bill ideological rigidity and partisan
kowtowing will permit, and then stick with those rates for at
least a decade.  -- Also for those tax-lawmakers: Same, but skipping the
ideological rigidity and partisan kowtowing.  -- For sole proprietors who file individual tax returns: A
multiyear phase-in of whatever the new marginal rates may be, to
provide time for adjustment and legal advice.  Read Carefully  -- For the  Department of Health  and Human Services: The
realization that the Constitution actually values religious
freedom, and that one doesn’t pay tribute to that precious
liberty by treating religious organizations as no different from
anything else. (To compare the relative constitutional weights
of the competing values, look up “contraception, right to” in
the Constitution. Go ahead, give it a try.)  -- For the writers and producers of “Homeland”: After a
very successful but often silly second season, to return in
season three to the basic dilemma that made the show so
compelling in its early days -- the tension of not knowing when
Carrie’s illness would overwhelm her talents. You’ve created a
true gem in the wasteland. Don’t destroy it for the sake of
another car chase or explosion.  -- For states struggling with the burden of unrealistic
pension promises made to public employees: A recognition that
the federal government is not the place to go to find the
funding. There is no reason that a bad local decision made for
the sake of partisan advantage should be redeemed by the people
of other states. This isn’t a knock on public employees, but on
politicians who want to escape liability for their predecessors’
promises by forcing our grandchildren to pay for them.  -- For the cable talk shows: Honoring the First Amendment
by switching to a format in which the discussion panels do not
comprise people who all agree with one another, and also do not
include political activists and others with a stake in the
outcome of the argument. The news media could do the nation a
remarkable service were it to reimagine its mission as asking
nonpartisan experts to help set forth the facts underlying our
policy debates rather than trying to run them.  -- For the suffering parents and families of Newtown,
 Connecticut , and the other sad places on this planet where so
much evil has been committed, where this holiday season must be
unimaginably painful: To reflect upon the words of the homilist
Edmund Steimle, who wrote 30 years ago that the Christmas story,
properly understood, is a story not for children but for adults.
“People are dying this Christmas night as people die on every
night,” he pointed out. We mustn’t, he argued, reduce Christmas
to nostalgia and forgetting and “indulging ourselves in the
sentimental orgy which Christmas has become for so many.” The
peace of Christmas, he argued, is a peace not apart from but
within the horror and pain of life.  Why, then, is the season one of rejoicing? Because
Christmas represents “hope born of the conviction that the
storm, the destruction, the violence, the hopelessness, does not
have the last word.”  One of the ways we defeat the hopelessness is to commit
ourselves to making each new year better than the old. Let’s
make that our shared purpose in 2013.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 