-- Dollar Weakens as Obama Says Deficit Deal Is Close
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-12-31T22:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-30/yen-pares-biggest-annual-decline-in-7-years-on-u-s-fiscal-cliff.html
The dollar fell against most of its
biggest peers as President  Barack Obama  said Congress is
“close” to a deal to protect all but top earners from a tax
increase as part of deal to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  The yen weakened to a 28-month low against the greenback
after Finance Minister Taro Aso told reporters at a Dec. 28
briefing that the U.S. should have a stronger dollar. The 17-
nation euro fell against most of its 16 major peers as German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said the region’s debt crisis was “far
from over.”  “The broader trend is towards an improvement in risk
appetite, as headlines seem to suggest a short-term fiscal cliff
deal will be passed,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “That should broadly weigh on the
dollar.”  The dollar gained 0.2 percent to $1.3193 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time. The U.S. currency appreciated 0.9 percent to
86.75 yen, reaching the strongest since Aug. 2, 2010. The yen
lost 0.8 percent to 114.46 per euro.  Real Falls  The Brazilian real declined 9 percent versus the dollar in
2012, losing the most after the 11.3 percent decline for the
yen. The  Mexican peso  was the biggest winner, adding 8.4
percent.  The South Korean won has appreciated the most versus the
dollar this quarter, adding 4.4 percent. The Norwegian krone has
been the second-biggest gainer, increasing 2.9 percent.  The South African rand leads all major currencies this
month against the greenback, appreciating 5.1 percent.  The White House and congressional negotiators agreed to
contours of a budget deal including tax cut extensions, with the
remaining sticking point being how to avert automatic federal
spending cuts, said an official familiar with the talks..  “They’re progressing,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
a Nevada Democrat, said of the talks in an interview as he
entered the Capitol this morning. Asked if he thought a deal
could be reached today, Reid said, “I really hope so. We’re not
there yet, though.”  Without an agreement, more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts, known as the fiscal cliff, are set
to take effect in the U.S. in January.  ’Dollar Negative’  “The medium-term impact is dollar negative,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in
Toronto, wrote in a note to clients. “The combination of
aggressive Federal Reserve policy, the lack of a credible fiscal
plan, a challenged political system and the impact of the fiscal
drag should weigh on the dollar.”  The dollar declined 2.9 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The yen slid 15.1 percent and the
euro fell 1 percent.  The euro weakened as Merkel said the economic environment
will be more difficult in 2013 and  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis was isn’t yet over though progress has been made.  “The reforms that we’ve agreed on are starting to take
effect,” she said in a New Year’s television speech to the
nation, sent today in advance by e-mail. “Nevertheless, we
still need a lot of patience. The crisis is far from over.”  The euro has strengthened versus the greenback in 2012,
ending a two-year losing streak, as the  European Central Bank 
unveiled a bond-buying program in September to contain the
region’s debt crisis.  Futures Positions  Futures traders cut bets the euro will decline against the
dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission showed.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a drop in the euro compared with
those on a gain, so-called net shorts, was 2,549 on Dec. 25, the
least since September 2011, the data showed Dec. 28.  The yen has slumped versus the dollar this month as the
election of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe increased the likelihood
the nation’s policy makers will step up measures to weaken the
currency.  “Foreign countries have no right to lecture us,”  Japan ’s
Aso told reporters in  Tokyo  on Dec. 28. He said the U.S. should
have a stronger dollar and questioned whether Group of 20
nations had stuck to pledges from 2009 to avoid competitive
currency devaluations.  Japan Policy  The BOJ will hold its first 2013  policy meeting  on Jan. 21-
22 when it releases updates on growth and consumer-price
forecasts. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the BOJ will discuss
details of an inflation target requested by Abe at the meeting,
according to the Nikkei newspaper.  “What we’re witnessing here is an incredible shift in
policy,”  Jens Nordvig , managing director of currency research
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in an interview on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “On top of
that, they’re showing a new willingness to confront G-20
partners on currency issues. We could see a totally different
type of policy framework.”  Declines in the yen may temper as the 14-day relative
strength index against the dollar touched 18.3, below the 30
level for the 14th straight day. A reading of 30 or lower
indicates an asset may have fallen too far too quickly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  