-- Abbott to Pay $1.6 Billion to Settle Depakote Drug Allegations
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/abbott-to-pay-1-6-billion-to-settle-depakote-marketing-claims.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  said it reached an
agreement to pay $1.6 billion to settle federal and state claims
resulting from an investigation into its epilepsy medication
Depakote, the second-largest drug-marketing settlement in U.S.
history.  The company will pay $800 million to resolve civil
allegations split among federal and state governments, $700
million for a criminal penalty, the Justice Department said in a
statement. Abbott marketed the drug, approved for epilepsy,
bipolar mania and migraine prevention, for unapproved uses
including dementia, the U.S. said.  The settlement results from a four-year-old investigation
into Abbott sales practices that began in 1998, the  Abbott Park ,
Illinois-based company said yesterday in a statement. Abbott
said it is also paying $100 million to the states to resolve
consumer protection matters.  “Not only did Abbott engage in off-label promotion, but it
targeted elderly dementia patients and downplayed the risks
apparent from its own clinical studies,” Acting Associate
Attorney General  Tony West  said in the Justice Department
statement. “As this criminal and civil resolution demonstrates,
those who put profits ahead of patients will pay a hefty
price.”  Funds Set Aside  The settlement comes as Abbott officials are pushing ahead
with plans to split the firm in two by the end of the year. One
of the resulting companies will sell medical products and the
other prescription medicines. Abbott’s first-quarter revenue
climbed 4.6 percent to $9.46 billion, executives said last
month.  The company previously announced it had set aside funds to
pay a settlement of about this size. The agreement trails only
the $2.3 billion settlement  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  paid in 2009 to resolve
U.S. investigations of improper marketing of its Bextra
painkiller and other drugs.  “We are pleased to resolve this matter and are confident
we have the programs in place to satisfy the requirements of
this settlement,” Laura J. Schumacher, Abbott executive vice
president and general counsel, said in the statement.  Justice Department  officials said last year they were
involved in “active settlement discussions” with Abbott over
its Depakote marketing practices. The government agreed to join
cases brought by former Abbott employees alleging the company
engaged in so-called off-label marketing of the epilepsy drug
starting in the late 1990s.  ‘Specialized Sales Force’  “Abbott admits that from 1998 through 2006, the company
maintained a specialized sales force trained to market Depakote
in nursing homes for the control of agitation and aggression in
elderly dementia patients, despite the absence of credible
scientific evidence that Depakote was safe and effective for
that use,” the Justice Department said in its statement
yesterday.  Abbott also marketed the drug to be used with certain
antipsychotic drugs to treat schizophrenia, “even after its
clinical trials failed to demonstrate that adding Depakote was
any more effective than an atypical antipsychotic alone for that
use,” the Justice Department said.  Federal regulators only approved Depakote for the
prevention of migraines, treating acute manic episodes in
bipolar patients and halting seizures in adults and children.  Under U.S. law, a doctor can prescribe a medicine for any
condition as long as it’s licensed by the  U.S. Food and Drug
Administration  and is proven to be safe and effective. Drug
companies aren’t allowed to promote a drug for uses other than
those approved.  Whistle-Blower Claims  The settlement also covers allegations that Abbott paid
kickbacks to health-care professionals and long-term care
pharmacy providers to induce them to promote or prescribe
Depakote, the Justice Department said in its statement
yesterday.  “This is a terrific result for the public,”  Reuben A.
Guttman , a Washington-based lawyer representing some of the
whistle-blowers who sued Abbott, said in an interview. “This is
one of the largest drug settlements of false-claim allegations
in history.”  The whistle-blowers will get $84 million from the federal
civil recovery portion of the settlement, according to federal
False Claims Act provisions.  In the $800 million civil portion of the settlement with
the U.S., Abbott will pay $560.9 million to the federal
government and $239.1 million to states participating, the
Justice Department said. Louisiana isn’t participating in the
settlement, according to the Justice Department.  It’s the second illegal marketing settlement the government
has reached with a maker of an epilepsy drug. In 2004, Pfizer’s
Warner-Lambert unit pleaded guilty to federal criminal charges
over illegal marketing of its Neurontin epilepsy drug and paid
$430 million to resolve both criminal and civil claims over the
medication.  The Depakote case is U.S. ex rel. McCoyd v. Abbott
Laboratories, 1:07-CV-00081, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  Virginia  (Abingdon).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 