-- Machiavelli Would Be Proud as Cromwell Outwits Queen
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-05-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/machiavelli-would-be-proud-as-cromwell-outwits-queen.html
Fixer-in-chief Thomas Cromwell is back
with a new mission: to dispatch the queen he helped create.  The superbly devious Tudor statesman leapt from the history
books in Hilary Mantel’s garlanded novel “ Wolf Hall .” Her
latest, “ Bring Up the Bodies ,” resumes the story in September
1535.  The mood is ominous. The peasants are hungry, the pope
displeased and  France  -- well, France is France, England’s
enduring foe.  There is a more pressing problem, too. Having split with
 Rome  to remarry,  Henry VIII  remains in want of a legitimate male
heir. After just three years, he’s tiring of his current
consort, Anne Boleyn, and falling for another.  “He looks stunned, like a veal calf knocked on the head by
the butcher,” Cromwell observes as the pale and interesting
 Jane Seymour  unwittingly casts her spell over the king.  Since his promotion to master secretary, the blacksmith’s
son is consulted on all aspects of royal life from foreign
policy to interior design. Now he must ease out Anne and her
supporters and ease in Jane.  “Wolf Hall” galloped across several countries and 35
years, dramatizing battles, intrigue and seductions as it
chronicled Cromwell’s rise and rise. Its sequel has a more
intense focus, covering the scant year that it takes him to
bring down  Anne Boleyn .  Settling Scores  As a teenage runaway peddling the three-card trick, he
often made the Queen of Hearts vanish. Anne’s removal is
messier, necessitating lengthy interrogations and pacts with
scheming courtiers in order to ensnare her on charges of
adultery, incest and treason. Along the way, he seizes the
chance to settle a personal score.  Violence stalks Mantel’s nimble prose throughout. In the
opening scene, Cromwell watches his hawks, named for his dead
daughters, hunting. It is “a riot of dismemberment.” Later,
the soft pinks and grays of a new frock recall “stretched
innards, umbles and tripes, gray-pink intestines looped out of a
living body.”  Yet as the executioner prepares to swing his blade and
bring Anne’s story to its well-known end, it is the more
prosaically intimate details that chill. The way her hands hover
at her chin, for instance, uncertain whether or not to tie her
bonnet.  Rewriting History  Anne Boleyn’s demise has been much debated by historians.
Mantel chooses not to offer a definitive version of what went on
behind the closed doors of Anne’s chamber, conveying instead a
startling sense of history’s shifting nature. Far from being a
fixed narrative, it is forever susceptible to rewrites by the
likes of Cromwell, she suggests.  Meanwhile, Cromwell’s own position at court is not as
secure as it might be. At one point, he wonders if he could
improve on  Machiavelli’s legendary treatise . It seems a fair bet
that he could, yet for all his wealth and influence, no one is
about to let him forget that he remains a commoner.  “Get back to your abacus, Cromwell. You are only for
fetching in money,” one duke goads him.  It is giving nothing away to say that by the end of this
second novel he has become Baron Cromwell. The title does little
to dispel a looming sense of his precariousness, even as we
leave him “stuck like a limpet to the future.”  Mantel’s Cromwell is one of the finest creations of
historical fiction, so it’s hardly surprising that he has
seduced her into stretching to a trilogy what was initially
planned as a two-parter. Unfortunately, that decision leaves
“Bring Up the Bodies” reading very much like a middle volume,
slowed by recaps and overshadowed by what is still to come.  Bawdy Humor  Of course, judged alongside almost anything other than its
own precursor, this is a fine novel, laden with rare insights
into the past and present. The scents and sounds, colors and
tastes of Cromwell’s  England  are rendered in sentences so
luminous they seem to wink back at you from the page. And yes,
there is also wit to be found here, from bawdy joshing to savage
gallows humor.  In middle age, Cromwell isn’t above surveying the fashions
of the time, either. The must-have accessory for autumn 1535?
Heart-shaped man-bags popularized by European bankers.  When I wrote in ardent praise of “Wolf Hall,” Mantel
e-mailed to say that if I found myself able to do the same for
its sequel, she would reward me in Cromwellian style, perhaps
with a small abbey.  I don’t expect to be polishing its silver anytime soon.
That’s just fine, so long as we’re not made to wait too long for
that final volume.  “Bring Up the Bodies” is published by Holt in the U.S.
and Fourth Estate in the U.K. (410 pages, $28, 20 pounds). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on business books
and  Richard Vines  on food.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 