-- Lacker Says Fed Easing Can't Fix Structural Unemployment
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-08T01:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/lacker-says-fed-easing-can-t-fix-structural-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said much of U.S. unemployment results
from structural weaknesses like inadequate training that can’t
be fixed by additional Fed stimulus.  “Some commentators are urging the Fed to take additional
action as long as the  unemployment rate  remains elevated,”
Lacker said today in Greensboro, North Carolina. “But if
elevated unemployment reflects largely fundamental factors
rather than insufficient spending, such stimulus might have
little impact on unemployment and instead just raise the risk of
pushing inflation up.”  Lacker has dissented at all three meetings this year of the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee . On April 25 the
FOMC said the economic outlook will probably warrant
“exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least
through late 2014.” Lacker disagrees, saying in an April 27
statement that “an increase in  interest rates  is likely to be
necessary by mid-2013” to hold down inflation.  Fed officials have discussed how much of the 8.1 percent
U.S. unemployment is caused by “structural” factors such as a
mismatch of worker skills and available jobs.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  has said she’s concerned
structural unemployment may rise if “the labor market heals too
slowly.” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that “continued
weakness in aggregate demand is likely the predominant factor”
in unemployment.  ‘Substantial Portion’  “The effects of unemployment insurance benefits together
with the effects of labor market inefficiencies could plausibly
account for a quite substantial portion of our elevated
unemployment rate,” Lacker said in his speech.  Unemployment benefits  could be responsible for as much as
1.7 percentage points of joblessness, and “labor market
inefficiencies” such as the difficulty in matching workers with
skilled jobs could together account for as much as 5.9
percentage points of unemployment, Lacker said.  Payrolls climbed by 115,000 workers in April, the smallest
increase in six months, Labor Department figures showed last
week. The jobless rate fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent
as people left the  labor force , adding to concerns that the
economic expansion is cooling.  Lacker said to reporters after the speech the employment
data didn’t alter his outlook for economic growth of 2.75
percent this year.  Labor Market Weakness  Investing in job training and education may more
successfully address the labor market weakness rather than Fed
policy, Lacker said.  “I believe such investments are likely to yield greater
benefits for both workers and the economy as a whole than
efforts aimed at providing short-term stimulus,” he said. “As
I have noted, improvement in the skill level of the workforce
eventually leads to both higher productivity and wages.”  Lacker plans to visit Guilford Technical Community College
tomorrow to highlight the success of these programs. He called
 North Carolina  “a national leader in workforce development
training.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  