-- Ackman’s Canadian Pacific Slate Backed by Ontario Teachers’
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-05-07T20:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/ackman-s-canadian-pacific-slate-backed-by-ontario-teachers-1-.html
William Ackman’s slate of directors
for  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) ’s board won support from the
 Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  as he pushes to oust Chief
Executive Officer  Fred Green .  Ontario Teachers’ is voting for Ackman’s seven nominees and
withholding votes for the rest of what will be a 16-member
board, according to the pension plan’s website. It held 1.3
percent of the stock as of March 31 and was the 14th-biggest
investor, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP is
 Canadian Pacific ’s  biggest shareholder , has said his slate of
directors will seek a leadership change to boost profitability
at North America’s least-efficient major railroad. Canadian
Pacific’s board is supporting Green, who became CEO in 2006.  Ontario Teachers’ announcement bolsters Ackman’s case after
proxy advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.
recommended last week that investors vote for his slate.  An April survey of about 45 percent of the rail’s
shareholders from Brendan Wood International showed that about
94 percent of those polled want change at the railroad, and 75
percent favor Ackman’s proposal to replace Green with Hunter
Harrison, the former head of  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)   Operating costs rose to 80.1 percent of Canadian Pacific’s
sales in the first quarter from 79.4 percent in the same period
in 2006, a month before Green took the top job. That operating
ratio was the highest of the seven largest North American
railroads.  Canadian Pacific climbed 0.1 percent to C$74.49 at the
close of trading in Toronto. The shares have gained 21 percent
since Oct. 27, the day before Pershing Square disclosed its
stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  