-- Madoff Sons’ Wives Sued by Trustee for $57.5 Million
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-05-07T16:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/madoff-sons-wives-sued-by-trustee-for-57-5-million.html
The trustee liquidating Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities Inc. revised a lawsuit to add the
spouses of  Bernard Madoff ’s two sons as defendants on
$57.5 million in claims.  The new claims, filed May 4, are part of Irving Picard’s
existing $255 million complaint against the Madoff family
seeking to recoup money taken out of the  Ponzi scheme . The
revised complaint adds Stephanie Mack, Mark Madoff’s widow, and
Deborah Madoff, Andrew Madoff’s wife, as defendants on
$54.5 million in claims for unjust enrichment. Picard also is
suing for $3 million that allegedly was transferred to the two
women and to Susan Elkin, Mark Madoff’s first wife.  The revision was made possible by a ruling last month by
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in  Manhattan , who allowed
Picard to make some claims against the spouses for money they
later received that was orginally given to other family members.
Lifland said Picard could sue for constructive trust and unjust
enrichment, though the judge might later rule that the claims
are barred.  In the same decision, Lifland said it was too late for
Picard to sue the spouses on most of the claims pending against
the family. In the lawsuit originally filed in October 2009,
Picard sought to recover $255 million from Madoff’s sons and
other family members that was allegedly stolen from customers.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008, with
Picard’s appointment under the Securities Investor Protection
Act. Bernard Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence
following a guilty plea. Mark Madoff committed suicide in
December 2010.  The family lawsuit is Picard v. Estate of Mark Madoff,
09-01503, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-
cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 