-- Lagarde Urges Gradual Deficit Cut as Austerity Rejected
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-05-07T20:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/lagarde-urges-gradual-deficit-cut-as-voters-reject-austerity.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  called on developed nations to push
through “gradual” fiscal cuts as voters in France and Greece
rejected austerity as the sole fix to Europe’s debt crisis.  “Austerity versus growth is very much the debate of the
hour,” Lagarde said today in a speech at the University of
Zurich,  Switzerland . “I would argue it is not ‘either/or.’ We
can design a strategy that is good for today and good for
tomorrow.”  With unemployment in the euro region at the highest in
almost 15 years and an economy the IMF predicts will shrink this
year, some members of the 17-nation group are challenging
austerity plans advocated by  Germany .  French socialist  Francois Hollande  defeated President
Nicolas Sarkozy yesterday and pledged to push for less austerity
and more growth in  Europe . A recession in  Spain  threatens to
derail the government’s deficit reduction plans and the
government of the AAA-rated Netherlands fell last month amid the
effort to deepen deficit cuts and meet European targets.  Lagarde, a former finance minister under Sarkozy, said in
response to an audience question that she hopes Hollande and his
colleagues in the French government and the region pursue a
policy that “will be a very strong anchoring into Europe and
into the euro zone.”  ‘Imperative of Growth’  “It’s clear that partners of the euro zone have in mind
and have had in mind the imperative of growth,” she said.
“Growth and stability are inter-cyclically linked to one
another.  The euro weakened for a sixth day, its longest series of
declines since September, dropping as much as 1 percent before
paring losses. The currency declined to $1.2955, the weakest
since Jan. 25, before trading at $1.3056 at 3:58 p.m.  New York 
time.  While fiscal adjustment “is essential” and requires
governments to lay out a plan for reducing debt in the medium
run, “we know that fiscal austerity holds back growth, and the
effects are worse in downturns,” Lagarde said.  As a result, “the right pace is essential” and will
depend on countries’ specific situations as some face rising
borrowing costs, leaving them little choice but to move faster,
she said.  The debate on the policies to pursue has split policy
makers, investors and academics as Europe pursued a cocktail of
tax increases and spending cuts to beat a sovereign debt crisis
that raged from Greece through Ireland and  Portugal  to the heart
of the single currency bloc.  Joint Loan  In  Greece , the first country in the euro region to get a
joint loan by the European Union and the IMF, elections left the
two biggest parties short of the clear majority to keep bailout
efforts there on track.  “If you look at the polls and the surveys, there is
clearly in the Greek population a determination to stay within
the euro because it does bring a significant amount of benefits
as opposed to the risks that will arise from the exit,” Lagarde
said when asked whether Greece should exit the currency zone.  In many countries, fiscal adjustment, weak banks and
troubled housing markets are holding back growth, Lagarde said.  While there may be scope by some central banks for faster
action, monetary policy in developed economies is close to
“full speed” and “cannot do the job alone,” she said.  “Countries need to keep a steady hand on the wheel,”
Lagarde said. “If growth is worse than expected, they should
stick to announced fiscal measures, rather than announced fiscal
targets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net 
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  