-- Albert Pujols Ends Home Run Drought at 110 At-Bats in Angels Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/albert-pujols-ends-home-run-drought-at-110-at-bats-in-angels-win.html
Albert Pujols  hit his first home run
since joining the  Los Angeles Angels  with a $240 million
contract, ending the longest regular-season drought of his Major
League Baseball career at 110 at-bats.  Pujols, who had been jeered by some home fans in Anaheim,
 California  during his homerless run, hit a two-run homer off
Toronto rookie pitcher Drew Hutchison during the fifth inning of
yesterday’s 4-3 win over the Blue Jays.  When Pujols crossed home plate, he returned to an empty
Angels’ dugout, as teammate Torii Hunter had urged the players
to run into the clubhouse tunnel as a joke while Pujols circled
the bases. They came out to congratulate him moments later.  “It’s a relief for him, and I’m pretty sure it’s a relief
for us,” Hunter told reporters after the game. “I’m happy that
he got this lifted off of him. Now he can go out there and just
swing and have fun.”  Entering the game, Pujols had a .194 batting average and
Atlanta outfielder Michael Bourn and Philadelphia shortstop
Jimmy Rollins were the only MLB players to have more at-bats
this season without a home run.  Pujols, a three-time National League Most Valuable Player
who signed a 10-year deal with the Angels in December, said
afterwards it was “awesome” to break his homerless streak. His
longest prior drought was 105 at-bats over 27 games last year.  “This game is about making adjustments and being
patient,” Pujols said. “Sometimes you want to do too much, and
it’s part of it. If you don’t, my dad always told me, you’re not
human. And I’m human.”  The  New York  Yankees beat the Kansas City Royals 10-4
yesterday in the finale of a four-game series as Robinson Cano
hit a grand slam and  Alex Rodriguez  added a three-run homer.  The  New York Mets  beat the Arizona Diamondbacks 3-1 as
knuckleball pitcher R.A. Dickey took a shutout into the ninth
inning, and the  Baltimore Orioles  topped the Boston Red Sox 9-6
on Adam Jones’s three-run homer in the top of the 17th inning.
The Orioles have baseball’s best record at 19-9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  