-- Talon Drops on FDA Review of Cancer Therapy: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-05-07T20:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/talon-drops-on-fda-review-of-cancer-therapy-san-francisco-mover.html
Talon Therapeutics Inc. (TLON)  fell the most
since November 2010 after the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
said it wants more time to review information about Talon’s
Marqibo blood-cancer treatment.  Talon dropped 31 cents, or 29 percent, to 77 cents at the
close in  New York , after earlier declining as much as 39
percent. Shares of the  San Mateo , California-based company had
more than doubled this year before today.  Talon, a biotechnology company with no marketed products,
was informed by the FDA that its application seeking accelerated
approval of Marqibo was given a three-month prescription drug
user fee act, known as Pdufa, date extension until Aug. 12  “It’s a fairly standard move when there is a submission of
a new drug,” Gregory Wade, a biotechnology analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. in  San Francisco , said in a telephone interview.
“The FDA wants more information and they extended the review
period.”  Wade, who doesn’t cover Talon, follows biotechnology
companies including Pharmacyclics Inc., which also makes blood
cancer treatments.  On March 21, Talon won the backing of a U.S. advisory panel
for accelerated approval of its product. The advisers voted 7-4
that the benefits of the anti-leukemia therapy outweigh its
risks.  The FDA is considering Marqibo, Talon’s lead product
candidate, based on the second of three phases of clinical
trials typically required for approval. The latest request from
the FDA is unrelated to clinical trials for the product.  ‘Label Negotiations’  “The FDA is regularly pushing folk out about three months
so we are part of a crowd,” Craig Carlson, Talon’s chief
financial officer, said in a telephone interview. “The FDA
regulations allow that if new information is provided they have
the opportunity to extend the review period.”  “We have answered everything the FDA asked us for,”
Carlson said. “We are in label negotiations with them. We
submitted our first response to their label suggestions. We feel
like we are on track and are at the point that we are waiting
for responses to the information we provided the FDA.”  The therapy would treat adults with a form of acute
lymphoblastic leukemia, a fast-growing cancer of the white blood
cells. Talon has no annual revenue.  “This appears to be an approvable product, and labeling
negotiations are generally a positive thing,” Wade said. “It’s
a delay but reasonably so. It looks like they are on track.”  Talon, formerly Hana Biosciences Inc., licensed Marqibo in
2006 from Inex Pharmaceuticals Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  