-- AMR Seeks More Overseas Flights as US Airways Circles
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-05-07T20:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/amr-said-to-seek-more-overseas-flights-as-suitor-circles.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  would
shift more seating capacity to overseas flights from U.S. routes
to narrow a revenue gap with rivals under a plan to exit
bankruptcy as a stand-alone carrier.  International trips would have 44 percent of available
seats by the end of 2017, up from 38 percent now, American told
employees in an e-mail today.  Latin America , where the airline
leads its U.S. peers, would get more service via Miami and
Dallas under the plan.  American gave more details of its strategy as  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  steps up pressure for a possible takeover bid. While
American seeks support on the unsecured creditors committee in
its Chapter 11 case,  US Airways  has won the backing of three
large unions on the panel, and is setting up meetings with
bondholders, people familiar with the effort have said.  “Other carriers will be somewhat relieved that American’s
plan does not involve boosting domestic capacity,” said Jeff Kauffman, a Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. analyst in  New York . “In
areas where American has shrunk, particularly Latin America and
Chicago, it makes sense to build those back up.”  Routes outside the U.S. are prized because the lack of
discount competition lets airlines charge higher fares. More
revenue from each flight would help Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR
end annual losses dating to 2008 that led to a Nov. 29
bankruptcy filing listing $29.6 billion in debt.  American Competitors  The 2017 target for more international flying would still
leave American short of its two larger U.S. rivals,  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  In 2011,
United and Delta had 49 percent and 47 percent of their seating
capacity on overseas routes, airline traffic reports show.  Specifics of American’s plan were released in response to
questions that followed executives’ testimony last week in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court . The airline has already shared some
information with sell-side analysts, and more with the creditors
committee, people familiar with the matter said.  Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  had previously discussed
publicly only the outline of AMR’s strategy to leave Chapter 11
as an independent company and then consider possible mergers. He
has set a goal of $2 billion in annual cost savings, of which
$1.25 billion would come from labor, and $1 billion in new
revenue, while expanding capacity by 20 percent over five years.  An American spokesman,  Andy Backover , said he had no
comment about the contents of the airline’s recovery plan beyond
the statement to employees.  Overseas Growth  American’s capacity would grow four times faster on
international flights than on domestic trips, according to the
people familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because those details haven’t been made public. There
would be no net expansion of U.S. flying until 2014.  Under that plan “there should not be much, if any,
disruption in industry pricing power domestically assuming even
modest economic growth,” said Jeff Straebler, an independent
airline analyst based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Success in Latin
America “would be very dependent on strong economic growth in
the region.”  More fliers would be funneled onto Latin America flights at
Miami International Airport and  Dallas-Fort Worth International 
Airport. Those are the only two of American’s five U.S. hubs
where it is the dominant carrier.  International Partners  American’s current international airline partners, with
which it can jointly plan and market routes, would be used to
help expand its New York gateway for Europe service and its  Los
Angeles  hub for  Asia  flights. Those alliance members now include
 British Airways (IAG)  and Japan Airlines Co.  Adding overseas flying, especially to Latin America, would
provide a financial lift. American gets more revenue for each
seat flown a mile in the region than United or Delta, and has
more seating capacity there as well, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The data also show that industrywide international fares
averaged more than twice as much as domestic flights. The
disparity is even greater on first- and business-class tickets,
the type often bought by last-minute corporate fliers. Domestic,
non-premium fares averaged $477 in March; a premium seat between
the U.S. and Asia was $6,201, the data show.  On domestic routes, new marketing accords with other U.S.
airlines to put booking codes on each other’s flights would help
collect more passengers for overseas travel, adding revenue
without increasing expenses.  Chicago Shift  In  Chicago , larger regional jets would take over some
routes from American’s main fleet. Matching planes to demand
would cut costs and boost revenue for each seat flown a mile,
helping American compete in that market against Chicago-based
United, the carrier said.  Domestic code-sharing and the Chicago strategy would both
require changes in American’s pilot contract, which the airline
is seeking in bankruptcy court in  Manhattan .  American calls New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Dallas-Fort
Worth and Miami “cornerstone” cities. It decided to keep all
five after an analysis showed that dropping any of them as hubs
would hurt its network, executives and advisers said last week
in bankruptcy court, without giving details of the plan.  Exclusive Right  While American holds the exclusive right through Sept. 28
to present a restructuring plan in U.S. Bankruptcy Court, the
creditors committee can ask Judge Sean Lane to end the privilege
if the panel concludes there is another viable option. The group
includes planemaker  Boeing Co. (BA)  and bondholder representatives.  US Airways says a merger would produce $1.2 billion a year
in savings and new revenue, and preserve 6,200 jobs targeted for
elimination in American’s Feb. 1 plan for cutting 13,000 union
positions.  The prospect of mounting a takeover bid for American has
helped more than double the shares of Tempe, Arizona-based US
Airways this year,  leading gains  among  U.S. airlines . The stock
rose 3.7 percent to close at $11.10, the highest since January
2011.  American’s $725.7 million of 8.625 percent pass-through
certificates due October 2021 rose 0.53 percent to 106.56 cents
on the dollar at 11:27 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Leasing Expense  American’s plan is based on growth projections in line with
industry outlooks from other sources including the Federal
Aviation Administration and Boeing, and the expectation that
competitors will respond. American will continue to tweak its
approach based on economic and demand changes.  Part of American’s cost cutting includes tentative
agreements to lower aircraft-leasing expense by $1 billion over
six years, an effort that covers 185 planes. This involves
rejecting some leases and restructuring others in court. It’s
also reworking contracts with vendors and suppliers for
additional unspecified savings.  American said last week that amendments to its job-cut plan
would preserve 2,600 union jobs once due to be lost. That change
hinges on approval of a new contract with the Transport Workers
Union, which begins voting May 10. An additional 700 workers
would get a chance to move to other positions.  AMR also is negotiating cost savings with unions at its
American Eagle regional carrier. Efforts to divest Eagle through
a spinoff or sale were shelved by the bankruptcy filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  