-- Maple Leaf Investors Undeterred by Bakery Blip
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-05-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/maple-leaf-investors-undeterred-by-bakery-blip-corporate-canada.html
Investors are betting  Maple Leaf Foods
Inc. (MFI)  can rebound from a slump in bakery sales by cutting costs
as the food company trades at half the price-earnings value of
its peers.  Canada’s second-largest food processor has outperformed the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX index this year by 8.6 percentage points
even after the stock fell last week due to a drop in bakery
sales. Maple Leaf’s price-to-earnings ratio is at an 8.2 percent
 discount  to the S&P/TSX after narrowing from 30 percent Feb. 24,
showing increased investor interest, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The Toronto-based meat processor and baker may double its
price in three years as it consolidates into new plants and
updates systems to cut expenses, according to Michael Van Aelst,
an analyst at TD Newcrest in  Montreal .  “The road will likely not be without some temporary
hazards,” Aelst wrote in a note to clients May 3. “We see very
good value in a company that, in our view, has significant
upside over the next three years.”  Chief Executive Officer Michael McCain, who owns 33 percent
of Maple Leaf, worked with board member Greg Boland, CEO of West
Face Capital Inc., a hedge fund that owns the next largest stake
with 11 percent, to revise a company restructuring project last
year.  Half as Expensive  Maple Leaf is about half as  expensive  as an average of its
North American peers when comparing price to trailing 12-month
sales, and about five times less than the S&P/TSX, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cutting duplicate overhead costs in the bakery division
after closing two plants earlier this year and other efficiency
gains should save C$25 million ($25 million) in 2012, Kenneth Zaslow, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in  New York , said in a
note May 3. The meat division should beat its 8.5 percent margin
target this year through price increases, product innovations
and the falling cost of pork and supplies, he said. He forecast
a share price of C$14, compared with a May 4 closing price of
C$11.77.  Maple Leaf’s stock “remains relatively inexpensive,”
Zaslow said. “It’s not unusual, in fact it is quite typical,
that companies undergoing a large restructuring program face
temporary setbacks.”  First-quarter earnings per share dropped to 11 cents, below
the 17 cent average estimate of five analysts. Revenue fell to
C$1.16 billion compared with C$1.15 billion in the same period
last year.  Bread Promotion  An advertising campaign will promote bread as a healthy
food choice and bakery margins will improve in the second half
from lower wheat costs to help maintain annual double-digit
earnings per share growth, McCain said on a conference call May
2.  “We’re committed to double-digit earnings per share growth
every year and we believe that we’ll deliver that this year as
well,” he said.  The fresh bakery market has slumped 3 percent in  Canada 
over the past 12 weeks, according to Nielsen Co., with Maple
Leaf “down a little bit more than that” McCain said. The
market fell 5 percent in the U.S. and the U.K., where one bright
spot is positive response to the company’s new New York bagel,
he said.  “There’s rather stark short-term declines in bread
consumption and the industry needs to respond to that in a
pretty aggressive way,” he said.  30 Companies  Maple Leaf has bounced back before. It rebounded from a 12-
year low of C$7 on Oct. 14, 2008, after 23 people died and 34
others were poisoned by contamination of listeria monocytogenes,
a type of bacteria, in meat processed at a Toronto plant. Now
it’s refocusing on larger scale plants and standardizing recipes
after acquiring more than 30 companies in the last 15 years,
such as J.M. Schneider Foods, Shopsy’s Deli, Burns Meat, Gainers
and Larson, said Linda Kuhn, a spokeswoman for the company, in a
telephone interview.  McCain, part of the family that owns Florenceville, New
Brunswick-based McCain Foods Ltd., the world’s largest producer
of French fries, first proposed a C$1.3 billion spending plan
for Maple Leaf in 2010 before Boland bought a 10 percent stake
held by the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan . The plan was then
whittled to spending C$750 million by 2013 and called for
closing eight plants and cutting 1,550 jobs by 2014.  Competition  “Greg was part of that process just to ensure that they
were confident that it would deliver the return on investment,”
Kuhn said. “He has certainly been a very strong addition to the
board and with very, very constructive suggestions.”  The company, valued at C$1.64 billion with C$4.9 billion in
revenue last year, is also contending with a Canadian dollar
valued at $1.01, which can hurt exports and increase competition
with American imports in Canada, such as  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  and
 Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)   Maple Leaf increased to a 52-week high of C$13 April 27
after the company shut two prepared meats plants and a
distribution center as part of the plan to close a productivity
gap with U.S. peers and maintain its market share in Canada,
according to the company.  Production from the two closed Toronto-area bakeries flowed
to a new Hamilton, Ontario, plant with improved automation. A
C$395 million prepared meats plant is being built nearby this
year, while a company-wide computer systems overhaul is to be
completed by 2013. Two distribution centers will be closed,
leaving one each for east and west Canada, Kuhn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  