-- Arcapita Bank Wins Permission to Pay Employees, Partners
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-07T16:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/arcapita-bank-wins-permission-to-pay-employees-partners-1-.html
Arcapita Bank BSC, an Islamic-
compliant fund manager overseeing about $7 billion in
investments, won permission to pay employees and business
partners after making changes to comply with the demands of
creditors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  today approved
Arcapita’s requests to make payments it said are essential to
running its business in bankruptcy. After negotiating some
changes to the company’s cash management prior to today’s
hearing, a committee of creditors had sought Lane’s oversight to
change the way Arcapita pays its employees, business partners,
and insurance.  Creditors and Arcapita had resolved all their disputes
before the hearing began, lawyers told Lane today. Arcapita
agreed to measures including withdrawing its application to hire
Ernst and Young LLP as an adviser, and giving creditors 10 days
of notice before it pays business partners.  “We don’t need a preview,” Lane told lawyers for
Arcapita’s creditors, who had asked to brief him on their
underlying dispute over how the bankrupt company uses its cash,
saying the issues could arise again in coming weeks.  Creditors said in court papers that because Arcapita is a
foreign company with private equity stakes in portfolio
companies, it’s different than most bankruptcies and there’s a
need to safeguard cash for creditors by making sure it doesn’t
go to fund entities in countries outside the Manhattan
bankruptcy court’s jurisdiction.  Decision-Making  “A protocol governing decision-making is appropriate and
necessary,” lawyers for creditors wrote. They said a request to
pay vendors as much as $2 million was based on payments that
they had examined and found to be necessary, and sought a court
order entitling them to information about any changes to payment
terms and weekly updates about the amounts paid.  “The Committee has now ‘scrubbed’ the payments made to
date; it should have the right to similarly ‘scrub’ the amount,
terms, and conditions of all future Critical/Foreign Vendor
payments before they are made,” creditors said.  They also sought to bar interest-free loans and school and
tuition fees to employees and require Arcapita to seek their
permission before making any payments over $100,000 related to
employees. Creditors sought more control over the company’s
insurance payments, saying they should be asked for consent
before any new policies are bought.  Bankruptcy Counsel  Creditors also seek to challenge payments made to
Arcapita’s bankruptcy counsel, Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP. The
 law firm  had received $1.65 million from the company in advance
of its bankruptcy, and some of the payments, received within 90
days before its bankruptcy, may be clawed back for creditors
under bankruptcy law, creditors said.  Separately, Arcapita filed a proposed budget on May 4 for
May, and projected the company would spend $2.7 million on staff
expenses and have an operating cash flow of $3.5 million.
Including restructuring costs and other items, the company would
lose $5.7 million on a consolidated basis for the month,
according to court papers.  The creditors committee includes Euroville Sarl, one of
Arcapita’s largest creditors with $88.8 million of a $1.1
billion syndicated loan,  National Bank of Bahrain (NBB)  BSC,
Commerzbank AG, VR Global Partners LP, Barclays Bank Plc,
Central Bank of Bahrain, and Arcsukuk (2011-1) Limited.  Arcapita, formerly known as First Islamic Investment Bank,
was forced to seek bankruptcy after  hedge funds , including
Euroville, derailed restructuring talks on its $1.1 billion loan
due in March, the company’s bankruptcy attorney Michael Rosenthal told Lane on the company’s first day in bankruptcy.  Arcapita, founded in 1996 and based in Manama, Bahrain,
listed assets of $3.06 billion and liabilities of $2.55 billion
in its Chapter 11 petition in Manhattan in March. Arcapita
Investment Holdings Ltd., already in U.S. bankruptcy, also has
filed a bankruptcy in the  Cayman Islands .  The company’s investments include Irish power utility
Viridian Group Ltd. and U.S.-based Falcon Gas Storage Co.  The case is Arcapita Bank BSC, 12-11076,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  