-- Argentina Taps Ex-Schlumberger Executive Galuccio to Run YPF
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-05-07T15:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/argentina-taps-ex-schlumberger-executive-galuccio-to-oversee-ypf.html
Argentina President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  named Miguel Galuccio, a former  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) 
executive, to head  YPF SA (YPF)  after Congress approved the
government’s seizure of its biggest energy company.  Galuccio, 44, was named general manager of Buenos Aires-
based YPF late on May 4, one day after Congress approved
Fernandez’s proposal to take a 51 percent stake in the company
from Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)  Galuccio, an engineer who was
president of Schlumberger Production Management in  London  until
a month ago, will hold the position at least until a
 shareholders’ meeting  on June 4 elects a new board.  Fernandez is counting on Galuccio to help boost production
and investment that she says suffered under Repsol’s ownership,
vowing that the state-run company will be professionally
managed. YPF’s  American depositary receipts  rallied 8.5 percent
to $15.35 on May 4 after newspapers including Ambito Financiero
and La Nacion reported that Galuccio would head the company.  “Clearly YPF is embarking on the path towards becoming a
Petrobras or Petrochina, where there is a state controlling the
entity and its long-term vision, however the entity is run
according to best industry practices and in a method that
delivers profitability,” said Roy Sebag, Chief Executive
Officer of Natural Resources Holdings Ltd., which owns YPF
shares. Sebag said he is “very satisfied” with the choice.  Galuccio, an Argentine who worked for YPF from 1994 to
1999, met with Fernandez for the first time on April 4, 12 days
before the nationalization was announced, the president said in
her speech. Galuccio had previously run the Integrated Project
Management unit at Schlumberger, an oil-services company based
in Houston.  Professional Team  “I said on April 16, when I sent the bill to Congress,
that we were going to see YPF with a totally professional
profile, which doesn’t mean that it won’t have a political
direction,” Fernandez said in a nationally-televised speech.
“The idea is for YPF to be modern, absolutely competitive, with
professionals.”  YPF rose 2.6 percent to 87 pesos at 12:10 p.m. in  Buenos
Aires .  Galuccio, a petroleum engineer by training, ran Maxus
Energy Corp., a U.S. company acquired by YPF in 1995, during his
previous stint at the company.  Madrid-based Repsol has demanded $10.5 billion in
compensation for the seizure, a figure the government rejects.
Fernandez said Argentina’s National Appraisal Tribunal will set
the value of the takeover.  Declining Output  The government took control of YPF as it seeks to reverse
years of declining output and reserves and to cut fuel imports
which doubled to $9.4 billion last year. Planning Minister Julio De Vido, who oversees energy policy, and Deputy Economy Minister
Axel Kicillof were named by Fernandez on April 16 to run the
company.  To reverse the decline in production, YPF is seeking
partners to help it to tap Argentina’s extensive shale oil and
gas reserves. A 30,000-square kilometer geological formation
known as Vaca Muerta in southern Argentina holds at least 23
billion barrels of shale oil, of which about 13 billion belong
to YPF, the company said in a presentation in February.  De Vido and Kicillof have since met with executives from
companies including ExxonMobil Corp.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  to discuss investments in Argentina.  ‘Resource Endowment’  “Argentina does not have much of a hydrocarbon deficiency,
meaning that at some point, given its resource endowment which
far exceeds internal demand, YPF will become a very profitable
exporter of hydrocarbons,” Sebag said.  Following the seizure, Repsol has been left with a 6
percent stake in YPF. Argentina’s Petersen Group owns another 25
percent while  the remainder  is listed in Buenos Aires and  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  