-- Marinatto Resigns as Big East Commissioner After Upheaval
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-05-07T14:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/marinatto-resigns-as-big-east-commissioner-after-league-upheaval.html
Big East  Commissioner John Marinatto
resigned today following a period in which the league lost three
long-time member schools before expanding from coast to coast.  Joseph A. Bailey III, former chief executive officer of the
 Miami Dolphins  and managing director at the executive recruiting
firm RSR Partners, will serve as interim commissioner.  “After a great deal of thought and prayer, I have decided
to step down as commissioner,” Marinatto said in a statement
from the Providence, Rhode Island-based conference. “Our recent
expansion efforts have stabilized the conference for the long
term, and we are likewise well positioned for our very important
upcoming television negotiations.”  The Big East has hired the  Boston Consulting Group  to
review its organizational design and structure to maximize its
media rights, branding and other strategies, the league said in
the statement.  The search for the new commissioner will be led by
University of Cincinnati President Gregory H. Williams and a
member of the  Big East  executive committee who wasn’t named.  CBSSports.com reported that the Big East presidents asked
Marinatto to resign yesterday. Marinatto has been representing
the conference in meetings to determine a new football
postseason playoff format in 2014 and would have entered
negotiations with Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN and other networks this
September on a new television contract.  League Meetings  The departure comes a week before the conference’s spring
meetings in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida.  Marinatto was the  third commissioner  in the conference’s
history. He was hired in July 2009 to replace Mike Tranghese,
who led the Big East from 1990 to 2009. The first commissioner
was Dave Gavitt, who managed the conference from 1979 to 1990.  The Big East lost  Texas Christian University  and West
Virginia to the Big 12 Conference and will lose Pittsburgh and
Syracuse to the Atlantic Coast Conference in 2013 or 2014. TCU
left before it ever played a Big East game.  With the conference’s future in doubt, Marinatto lured
eight  new members .  Temple University  will join this year. The
University of Memphis,  Southern Methodist University , the
University of  Central Florida , the University of Houston,  Boise
State University  and San Diego State University will join in
2013. The U.S. Naval Academy will be added in 2015.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  