-- Arsenal to Make First Move for Fulham’s Dempsey: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-07T06:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/arsenal-to-make-first-move-for-fulham-s-dempsey-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Dempsey Move  Arsenal will make the first move in the race to sign
Fulham’s  Clint Dempsey  and will target Blackburn’s Junior
Hoilett if unsuccessful in its bid to acquire the U.S.
international forward, the  Sun reported.   Although Dempsey has scored 23 goals in a striking role for
Fulham this season, Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  wants to play
him behind Robin van Persie and  Lukas Podolski , the Sun said.  Teenage Target     Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is ready to fight
Tottenham to sign Crewe’s 18-year-old attacking midfielder Nick
Powell, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Ferguson made a personal visit to watch Powell, who’s
scored 15 goals for League Two playoff semifinalist Crewe this
season, the Mirror said. Arsenal and Chelsea are also keen on
the player, the newspaper added.  ‘Desperate’ for Drogba   Frank Lampard  called on Chelsea to keep Didier Drogba, who
has been linked with a move to a Chinese club, after the Ivory
Coast striker scored in the Blues’ F.A. Cup final win over
Liverpool two days ago, the  Guardian reported .  “I am desperate for him to stay,” the Guardian cited
Lampard as saying. “He is a magnificent player. His body is a
machine when you look at him stripped down. He’s lost no pace,
he’s lost none of his finishing instinct.”  Chelsea has offered Drogba a 12-month contract extension,
while he’s been promised 20 million pounds ($32.2 million) to
move to  China  for the next two years, the  Sun reported .  ‘Big Low’  Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard  said the club will invest
in its squad in the offseason and re-emerge stronger after
losing the F.A Cup final and struggling in the Premier League,
the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “We will bounce back,” the newspaper cited Gerrard as
saying. “We will strengthen in the summer and we will come back
and fight again. That’s what this club does. All through my
career it’s been about highs and lows. This is a big low.”  Dalglish Doubt  Liverpool’s defeat in the final increased the scrutiny on
Kenny Dalglish and put his future as manager in doubt, the  Daily
Express reported .  John W. Henry, Liverpool’s principal owner, and managing
director  Ian Ayre  refused to take questions about Dalglish’s
position following the 2-1 loss to Chelsea, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  