-- Harvard Burn-Out Case Topher Grace Gets ‘Lonely’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-05-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/harvard-burn-out-case-topher-grace-gets-lonely-review.html
She’s a workaholic equities analyst
with an assistant willing to work Sundays. He’s a burnout case
who went from Harvard to  Wall Street , made a bundle and cracked
up when he realized his life was meaningless. His marriage ended
and he hasn’t worked in four years.  Handsomely groomed Porter (Topher Grace) and gamine Heather
(Olivia Thirlby) meet on a blind date in Paul Weitz’s modest
sitcom “ Lonely, I’m Not .” She is, in fact, blind.  We feel their awkwardness and warm to Heather and Porter as
they become lovers, deal with her kookie-but-loving roommate and
protective mother, and his father, a schnorrer who only shows up
when he needs money.  Weitz (“ About a Boy ,” “ American Pie ”) knows the
territory well, the territory being facile comedies about
upscale young people. They have foibles, of course, and just
enough heartbreak to make us worthy of their attention for about
the length of a sentimental airline commercial.  Like TV  “Lonely, I’m Not” unfolds in a series of blackout scenes
that are as controlling as Heather’s mom, and that look and
sound made for TV. (Many scenes end just when things are getting
interesting.)  Wittingly or not, director Trip Cullman emphasizes the
glibness with a production for Second Stage that’s way too
slick.  Oversize projections and neon lights announce each scene
(“Job Interview”) like easel cards in a vaudeville show. Mark
Wendland’s minimalist sets and Matt Frey’s bold-face lighting
enhance the effect.  Still, Thirlby (“ Juno ”) and Grace (“ Spider-Man 3 ”) grew
on me over their 90-minute stay; they have a sweet charm and
throw off low-voltage, but unmistakable sparks.  The fine ensemble includes stage veterans Mark Blum and
Lisa Emery, along with Christopher Jackson and Maureen
Sebastian, all playing multiple roles. You’ve rarely seen a
supporting cast be more supportive.  At 305 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-212-246-4422;
 http://2st.com . Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and
 Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 