-- Asia-Pacific Bond Risk Jumps on Jobs, European Election Results
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   G a r v e y
-- 2012-05-07T03:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
The cost of insuring Asia-Pacific
corporate and sovereign bonds from default jumped to more than
three-month highs after U.S. job growth slowed and European
elections stoked concern the region’s debt crisis may worsen.  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  climbed 7 basis points to 171 basis
points as of 8:21 a.m. in Hong Kong, according to  Credit
Agricole SA. (ACA)  The gauge is set for its highest close since Feb.
2, according to data provider CMA.  U.S. employers added the fewest jobs in six months, French
Socialist Francois Hollande was elected President and Greek
voters flocked to anti-bailout parties over the weekend.
Hollande’s platform calls for policies that German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  opposes, including higher taxes, increased
spending and a delayed deficit-reduction effort.  Credit-default swap prices rose due to the weaker-than-
forecast jobs data and “the implications of European election
results yesterday,” Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit
analyst at Credit Agricole, said by telephone today. “There is
a new president in  France  and the parties that have
traditionally objected to the bailout in  Greece  have gained.”  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index rose 6 basis points to
165 as of 10:21 a.m. in Sydney, Credit Agricole prices show. The
index is headed for its highest close since Jan. 18, according
to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  European Budget Discipline  The  Markit iTraxx Japan  index jumped 7 to 189 from its
close on May 3 as of 9:23 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche
Bank AG prices. The measure is poised for its highest close
since Jan. 12, CMA prices show. Japan’s markets were closed on
May 4 for a national holiday.  Hollande, the first Socialist in 17 years to control
 Europe ’s second-biggest economy, has called for a re-negotiation
of a budget-discipline pact crafted by European leaders in
March, saying it needs to place more emphasis on growth.  U.S. payrolls increased by 115,000 in April, according to
Labor Department data on May 4, compared with the median
estimate for a 160,000 advance in a Bloomberg News survey.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Garvey in  Hong Kong  at 
 bgarvey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  