-- Asian Currencies Slide on European Election Results, U.S. Jobs
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-05-07T08:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/asian-currencies-slide-on-european-election-results-u-s-jobs.html
Asian currencies fell, led by South
Korea’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit, after the results of
elections over the weekend in  Europe  stoked concern the region’s
debt crisis may worsen.  The won dropped by the most in a month as the MSCI Asia-
Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks lost more than 2 percent, sinking to the
lowest level since January. Greek voters flocked to anti-bailout
candidates, putting at risk austerity efforts needed to ensure
the flow of financial aid. In  France , Socialist Francois
Hollande was elected president. He supports policies German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opposes, including higher taxes,
increased spending and delayed deficit-reduction efforts.  “The French and Greek results were not encouraging,” said
Sim Moh Siong, a currency strategist at Bank of Singapore Ltd.
“With the Greek result, it’s doubtful whether they can stick to
the reform package. We’ve seen a fair bit of  risk aversion 
coming in.”  The won slid 0.6 percent to 1,138.50 per dollar in  Seoul ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit weakened
0.4 percent to 3.0555, the  Singapore dollar  dropped 0.5 percent
to $1.2484 and the Philippine peso lost 0.1 percent to 42.35.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, fell for a
fifth day to a two-week low. Its 60-day historical volatility
dropped to 2.69 percent from 2.72 percent on May 4.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 115,000 in April, the smallest
gain in six months and less than the median economist forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg for an advance of 160,000,
official data showed on May 4. Slower hiring may signal waning
demand from the U.S. for Asian exports as  China ’s economy cools.  Rocky Start  “Asian currencies will start off rocky this week due to
weak U.S. payrolls combined with uncertainty in the Greek
elections,” said Sean Yokota, a Singapore-based currency
strategist at UBS AG.  Taiwan’s dollar slipped 0.4 percent to NT$29.382 as a
government report today showed exports fell 6.4 percent in April
from a year earlier, following a 3.2 percent decline in March.
That was bigger than a 3.1 percent drop forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 14 analysts.  Indonesia’s economic growth exceeded 6 percent for a sixth
quarter as investment gained, countering a slowdown in export
growth. Growth increased 6.3 percent in the first quarter from a
year ago, compared with 6.49 percent in the final three months
of 2011. The rupiah gained 0.3 percent to 9,245 per dollar.  Yuan Fixing  The People’s Bank of China set the  yuan ’s reference rate
0.22 percent weaker at 6.2858 per dollar, the biggest drop since
March 12, after the close last week of the annual Strategic and
Economic Dialogue with U.S. officials. The yuan fell 0.10
percent to 6.3100 per dollar, according to China Foreign Trade
System.  “The dollar is stronger, Asian currencies are weaker and
the U.S.-China political event is over and you could see a
surprise” weaker yuan fixing today, Yokota said. “That could
add another push for Asian currencies to be weaker versus the
dollar in addition to issues from U.S. payrolls and  Greece .”  A government report this week may show Chinese exports rose
8.5 percent in April, slowing after March’s 8.9 percent gain,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Consumer prices rose 3.4 percent versus 3.6 percent in March, a
separate survey showed before official data due May 11.  Rupee Intervention  India ’s rupee rose, extending its rebound from an almost
five-month low, on speculation the central bank sought to arrest
a slide in Asia’s worst performing currency this quarter.  “Looking at the price action, it does look like the
 Reserve Bank  of India is in the market,” said  Paresh Nayar ,
head of money-market and currency trading in Mumbai at FirstRand
Ltd. “The RBI measures were rupee-positive, but the overnight
events in Europe were overwhelming. We will need stability in
the global environment to see further rupee strengthening.”  The rupee strengthened 0.5 percent to 53.1975 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell as much as 0.5
percent earlier.  Elsewhere in Asia, Vietnam’s dong was little changed at
20,850 per dollar. Thailand’s financial markets are closed for a
public holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  