-- AT&T Expands in Home Security to Seek Gains Beyond Phones
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/at-t-expands-in-home-security-in-search-for-growth-beyond-phones.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , looking for growth outside
its slowing phone business, plans to start selling home-security
services in a move aimed at challenging market leader ADT.  The service lets users watch camera footage of their home
and adjust temperature as well as lighting remotely by using a
computer or smartphone, AT&T said ahead of the service’s debut
today at the  International CTIA Wireless  event in  New Orleans .
The service, called Digital Life, also includes 24-hour security
call-center monitoring.  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, joins  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  in entering the so-called
smart-home market. The move highlights the need for phone and
cable companies to find sales growth outside the stagnating
wireless-subscriber market and the slowing pay-TV business.  “It’s a fragmented industry, which is one of the reasons
why we think it’s the right time to jump in,” said  Glenn Lurie ,
AT&T president of emerging devices.  AT&T plans to sell Digital Life nationally to anyone with a
high-speed Internet connection, starting with trials in the next
few months in Atlanta and  Dallas .  AT&T will offer a range of home security and automation
services, through a system that can include video cameras,
sensors, lighting controls and thermostats. The hardware was
developed by Xanboo, a company AT&T acquired in 2010. AT&T
didn’t disclose prices.  Tyco’s ADT  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) ’s ADT unit dominates the home-
security industry, according to research firm Current Analysis
Inc. Tyco’s security-solutions business had sales of $8.63
billion last year, Bloomberg data shows. ADT advertises Pulse, a
security and monitoring package for $50 a month with a $200
installation charge. Verizon sells a home monitoring and control
package for $220 with a $10 monthly service fee.  “This product is a monumental leap ahead of anything else
in the marketplace,” Lurie said. AT&T’s advantages include
simplified user controls and technology that lets users operate
the system from anywhere via the Internet, he said.  For AT&T, the incentive is to try to win a portion of a
market that still has room for growth. Whereas almost all U.S.
adults already have mobile phones, only one in five homes have
security systems, according to Current Analysis.  One challenge for AT&T will be to offer the service without
sacrificing profit margins.  Operating profit  at AT&T’s wireless
business was more than 24 percent of sales last year, compared
with  less than 16 percent  for Tyco’s security-solutions unit,
according to Bloomberg data.  “We have been evaluating this for a long time, AT&T
doesn’t launch services that hurt margins,” Lurie said. “We
are very excited about the opportunity to grow revenue with this
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  