-- Australian March Home-Building Permits Rebound on Apartments
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-07T01:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/australian-march-home-building-permits-rebound-on-apartments.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
rebounded in March, led by apartments and renovations, a sign
residential construction may have bottomed before the central
bank lowered  interest rates .  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments gained 7.4 percent from February, when they
dropped a revised 8.8 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. The result compares with the median forecast for a
3 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  last week
slashed the overnight cash rate target to a two-year low of 3.75
percent from 4.25 percent, the deepest reduction in three years,
a decision forecast by two of 29 economists. The nation’s house
prices declined in the three months through March in the longest
losing streak in at least a decade. Stevens aims to buttress the
housing market, support jobs and boost confidence.  “A likely reversal in last month’s large fall in apartment
approvals and slightly better finance commitments should see a
solid rebound in building approvals,”  Paul Brennan , a senior
economist at Citigroup Inc. said in a research report before the
release.  Building approvals in March declined 15 percent from a year
earlier, the report showed. That compares with economists’
forecast for an 18 percent drop year-over-year.  Approvals to build private houses rose 3.9 percent to 7,518
in March from the previous month, the report showed. Approvals
for apartments and renovations advanced 15.5 percent to 3,815.  Traders are pricing in an 88 percent chance the central
bank will lower borrowing costs by a quarter-percentage point to
3.5 percent at its meeting next month, swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The local dollar traded at $1.0129 at 11:44 a.m.
in Sydney, near the lowest level of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  