-- Aviva CEO Pressed to Step Down After Meeting Revolt
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-05-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/aviva-ceo-pressed-to-step-down-after-meeting-revolt.html
Aviva Plc (AV/)  Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Moss is under mounting pressure to boost shareholder
returns or step down from the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer by
market value.  Fifty-four percent of the insurer’s shareholders voted
against its compensation plan last week following five years of
underperforming its rivals and losing almost 12 billion pounds
($19.4 billion) of market value. Moss may not have time to
repair the damage, investors say.  “It might be getting to the stage where it’s getting too
late for him,” said Alan Beaney, who helps manage 200 million
pounds including Aviva stock at  RC Brown Investment Management
Plc  in Bristol,  England . The vote “increases the pressure
tremendously on the chief executive. Effectively, it was a vote
of no confidence in him.” Beaney voted against the pay report.  Moss, 54, is the latest CEO to come under pressure in a
wave of protest from investors that has claimed the bosses of
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and Trinity Mirror Plc. Still nursing losses on
bank and insurance stocks since the financial crisis, investors
have increased protest votes against pay not linked to
performance.  Aviva is the worst performer in the nine-member  FTSE ASX
Life Insurance Index (FALIFE)  since July 2007, when Moss was promoted
from finance director to CEO, falling 59 percent compared with
the index’s 30 percent drop.  Prudential Plc, by contrast, has climbed 3 percent in that
period. London-based Prudential’s market value was about 2
billion pounds less than Aviva’s in July 2007 and is now 18.6
billion pounds, or almost 10 billion pounds more than Aviva’s.  ‘Twice the Value’  While Prudential and  Axa SA (CS)  looked to  Asia  for growth, Moss
focused on  Europe  and the U.K., which both became mired in the
sovereign debt crisis.  Moss announced a strategy dubbed  “One Aviva Twice the
Value”  when he began as CEO five years ago and the London-based
firm had a market value of about 20 billion pounds. The company,
which has 18 million customers in continental Europe, is now
valued at less than 9 billion pounds.  “The market has got frustrated and it has lost confidence
in the chief executive and that has been reflected in the
vote,” said Chris White, who manages 550 million pounds of U.K.
equities including Aviva shares at  Premier Asset Management Plc 
in Guildford, England. “It was a reaction to a long period of
underperformance relative to the sector.”  Investors voted down the firm’s compensation report last
week even though Moss had waived a salary increase of 5 percent
to 1 million pounds. It’s only the fourth time since 2003 a  FTSE
100 (UKX)  company has lost a vote on compensation, according to
Manifest Information Services Ltd., a proxy voting agency.  U.S. Reversal  Moss has “tinkered” with the strategy throughout his
tenure, confusing investors about what he is trying to achieve,
said  Kevin Ryan , a London-based analyst at Investec Plc.  As finance director, Moss approved the company’s $3.1
billion acquisition of  Des Moines , Iowa-based Amerus Group Co.
to expand in the U.S. He deemed the U.S. division one of the
company’s 12 key markets last year.  Yet last month he told investors he may sell the unit to
concentrate on fewer countries, according to two people with
knowledge of the talks. A sale will cause the company to post a
1 billion-pound loss, the Sunday Times said April 22.  In 2009, he pushed a plan to integrate and expand Aviva’s
European businesses from a single regional hub in Dublin. Moss
said life insurance and pension sales in Europe would be higher
than anywhere in the world over the following five years, citing
a study by Oliver Wyman Group.  ‘Consistent Disappointment’  Since then he switched the regional headquarters to  London ,
sales dropped due to the sovereign debt crisis and two Aviva
Europe CEOs departed. Last month its heads of Europe,  North
America ,  Russia  and  investment management  announced they were
stepping down as part of a reorganization of the firm into
developed markets and higher growth markets.  “There’s a tendency now for shareholders to vote against
on companies where there’s a feeling of consistent
disappointment against expectations,” said Tim Rees, who helps
manage 270 million pounds at  Insight Investment Ltd.  in London.
“This was a response to what was a pretty prolonged and unhappy
experience as shareholders.”  At Aviva’s annual meeting last week, Moss defended his
strategy, saying its U.S., Canadian and Spanish units delivered
record profits in 2011 while U.K. life insurance doubled
earnings over the last six years.  CEOs Under Fire  “I care deeply about the Aviva share price and I’m as
frustrated about it as anybody in this room,” he said. “Yet
despite the difficult external environment in Europe we have
many things to celebrate and many reasons to be excited about
the future.”  Other CEOs have also been feeling the pressure from
shareholders.  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) ’s CEO Sly Bailey announced she
would stand down at the end of the year after presiding over a
90 percent fall in the share price since 2003. She earned 1
million pounds in cash in 2011.  AstraZeneca Plc CEO  David Brennan  resigned last month
following criticism from investors about the company’s pipeline
of drugs. About 40 percent of investors opposed  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT) ’s
compensation report last week.  Not all shareholders say Moss is entirely to blame for
Aviva’s lagging stock price.  ‘Outside His Control’  “The media storm against Moss has been a bit harsh as the
stock has been weighed down by factors outside his control like
the sovereign debt crisis and the recessionary environment,”
said James Lowen, who helps manage 1 billion pounds including
Aviva shares at  JO Hambro Capital Management Ltd.  in London.
“He has also significantly reduced costs, deleveraged the
company and started to refocus it in the last three years.”  Following the company’s annual general meeting last week,
Chairman Colin Sharman said he would be talking to shareholders
to change the company’s compensation plans. That may help to
refocus the firm’s strategy, according to Lowen.  “We would welcome an acceleration in this strategic
reshaping, simplification and cost optimization,” he said.
“The good thing that will come out of the investor and media
focus of the last few days is that this is more likely to occur,
which will ultimately be a powerful driver of the share price.”  Any leadership change will only benefit the shares if it is
conducted in an orderly manner under new chairman John McFarlane, who starts in June, according to Investec’s Ryan.  “For the share price to benefit, you need a coordinated
and sensible handover,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 