-- Lawmakers Seek $3.1 Billion More for Defense Than Obama
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-07T16:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/lawmakers-seek-3-1-billion-more-for-defense-than-obama.html
A House panel that controls annual
military expenditures said it is seeking $519.2 billion in basic
defense spending, $3.1 billion more than President  Barack
Obama ’s request.  The House Appropriations defense subcommittee said today  in
a statement  that it added $1 billion to buy an extra DDG-51
Aegis-class destroyer, fully funded four Littoral Combat Ships
designed to operate close to shore and concurred with the
Pentagon’s request for 29 F-35 fighters. The panel also included
$723 million in fiscal 2013 as a down payment for the Navy to
buy a second Virginia-class submarine in 2014 instead of
delaying it beyond 2017 as the service proposed.  The destroyer and submarine would benefit  Huntington
Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  would gain from action on the destroyer, the
Littoral Combat Ships and F-35.  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  also makes a version
of the combat ships with General Dynamics.  The subcommittee “worked tirelessly to mitigate risks
associated with budget shortfalls in areas such as shipbuilding,
force structure, and weapons and facility maintenance,” its
chairman, Republican Representative C.W. “Bill” Young of
Florida, said in a statement. The panel plans to act on the
budget plan tomorrow.  The appropriations panel also called for $88.5 billion, the
amount sought by Obama, in additional spending for the war in
Afghanistan, the committee said today in the e-mailed statement.  The spending panel’s proposal parallels that of the House
Armed Services Committee, which authorizes programs and
establishes policy. That committee is scheduled to complete work
on its bill May 9. It  released  a $554 billion bill today that,
unlike the appropriations bill, incorporates military
construction and Energy Department defense programs. It is $4
billion more than the administration requested.  Both committees are Republican-controlled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  