-- Banks Battling European Debt Crisis Lose on African Deals
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-08T13:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/banks-battling-european-debt-crisis-lose-on-african-deals.html
The colonial ties that bound French
and Portuguese banks such as  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Banco Espirito
Santo SA (BES)  to Africa are being loosened by the European debt
crisis.  Lenders from Lisbon and Paris are retreating from funding
projects in Africa as they ride out debt woes at home and
prepare for more stringent global capital rules.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are filling the gap,
while Johannesburg-based  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  and  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED)  are boosting mining and oil loans to benefit from an
investment surge in the world’s poorest continent.  “We’ve definitely seen European banks not as aggressive,
or in some cases actually leave this space,” Daniel Hanna,
Standard Chartered’s southern African head of origination and
client coverage, said by phone from Johannesburg on April 5.
That’s “across the various different products, whether it’s
syndication, finance, or project finance,” he said.  Citigroup was the leading arranger of syndicated loans in
sub-Saharan Africa over the past 12 months with nine deals worth
$1.2 billion, followed by London-based Standard Chartered. BNP,
France’s largest bank, ranks 25th, with three transactions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Between 2008 and 2010,
BNP was among the top five.  Increased Investments  Standard Bank, Africa’s biggest bank, was the third-largest
arranger of syndicated loans over the past 12 months with eight
offerings, while Barclays, which works through its Johannesburg-
based  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  unit in Africa, ranks fourth largest, with
10 deals valued at $621 million.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Banco Espirito Santo, Portugal’s
largest publicly traded bank, are among lenders that have
reduced African activities as the world’s largest oil and mining
companies increase investments in Africa. Credit Agricole sold
its Banque Indosuez Mer Rouge unit in Djibouti in 2010 to
refocus its international retail operations on Europe, while BNP
sold its Madagascan unit last year.  Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer, will spend $100
billion with partners, including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , over the next five years to
explore for crude oil and gas, according to the state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. An iron-ore boom in West
Africa may see investments of $25 billion by companies such as
 Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , ArcelorMittal SA and  African Minerals Ltd. (AMI)  on
projects, including the construction of ports and rail lines,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   New Money  “We’re seeing banks, or capital, that haven’t historically
participated in African energy looking to come into it,” Simon
Ashby-Rudd, global head of oil and gas at Standard Bank, said in
a May 2 interview from London, highlighting the Middle East and
Asia, especially China, as a source of new money. “You’ve got a
situation where the historical source of capital is probably
staying flat at best.”  Standard Bank’s global oil and gas budget has increased
threefold over the past two years, with 70 percent focused on
Africa, Ashby-Rudd said.  BNP and  Societe Generale (GLE)  typically operate in oil and
resource-rich former French colonies, mostly in north and west
Africa, such as Ivory Coast, Niger, Gabon, Guinea and the
Republic of Congo. Portugal’s  Caixa Geral de Depositos SA , Banco
Espirito Santo,  Banco Comercial Portuguese SA (BCP)  and  Banco BPI (BPI)  are
involved in Angola, the former Portuguese colony and Africa’s
second-largest oil producer.  Mission Capital  BNP has cut 1,400 jobs amid efforts to replenish capital by
the end of next year. BNP and Societe Generale both booked
first-quarter losses on the sale of loans to deleverage their
corporate and investment banking businesses as French banks,
including Credit Agricole and Groupe BPCE, took writedowns
related to their holdings of private and public debt in Greece,
Portugal, Ireland, Italy and Spain.  Portuguese banks were required to raise their capital
ratios to 9 percent by the end of 2011 and to 10 percent by the
end of 2012 as part of an international aid plan. The European
Union banking regulator also ordered the region’s lenders to
have a 9-percent capital ratio by the end of June after marking
down their holdings of sovereign debt to market prices.  South Africa ’s six-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index (JBNKS) 
gained 23 percent over the past 12 months, while Europe’s 48-
member  STOXX 600 Bank Index (SX7P)  declined 31 percent.  Forced Review  BNP and Millennium BCP Investimento said they didn’t have
anyone available to comment. Banco BPI, based in Porto,
Portugal, hasn’t scaled back in Africa, director Jose Amaral
said in a March 13 e-mailed response to a query.  “Most European banks are being forced to review their
strategies,” Alan Fernandes, head of structured finance at BES
Investment Bank, part of Lisbon-based Banco Espirito Santo, said
in an e-mailed reply to questions. “We have negotiated
partnerships with multilaterals in order to have funding.”  European sovereign debt obligations and capital regulations
have also forced banks to reorganize balance sheets,
constraining medium- to long-term funding, Pierre Wolmarans,
Societe Generale’s southern Africa head, said by phone. The
company is syndicating out more loans, he said.  Nedbank will probably be able to provide about $200 million
in loans for mining in Africa, excluding South Africa, this year
and $150 million in the oil industry, Nivaash Singh, Nedbank’s
international mining finance head, said by phone from
Johannesburg on May 3. That’s 25 percent to 30 percent more than
last year. Nedbank, South Africa’s fourth-largest bank, is
controlled by London-based insurer  Old Mutual Plc. (OML)   Aggressive Expansion  Around the corner from Nedbank’s headquarters in the
Johannesburg business hub of Sandton, Rand Merchant Bank, the
investment banking unit of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , Africa’s second-
largest bank, aims to do the same.  “Oil and gas is a business that we are expanding into
quite aggressively and our book is growing in line with that
strategy,” Gary Buisansky, a transactor at Rand Merchant Bank’s
resource finance team, said by phone.  The departure of Western European lenders has “taken some
of the pressure off” and opened the way for Citigroup, Standard
Chartered and Barclays to make more money, Stephen van Coller,
chief executive officer of Absa Capital, said in an interview.
“It’s allowed regional banks to get some of their margin
back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  