-- Barneys New York Taken Over by Perry Capital in Debt Swap
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-05-08T15:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/barneys-new-york-taken-over-by-perry-capital-in-debt-swap.html
Barneys New York  has been taken over
by Perry Capital in a debt-for-equity swap that reduces the
luxury retailer’s borrowings by $540 million, allowing the chain
to invest more in its rebounding business.  Perry, which takes over majority control from Istithmar
World PJSC, partnered with billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos.
investment firm in the conversion, the New York-based company
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The transaction will
reduce Barneys’s debt to $50 million from $590 million.  The deal allows Barneys to remove the “untenable” debt
load it was struggling under without resorting to a bankruptcy,
said Steven Dennis, a luxury consultant. It indicates the new
owners believe there is “ongoing-concern value” in the chain,
although its expansion stores in various cities have not
performed as well as its  New York  and Los Angeles locations,
Dennis said.  “It sounds like they are right-sizing the balance sheet,”
said Dennis, founder of SageBerry Consulting LLC in  Dallas .
“It’s a good time to invest in luxury since the market is
bouncing back, but it is still a pretty mature market.”  Barneys said its operations have improved, with sales at
stores open at least a year increasing at a double-digit
percentage rate and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization jumping 40 percent. Retailers such
as Barneys and  Saks Inc. (SKS)  have fared better than lower-priced
chains as rising stock markets give wealthy consumers confidence
to shop.  Room to Invest  “We’ve had strong operational performance,” Barneys Chief
Executive Officer Mark Lee said in a telephone interview, adding
that the debt reduction “provides us with lots of runway” to
invest in the chain.  Richard Perry, head of Perry Capital, said in the same
interview that he will be chairman of the Barneys board and that
Perry Capital will have three additional seats. Burkle, Lee and
Istithmar will each have a board seat as well, he said. He
declined to provide details on the exact size of the resulting
equity stakes held by Perry Capital, Yucaipa or Istithmar World.  “This is a long-term investment for us,” Perry said. “I
think it is extraordinary what Mark has done.”  Yucaipa sold the debt it owned and used some of the
proceeds to take a minority equity stake in the company, said
Frank Quintero, a spokesman.  “We will have a voice in the company, but we’re happy with
Perry’s control position here,” he said.  Event-Driven Investor  Perry, 57, founded his hedge fund firm in November 1988,
after a decade-long career at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., where he
worked on  Robert Rubin ’s arbitrage desk investing in the stocks
of merging companies. Perry is a so-called event-driven manager
who trades the stocks and debt of companies involved in mergers
and spinoffs and those emerging from bankruptcy. He also has
invested in real estate loans and private-equity deals and
previously sat on the boards of other companies, including FTD
Inc. and Sears Holdings Corp. His wife, Lisa Perry, designs a
clothing line.  The question is whether Barneys can broaden its customer
base without becoming a Saks or a Neiman Marcus Group Inc., said
Dennis, the consultant.  “Barney’s image is hipper and younger, and it has a very
narrow range of prices because it doesn’t have an opening price
point, not much accessible luxury,” he said.  Istithmar, controlled by the state-owned Dubai World
holding company, bought Barneys for $942.3 million in 2007 from
 Jones Group Inc. (JNY) , just before the recession slammed the high-end
chains.  Increasing Sales  Barneys hired Lee, 48, in 2010 to become the first CEO
since Howard Socol resigned in 2008. Lee previously ran luxury
brands Gucci and  Yves Saint Laurent , where he was credited with
adding new retail outlets and increasing sales.  Founded by Barney Pressman as a cut-rate men’s suit store
in 1923, the company began building up women’s lines in the
1970s. It exited  bankruptcy protection  in 1999 and was bought by
Jones for $294.3 million in 2004. It operates nine Barneys and
17 CO-OPs.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
advised Yucaipa on the deal; Kirkland & Ellis LLP and Perella
Weinberg Partners LP advised Barneys; Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
LLP and Houlihan Lokey advised Perry; Willkie Farr & Gallagher
LLP and Blackstone Group LP advised Istithmar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  