-- Beijing Enterprises Group Buys More Shares in China Gas
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-05-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/beijing-enterprises-becomes-single-largest-china-gas-shareholder.html
Beijing Enterprises Group more than
tripled its stake in  China Gas (384)  Holdings Ltd., challenging  ENN
Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688)  and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  to
raise their $2 billion bid for the fuel supplier.  The unlisted company owned by the Beijing Municipality
bought 161.8 million shares of Hong Kong-listed China Gas
yesterday and 237.6 million shares on May 3 at HK$4.10 apiece,
according to regulatory  filings . Beijing Enterprises owns 554.5
million shares, making it China Gas’s single-largest shareholder
with a 12.65 percent stake.  China Gas rose to the highest in almost 1 1/2 years
yesterday after Beijing Enterprises paid 17 percent more than
the HK$3.50 a share offered by ENN and state-owned China
Petroleum, known as Sinopec. The stock purchases may stall the
hostile takeover of the supplier of gas in 20 mainland provinces
after the joint bidders last week extended the deadline for the
acquisition to July 6.  “At this point, Sinopec and ENN’s offer won’t proceed
without significantly raising the offer price,” said Wang Pei,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bank of China International Ltd.
“Beijing Enterprises will not sell newly acquired shares
without a significant premium.”  China Gas shares jumped 4.1 percent to HK$4.06 yesterday,
the highest since Nov. 29, 2010. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
fell 2.6 percent. ENN gained 0.2 percent to HK$27.05, while
Sinopec declined 2 percent to HK$8.01, the lowest since Dec. 19.  PetroChina Connection  Beijing Enterprises Group is a city-government-owned
company, with businesses including gas distribution and water
treatment. An affiliate owns 40 percent of PetroChina Beijing
Pipeline Co., while Kunlun Energy Co., controlled by  PetroChina
Co. (857) , owns the remaining stake.  “It would be highly unlikely PetroChina was behind the
share purchases as the company has no control of Beijing
Enterprises,” said Shi Yan, a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Ltd. “PetroChina could have purchased China Gas shares
through Kunlun Energy a long time ago if the company was indeed
interested.”  Beijing Enterprises owns 554.5 million shares of China Gas,
according to yesterday’s filing. China Gas Group Ltd. holds
539.3 million shares, while SK Holdings Co.,  South Korea ’s
third-largest industrial group, owns 565 million shares through
two units, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  China Gas has rejected the bid by Sinopec and ENN as
opportunistic and one that fails to reflect the company’s value.
The fuel supplier has also declined invitations by the bidders
for talks.  Fair Offer  Sinopec,  Asia ’s biggest refiner, and ENN have extended
their acquisition deadline twice as they wait for regulatory
approvals. Both companies have said their offer is fair. A price
higher than the market valuation can’t be paid, Fu Chengyu,
chairman of Sinopec, said on March 26.  Sinopec and ENN made their offer in December and buying
China Gas would give them access to 6.6 million residential
customers and 42,000 industrial and commercial users in the
world’s second-biggest economy.  ENN, the fourth-biggest Hong Kong-listed gas supplier by
sales, plans to fund 55 percent of the proposed acquisition as
it seeks to expand its distribution network, while Sinopec will
pay for the rest.  Moody’s Investors Services and  Standard & Poor’s  put ENN’s
credit  ratings  on review for a possible downgrade, saying the
proposed acquisition may drain the company’s cash and increase
its debt burden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  