-- Best Stocks in Europe Show German Export Miracle on BMW
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-05-07T16:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/best-stocks-in-europe-show-german-export-miracle-on-bmw.html
While Germans debate their role
rescuing Europe from its debt crisis, stocks in the  DAX Index (DAX) 
have never had it so good.  Companies in Germany were the seven best performers in the
 Euro Stoxx 50 (SX5E)  Index this year as of April 30, led by  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest luxury carmaker, SAP AG,
the biggest producer of management software, and chemical
supplier  BASF SE. (BAS)  That hasn’t happened in at least a decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Optimism about exports
and historically low valuations helped push the DAX to the
highest level since 1990  compared  with the rest of Europe,
excluding dividends.  Advances in stocks and bunds underscore confidence in the
world’s fourth-biggest economy and may help Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who is fighting to preserve European unity after Spanish
unemployment approached 25 percent, Italy struggled to sell
bonds and Nicolas Sarkozy lost the French presidency. With an
economy expanding twice as fast as the region and a balanced
budget, equity valuations are 18 percent below the average level
since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It seems to be your perfect market,”  Dan Morris , a
strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in London, said in a
phone interview May 4. His company oversees $1.3 trillion
globally. “It’s your safe haven and your growth opportunity at
the same time.”  French Elections  The DAX fell 3.5 percent last week to 6,561.47, paring its
gain in 2012 to 11 percent, compared with the CAC 40 Index of
French stocks, which added less than 0.1 percent through last
week. The German gauge rose 0.1 percent today, while the CAC 40
advanced 1.7 percent.  Sarkozy, the French president who partnered with Merkel to
promote austerity, was defeated by Socialist Francois Hollande
yesterday. At the same time, Merkel’s party had its worst result
in more than half a century in the northern state of Schleswig-
Holstein. In Greece, voters flocked to anti-bailout parties,
throwing doubt on whether the two main parties, New Democracy
and Pasok, can form a coalition to implement spending cuts.  Almost $200 billion has been restored to German shares this
year. Profits rising faster than share prices have pushed the
DAX to 10 times estimated earnings, compared with an average
12.2 since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Estimates Beaten  Five companies in the index have  beaten  analyst sales
estimates for each that missed since quarterly reporting started
on April 10, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s twice the
rate for Europe as a whole and compares with a 2-to-1 margin in
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)  BASF,  Adidas AG (ADS)  and  Infineon
Technologies AG (IFX) , which get an average of 57 percent of revenue
from outside Europe, posted the biggest positive surprises.  The DAX, buoyed by gains of 25 percent or more in
truckmaker MAN SE and chemical company Henkel AG, is trouncing
the Euro Stoxx 50, which has dropped 2.9 percent in 2012 as
equities in Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands and Italy fell.
Spain’s IBEX 35 Index slipped 3.8 percent last week as investors
bet losses are worsening for lenders and builders. Italy’s  FTSE
MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  ended last week within 10 percent of a record low as
bank shares tumbled.  2011 Slump  German shares are rebounding after they dropped along with
 Europe  last year on concern widening budget deficits in Greece,
Portugal and Ireland would spur a sovereign default. The DAX
decreased 15 percent in 2011, the loss made worse as traders
sold futures on the index while bans on short selling limited
negative bets on gauges in France, Italy and Spain.  Italy’s government deficit in 2011 was equal to 3.9 percent
of gross domestic product and Spain’s was 8.5 percent, according
to official data compiled by Bloomberg. In Germany, where
exports make up 50 percent of the economy, the deficit was 1
percent of GDP.  “If you buy Germany, you are thinking the euro zone stays
intact” or little changed, Joost van Leenders, an Amsterdam-
based strategist at BNP Paribas Investment Partners, said in a
phone interview on May 3. His firm oversees $660 billion. “If
the euro zone were to disintegrate, you don’t want to own stocks
at all, and certainly not European ones.”  GDP in  Germany , the world’s second-largest exporter after
China, will expand 0.7 percent this year and 1.6 percent in
2013, according to the median prediction in Bloomberg surveys of
economists. The 17-nation euro area will contract by 0.4 percent
in 2012 and grow 1 percent the following year, the survey shows.  Factory Orders Gain  German factory orders increased more than economists
forecast in March, driven by demand from outside the euro area,
the Economy Ministry said today. Orders, adjusted for seasonal
swings and inflation, jumped 2.2 percent from February.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast an increase of
0.5 percent.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union faces another election
on May 13 in North Rhine-Westphalia after taking 30.9 percent of
the vote in Schleswig-Holstein yesterday, its lowest share since
1950. Public anger over bailouts cost her regional ballots in
Baden-Wuerttemberg and other districts last year.  The country’s best-selling Bild newspaper called on
lawmakers in February to reject a Greek bailout, running a
front-page headline reading “Stop!” and reporting that 62
percent of Germans wanted lawmakers to vote down the package.
The measure was approved.  ‘Parallel Performance’  “The market and the economy, and Merkel’s position, go
hand in hand,” Jean-Claude Wolferstaetter, a Munich-based
manager at Versicherungskammer Bayern, said in a phone interview
on May 3. His firm oversees 40 billion euros ($53 billion).
“When the German economy and the parallel performance of the
stock market are doing well, it plays into her hands. As soon as
this outperformance changes, it will trigger her readiness for
further negotiations.”  While the  jobless rate  stands at a two-decade low of 6.8
percent, unemployment unexpectedly rose in April. The number of
people out of work increased a seasonally adjusted 19,000 to
2.87 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said last
week. Economists forecast a decline of 10,000.  Simon Denham, chief investment officer at London Capital
Group Holdings Plc in London, said Germany won’t go unscathed by
the crisis affecting its neighbors. Clients have been
“consistently long” German equities while betting on losses in
the U.S. and U.K., he said. The firm oversees trading accounts
for about 70,000 customers.  ‘Catch a Cold’  “I am personally not so confident because if the euro-zone
worries persist, you would have thought that Germany would at
least catch a bit of a cold,” Denham said in a phone interview
on May 3. “If the weaker links pull out of the euro, the
currency itself will come out stronger and hurt German
companies. If they stay in, then the costs for Germany may prove
a bit of a millstone.”  German automakers BMW,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) 
occupied the top three ranks in the Euro Stoxx 50 by share gains
this year through April 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. SAP, RWE AG, Munich Re and BASF followed. The seven
companies’ gains averaged 23 percent.  BMW in Munich and Stuttgart-based Daimler overtook Lexus
last year to become the top-selling luxury auto brands in
America. BMW last week unexpectedly reported first-quarter
profit rose, beating analyst expectations by 22 percent. Its
stock has increased 33 percent in 2012.  ‘Solid Pipeline’  SAP said April 25 a “very solid pipeline” of deals will
help meet growth targets as demand picks up for mobile programs
and software to process large amounts of data. The company
reported an eighth consecutive quarter of revenue growth
exceeding 10 percent. U.S. rival Oracle Corp. boosted sales by
3.1 percent in its latest quarter.  SAP (SAP)  climbed 18 percent this
year.  German exporters are rallying even as the euro frustrates
bears predicting a meltdown. The European currency has risen
more than 1 percent against nine major peers from this year’s
low on Jan. 16, as central banks from Australia to Sweden cut
 interest rates  to safeguard growth. The euro closed last week at
$1.3084, 9 percent above its $1.20 lifetime average.  “The market has positioned itself for euro weakness,”
said  Neil Dwane . The chief investment officer for Europe at
Allianz Global Investors helps manage about 300 billion euros
globally. “It’s been surprising to people and frustrating to
politicians that the euro isn’t at $1.15 rather than $1.32,” he
said in a phone interview on May 2.  Monetary Stimulus  Germans are benefiting disproportionately from monetary
stimulus, said  Mislav Matejka , the chief global equity
strategist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. The  European
Central Bank  lowered interest rates to record lows and lent more
than $1.3 trillion to stop credit markets from freezing.  “ECB monetary policy is clearly too loose for Germany, and
it is likely to remain so,” he said in a phone interview May 3.
“The DAX is a great play for global exposure but, in addition,
you have a domestic environment that was historically weak but
could be picking up because of low interest rates, relatively
stronger economic activity and rising wages.”  House prices  jumped 5.5 percent last year, the most since
the country’s post-reunification boom of the early 1990s, the
Bundesbank said. Public-service workers may get 6.3 percent
higher pay by the end of next year, Ver.di labor union said
March 31. Loans to non-financial companies rose in March to the
highest since September 2009, central bank data show.  Dwane at Allianz said the proportion of German exports that
go to Europe, about 33 percent, is too high and there’s a risk
economic indicators will reverse. Still, he holds more German
equities in his portfolios than are reflected in benchmarks,
citing exports, the country’s industrial edge, and the
relatively better outlook for the economy.  The country has “been seen as a growing economic
environment rather than a disintegrating one,” he said. “When
all is added up, Germany is perceived as a more resilient and
attractive investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  