-- Biden Says U.S. Is Prepared to Give Chen a Visa ‘Right Away’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-07T07:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/biden-says-u-s-prepared-to-give-chen-a-travel-visa-right-away-.html
The U.S. is prepared to grant  Chen
Guangcheng  a visa “right away,” Vice President  Joe Biden  said,
and American officials are in contact with the legal activist
over his desire to leave China.  “We expect the Chinese to stick to that commitment,”
Biden said in an interview with NBC’s “Meet the Press,” after
China said May 4 that Chen had the right to apply for permission
to study abroad. U.S. embassy officials are in daily contact
with Chen and his wife, a U.S. official said on condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the case.  Chen has been invited to be a visiting scholar at  New York 
University, where his friend and adviser Jerome Cohen is a
professor. His flight from house arrest to the U.S. embassy in
Beijing and efforts to secure a deal over his fate last week
overshadowed two days of annual strategic and economic talks in
the Chinese capital between the world’s two biggest economies.  “I think his future is in America,” Biden told “Meet the
Press” yesterday. “The Chinese have told us that if he files
the paper to be able to have a -- be able to go abroad, that
will be granted.”  Chen told the Washington Post in a telephone  interview 
yesterday that he doesn’t expect to go to the U.S. “very
soon,” citing health reasons including an intestinal
inflammation. He said he hadn’t met with U.S. diplomats since
May 4 and that supporters have been barred from seeing him at
the hospital. Chen wasn’t available today on his mobile phone.  ‘Study Abroad’  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei declined to
comment today when asked if Chen had applied for a passport.
Hong said the U.S. interfered with China’s internal affairs in
Chen’s case and should reflect on its actions.  On May 4, another Foreign Ministry spokesman,  Liu Weimin ,
said that if Chen “wants to study abroad, he can, like any
Chinese citizen, go through proper channels.” Later that day,
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said the U.S.
expects China to “expeditiously process his applications.”  Chen was imprisoned for more than four years after
representing villagers who opposed forced sterilizations and
abortions, and then was held under house arrest until he escaped
in late April. His case attracted the attention of U.S. leaders,
including Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who visited
Beijing last week for the annual cabinet-level talks.  Chen told American diplomats during his week-long stay in
the U.S. embassy that he wanted to remain in China, and he left
the compound for the hospital in a deal worked out with Chinese
leaders. He later said he feared for his wife and children and
wanted to travel outside  China .  “He said ‘I don’t want to leave China, I just don’t want
to go back to my village,’” Biden told NBC News. “That was
arranged.”  After going to the hospital and talking to friends, they
told him “you want to get out of here,” Biden said.  “And then he came to us and said, ‘I want to leave, and I
want to leave with my family,’” Biden said. “And we got to
work.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  