-- On Gay Marriage, Will Obama Take Biden’s Lead?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-07T17:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/biden-gay-marriage-talk-shows-obama-romney-courage-void.html
“I am absolutely comfortable with the
fact that men marrying men, women marrying women, and
heterosexual men and women marrying another are entitled to the
same exact rights, all the civil rights, all the civil
liberties,” Vice President  Joe Biden  told NBC’s David Gregory
on “Meet the Press.” “And quite frankly, I don’t see much of
a distinction beyond that.”  Others do, most notably his boss, President  Barack Obama .
The president, surveying an election landscape in which victory
may require threading a few political needles, has been
disappointingly reticent on the issue -- even as Education
Secretary Arne Duncan on Monday joined the chorus endorsing gay
marriage.  The discomfort the president has professed to feel about
gay marriage -- at least since entering national politics; he
seemed remarkably more at ease in the 1990s -- has always seemed
more political than personal. To his credit, Obama did end
“Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” the ban on gay men and women serving
openly in the military. He  told  Rolling Stone last month that he
took time to end the ban the proper way, and it’s true that the
issue was one of the administration’s most deftly handled,
engendering scant political resistance despite the firestorms of
yesteryear.  We hope that the president’s reluctance to engage on gay
marriage is a similar matter of strategy. But as he surely
knows, at some point moral questions break the bounds of
calculation and come down to something more elemental: courage
and commitment.  These qualities were notably absent last week with the
departure of foreign policy spokesman Richard Grenell from  Mitt
Romney ’s campaign. When Grenell, a foreign policy hawk who is
gay and supports same-sex marriage, came under attack from anti-
gay groups in the Republican coalition, Romney failed to defend
him, or even to allow him to do his job. After being sidelined,
Grenell resigned. It wasn’t a great setback for gay rights. But
it was a  failure  of politics and character that will shadow
Romney’s candidacy.  In an era of ideologically consistent (and consistently
polarized) parties, it is fanciful to think that Romney -- whose
current campaign has  disavowed  a pink flier that appeared during
a 2002 Pride Weekend in  Massachusetts , bearing Romney’s name and
endorsing “equal rights” for “all citizens” -- can buck his
party on core issues. But standing up for the spokesman he had
hired required only a minimal show of spine. Romney subsequently
 characterized  Grenell as “very accomplished” -- a genial
compliment, but one that only underscored his cave-in.  This battle will ultimately end, and anyone with a passing
familiarity with the American story knows how. We have entered
the final stage, where opponents theatrically vow to maintain
segregation, or its marital approximation, now and forever.  Marriage, like every successful social institution, changes
with the times. When President Obama was born, interracial
marriage was prohibited in much of the nation, and  public
support  for it registered in the low single digits. Today, in
roughly one-quarter of American marriages, wives earn more than
their husbands, some of whom stay home to care for children.
Such arrangements -- including the 10 percent of marriages that
are  interracial  -- are no more “traditional” than gay
marriages. So what?  The advance of gay rights has been driven largely by
culture, with each decade bringing new levels of empowerment. As
the latest ballot measure in  North Carolina  suggests, the
political arena has generally been a lagging indicator.
President Obama can help change that dynamic by putting his
moral authority squarely behind the right to marry.  Such leadership might have costs. But in this case they
don’t seem overwhelmingly high. Public support for gay marriage
already hovers around 50 percent. Along with the  District of
Columbia , six states  currently  allow gay marriage. If you can’t
name them all, it’s probably because nothing much has happened.
The moral dissolution promised by marriage opponents has yet to
materialize. In its place is merely an expansion of one of the
most profound, yet homely, of human rights.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 