-- Biggs Says Europe Election Result No Reason to Add to Short Bets
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-05-07T16:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/biggs-says-europe-election-result-no-reason-to-add-to-short-bets.html
Barton Biggs , founder of the Traxis
Partners LP hedge fund, said he isn’t adding to bearish equity
bets in  Europe  after elections in France and  Greece  this weekend
signal voters are seeking leaders who support more stimulus.  Biggs said on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
Betty Liu today that he continues to short German and French
benchmark equity indexes, while being 70 percent net long on
U.S. stocks. The region’s shared currency is “50/50 on
surviving,” Biggs said.  Voters are “signaling to their politicians that they want
more stimulus and less austerity,” Biggs, founder of Traxis
Partners LP, said today in a telephone interview. “If they
don’t get it, they’re going to vote in new leaders. That’s a big
deal, and I happen to think stimulus combined with reforms is
the way to go.”  The euro dropped to a more than three-month low versus the
 U.S. dollar  after French Socialist Francois Hollande was elected
president and Greek voters backed anti-bailout parties.
Hollande, the first Socialist in 17 years to control Europe’s
second-biggest economy, pledged to push for less austerity. His
platform calls for policies German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
opposes, including increased spending and a delayed deficit-
reduction effort.  Shorting Europe  Biggs said last month he has taken short positions on
German and French measures, betting they will decline, because
the political rhetoric and economic data from Europe signal a
change of course and a deeper slump. He said today that while he
will not increase his short positions on the two nations’
gauges, he remains bearish on the region.  The Euro Stoxx 50 climbed 1.6 percent to 2,283.09 today,
while markets in France, Spain and  Italy  rallied.  Biggs raised bets on equities before the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rallied this year. He said last month the measure may
fall as much as 7 percent because of economic weakness in
Europe. On March 20, he said his net-long position in  stocks , a
gauge of bullish versus bearish investments, was about 90
percent, up from 65 percent in January.  The  U.S. economy  is still strong and will avoid a double-
dip recession while seeing a “soft patch” for the next month
or two, Biggs said today during the television interview.  “The U.S. economy is still cranking along at 2.5 percent
real gross domestic product growth,” he said. “That’s a good
healthy level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  