-- Billion-Dollar Traders Quit Wall Street for Hedge Funds
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z ,   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-05-07T23:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/billion-dollar-traders-quit-wall-street-for-hedge-funds.html
In the five years that John Silvetz
made about $700 million for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  by trading
corporate bonds and credit derivatives, the share of his annual
bonus paid in cash dropped to 20 percent from almost 70 percent.  The rest, earned by betting on companies from American
International Group Inc. to MBIA Inc., was locked up in deferred
stock and euros, according to people familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified because they aren't authorized to
discuss compensation. In September, Silvetz, 37, jumped to hedge
fund BlueCrest Capital Management LLP. He was the last of a trio
of  New York  debt traders who departed after making $1 billion
for the German lender in two years, the people said.  Wall Street ’s biggest banks have lost almost two dozen of
their most-profitable credit traders in the past 13 months as
regulators limit the kind of risk-taking that amplified the
housing crisis four years ago. As banks slash or defer pay and
reduce the amount they’re willing to wager, the traders are
seeing better opportunities at  hedge funds  and investment firms
that seek to profit in markets lenders are retreating from.  “People who were contributing quite a bit to the overall
profitability of the firms are forced to move on,” said Doug Shaener, managing partner at Quest Group, a New York-based
executive search consulting firm that specializes in financial
services. “You’re seeing individuals looking to go to places
where they obviously aren’t as regulated, where they don’t have
as many restrictions in terms of their trading.”  Responding to Pressure  More than three years after bad bets on  housing  led to the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and emergency sales of
Bear Stearns Cos. and Merrill Lynch & Co., lenders are
responding to toughened capital rules that damp risk-taking and
make trades costlier.  In the U.S., the so-called Volcker rule, the provision in
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act named for former Federal Reserve
Chairman Paul Volcker, will set limits on risk-taking by
depositories with government backing.  Traders are fleeing cash bonuses that were capped last year
at 65,000 pounds ($105,000) at U.K. lender  Barclays Plc (BARC) , 100,000
euros ($131,000) at Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank and $125,000
at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in New York, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. For some at  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , cash bonuses were limited to $150,000.  ‘Buyer’s Market’  Hedge funds are offering managing director-level traders
salaries of about $200,000 to $250,000, said  Michael Karp ,
managing partner at New York executive recruiter Options Group.
Some of the largest hedge funds may pay bonuses of as much as 12
percent of traders’ profits, or an even bigger percentage of
their earnings after the firm takes a 2 percent cut, according
to Options Group.  Unlike the banks, the funds typically pay 50 percent or
more of bonuses to their highest earners in cash, according to
New York-based compensation consulting firm Johnson Associates
Inc. The rest may be locked up in funds the firms manage.  “It’s a buyer’s market” for the hedge funds, Karp said.
“People are figuring out how to trade in this new world.”  Silvetz’s departure from Deutsche Bank followed those of
Prakash Narayanan and Thomas Curran, who together made more than
$1 billion for Germany’s biggest bank in 2009 and 2010, the
people with direct knowledge of the situation said. Silvetz,
Narayanan and Curran declined to comment.  Barclays Departures  Brian Maggio left Barclays’s credit-trading team in New
York in March for Millennium Management LLC, a hedge fund with
$15.6 billion invested. In the five years ended in December, the
trader made an estimated $375 million for Barclays and Lehman,
where he worked until the firm filed for bankruptcy in September
2008, according to two people familiar with the matter. Maggio’s
exit followed those of Barclays colleagues  Jason Quinn  and Peter Agnes, both of whom went to Caxton Associates LP in New York.  Maggio and Quinn declined to comment. Agnes, who didn’t
respond to messages left on his mobile phone, was part of a
proprietary-trading group dealing in credit markets that
wouldn’t be allowed under the Volcker rule and has been shut
down, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Barclays is among banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley that have shut
proprietary-trading groups.  Goldman Sachs credit traders Matthew Knopman and Philip Ha
left the New York firm earlier this year, with Knopman starting
at Anchorage Capital Group LLC this month and Ha going to MKP
Capital Management LLC, people familiar with the moves said in
March. Rob Jackson joined Cyrus Capital Partners LP from Goldman
Sachs in February.  TCW Hire  High-yield bond trader Jerry Cudzil departed Morgan Stanley
to head U.S. credit trading at TCW Group Inc., which was
managing $73.3 billion in  fixed-income assets  as of March 31.
Peter Viles, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based TCW, confirmed
the hire.  BlueCrest this month added Deutsche Bank credit trader
Stefano Galiani, according to three people familiar with the
matter. It brought on Morgan Stanley’s Eugene Gokhvat in April,
according to BlueCrest spokesman Ed Orlebar, who said he
couldn’t comment about Galiani.  Representatives of Deutsche Bank, Barclays, Goldman Sachs,
Morgan Stanley and Bank of America declined to comment.  “Many of the major investment banks just don’t have the
capital they used to, and a lot of that is because of the
Volcker rule,”  Marc Lasry , co-founder of Avenue Capital Group
LLC, said May 2 in an interview with Bloomberg TV’s  Stephanie Ruhle  at the Milken Institute Global Conference.  ‘Very Different Business’  Regulations limiting banks’ proprietary trading “has been
great” for his New York-based hedge fund, he said. “Nobody’s
really competing with you as much as they used to.”  Unlike equities, fixed-income trades typically are
privately negotiated outside exchanges, increasing the fees
traders collect by making bids and offers because they’re more
difficult to execute.  To make markets in debt securities, banks typically risk
their own capital to buy assets from clients before lining up
someone else to sell them to, sometimes making bets on the
direction of markets. The new rules are curbing that, turning
traders more into middlemen.  “It’s turning into a very different business than it once
was,” John Reed, head of credit trading at Kohlberg, Kravis
Roberts and Co. in San Francisco, said in a telephone interview.  Reed joined the private-equity firm in 2008 from Bear
Stearns, the investment bank that sold itself to JPMorgan that
year to avoid collapse.  Implementing Volcker  “The banks have reduced capital allocation to trading
desks and cut back traders’ ability to take risk,” he said.  The 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed
have cut  holdings  of corporate debt due in more than a year to
the lowest level in almost a decade. Inventories soared to as
high as $235 billion in October 2007, before dropping to as low
as $40.4 billion on Feb. 22, Bloomberg data show.  Revenue from trading among the nine-largest U.S. and
European investment banks, excluding accounting gains, dropped
16 percent to $120 billion in 2011 amid the escalating European
sovereign-debt crisis, Bloomberg data show.  “Trading had a very poor year on Wall Street, so bonuses
were down and so many people were cheaper than they would have
been a year or two ago,” Johnson said. “We probably have not
reached equilibrium yet because I don’t think anybody knows
quite how the Dodd-Frank and the Volcker rules and all that, how
that’s really going to shake out.”  Lenders will have two years to implement the Volcker rule
as long as they make a “good faith” effort to comply with the
ban on proprietary trading, U.S. regulators said April 19.  Dimon Lobbies  The Volcker rule “matters more” in credit markets
“because transactions are typically over-the-counter,” said
Roger Joseph, co-chair of financial services at law firm Bingham
McCutchen LLP.  Chief executives from JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Bank of
America -- three of the five biggest U.S. banks by assets --
lobbied the Fed on May 2 to soften proposed reforms that might
crimp their profits, saying that new rules would harm financial
markets.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  sent a 38-page
 letter  to shareholders last month, saying that while he agrees
with the Volcker rule’s intent to eliminate “pure” proprietary
trading and ensure market-making won’t jeopardize banks, the
rule must be written so that it doesn’t put U.S. banks at a
global disadvantage.  “We cannot and should not be in a position where the rule
affects U.S. banks outside the United States but not our foreign
competition,” Dimon, 56, wrote.  London Whale  Along with its competitors, JPMorgan has shut groups in its
investment bank that specialized in speculative bets with the
company’s own money. At the same time, the bank has kept some of
its biggest risk-takers in its chief investment office, with a
team that has amassed as much as $200 billion in investments,
booking a profit of $5 billion in 2010 alone, a former senior
executive, who asked not to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to discuss the matter, said last month.  Bruno Iksil, a London-based trader for the group dubbed by
some in the market as the London Whale, gained attention this
year after moving credit derivatives with trades so large they
distorted price relationships, market participants who asked not
to be identified said last month.  Financial institutions also are adapting to higher  capital
requirements  set by the Bank for International Settlements in
Basel, Switzerland, and a slowdown in the global economy being
fueled by  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. Banks reduced
employment by more than 120,000 worldwide last year, Bloomberg
data show.  Eroded Volumes  While traders have historically headed for hedge funds with
the hope of bigger paydays, Wall Street banks previously offered
greater job security and a higher volume of business. That’s
changed, said Gregory Cresci, an executive recruiter at Odyssey
Search Partners in New York.  “A lot of these guys were sitting atop a mountain of
trading volume and revenue, much of which has eroded beneath
them,” he said. “So it’s logical that they decide to leave or
are no longer needed.”  Silvetz, who joined Deutsche Bank in 2001, generated about
$225 million in profit for the firm in 2009 with trades that
included wagers  American International Group (AIG) , the insurer
rescued by the U.S. government in 2008, was in better financial
condition than its bonds suggested, according to people familiar
with the situation who declined to comment because they weren’t
authorized to discuss the trades.  MBIA Trades  Silvetz also accurately predicted credit-default swaps
protecting against a default by bond insurer MBIA would plunge.  Before Silvetz’s departure last year, Narayanan and Curran
left Deutsche Bank for hedge funds Saba Capital Management LP
and Rose Grove Capital Management LLC. Narayanan had been with
Deutsche Bank since 2002, and Curran was an employee since 2004,
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority records show.  Deutsche Bank, which during the credit crisis reported
$22.6 billion in losses and writedowns that were less than
rivals including Bank of America and Morgan Stanley, saw the
departures this year of Scott Martin and C.J. Lanktree, who
traded distressed debt. They started working at Solus
Alternative Asset Management.  Neil Yaris, who headed high-yield sales and trading at Bank
of America, left in February for Luxor Capital Group LP, the New
York-based hedge fund run by Christian Leone.  Jefferies Hires  Bank of America, which recorded $115.5 billion of
writedowns and losses in the credit crisis, cut pay by 25
percent on average last year, Bloomberg data show.  Smaller investment banks not touched by the Volcker rule
are also adding credit traders from the biggest institutions.  Jefferies Group Inc., the New York-based securities firm
led by Chairman and Chief Executive Office  Richard Handler ,
hired at least seven corporate debt traders, including Tim Sullivan from  UBS AG (UBSN) , Richard Roche and David Murphy from Morgan
Stanley, and Sean George from Deutsche Bank. In April, it hired
credit trader Ji Pak from JPMorgan, Finra records show.  The best-performing traders are landing hedge-fund jobs
even as the industry is in its fourth year of underperforming
stocks. Funds returned an average 3.4 percent this year through
April, Bloomberg data show, compared with a 12 percent return
from the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  No ‘Buffalo’ Migration  Investors still poured $16 billion in new capital into
hedge funds during the first quarter, boosting assets to a
record high of $2.13 trillion, according to Hedge Fund Research
Inc., a Chicago-based research firm. Relative-value hedge funds
that focus on fixed-income markets received a net $12.4 billion,
the most of any strategy.  “Hedge funds don’t employ that many people. So I think the
migration is not the wild buffalo across the prairie or
something,” Johnson said.  Financial firms boosted base salaries starting in 2009 as
they de-emphasized bonuses, which lawmakers said encouraged
bigger-than-average risks that fueled the financial crisis and
still make up the bulk of pay packages.  Employees at the largest investment banks got an average
salary increase of 3 percent last year, compared with 14 percent
at smaller investment banks and 13 percent at fund managers,
according to an online survey of 2,860 financial professionals
by eFinancialCareers.com.  ‘Talented Traders’  When year-end bonuses were included, average pay in 2012
fell for workers at companies including Goldman Sachs and
 JPMorgan’s (JPM)  investment bank. As bonuses dropped, some banks
raised base salaries that in past years contributed a small
portion of pay for senior employees.  “They’re talented traders, they contributed a lot to the
overall performance of the firms, but it’s a changing world,”
Quest Group’s Shaener said, referring generally to traders being
hired by asset managers.  “In some cases they want to move on, and in some cases
it’s not necessarily an option because their roles and the
businesses they were part of are no longer what the firm is
looking to invest in,” Shaener said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at +1-617-210-4624 or
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  