-- BNP Joins SocGen Bracing for Higher Taxes After Hollande Win
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-05-07T15:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/bnp-joins-socgen-bracing-for-higher-taxes-after-hollande-victory.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Societe Generale SA
and Credit Agricole SA,  France ’s biggest banks, face higher
taxes and may have to split off some of their riskiest
operations after  Francois Hollande  was elected president.  Hollande, who called finance his “greatest adversary”
during the campaign, had pledged he would force banks to split
retail and speculative operations, impose a tax on all
transactions and increase the levy on bank profit by 15 percent.  “I fear the bank bashing will rise again with Hollande,”
said Peter Braendle, who helps manage about $60 billion,
including BNP Paribas and Societe Generale shares, at Zurich-
based Swisscanto Asset Management.  Hollande’s measures would come as  Europe ’s debt crisis
rears its head again after elections in France and Greece showed
a preference for anti-austerity candidates. Hollande, the first
Socialist in 17 years to run Europe’s second-largest economy,
promised to push for less austerity and more growth, while the
new Greek parliament will have three anti-bailout parties
represented.  Credit Agricole (ACA) , which owns unprofitable Athens-based
consumer-banking network Emporiki Bank of Greece SA, tumbled as
much as 6.7 percent and was 3.3 percent lower to 3.53 euros as
of 4:55 p.m. in Paris. Societe Generale, which fell as much as
4.5 percent, was 3.8 percent higher at 17.95 euros and BNP
Paribas, which slid as much as 4.1 percent, was up 3.7 percent
to 30.05 euros.  ‘Black Spot’  Hollande yesterday defeated President  Nicolas Sarkozy  with
about 51.6 percent of the vote. He will have to come to grips
with resurfacing worries over Europe’s three-year-old debt
crisis after Spanish unemployment hit a record and as Greek
political leaders struggle to form a government.  French banks held $620 billion in private and public debt
in  Greece , Portugal, Ireland,  Italy  and  Spain  at the end of
December, the world’s highest such holdings by foreign lenders,
according to the  Bank for International Settlements . France’s
largest lenders are reducing their balance sheets by at least
300 billion euros ($391 billion) after booking writedowns on
Greek sovereign debt and enduring a liquidity crunch last year.  “The black spot is Greece; Hollande’s win was already
discounted,” said Gregory Moore, who helps manage 200 million
euros at Montsegur Finance in Paris and owns shares in BNP and
Societe Generale. “Hollande’s wiggle room will be limited. He
can’t afford having the financial system up in arms against him
because he needs it to buy French sovereign debt.”  Hollande Platform  Hollande promised to reform France’s banking industry,
built around the so-called “universal” model with operations
stretching from consumer banking to capital markets. The effort
may cut earnings of BNP Paribas, Societe Generale,  Credit
Agricole  and Natixis SA.  The four banks may see their 2013 profit dented by 10
percent under Hollande’s plan, according to Jean-Pierre Lambert,
a London-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd.  Speaking before the runoff between Hollande and Sarkozy,
Societe Generale Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said he
was “confident to convince any government” that the French
universal banking model is “the best” for economic growth.  “I haven’t heard any idea of spinoff,” Oudea, who is also
the head of the French Banking Federation, said in a May 3
interview with Bloomberg Television. “The idea is to ensure
that the taxpayer is not exposed to any speculative activity.
That’s the case in France. There’s not a single euro of deposit
which is financing any speculative activity.”  State Proceeds  Societe Generale  spokeswoman Nathalie Boschat declined to
comment as did BNP Paribas’s spokeswoman Carine Lauru and Credit
Agricole’s Anne-Sophie Gentil.  The state may collect about 800 million euros from higher
taxes on banks’ profits, Jerome Cahuzac, the head of the French
national assembly’s finance committee and the Hollande
campaign’s main budget adviser, estimated in an April 18
interview with La Tribune.  “European banks are already strangled by tougher  capital
requirements , their profitability can’t bear any additional
charges,” said  Thomas Rocafull , financial-services director at
Paris-based advisory firm Sia Conseil. “As adding barriers
increases refinancing conditions, the cost of a split measure is
going to be paid by clients.”  ‘Precise Line’  The splitting off of “speculative” banking activities may
not lead to a separation of all  capital-markets  activities,
meaning the French measures may not go as far as in the U.K.
John Vickers of the U.K.’s Independent Commission on Banking
proposed erecting firebreaks between their consumer banking and
investment operations.  In the U.S., a rule named for ex-Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker  seeks to prevent deposits-taking companies from
making bets with their own capital and limits their investment
in  hedge funds .  Although Hollande hasn’t spelled out his measures, Cahuzac
said last month that “extremely constructive” talks about the
split proposal are under way with financial firms.  “It will be difficult perhaps to draw a precise line”
between consumer-banking and “speculative” activities, Cahuzac
said. “But you can see what’s on one side and what’s on the
other side,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  