-- BOJ Tells Fed Credit Rules May Hinder Japan Monetary Policy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-05-07T09:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/boj-tells-fed-credit-rules-may-hinder-japan-monetary-policy-1-.html
Federal Reserve  plans for rules on
credit risk may hamper  monetary policy  in Japan and have an
“adverse impact” on the liquidity of high-quality sovereign
debt, the Japanese central bank said in a  letter  to the Fed.  Single-counterparty credit limits “could have unintended
impacts on non-U.S. financial systems,”  Bank of Japan  Executive
Director Kenzo Yamamoto said in the letter dated April 28 and
posted on the central bank’s website today.  It’s the second time since December that the central bank
has expressed concerns about proposed U.S. financial rules,
joining companies from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  The Fed curbs on counterparty risks for financial
firms are aimed at containing the damage from the collapse of a
bank or a government to prevent another global financial crisis.  “It’s a polite suggestion from the BOJ,” said Katsuhide Takahashi, Tokyo-based director of credit markets at Citigroup
Global Markets  Japan . “What the BOJ really means to say to the
Fed is don’t make trouble for Japan’s financial system.”  Takahashi said the central bank could have been more
explicit in asking the Fed to exclude Japanese  government bonds 
and other developed nations’ sovereign debt from the rules, in
the same way that U.S. Treasuries are exempted.  Hinder Money Markets  Under the rules, U.S. financial institutions could be
unable to maintain “sufficient” amounts of reserves in their
current accounts with foreign central banks, Yamamoto said.
Limits relating to non-U.S. sovereign debt securities may reduce
liquidity and hinder money-market operations that use them as
collateral, the official said.  “The counterparties of the  Bank of Japan (8301)  in conducting
money-market operations include a number of U.S. financial
institutions with current accounts with the bank,” Yamamoto
said. “The proposed rule therefore could reduce the
effectiveness of the bank’s monetary policy conduct, and hamper
the daily payments and settlements via the current accounts with
the bank.”  Yamamoto added that the Bank of Japan believes the Fed will
find a “creative and practical solution” and avoid unintended
consequences through international talks.  The Fed plans to limit financial firms with at least $500
billion in assets from having credit risk to any other exceeding
10 percent of its regulatory capital plus excess loan-loss
reserves. That is stricter than a 25 percent restriction that’s
applied more broadly to banks in the Dodd-Frank financial-
overhaul law.  Wall Street Leaders  Wall Street  leaders joined in a closed-door meeting last
week to lobby the Federal Reserve to soften proposed rules that
they said could harm the economy. Chief executive officers
including  Jamie Dimon  of JPMorgan,  Bank of America Corp. ’s  Brian T. Moynihan  and Goldman Sachs’s Lloyd C. Blankfein gave their
views on Fed proposals to limit counterparty risk and
proprietary trading.  Japan’s central bank and financial regulator told U.S.
authorities in a letter in December that the so-called Volcker
Rule restricting proprietary trading would hamper the market for
Japanese government bonds. They asked for the country’s debt to
be exempted and for the U.S. to refrain from applying the
restrictions abroad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  