-- Bond-Disclosure Rules Backed by SEC to Protect States From Banks
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-05-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/bond-disclosure-rules-backed-by-sec-to-protect-states-from-banks.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in August will begin enforcing regulations that
require banks to warn state and local governments about the
risks and conflicts of interest in bond deals they arrange.  The rules were proposed by the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board last year and are aimed at preventing Wall
Street underwriters from steering public officials toward
complicated debt financing without disclosing the risks. They
were approved May 4 by the SEC, which will enforce them.  The disclosures are part of the effort to reshape financial
regulations to prevent a repeat of the credit-market crisis of
2008, and stem from Congress’s decision to provide added
protections for state and local governments. The economic crisis
hit taxpayers with billions of dollars in unexpected costs when
complex bond deals, once pitched as money savers, backfired as
credit markets seized up.  “These new rules are the biggest development in protection
of the financial interests of state and local governments since
the MSRB was established in 1975,” Alan Polsky, the chairman of
the board, said today in a statement.  Under the regulations, banks that underwrite bond deals for
public officials will have to disclose risks tied to those
transactions. Among them is the possibility that interest costs
could soar, as they did for local governments that issued
floating-rate bonds tied to derivatives known as  interest-rate
swaps . Those contracts failed to produce the protection from
rate changes that they were designed to provide and forced
governments to pay penalties to escape when they backfired.  Incentive Disclosure  Banks will also have to disclose incentives they have to
recommend such transactions, including payments received from
other parties in the deal, such as a bank that provides
investments or derivatives in connection with it.  Underwriters will have to disclose whether they trade
credit-default swap contracts that provide them money only if
their client stops paying its debts. Selling those contracts, a
type of insurance for investors, might mean the bank is
encouraging others to bet against a government that hired it to
work on its behalf. The practice has drawn scrutiny from
California Treasurer Bill Lockyer.  The new rules are a response to Wall Street’s once-
widespread practice of selling derivative-laden financing to
state and local governments on the grounds that it would lower
borrowing costs. The derivatives provided banks with higher
fees, which were rarely, if ever, disclosed. The contracts were
also behind the $4.2 billion bankruptcy of Jefferson County, 
 Alabama , the largest filed by a U.S. municipality.  Protecting Governments  The rules are intended to protect governments by providing
them with information to assess transactions. They also guard
against excessive fees and require explicit disclosures by
underwriters about the nature of their job, including whether
their pay depends on a deal’s going through.  “You want to give state and or local officials all the
information they deserve,” MSRB Executive Director Lynnette
Kelly said in an interview.  The rules also make explicit that underwriters must pay a
fair and reasonable price for bonds they buy from localities and
then resell to investors. That may prevent banks from reaping
outsized profits or steering quick gains to favored clients by
providing them with bonds underpriced in the initial offering.  The new regulations stem from the Dodd-Frank law signed in
2010, which called on the MSRB to write rules to protect
municipalities, instead of just those who buy bonds. The U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission has also drafted rules to
protect local governments that enter into derivative trades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ; 