-- Borel’s Derby Flop Proves Bodemeister Best: David Papadopoulos
-- B y   D a v i d   P a p a d o p o u l o s
-- 2012-05-07T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/borel-s-derby-flop-proves-bodemeister-best-david-papadopoulos.html
Three seconds into the 138th  Kentucky
Derby , jockey  Mike Smith  threw the reins wide open at his horse,
Bodemeister, and sent a signal to the 19 other horses in the
race: Prepare to be run off your feet.  The move, known as throwing a cross, urged Bodemeister, the
4-1 favorite, to surge to the lead, where he set an early pace
that Daily Racing Form measured as among the five fastest in
Derby history. For a late-blooming colt that had never
experienced being stuck behind other horses in a race, this
seize-the-initiative approach was the only chance he had from
the inside post position he was given, his trainer, three-time
Derby winner  Bob Baffert , would say afterwards.  And while the effort came up just short as Bodemeister
surrendered the lead late to the winner, I’ll Have Another, a
look at the finishes of those who tried to chase the pacesetter
in the early stages shows he was superior to all in the race.  The five horses that were in second through sixth place
after the first half-mile (0.8 kilometer) of the May 5 race
finished ninth, 16th, 17th, 19th and 20th, according to data
compiled by  Equibase Company .  Combined, those horses -- which included my top pick,
Gemologist, as well as the colt ridden by three-time Derby
winner  Calvin Borel  -- were beaten by more than 100 lengths. The
last of them failed to finish the 1 1/4-mile race. Bodemeister,
by comparison, lost by 1 ½ lengths.  While Bodemeister was dueling with challengers in front,
I’ll Have Another cruised comfortably in  seventh place  at the
beginning, some eight lengths (or about 1.6 seconds) behind. The
third, fourth and fifth place finishers were even farther back,
running among the last 10 in the race after three-quarters of a
mile.  Preakness Rematch    In the parlance of handicappers, this is a pace meltdown.
And to have one among the group of early leaders hold on for
second while all the rest faded from exhaustion earns that colt
the highest mark in the race (and could potentially make him a
horse to bet on next time out).  Take nothing away from the winner, a colt that is a perfect
three for three in 2012. He broke well from the starting gate,
relaxed nicely behind the leaders and responded when his jockey
Mario Gutierrez urged him to make his move entering the
homestretch. His winning race just grades out a notch below that
of the second-place finisher.  Early indications are that I’ll Have Another and
Bodemeister will meet again in the second leg of the Triple
Crown, the 1 3/16-mile  Preakness Stakes  on May 19 in Baltimore,
 Maryland . While the full field hasn’t been determined, I’d set
initial odds estimates for the two as such: Bodemeister becomes
an even bigger favorite after his Derby effort, with his odds
falling to 8-5; I’ll Have Another drops to 3-1 (from 15-1).  Don’t ask me yet which horse I like. The only decision I’ve
made so far is that I will not be picking Gemologist.  (David Papadopoulos, the team leader for Latin America
markets coverage at Bloomberg News, has been following
thoroughbred racing for more than two decades and was runner-up
in 2008 Eclipse Award voting for feature writing on the sport.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jay Beberman at   jbeberman@bloomberg.net  