-- Boston Scientific’s Ingenio Pacemaker Wins U.S. FDA Approval
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-07T20:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/boston-scientific-s-ingenio-pacemaker-wins-u-s-fda-approval.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ’s Ingenio and
Advantio pacemakers won U.S. approval to treat abnormally slow
heartbeats, clearing the way for sales of devices that have been
in development for a decade in the $4 billion global market.  The pacemakers are designed to help the heart adjust to
demands from physical exercise and ease shortness of breath
during walking, climbing stairs or other activities. The Natick,
Massachusetts-based company said it also gained  Food and Drug
Administration  clearance for the Invive pacemaker, used to help
synchronize cardiac contractions in heart failure patients.  Pacemakers haven’t been an area of focus for  Boston 
Scientific in the past, said  Rick Wise , a Leerink Swann & Co.
analyst in  New York , in a telephone interview. The approval
builds on other advances the company has made with its
defibrillators, used to shock a stopped heart back into a normal
rhythm, and will help it gain share in the market for devices to
regulate the heart, he said.  “It has a lot of new features that put us squarely even
with and, in important respects, ahead of what the competition
can offer,” said Ken Stein, chief medical officer for Boston
Scientific’s cardiac rhythm management group, by telephone. “We
are starting to deliver on the product turnaround and a complete
refresh of our product pipeline.”  The approval comes just before the Heart Rhythm Society
meeting this week in Boston, giving the company a good
opportunity to introduce the devices and educate doctors about
their offerings, Wise said.  Defibrillator Sales  Boston Scientific and competitors have faced slowing sales
of defibrillators and drug-coated stents that hold open clogged
arteries after they’ve been cleared. While pacemaker sales have
been stable, newer products such as  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s Revo MRI
SureScan pacing system that is safe with advanced imaging
procedures have captured additional market share.  Boston Scientific rose 1.9 percent to $6.31 at the close of
New York trading. The shares have fallen 18 percent in the past
12 months.  The Ingenio and Invive devices monitor respiratory rate in
addition to the heartbeat, providing doctors with information on
an early warning signal for a weakening heart, Stein said.
Breathing rates typically rise, even when patients are resting,
as their hearts falter and they have trouble getting oxygen, he
said. The respiration rate is an important vital sign that
doctors will be able to track over time, he said.  Latitude NXT  All three devices were designed to work with the company’s
experimental Latitude NXT Remote Patient Management System. The
system uses a wireless connection to take daily reading from
patients after they are in bed and send the results to their
doctors, adding an additional layer of information and
protection to their regular office visits, Stein said.  The Ingenio system was approved based on a Boston
Scientific study conducted in  Europe , where it was cleared last
month. The company is working on a version of the pacemaker that
is safe for patients to undergo magnetic resonance imaging
without losing any of the functions that help doctors and
patients manage the heart, Stein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  