-- Bovespa Gains as European Debt Concern Eases, Hypermarcas Surges
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-05-07T20:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/bovespa-futures-drop-as-european-elections-cloud-debt-outlook.html
The Bovespa gained for the first time
in three days as  Germany ’s chancellor signaled cooperation with
France’s president-elect to solve  Europe ’s debt crisis and
Hypermarcas SA surged after first-quarter sales and profit rose.  Hypermarcas, the Brazilian maker of more than 190 consumer
products, rallied the most since March.  OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas
Participacoes SA contributed most to the gauge’s advance after
Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s chief executive officer said it is in
talks with the company for partnerships.  The Bovespa gained 0.7 percent to 61,220.43 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. Forty-four stocks advanced while 21 fell.
The real rose 0.3 percent at 1.9209 per  U.S. dollar .  France elected Francois Hollande president, and Greek
voters flocked to anti-bailout parties. Hollande, a Socialist,
has called for higher taxes, increased spending and a delayed
deficit-reduction effort. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who
has championed cost-cutting and supported President  Nicolas
Sarkozy , said she will receive Hollande “with open arms.”  “Merkel saying Germany will talk with the new French
president gave some relief to investors,” Pedro Paulo Silveira,
chief economist at TOV Corretora, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  The Bovespa earlier dropped as much as 0.7 percent as
 Greece ’s poll cast doubt on whether the two main parties can put
together a government strong enough to implement spending cuts
to ensure the flow of bailout funds.  Interest-Rate Futures  In the Brazilian interest-rate futures market, yields on
most contracts fell. The yield on the contract due in January
2014 dropped as much as 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage
point, to a record low 8.15 percent. Economists covering  Brazil 
reduced their 2012 year-end target lending rate forecast for the
first time in eight weeks, a central bank survey showed.  Hypermarcas advanced 5.8 percent at 12.68 reais. The
company said first-quarter profit rose 24 percent to 40.8
million reais ($21.2 million) from a year earlier. The profit
missed a 53.9 million-real mean estimate for adjusted net income
of eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  OGX gained 3 percent to 13.98 reais. Petrobras is in talks
with Vale SA and billionaire  Eike Batista ’s EBX Group for
logistics and infrastructure partnerships to cut costs, Chief
Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster told Brasil Economico
in an interview.  Petrobras added 0.5 percent to 20.58 reais. Vale slipped
0.1 percent to 40.39 reais.  Tim Rises  Tim Participacoes SA rose 2.1 percent to 10.72 reais after
earlier plunging as much as 6.2 percent.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  said
Luca Luciani stepped down as chief executive officer of its
Brazilian unit, the country’s second-largest wireless operator.
Luciani left the company and “gave up all his mandates,”
Milan-based Telecom Italia said in a statement May 5. Telecom
Italia Chief Financial Officer Andrea Mangoni will replace him
on a temporary basis, it said.  Brazil’s benchmark equity measure has gained 7.9 percent in
2012, buoyed by local interest-rate cuts, signs of expansion in
the U.S. and speculation Europe may be closer to resolving its
sovereign-debt crisis. The Bovespa trades at 10.2 times
analysts’ earnings  estimates , in line with the 10.4 ratio for
MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading  volume  was 6.68 billion reais in stocks in  Sao
Paulo  today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.23 billion reais this year
through May 4, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  