-- Brazil Rate Futures Yields Fall to Record Low on Growth Concern
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-05-07T22:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/brazil-rate-future-yields-fall-as-european-elections-sap-risk.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures fell to a record as European election results spurred
global economic concern after  Brazil  announced savings account
rule changes to facilitate further cuts in borrowing costs.  The yield on the contract due in January 2014 slid for a
fourth straight day, dropping four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 8.24 percent. The yield earlier touched a
record low 8.15 percent. The real advanced 0.4 percent to 1.9199
per  U.S. dollar  after earlier depreciating to 1.9356, the
weakest level since Sept. 22.  “The market is still adjusting to the change in savings
account rules,” said Darwin Dib, chief economist at CM Capital
Markets Asset Management, in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.
“We have a deteriorating outlook on the global economy with the
elections in  Europe . That cooling could open space for more rate
cuts here.”  Savings-accounts  returns will be limited to 70 percent of
the benchmark rate if it falls to 8.5 percent or lower, plus a
fluctuating Reference Rate, Brazilian Finance Minister Guido
Mantega said last week. Brazil’s benchmark will be 8.5 percent
at year-end, down from the previous forecast of 9 percent,
according to the median estimate in a May 4 central bank survey
of about 100 economists published today.  Required minimum returns on savings accounts had spurred
concern further reductions by the central bank would drive
investors out of  government bonds  and into bank deposits.  Benchmark Rate  Policy makers cut the benchmark rate by 75 basis points to
9 percent on April 18 to revive growth that slowed to 2.7
percent last year from 7.5 percent in 2010. Brazil has lowered
its target rate 350 basis points since August.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  is pressuring banks to
reduce rates following cuts in the Selic target. The country’s
finance system is one of the more profitable in the world and
can help the country by reducing  interest rates , said Rousseff,
according to the government’s Cafe com a Presidenta website.  The real has fallen 2.8 percent against the dollar this
year, the second-worst performance after the yen among the most-
traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s central bank bought $7.2 billion in the  spot
market  from April 1 through April 27, the most since $8.4
billion purchased in March 2011, to help exporters by weakening
the local currency. The bank last said it bought dollars at
auction April 27, when the real was at 1.8850.  “The central bank is calmer when the dollar is near 1.9,”
 Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB, said by
phone from  Sao Paulo . “If it gets close to 2 per dollar, the
bank could start to see inflation risks and sell dollars.”  Global stocks fell today, dragging the MSCI All-Country
World index to a three-month low, while Treasuries and the
dollar gained on demand for a refuge after French Socialist
Francois Hollande was elected president and Greek voters picked
anti-bailout parties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  