-- Brazil Vehicle Sales Fall by Most in a Year as Defaults Rise
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-05-07T21:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/brazil-vehicle-sales-fall-by-most-in-a-year-as-defaults-rise.html
Brazilian vehicle sales fell the most
in more than a year in April, as default rates rose on auto
loans, strengthening the government’s case for stimulus measures
to boost growth.  Sales fell 10.8 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
drop since March 2011, led by falling sales at  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , according to a
report released today by the Brazilian carmakers’ association
Anfavea.  “As the credit market tightens, the availability of loans
isn’t there,” said Jon Sederstrom, director of research firm
J.D. Power & Associates in  Sao Paulo . “People simply can’t
afford to buy cars in the same numbers that they could
previously.”  The default rate on auto loans rose to 5.7 percent in
March, from 3 percent a year earlier, according to the central
bank. Policy makers have cut the benchmark Selic rate 3.5
percentage points to 9 percent since August, more than any other
policy maker in the Group of 20 Nations, to try to revive growth
in Latin America’s largest economy.  Hyundai sales fell 26.3 percent from a year earlier, while
General Motors declined 23.2 percent, and Peugeot slid 21.9
percent.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  saw sales rise 170 percent over the
same period.  Brazil ’s motor industry is dominated by Wolfsburg,
Germany-based Volkswagen, Turin, Italy’s Fiat and Detroit-based
GM, which control about two-thirds of the market between them.  The weakness of car sales is evidence that the economy may
be decelerating, said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank in Sao Paulo. Traders are
wagering that the central bank will cut the Selic rate to as low
as 8 percent by October, according to Bloomberg forecasts based
on interest rate futures contracts.  “It reinforces the perspective on an extension of the
monetary easing cycle,” Santos said in a telephone interview.  Vehicle production fell 7.5 percent in April from a year
earlier, while exports fell 0.5 percent.  In the minutes to its April policy meeting, the central
bank signaled that it may continue to cut the Selic rate “with
parsimony.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 