-- Brazil’s Future Less Bright Amid Slowdown, De Gucht Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-05-07T12:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/brazil-s-future-less-bright-amid-slowdown-de-gucht-says.html
Brazil ’s economy isn’t growing quickly
enough because of its focus on commodities and rising regional
protectionism, the European Union’s trade chief said.  “Unfortunately the future looks less bright than before,”
European Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said today in a
speech at the  Royal Academy  in Brussels. “Brazil should be
proud of the enormous progress it has made in recent years, but
must also know it cannot sit still if it wishes to move to the
next stage of its development.”  Growth in the world’s second-largest emerging market slowed
to 2.7 percent last year, less than  Germany  in the middle of the
European debt crisis and down from 7.5 percent in 2010. Brazil’s
economy will expand 3.2 percent this year, according to a
central bank survey of about 100 economists published last week.  These figures are “worrying,”  De Gucht  said, because
Brazil’s gross domestic product “has quite a way to go before
it reaches developed-country levels. For example, it currently
stands at roughly one-third of the European average.”  He attributed the reduced growth outlook partly to an
emphasis on so-called primary products. Brazil is the world’s
second-largest producer of ethanol after the U.S., the third-
biggest agricultural exporter and a major mineral exporter.
These “marks of success” may be crippling the economy’s
ability to produce goods with a higher added value, De Gucht
said.  Protectionism Risks  “Success in commodity markets and high commodity prices
create inflationary pressures and have played a role in the 29
percent appreciation of the real since 2007,” he said.  Brazil, which ships a fifth of its goods to Latin American
countries, “cannot sit still” in light of growing
protectionism across the continent “because it has so much to
lose,” De Gucht said. A recent example of governments shielding
domestic industry from competition is Argentina’s seizure of YPF
SA, the country’s biggest energy company, from  Spain ’s  Repsol
YPF SA (REP) , a move the  World Bank  and the EU have condemned.  “Argentina has also continued other trade-restrictive
policies, like its import-licensing regime,” De Gucht said.
“And just last week we saw Bolivia take another step toward
nationalizing  utility companies  at the expense of a Spanish
firm. These types of moves are of course a problem for Argentina
and Bolivia, which will find it harder to secure the
international investment they need.”  The EU “will soon be moving forward with a response to
Argentina’s action in the Repsol case,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 