-- Buffett Says U.S. Banks a Class Apart From Europeans
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r ,   H u g h   S o n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-05-07T00:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/buffett-says-u-s-banks-a-class-apart-from-europeans.html
Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  has more than $20 billion  invested  in U.S. banks,
said the nation’s lenders have “liquidity coming out of their
ears” and are in better shape than European rivals.  “I would put European banks and American banks in two very
different categories,” Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive
officer, said May 5 at the firm’s annual meeting in Omaha,
Nebraska. “The American banking system is in fine shape. The
European system was gasping for air a few months back” until
getting assistance from the  European Central Bank , he said.  Wall Street firms including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , emboldened after raising capital levels ahead
of stricter international guidelines, are contesting efforts by
U.S. policy makers to limit trading and risk. European banks
have struggled amid the continent’s sovereign debt crisis and
turned to the ECB for 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in three-
year loans at a 1 percent interest rate.  Buffett, 81, is seeking to insulate Berkshire’s holdings
from the concerns that weighed on the stocks of European
lenders, said  Mark Williams , a former  Federal Reserve  bank
examiner who teaches finance at Boston University. Bank of
America and JPMorgan posted their worst weekly declines of the
year in the five days ended May 4 amid signs the European crisis
is worsening as the  Euro Stoxx Banks Index (SX7E)  slumped 6 percent.  ‘Talking His Book’  “He is talking up his book, and it’s true that U.S. banks
are healthier than those in  Europe ,” Williams said in a
telephone interview. “What that doesn’t speak to is, ‘What
happens if the European crisis isn’t fixed and it triggers a
second recession in the U.S.?’ We’re liquid today, but that
doesn’t speak to what we may need in the future.”  Referring to the ECB emergency-loan program that started in
December, Buffett said that he’d “like to have a  lot of money 
for three years at 1 percent, but I’m not in trouble.”  The ECB bolstered banks “loaded with sovereign debt, which
is questionable in many cases,” and the recipients may use the
funds to add more of the securities, Buffett said. Sovereign
wagers by MF Global Holdings Ltd. “had a bad ending, and it may
have a bad ending over there,” Buffett said of Europe.  MF Global  MF Global, formerly run by ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-
chairman Jon S. Corzine, filed for bankruptcy Oct. 31 after a
$6.3 billion bet .  Holdings of Spanish government debt by lenders based in the
country jumped 30 percent in the three months through February
to 231 billion euros, data from Spain’s treasury show. Italian
banks increased ownership of their nation’s sovereign bonds by
31 percent to 267 billion euros in the same period, according to
Bank of Italy data.  Buffett said in September that he wasn’t interested in
taking stakes in European lenders and that some of the firms
need more capital. U.S. firms have greater access to retail
deposits and are less vulnerable to so-called bank runs, Buffett
said at the meeting.  Buffett’s company has  investments  in at least four of the
seven biggest U.S. lenders by assets. Berkshire is the largest
stockholder in San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  with a
stake of more than $12 billion. The company also injected $5
billion into  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America in
exchange for preferred shares and warrants.  Berkshire also has warrants that allow him to buy $5
billion of Goldman Sachs shares and owns a stake in  U.S. Bancorp (USB) 
valued at $2.2 billion as of May 4. The company has an
investment in M&T Bank Corp. and Buffett has said he owns
JPMorgan shares in his personal account.  Dimon, Moynihan  Wall Street leaders joined in a closed-door meeting last
week to lobby the Federal Reserve to soften proposed rules that
they said could harm the economy. CEOs including  Jamie Dimon  of
JPMorgan, Bank of America’s  Brian T. Moynihan  and Goldman
Sachs’s Lloyd C. Blankfein gave their views on Fed proposals to
limit counterparty risk and proprietary trading.  “It’s great that people get together and collaborate, talk
about the facts and the analysis, all in the interest of having
a great financial system,” Dimon, 56, said last week. “The
better we do here, the better it will be for the  U.S. economy .”  The Fed’s proposed 10 percent limit in counterparty risk to
an entity is meant to contain the damage from the collapse of a
large financial institution or government. It’s stricter than
the 25 percent cap in the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law.  Buffett’s comments illustrate the complexity of his
relationship with  Wall Street . He bolstered confidence in
Goldman Sachs, a firm with which he’s had four decades of ties,
and Bank of America with a combined $10 billion in investments
and has praised the CEOs of the companies.  Financial Watchdog  At the same time, Buffett has lauded regulators’ efforts to
reduce leverage, supported the creation of a strong consumer
finance watchdog and lent his name to President  Barack Obama ’s
proposal to raise taxes on the wealthy.  “The fact that he thinks U.S. banks are in fine shape
would be consistent in arguing against further regulation,”
said  David Kass , a professor at the University of Maryland’s
Robert H. Smith School of Business. “However, he has said that
it’s not necessary to agree on all issues with everyone you have
dealings with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  