-- Buffett Says Berkshire Will Top $34 Billion Railroad Deal
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-05-07T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/buffett-says-berkshire-will-top-34-billion-railroad-deal.html
Warren Buffett , who built  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  into a $200 billion company through stock picks
and acquisitions, said his firm may top its largest deal, the
2010 purchase of railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe .  “Berkshire will continue to grow,” Buffett, 81, said in
an interview for Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” program
with  Betty Liu  after the firm’s May 5 shareholders meeting in
Omaha,  Nebraska . “Someday, $34 billion will not be the limit.”  Record earnings at Berkshire’s largest units have helped
build the company’s  cash holdings  to $37.8 billion. Buffett told
shareholders at the meeting that he recently passed on a deal
valued at about $22 billion after failing to agree on price. The
billionaire, who has kept the cash hoard above $20 billion to
guarantee liquidity, said that such a deal would have meant
divesting some securities he didn’t want to sell.  Buffett and Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 88,
took questions for five hours at Omaha’s CenturyLink Center on
topics such as succession and U.S. politics, and companies
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  He sketched out some of the roles
he envisioned for the next generation of Berkshire leaders, who
will oversee a $120 billion portfolio of stocks and bonds and
allocate capital among more than 70 operating units.  Buffett said last month that he was diagnosed with stage 1
prostate cancer and that he would undergo radiation therapy
starting in July. He said at the meeting that the diagnosis is a
“minor event” and that he feels “terrific.” Some investors
said they hope Buffett remains Berkshire’s chairman and chief
executive officer for years and continues holding the annual
meetings, which draw tens of thousands of people.  Munger’s Resentment  “I resent all this attention and sympathy Warren is
getting,” Munger said in response to a question about Buffett’s
health. “I probably have more prostate cancer than he does.”  Buffett’s roles will be divided when he’s no longer leading
Berkshire. He has said that his son Howard, a company director,
would guard the firm’s culture as non-executive chairman, while
the board has picked his successor as CEO along with two
backups. The firm hasn’t identified the candidates.  Oversight of the investment portfolio will fall to Ted Weschler and Todd Combs, former hedge-fund managers whom Buffett
hired in the past two years. Berkshire hit a “home run” with
both and may add another  money manager  to help, Buffett said.
Weschler and Combs oversee $2.75 billion each.  Future Leaders  Risk management  will be among the responsibilities of the
next CEO, Buffett said. The company’s future leaders are
unlikely to have much of a derivatives book except for some
positions used in operating subsidiaries, he said. Berkshire has
more than $7 billion in liabilities on contracts it sold in 2006
and 2007 that are tied to global stock markets.  Overseeing what could happen to the company in worst-case
scenarios is “a very important ability” that shouldn’t be
delegated, Buffett said. “We’re not going to have an arts major
in charge of Berkshire.”  The next CEO also will be counted on to make deals. Finding
 acquisitions  big enough to boost earnings power is one of the
challenges Berkshire faces,  Jay Gelb , an analyst at Barclays
Plc, said in a note to clients last month. Gelb was among three
analysts invited this year to ask questions of Buffett and
Munger alongside shareholders and a panel of journalists.  The Burlington Northern deal was financed with cash and
stock and has helped boost  net income . The railroad contributed
$701 million to first-quarter profit, up from $607 million a
year earlier, as shipments of  consumer goods  and industrial
products rose, Berkshire said in a May 4 regulatory filing.  ‘I Love Acquisitions’  “I wish I could make a big acquisition, because I love
acquisitions when we’ve got the money,” Buffett told Bloomberg
Television. “If we can make a good deal tomorrow, whether it’s
small or big, we’ll make it.”  Buffett told Bloomberg’s Liu that he would let women join
the Augusta National Golf Club if he were in charge. The club,
which holds golf’s annual  Masters Tournament , has been
criticized for its male-only policy. The promotion of  Virginia  “Ginni” Rometty to CEO of International Business Machines
Corp., one of the tournament’s chief sponsors, drew attention to
the issue. The Georgia club historically invites IBM’s top
executive to be a member, including the four previous CEOs.  “I’m not telling the group at Augusta what to do, but if I
were running the club I’d have plenty of women,” said Buffett,
a member of Augusta. Berkshire is IBM’s biggest shareholder.  Citizens United  Buffett also fielded questions at the meeting about his
support for President  Barack Obama  and his push for higher taxes
on the wealthy. He said he wouldn’t donate to super political
action committees, the interest groups made possible by the U.S.
Supreme Court’s 2010  Citizens United  ruling that removed limits
on corporate and union election spending.  “I don’t want to see democracy go in that direction,”
Buffett said. Supporters of both Obama and presumptive
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  have created super PACs to
influence this year’s presidential election.  Some shareholders questioned Buffett about Berkshire stock,
which has  underperformed  the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in six
of the last seven quarters. He said he may repurchase shares
“on a big scale” if the price falls below 110 percent of book
value, a measure of assets minus liabilities. At that point,
Buffett said he would be certain that he was making money for
shareholders who held onto their investment. Berkshire’s Class A
shares closed May 4 at $121,950 each, or about 1.14 times book.  Bribery Allegations  Berkshire’s holding in Wal-Mart also drew a question. The
 New York  Times reported last month that executives at the
world’s biggest retailer bribed officials to speed expansion in
 Mexico . The U.S.  Justice Department  is investigating, people
familiar with the matter have said. Berkshire owns 39 million
shares, or more than 1 percent, of the Bentonville, Arkansas-
based company.  While Wal-Mart may have botched how it dealt with bribery
allegations and will have to divert management time to the
investigation, the probe probably won’t have a long-term effect
on the company’s  financial strength , Buffett said.  “I don’t think the earning power of Wal-Mart five years
from now will be materially affected by the outcome of this
situation,” he said. “It may result in a significant fine, but
I don’t think it changes the fundamental dynamic.”  David Tovar , a Wal-Mart spokesman, declined to comment. The
company said in an April 21 statement that it has met
voluntarily with the Justice Department and the Securities and
Exchange Commission to discuss the case. The retailer also is
enhancing its audit procedures and internal controls.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in Omaha at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in Omaha at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  