-- Bundesbank Says Fiscal Compact Doesn’t Justify Common Euro Bonds
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-07T10:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/bundesbank-says-fiscal-compact-doesn-t-justify-common-euro-bonds.html
Germany ’s  Bundesbank  said the euro
region’s fiscal compact doesn’t form the basis on which common
euro bonds can be issued.  “The fiscal compact doesn’t mark the introduction of a
fiscal union and, hence, it doesn’t justify far-reaching shared
liability, for example euro bonds,” the central bank said in an
e-mailed statement today from Frankfurt. “Liability and
surveillance would diverge” and “the framework of economic and
currency union would become increasingly inconsistent.”  European leaders in January completed a treaty increasing
fiscal discipline that speeds up sanctions on high-deficit
states and requires euro countries to anchor balanced-budget
rules in national law. Only countries that ratify the fiscal
compact will be eligible for aid from the permanent bailout
fund, the European Stability Mechanism.  “From a monetary-policy point of view, it is decisive that
liability and surveillance for fiscal and economic decisions
don’t diverge and strong incentives remain to maintain or
restore solid public finances,” the Bundesbank said in an
 opinion  prepared for a parliamentary budget committee hearing on
draft legislation.  The proposed sanction mechanism is “welcomed” because it
strengthens the European Commission’s position and makes it
harder to water down rules, the Bundesbank said. At the same
time, it is “unfortunate” that the strengthened sanction
mechanism will only be used when deficit rules are violated, and
not if debt thresholds are broken, the institution said.  Direct aid payments by the ESM to euro-region banks
wouldn’t be appropriate because “that would lead to an indirect
takeover of risks in the case of a sovereign default without
corresponding economic and fiscal conditions if the institutes
in question held or purchased sovereign bonds on a considerable
scale,” the Bundesbank said. “It is of fundamental importance
that rescue loans” to member countries “are only awarded with
notable interest rate surcharges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  