-- Canada March Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-05-07T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/canada-march-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
March building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  In March, contractors took out building permits worth $6.8
billion, up 4.7% from February following a 7.6% increase the
previous month. The gain was the result of higher construction
intentions for both institutional and commercial buildings,
mostly in Ontario.  In the non-residential sector, the value of permits rose
13.9% to $2.9 billion, following a 37.7% increase the previous
month. This was the highest level since June 2010. Increases in
the institutional and commercial components more than offset
declines in the industrial component. Most provinces posted
advances, with Ontario accounting for most of the growth.  The value of residential permits declined 1.3% to $3.9
billion, the third monthly decrease in a row. Decreases occurred
in six provinces, led by Ontario. Alberta posted the largest
increase, followed by  Nova Scotia .  Non-residential sector: Intentions up for institutional and
commercial buildings  In the institutional component, construction intentions
were up 88.4% to $973 million, following a 64.6% increase the
previous month. This was the highest level since October 2011.
The advance was mainly the result of higher construction
intentions for government buildings and medical facilities in
Ontario. In  New Brunswick  and Saskatchewan, the increase was
principally the result of higher intentions for government
buildings.  The value of permits for commercial buildings rose 15.3% to
$1.5 billion, following a 5.7% increase the month before. The
advance originated from higher construction intentions for a
variety of structures, including retail complexes, office
buildings, warehouses, hotels and restaurants, and laboratories.
Increases were reported in seven provinces, led by Ontario and
Newfoundland and Labrador.  In the industrial component, intentions fell 42.8% to $408
million. This decline occurred a month after the value of
permits for industrial buildings more than doubled. The decline
was particularly attributable to lower construction intentions
for manufacturing plants in British Columbia,  Quebec  and Ontario,
which posted increases the previous month. Decreases in the
industrial component were also posted in three other provinces.  Residential sector: Construction intentions down for both
single- and multi-family dwellings  The value of single-family dwelling permits declined 1.7%
to $2.3 billion, the third consecutive monthly decrease. Gains
in six provinces, led by Alberta, were not enough to offset
decreases in the remaining provinces. The largest decline was
recorded in Ontario, followed by Newfoundland and Labrador and
New Brunswick.  The value of multi-family dwelling permits fell 0.7% to
$1.6 billion. Despite three consecutive monthly decreases, this
level was 8.6% higher than the monthly average in 2011. Declines
occurred in seven provinces, led by Quebec.  Alberta  reported the
largest increase.  Municipalities across Canada issued permits for the
construction of 17,650 new dwellings, up 2.1% from February. The
increase came from both multi-family dwellings, which rose 2.5%
to 10,594 units, and single-family dwellings, which increased
1.4% to 7,056 units.  Increases in most provinces  In March, the value of building permits was up in eight
provinces.  Ontario registered the largest increase, as a result of
higher construction intentions for institutional buildings and,
to a lesser extent, for commercial buildings.  Newfoundland and Labrador and Alberta posted the second-
and third-highest gains, respectively. In Newfoundland and
Labrador, the increase came from higher construction intentions
for commercial and institutional buildings. In Alberta, the
advance originated from an increase in the value of permits for
residential, industrial and commercial buildings.  British Columbia posted the largest decline, as a result of
lower construction intentions for industrial and commercial
buildings and multi-family dwellings. Quebec reported decreases
in every component except single-family dwellings.  Higher value of permits in most metropolitan areas  The total value of permits rose in 23 of  Canada ’s 34 census
metropolitan areas.  The largest increases occurred in Toronto, Winnipeg and  St.
John’s . The advances in both Toronto and St. John’s originated
from higher construction intentions for institutional and
commercial buildings.  In Winnipeg, the gain came from higher construction
intentions for both non-residential and residential buildings.  The largest decreases were in Montréal and  Edmonton . In
Montréal, the decline was mainly attributable to lower
intentions for multi-family dwellings and industrial buildings.  Edmonton’s decline was the result of a decrease in the
value of permits for industrial and institutional buildings and
multi-family dwellings.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated for
the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  