-- Carl Icahn Wins CVR Energy After $2.6 Billion Offer
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-05-17T14:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/carl-icahn-wins-cvr-energy-after-2-6-billion-offer.html
(Corrects description of contingent right in second
paragraph of story published May 7.)  Billionaire  Carl Icahn  won the right
to buy oil refiner  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI)  after a majority of
shareholders agreed to sell their stakes to him in an offer that
values the company at $2.6 billion.  About 48 million shares were tendered in response to
Icahn’s $30-a-share offer, giving him about 69 percent of the
stock, according to a statement today. Holders of the remaining
stock have until May 19 to take the same offer, which includes
the right to an additional payment if Icahn can re-sell the
 Sugar Land , Texas-based company.  Icahn has criticized CVR’s management and urged a sale of
the company, which owns refineries in the Midwest and holds a
majority stake in fertilizer maker CVR Partners LP. CVR’s board
had opposed the sale and said Icahn offer doesn’t properly value
the company over the long term.  Seven members of the CVR board will be replaced with Icahn
nominees as soon as all the tendered shares are purchased,
according to the statement. The board waived a poison-pill
provision last month that would’ve blocked the takeover after
Icahn won the support of a majority of shareholders. Icahn plans
to resell CVR about 60 days after buying it.  Gains on Shale Oil  CVR  rose  1 percent to $30.35 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 62 percent this year. The owner of refineries
in Coffeyville,  Kansas , and Wynnewood,  Oklahoma , has benefited
from a boom in onshore shale-oil production that lowered the
cost of crude it buys.  CVR reported a first-quarter loss of $25.2 million, or 29
cents a share, compared with net income of $45.8 million, or 52
cents, a year earlier, according to a May 1 statement. Excluding
losses from contracts used to lock-in commodity prices and
maintenance expenses, the company earned 75 cents a share, 9
cents more than the average of five analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  