-- Carlyle’s Rubenstein, Lockheed’s Kubasik, Tanner
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-07T15:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/carlyle-s-rubinstein-lockheed-s-kubasik-tanner.html
The  Carlyle Group (CG)  managing director
and co-founder  David Rubenstein  reflected on the differences
between arts fundraising in Washington and  New York .  “It’s easier because there is a bigger base in New York,”
he said referring to his efforts for  Lincoln Center , but proudly
pointed out the $2.4 million he helped bring in last night for
the Kennedy Center’s 20th annual gala.  Rubenstein introduced the gala’s honoree, songwriter and
producer David Foster, who performed a montage of his favorite
hits with artist friends such as Jewel, Chaka Khan and Chris Botti.  Foster, who sprinted down the aisles like a talk-show host,
called his performance “Kennedy Idol,” because he put audience
members, such as the Morris and Gwendolyn  Cafritz Foundation 
Chairman Calvin Cafritz, on the spot by asking them to show off
their vocal talents, or lack thereof.  Before dinner,  Dan Glickman , a former secretary of
agriculture, Ronald Dozoretz, the chairman of  Genomind , joked
with the much younger White House chef Sam Kass about the
generational divide between their tastes in music.  “This is the over-40 crowd,” Glickman reminded Kass,
adding that 17th- and 18th-century classical tunes were more his
speed.  At the gala’s after-party, Botti enjoyed a lively
discussion with Lisa Barclay, the chief of staff at the Food and
Drug Administration, about the presidential election.  Phillips Collection  Friday night’s Phillips Collection annual gala had  Lockheed
Martin (LMT)  Chief Operating Officer Christopher Kubasik, who is
scheduled to take over as CEO in January, reflecting on art.  Kubasik said he tries to visit local art museums during his
frequent travels. He marveled at the price of one of Edvard Munch’s versions of “The Scream,” which set a record for a
work at auction when it sold at Sotheby’s in New York last week
for $120 million.  The gala provided “another chance for my wife to buy a new
dress,” joked  Bruce Tanner , the executive vice president and
chief financial officer of Lockheed Martin, a longtime supporter
of the Phillips.  Before dinner in the galleries, where flowers and
tablecloths were selected to match the paintings like the
collection’s most famous asset, Renoir’s “Luncheon of the
Boating Party,” Tanner and Kubasik enjoyed al fresco cocktails
with  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  executives Michael Orfini and Joanne
Stringer, who talked to General Michael Hayden, the former
director of the Central Intelligence Agency.  Swiss Ambassador Manuel Sager, Supreme Court Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and Congressman Jim Moran, the Virginia Democrat,
were also among the nearly 500 guests who helped the Phillips
bring in more than $500,000.  After dinner, guests trotted across the street to the
Anderson House for a Havana-inspired party where pina colada ice
cream, Cuban cigars and salsa dancing mixed well with the
tropical climes and full moon.  The full moon also shone on Saturday night’s Ball on the
Mall where 1,000 supporters of the  L’Enfant Society , the
organization dedicated to improving and preserving “America’s
front yard“ -- the National Mall -- came together under a white
tent pitched between the Capitol and the  Washington  Monument for
dinner and dancing.  The ball, which was sponsored by corporations including
Verizon and Time Warner, raised $600,000.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and
Craig Seligman on books. 