-- CBOE Must Face Patent Claim on Options-Trading System
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-05-07T20:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/cboe-must-face-patent-claim-on-options-trading-system.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) ’s  Chicago  Board
Options Exchange must face patent-infringement claims brought by
International Securities Exchange over an automated system for
trading options contracts, a U.S. appeals court said.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit  said 
today a trial judge erred in interpreting key aspects of the ISE
patent, and remanded the case for further proceedings. The lower
court had ruled that CBOE’s Hybrid Trading System didn’t
infringe the patent.  ISE was the first all-electronic U.S. options exchange when
it began in May 2000. CBOE sued ISE in 2007 after it received a
letter from ISE demanding that it pay patent royalties and was
sued by ISE in  New York  over its Hybrid system that blends
traditional open-outcry trading with electronic execution.
Chicago-based CBOE sought a court ruling that cleared its system
of any infringement claims.  There are currently nine U.S. options exchanges, which
compete by offering different rules and pricing to attract
specific types of traders. Three more exchanges are planned for
this year.  CBOE Holdings had 28.4 percent of options volume last
month, according to data compiled by Chicago-based OCC, which
clears and settles all equity transactions. ISE had 16.3
percent, making it the third-largest of the nine current
exchanges.  Competing Platforms  “CBOE is confident that the evidence at trial will
establish that our Hybrid Trading System, which includes
matching and allocating through the use of open-outcry trading,
is not an ‘automated exchange’ covered by ISE’s patent,” Gail
Osten, a spokeswoman for CBOE, said in an e-mail.  ISE is owned by Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse AG’s Eurex
subsidiary. In March, the company said it may introduce a second
platform for U.S. equity options.  “We are very gratified that the appeals court ruled
unanimously in ISE’s favor,” Gary Katz, ISE’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement. “We will continue to vigorously
pursue our ongoing effort to protect our patented technology as
this case moves back to the trial judge for further
consideration.”  The case is  Chicago Board Options Exchange  Inc. v.
 International Securities Exchange  LLC, 2011-1267, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The lower court
case is Chicago Board Options Exchange v. International
Securities Exchange LLC, 07cv623, U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  