-- Chavez Cancer Fight Ignites PDVSA Bond Rally
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-05-07T16:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/chavez-cancer-fight-ignites-pdvsa-bond-rally.html
Debt traders are pushing up the bonds
of state-owned  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  as they envision a
nation without President  Hugo Chavez  that may free the oil
producer from a  tax rate  as high as 95 percent.  The company’s $26.5 billion of debentures gained 2.1
percent last week through May 3, the most among the 50 biggest
emerging-markets issuers of dollar-denominated debt, building on
April returns of 2 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. The extra yield investors demand to buy debt from the
owner of U.S. refiner and marketer Citgo Petroleum Corp.
compared with the average for speculative-grade U.S. energy
companies has dropped by more than half this year.  “Outside investors think anyone is better than Chavez at
this point from an external market position,” said Raymond Zucaro, a  money manager  in  Newport Beach ,  California , at SW
Asset Management LLC, which oversees about $230 million of
emerging-market corporate debt. “The evil unknown is better
than the evil known from the investors’ perspective.”  The oil producer with crude reserves larger than  BP Plc (BP/) ,
Exxon Mobil Corp. or Petroleo Brasileiro is drawing interest
from debt investors as Chavez, 57, receives radiation in Cuba
for an undisclosed form of cancer. Chavez, the nation’s leader
since 1999, has weighed down the company known as PDVSA with
policies making it the “primary source” of government income
and social spending, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Four Times BP  Bonds of PDVSA were the second-most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers last week, with 552
trades of $1 million or more, trailing only Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Amid the trading
frenzy, the company’s bonds fell 2.6 percent on May 4, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Yields of 12 percent on its $2.4 billion of bonds due
November 2021 are three times as high as those with similar
maturities issued by Rio de Janeiro-based Petroleo Brasileiro
and four times as high as notes from London-based BP, Trace data
show.  Average yields on PDVSA bonds dropped to 10.6 percent on
May 3 from 15.1 percent at the end of 2011. The yield gap with
the average speculative-grade rated U.S. energy company narrowed
to 3.6 percentage points from 7.7 percentage points, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. The gap was at 4.3
percentage points on May 4.  Adding Debt  If Chavez dies or is removed as Venezuela’s leader, “it’s
probably a positive  credit event ,” said  Sabur Moini , a money
manager who helps oversee about $2 billion of high-yield debt at
Los Angeles-based Payden & Rygel. “PDVSA is sort of a quasi-
Venezuelan sovereign, so that’s a big factor of the price
appreciation.”  The company had $34.9 billion of debt at the end of 2011,
$10 billion more than a year earlier, according to  Fitch
Ratings .  “The company used to be almost debt free and has been
highly levered up in the past few years,” said Thomas Coleman,
an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in New York. “The
company should be making a lot more money than it does.”  The bonds are gaining even as PDVSA adds debt. The
government has borrowed at least $40 billion from  China  in less
than four years and is paying that country back by shipping it
about 600,000 barrels of oil a day. The  Japan Bank for
International Cooperation  and other Japanese companies agreed to
lend PDVSA $1 billion for oil projects, according to an April 24
statement.  Laws Altered  “They’re getting financing from China and other countries
where they pay it back in barrels,” Coleman said. Its income
and future production “is a lot more tied up than it even
looks.”  Chavez altered the nation’s public finance law on March 29
to allow him to borrow more than the budgeted amount without
seeking congressional approval. The total current debt of the
central government is $79.3 billion, not including the Chinese
loans or PDVSA’s debt, according to the  Finance Ministry .  The increase in borrowing “reflects a trend of higher
capital spending and royalties and taxes, but is driven
primarily by rising payments to support government social
programs,” Moody’s analysts Coleman and  Steven Wood  wrote in a
Feb. 7 report.  Chemotherapy, Radiation  PDVSA plans to sell $3 billion of 20-year bonds with 9
percent yields before May 14, according to a government official
who is involved in the operation. The company is doing so as its
funding costs drop by $1.2 billion in less than five months,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show, as the extent of
Chavez’s illness became more apparent. That’s the difference in
interest payments between what PDVSA was paying at year-end and
May 3, based on its $26.5 billion of bonds outstanding,
Bloomberg data show.  The Venezuelan president has undergone three operations and
several rounds of chemotherapy and radiation treatments in Cuba
since June, fueling speculation that his illness is worse than
he’s admitting. On April 30, he sought congressional permission
to leave for more than five more days as he continues cancer
treatments. He maintains that he’ll be able to seek reelection
in an October election.  While the debt would likely rally dramatically if Chavez
were no longer  Venezuela ’s leader, it would sell off as the
nation became mired in civil unrest, Zucaro said.  “Chavez has been the glue that’s held Venezuela together
for the past 13 years,” he said. “Without Chavez, how do you
keep that glue together?”  Gradual Sale  PDVSA has supplied the Venezuelan government with more than
50 percent of its revenue through royalties and tax payments,
according to the Feb. 3 Fitch report. The government changed the
company’s charter and mission statement in 2008 to allow it
direct participation in developing the nation’s health care,
education and agricultural programs, Fitch said in the report.  The company said its total  revenue  last year was $124.75
billion, up from $94.14 billion in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Its corporate  credit rating  is B1 from
Moody’s, four steps below investment grade, and B+ from Fitch.  PDVSA’s bonds dropped on May 4 as U.S. employers added
fewer jobs than forecast, the cost of oil fell below $100 a
barrel for the first time since February and amid reports of the
planned $3 billion of debt issuance this month.  Prices of PDVSA’s securities due in November 2021 climbed
6.6 cents in 10 days, to 84.1 cents on the dollar on May 3,
according to Trace. During that time, similarly-dated debt from
Petroleo Brasileiro rose 0.2 cent and BP’s 2021 notes increased
0.05 cent, the data show.  The new bonds PDVSA plans to issue will probably be sold
gradually through the central bank’s currency market, avoiding a
glut, Victor Sierra, a managing director at Torino Capital LLC
in  New York , said in an e-mail.  “The net effect on the market should be fairly neutral in
the short end,” Sierra said. “I expect a rebound in the coming
days as Chavez health issues continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  