-- Chesapeake Should Consider Selling, Shareholder Says
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-07T22:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/chesapeake-should-be-open-to-any-offers-southeastern-says-1-.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s biggest
investor said the natural-gas supplier, battered by collapsing
gas prices and investor distrust, should consider selling itself
and spend less time meeting with analysts.  “We urge the board to be open to any offers to acquire the
whole company,” Southeastern Asset Management Inc. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer O. Mason Hawkins wrote in a  letter  to
Chesapeake today. While the shares have declined, “we don’t
want to use this large price-to-market gap as an excuse to
refuse discussions with potential acquirers who would be willing
to pay a price today that recognizes the longer term value of
the company.”  Chesapeake shares have fallen 11 percent in the past three
weeks amid concern that Chairman and CEO Aubrey McClendon’s
personal financial transactions conflict with his professional
duties. Directors said May 1 they will strip McClendon of the
chairman’s post, and are conducting an internal review of his
private deals. The Securities and Exchange Commission opened an
informal inquiry last week, the company has said.  “We want to be certain that any offer would be evaluated
by an independent board, and that is not the case today,”
Michael Garland, director of corporate governance for  New York 
City Comptroller John C. Liu, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Board Independence  Liu, whose office holds 1.57 million Chesapeake shares in
pension funds it oversees, has urged the company to allow large,
long-term shareholders to nominate directors. A vote is
scheduled at Chesapeake’s June 8 annual meeting in  Oklahoma
City .  McClendon’s management team should “put their heads down”
and avoid “unproductive communications” including conferences,
media interviews and other meetings, Hawkins wrote in his
letter. The company’s stock “has far too many renters and not
enough owners, so we would suggest the current system of
shareholder communications is not working.”  Chesapeake executives are scheduled to make presentations
to four conferences hosted by Wall Street firms during the next
four weeks. Those events include the May 15 Barclays Capital
Americas Select Franchise Conference in  London  and the Citi
Global Energy Conference in Miami on June 6.  Midstream, Oilfield Services  Chesapeake also should get rid of midstream and oilfield-
services assets not core to its exploration and production
business, according to the letter the Memphis, Tennessee-based
investment company sent to Chesapeake.  “We appreciated receiving the letter and look forward to
further discussions with our largest shareholder in the days and
weeks to come,” Michael Kehs, a spokesman for Chesapeake, said
in an e-mail.  Southeastern, which holds 13.6 percent of the company’s
shares, said McClendon should focus on the highest possible
operational cash flow, rather than “arbitrary” targets like
its plan to lower debt by 25 percent while increasing production
25 percent by the end of this year.  McClendon didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
for an interview. Kehs said in a separate e-mailed statement
that the company would have no other comment than the one-
sentence remark above.  Chesapeake’s board plans to eliminate in 2014 an executive
perk McClendon used to buy stakes in almost every well the
company has drilled during the past 23 years.  Activist Investor  Directors have said they weren’t aware of the details of
loans the CEO obtained using the well stakes as collateral, some
of which involved financiers that also did business with the
company. Investors and some analysts have said the board failed
to properly look out for shareholders’ interests.  The Southeastern letter comes five days after the firm
filed with federal securities regulators to change its status to
an activist investor so it could pursue talks with management of
third parties to boost the company’s value.  ‘The letter wasn’t all that surprising,’’ Biju Perincheril,
a New York-based analyst for Jefferies & Co., said today in a
telephone interview. He has a buy rating on the stock and
doesn’t own it. “Given their ownership in the company, I’d
expected them to be more vocal.”  Chesapeake  fell  1.5 percent to $17.13 at the close in New
York.  Southeastern was an outspoken supporter of McClendon’s
growth strategy as recently as three months ago.  Accumulating Shares  Even when adjusting for the recent effects of gas prices
below $3 per thousand cubic feet, “Chesapeake’s value remains
over twice the stock price today,” Ross Glotzbach, a senior
analyst at Southeastern, said during a Feb. 1 conference call
with investors. “While Chesapeake has been a disappointing
investment over the last few years, we think that the next few
will be much better.”  Glotzbach, a Princeton University-trained economist, was
one of the signatories to Hawkins’ letter today.  Southeastern has been increasing its stake in Chesapeake as
the share price dropped, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Since the end of 2009, Southeastern added 8.01
million Chesapeake shares to its holdings, a 1 percent increase,
while the stock lost 34 percent of its value, falling to $17.13
from $25.88.  Chesapeake, based in Oklahoma City, outspent its  cash flow 
in 19 of the past 21 years while amassing a portfolio of gas and
oil fields that cover an area half the size of New York state.  Jeffrey L. Mobley, Chesapeake’s senior vice president of
 investor relations  and research, on May 3 reiterated the
company’s commitment to reducing net debt to $9.5 billion by the
end of this year from $12.6 billion at the end of March.  The company, co-founded by McClendon 23 years ago, cut its
2012 and 2013 operating  cash-flow  estimates as much as 48
percent on May 1 and increased the amount of assets it plans to
sell to $20.5 billion by the end of 2013. Even so, it said it
may run short of cash next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  