-- Most Chinese Stocks Advance on Support Measures; Chalco Jumps
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-07T08:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/china-s-stock-futures-decline-on-europe-debt-property-concerns.html
Most  Chinese stocks  rose as government
measures to bolster equities overshadowed concern housing demand
will weaken and the election of a new president in France may
deepen  Europe ’s debt crisis.  About four stocks climbed for every three that fell on the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which slipped 0.07 point to 2,451.95
at the close. Agreements made in U.S.-China talks last week such
as a higher dividend payout ratio for listed state-owned
enterprises and the opening of the  securities market  to more
investors are positive for stocks, Citigroup Inc. said. Chinese
regulators may soon introduce so-called “seed funds” to invest
in the stock market, it said.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  jumped 4.2 percent after its
parent said the government asked it to play a leading role in
the consolidation of the rare earth industry.  China Vanke Co. (000002) 
led declines for developers after the Xinhua News Agency
reported  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. suspended a
discount on mortgages for first-time home buyers nationwide.  “Although the economic fundamentals remain uncertain, it’s
more important to see the securities regulator talking up the
market,” said Wu Kan, Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “There are strong
expectations that the regulator will continue to improve the
basic processes of the stock market to lure investors back.”  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 16.4
today, the lowest since March 27. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.1
percent to 2,717.78. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies,
retreated 1.5 percent in  New York  on May 4.  Weekly Performance  The Shanghai index advanced 2.3 percent last week to the
highest level since March 13 after the securities regulator cut
trading costs and manufacturing expanded for a fifth month in
April. About 10.2 billion shares changed hands on May 4, 12
percent higher than the daily average this year.  The gauge has climbed 11 percent this year on expectations
the government will relax monetary policies to spur economic
growth. Stocks in the gauge are valued at 10.5 times estimated
earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6,
according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Yuan-denominated A shares are trading at the highest prices
against Hong Kong-listed shares of Chinese companies since Dec.
20, according to a  measure  tracking the price gap of the two
classes of stocks.  Support Measures  Further measures by  China  to boost liquidity in equity
market will continue to support outperformance of China-listed
stocks and “cheap” blue chips in near term, Minggao Shen and
Ben Wei, analysts at Citigroup, wrote in a client note dated
yesterday. A shares and H shares may challenge range highs for
the first time in 2012, they wrote.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission has proposed
allowing asset management companies to apply for multiple funds
at the same time, according to a statement posted on the
regulator’s website on May 4. China allows fund companies to
apply for a single fund product any one time under the current
regulation, the statement said.  China will expand a trial of the over-the-counter market
nationwide, Caijing reported today, citing Yao Gang, Vice
Chairman of the CSRC. A threshold will be set up for individuals
trading in the market, according to the report.  Chalco Jumps  Chalco, the listed unit of nation’s biggest maker of the
lightweight metal, gained 4.2 percent to 7.50  yuan , its biggest
advance since March 21.  Parent Aluminum Corp. of China was asked by Su Bo, vice
minister of industry and information technology, to accelerate
the nation’s rare earth consolidation and move toward setting up
a rare earth group, according to a statement on the company’s
website today.  Beiqi Foton Motor Co., China’s biggest commercial-vehicle
maker, surged 8.4 percent to 8.79 yuan.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) ,
China’s largest carmaker, rose 0.6 percent to 16.19 yuan. FAW
Car Co., which makes passenger cars in China with Volkswagen AG,
gained 2.2 percent to 11.97 yuan.  Gasoline and diesel prices may drop by 300 yuan ($47.5) per
ton, or 0.22-0.26 yuan a liter, the Shanghai Securities News
reported today, citing Hu Huichun, an analyst at researcher
Chem99.com.  Chinese central bank short-term fund injection operations
have improved liquidity and reduced the need for a reserve
requirement ratio cut right now, Market News International
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with discussions
at the People’s Bank of China and the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange.  Scrapping Discounts  Vanke, the nation’s largest listed property developer, fell
1.6 percent to 9.07 yuan.  China Merchants Property Development
Co. (000024) , the third largest by market value, slid 1.6 percent to
23.39 yuan.  Gemdale Corp. (600383) , the fourth biggest, lost 2.5 percent
to 6.63 yuan.  ICBC, the largest lender, notified its borrowers of
scrapping the mortgage rate discount by phone last week, Xinhua
reported. The suspension was made amid tighter liquidity and
“deposit instability,” according to Sophie Jiang, banking
analyst at Religare Capital Markets.  China Construction Bank Corp., Bank of China Ltd. and
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. may follow ICBC, Religare said
in a report. ICBC rose 0.9 percent to 4.42 yuan.  Europe Concern  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 2.5 percent today after
Socialist Francois Hollande was elected president of  France  and
Greek voters flocked to anti-bailout parties. Hollande’s
platform calls for policies German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
opposes, including higher taxes, increased spending and a
delayed deficit-reduction effort.  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  A  government report  due May 10 may show exports grew 8.5
percent in April from a year earlier, compared with 8.9 percent
in March, according to the median estimate of 28 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. China’s statistics bureau is scheduled to
release a set of April economic data including inflation and
industrial production on May 11.  Export orders fell 2.3 percent year-on-year to $36 billion,
the first decline since 2009, the China Securities Journal
reported, citing Liu Jianjun, a spokesman with the fair. Orders
from European Union countries fell 5.6 percent, according to the
newspaper.  U.S.-Traded Stocks  Chinese shares  traded in New York slumped last week,
pushing the benchmark index to its first weekly decline since
March, on concern the global slowdown will curb demand for goods
from the world’s biggest exporter.  Payrolls in the U.S. climbed 115,000 in April, the smallest
increase in six months, Labor Department figures released during
U.S. trading hours on May 4 showed. The median estimate of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 160,000.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. lost 2.2 percent last week after four
weeks of gains.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  