-- China to Capitalize on Nasdaq Jump With Tech IPOs, BNY Says
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-07T20:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/china-to-take-advantage-of-nasdaq-jump-with-tech-ipos-bny-says.html
Chinese and Israeli technology firms,
the biggest source of foreign listings on the  Nasdaq  Stock
Market, will boost share sales this year to capitalize on the
best gains since 1999, Bank of New York Mellon Corp. said.  As many as eight Chinese technology companies and six
Israeli tech and biotechnology developers are planning initial
public offerings by listing depositary receipts on the Nasdaq
and the New York Stock Exchange in the second half of 2012, said
Anthony Moro, the head of emerging-market depositary receipts
for  BNY Mellon .  The  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  has gained 13.5 percent in 2012,
the best start to a year for the benchmark gauge in more than a
decade, as investors bought technology stocks ahead of the IPO
of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s dominant social networking site.
Rising demand for smartphones and tablets is also boosting
companies that make the chips and components for these products,
with global Internet traffic to climb fourfold by the end of
2015, Cisco Systems Inc. says.  “Four months ago, our phone wasn’t ringing but now, as the
market has risen, we’re pretty busy,” Moro said in a May 3
interview. “It’s a tech and biotech story right now as U.S.
investors are looking for growth companies and technology
companies are about the only companies growing right now.”  China-based companies  accounted  for 11 U.S. initial or
secondary depositary receipt offerings to raise capital in 2011
and 33 in 2010, according to BNY Mellon.  IPOs Outperform  BioLineRx Ltd. (BLRX) , a developer of therapeutic pharmaceutical
drugs, was the only Israeli company to raise capital by issuing
depositary receipts on U.S. markets in 2011, according to BNY
Mellon.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , an Airport City, Israel-
based maker of homemade soda machines, held an IPO of common
shares in New York in 2010.  China  has more companies traded on the Nasdaq than any
country outside of the U.S., while  Israel  ranks second,
according to Wayne Lee, a spokesman for the New York-based
bourse. The Nasdaq has been fending off rising competition from
the NYSE, which accounted for 57 percent of proceeds raised in
technology company equity offerings in 2011.  IPOs have outperformed the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  this
year, spurring fund managers to seek “growth” companies, which
usually don’t pay a dividend and initially emphasize increasing
revenue over making a profit, BNY Mellon’s Moro said.  Companies that have gone public in the U.S. in 2012 have
gained an average of 14 percent year-to-date, compared with the
S&P 500’s 8.9 percent advance, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Facebook is valuing itself at as much as $96 billion in its
IPO, according to a May 3 regulatory filing. The Menlo Park,
California-based company was to meet investors this week and is
scheduled to price the offering on May 17, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Drug Companies  Renren Inc. (RENN) , a Chinese social networking website that
debuted in New York in May last year, has soared 80 percent in
2012, while  Tudou Holdings Inc. (TUDO) , owner of China’s most-popular
online video site, has surged 224 percent.  Israeli biotechnology companies specializing in drug and
drug-delivery systems are in the process of gaining approval to
be listed in New York, Moro said. The six Israeli companies,
which aim to sell shares worth $10 million to $30 million, are
similar in size to BioLineRx, he said.  Jerusalem-based BioLineRx has a market capitalization of
$49 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Caesar Stone Sdot Yam Ltd. (CSTE) , a maker of stone products, was
the first Israeli company to hold an initial public offering in
New York this year. Caesar Stone has gained 19 percent since
selling 6.7 million shares for $11 a share in March. SodaStream
has advanced 48 percent since going public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  