-- Cleveland-Area Bridge Bomb Case Defendants Plead Not Guilty
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-07T17:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/cleveland-area-bridge-bomb-case-defendants-plead-not-guilty-1-.html
Five  Ohio  men accused of plotting to
blow up a Cleveland-area bridge pleaded not guilty before a
federal magistrate judge.  The men were arrested last week in a U.S. government sting
operation on charges they’d planned to destroy a bridge linking
Brecksville and Sagamore Hills, Ohio. They were indicted by a
federal grand jury on May 3.  “Each defendant entered a plea of not guilty to the
indictment,” before U.S. Magistrate Judge Greg White today in
Cleveland, according to a corresponding electronic docket entry.  They were each charged with conspiracy, attempting to use a
weapon of mass destruction to destroy property used in
interstate commerce and attempting to use an explosive device to
damage or destroy real property, and face possible life
sentences if convicted.  Accused are Douglas L. Wright, 26, of Indianapolis; Brandon
L. Baxter, 20, of Lakewood, Ohio; Anthony Hayne, 35, of
 Cleveland ; Connor C. Stevens, 20, of Berea, Ohio; and Joshua S.
Stafford, 23, of Cleveland.  A detention hearing scheduled for today was postponed
indefinitely their request, according to the court’s docket.
“All defendants agreed to being held in custody until further
order,” it said.  Smoke Grenades  The defendants came to the attention of U.S. authorities
after a  Federal Bureau  of Investigation informant met Wright at
an October protest, according to an affidavit supporting the
initial federal criminal complaint filed against Wright, Baxter
and Hayne on April 30.  The men allegedly considered using smoke grenades in a plot
to topple signs of financial institutions atop high-rise
buildings in downtown Cleveland, prosecutors said in the
complaint unsealed that day.  The plan evolved into a plot to use C-4 plastic explosives
to destroy the Brecksville-Northfield High Level Bridge that
carries vehicular traffic along Ohio’s State Route 82 through
the Cuyahoga Valley National Park, according to the charging
documents.  The explosives, which were to be remotely detonated, were
controlled by an undercover FBI agent and the public was never
in danger, prosecutors have said.  The case is  U.S. v Wright, 12-cr-00238, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Ohio (Cleveland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  