-- India Vows Cuts in Iranian-Oil Imports as Clinton Visits
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-07T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/clinton-to-press-india-for-more-cuts-in-iranian-oil-imports.html
India  will curtail its imports of
Iranian oil by 20 percent, officials said, as U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  held talks in New Delhi to enlist India’s
help with sanctions aimed at pressuring Iran over its nuclear
program.  Asia ’s third-biggest oil importer will cut purchases of
crude from Iran to 14 million tons from 17.5 million tons in the
12 months ending March 31, according to two Indian diplomats and
two refinery officials who asked not to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. The officials said
Iranian crude would account for 7 percent of India’s imports in
fiscal year 2013, down from 10 percent currently.  India is “certainly working toward lowering their purchase
of Iranian oil” and “we hope they will do even more,” Clinton
told a gathering of students and civic leaders in the eastern
Indian city of Kolkata yesterday, before flying to New Delhi for
government meetings. The U.S. believes that there is sufficient
production from  Saudi Arabia ,  Iraq  and other Persian Gulf
nations for Iran’s customers to find alternate suppliers, she
said.  In their meetings, Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh,
National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon and Clinton agreed
that Iran must fulfill its United Nations obligations to abandon
any possible military dimensions of its nuclear program,
according to a State Department official present at the talks
who spoke on condition of anonymity.  European Embargo  The top U.S. diplomat also urged its South Asian ally to
abide by U.S. sanctions that will penalize financial
institutions doing business with Iran in nations that fail to
“significantly reduce” purchases of Iranian oil before a June
28 deadline.  U.S. sanctions have been an irritant in relations with  New
Delhi , which was the second-biggest buyer of Iranian oil last
year. India imports almost 80 percent of its crude and has
growing demands for an economy forecast to expand 7.3 percent in
the year through March 2013, making energy security a top
government concern.  India says it has been steadily reducing its dependence on
Iranian oil even as its energy needs grow. More than 16 percent
of India’s oil, or 21.8 million tons, was sourced from Iran in
fiscal year 2009, compared with 17.5 million tons or 10 percent
of total imports this fiscal year, according to two Indian
officials.  Iran Factors  While India has abided by several rounds of UN sanctions on
 Iran , it has publicly criticized unilateral American sanctions
as an infringement on its sovereignty. U.S. and Indian officials
say that while Singh’s administration doesn’t want to isolate
Iran, an important trading partner and a route for India into
 Afghanistan , the government in New Delhi is quietly cooperating
with oil sanctions and seeking an exemption from the U.S.
penalties on financial transactions with Iran.  The U.S. law, along with a European Union oil embargo that
takes effect July 1, are pillars of a campaign intended to
 squeeze  Iran’s main source of revenue to force it to meet
international demands over the country’s nuclear program. The
U.S.,  Europe  and  Israel  say the program is a cover for
developing an atomic weapons capability. Iran says it’s for
civilian energy and medical research.  Representatives of the five permanent members of the UN
Security Council -- the U.S., Britain,  France ,  China ,  Russia  --
and  Germany  plan to meet with Iranian officials again in Baghdad
on May 23 in an effort to craft a negotiated settlement.  Sanctions Exemptions  “India, China,  Japan , European countries who are the
primary purchasers of Iranian oil are being asked” to deny Iran
its main source of revenue to create more leverage in the talks,
Clinton said.  In March, the U.S. issued renewable, 180-day exemptions
from sanctions to 10 EU nations and Japan, crediting them with
significantly reducing imports of Iranian crude.  Carlos Pascual , the U.S. special envoy in charge of
negotiations with the 12 Iranian oil importing nations that
haven’t yet been granted exemptions, will follow up on Clinton’s
visit with a mission to New Delhi this month.  Clinton said it was too early to tell whether India would
earn an exemption.  An array of financial sanctions imposed in the last year
have made it difficult for Iran’s customers to find banks to
settle payments for Iranian oil. A request from Iran’s Parsian
Bank to open an office in Mumbai was rejected because of U.S.
pressure, two people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday.  In a workaround to pay for Iranian oil without running
afoul of sanctions, Indian officials are establishing a rupee
account at state-run  UCO Bank (UCO)  that Indian refiners can use to
pay for as much as 45 percent of Iranian oil purchases -- and
which Iran may then use to purchase Indian goods in rupees.  Iranian Trade Delegation  Clinton’s trip to New Delhi coincides with the visit of an
Iranian trade delegation to discuss the arrangement. Since the
goods under discussion are foodstuffs and other non-strategic
items, the U.S. doesn’t have a problem with the arrangement, as
long as it doesn’t violate any sanctions, according to three
U.S. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.  India has supported negotiations by the U.S. and the other
permanent members of the UN Security Council to persuade Iran to
accept a deal to abandon illicit aspects of its nuclear program,
according to U.S. officials.  Clinton and Singh discussed strategic cooperation on a
number of other issues. Clinton briefed Singh on efforts to
stabilize Afghanistan after the withdrawal of NATO combat troops
in 2014, and welcomed his support for development in
Afghanistan, including plans to host a conference in June to
attract private sector investment, according to the State
Department official in the meeting.  U.S.-India Trade  India has a $2 billion economic assistance program in
Afghanistan, and a government-backed consortium of seven Indian
steel companies has won the rights to invest $7.8 billion in
Afghanistan’s Hajigak iron deposit.  U.S. and Indian officials discussed efforts to expand
bilateral  trade , which rose 18 percent to $57.8 billion in 2011
compared with the previous year, according to official data.
Clinton also is pressing for better terms for U.S. companies
investing in India’s retail, defense and civilian nuclear
sectors, according to the U.S. official in the talks.  In Kolkata, Clinton told listeners at a televised town-hall
style meeting that  Pakistan  had not done enough to bring to
justice the perpetrators of the 2008 terrorist attacks on
Mumbai. Clinton said she had authorized a $10 million reward for
information leading to the capture of Hafiz Saeed, the Islamist
militant blamed for masterminding the coordinated attacks by
Pakistan-based gunmen that killed 166 people in India’s
financial capital.  Economic Reforms  Clinton also said that Egyptian cleric Ayman al-Zawahiri,
who became the leader of al-Qaeda after the killing of  Osama bin
Laden , “is somewhere we believe in Pakistan.”  Clinton met West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, a
power broker in parliament who has opposed economic reforms
championed by the ruling Congress Party. The U.S. is seeking
progress on Singh’s efforts to loosen restrictions on foreign
investment in the finance sector and permit large foreign multi-
brand retailers, such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , to enter the
Indian market.  In New Delhi, Clinton called on Congress Party leader Sonia Gandhi, and today will confer with Foreign Minister S.M. Krishna
with opposition leader Sushma Swaraj.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  