-- Collective Brands Sued by Investor Over Sale to Wolverine
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-05-07T17:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/collective-brands-sued-by-investor-over-sale-to-wolverine.html
Collective Brands Inc. (PSS)  was sued by an
investor seeking to block the shoe retailer’s proposed sale to
 Wolverine World Wide Inc. (WWW) , Blum Capital Partners LP and Golden
Gate Capital Corp. for about $2 billion including debt.  Gregory Dusablon contends in a Delaware Chancery Court
complaint made public today in Wilmington that Collective’s
directors are duty-bound to get the best price for the company
and wrongly accepted too low a bid. The buyout group offered
$21.75 a share in cash.  The deal “deprives Collective Brands’ public shareholders
of the ability to participate in the company’s long term
prospects,” Dusablon said in court papers. He asked a judge to
halt the transaction and award damages.  Collective, based in Topeka,  Kansas , sells footwear under
brands including Sperry Top-Sider, Saucony,  Stride Rite  and
Keds. The deal will combine those brands with Wolverine’s
Sebago, Caterpillar and Hush Puppies brands, the Rockford,
Michigan-based buyer said in a May 1 statement.  A takeover of Collective would be the largest of a U.S.
footwear company since  VF Corp. (VFC)  paid $1.97 billion for
Timberland Co. last September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The transaction is expected to be completed in the
third or early fourth quarter, Collective said.  Collective Loss  Collective said after reporting a $35 million  loss  in
August that it would review strategic alternatives and shut 475
stores in the following three years. The company’s loss for the
year ended Jan. 28 was $164.5 million, compared with a
$112.8 million profit a year earlier.  Payless ShoeSource Inc. became Collective Brands after
acquiring Stride Rite Corp. in August 2007.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . have committed
to provide $1.73 billion in loans to back the deal. The
financing comprises a $900 million senior secured  term loan , a
$200 million revolving line of credit, a $375 million bridge
facility and a $250 million portion that will be secured by the
company’s receivables, Collective said May 2 in a regulatory
filing.  Stephanie Waugh, a spokeswoman for Collective, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call or e-mail seeking comment on
the lawsuit.  Collective  was unchanged  at $21.25 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading at 12:55 p.m. The shares have gained
48 percent this year.  The case is Dusablon v. Collective Brands, CA7498, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net 
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  