-- Commodities Close to Erasing 2012’s Gains on Europe, U.S. Data
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-07T20:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/commodities-close-to-erasing-2012-s-gains-on-europe-u-s-data.html
Commodities fell for a fourth straight
session, nearly erasing this year’s gains, after elections in
 France  and Greece showed voters rejecting austerity and fueled
concern that raw-material demand will slow.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index had its worst run
since August, losing as much as 1.3 percent to 645.29, the
lowest level since Dec. 30. The gauge, which tracks 24 raw
materials, settled down 0.2 percent at 4:04 p.m. in New York,
paring gains this year to 1.1 percent. Crude oil fell as much as
3.2 percent to $95.34 a barrel, the lowest since Dec. 20.  Commodities retreated in March, April and this month on
concern that the European debt crisis may endanger the global
recovery. Slowing expansion in  China  and worse-than-expected job
growth in the U.S. also spurred declines. In March, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. cut its three-month commodities outlook to
neutral, warning that economic growth was likely to soften.  “The market is not happy with the sudden increase in
uncertainty,” said Jeremy Friesen, a commodity strategist at
Societe Generale SA, referring to the election outcomes in
 Europe . “We expect China to continue to weaken near term, the
U.S. is still going through this funk, Europe is in recession,
and now you overlay some policy uncertainty.”  Crude-oil futures for June delivery fell 0.6 percent to
settle at $97.94 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Energy,
including crude oil, gasoline and natural gas, accounts for 70.5
percent of the S&P GSCI, according to weightings on Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services’s website for Dec. 30. Most markets in
 London  are closed today for a holiday.  Agriculture Slump  Corn dropped for the first time in three sessions on
speculation that weekend rain and forecasts for warm weather
this week will boost U.S. yield potential. Corn futures for July
delivery fell less than 1 percent to $6.20 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade, while soybean futures dropped 0.8
percent to settle at $14.6575 a bushel.  Cotton futures for July delivery fell 1.5 percent to 86.67
cents a pound in  New York , the fourth straight decline, marking
the longest slide since April 5.  Payrolls in the U.S., the world’s largest economy, climbed
by 115,000 in April, the smallest gain in six months and less
than the median economist forecast of 160,000, Labor Department
data showed on May 4.  In France, Socialist Francois Hollande was elected
president, defeating incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy . Hollande’s
platform calls for policies German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
opposes, including a delayed deficit-reduction effort.  In Greece, voters flocked to anti-bailout parties in
parliamentary elections, calling into question the country’s
ability to impose the measures needed to guarantee its future in
the euro. The euro fell to the lowest level in more than three
months, losing as much as 1 percent to $1.2955.  ‘Major Concerns’  “There are major concerns about the euro,” said  Marito Ueda , a senior managing director in Tokyo at  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a
currency margin company. “People aren’t feeling good about
austerity measures, which are the crux to a resolution of
Europe’s debt problems.”  China’s economy  grew 8.1 percent in the first quarter, the
slowest pace in almost three years, as officials extended a
clampdown on the housing market. Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March set
an annual target of 7.5 percent, the least since 2004.  The S&P GSCI has declined 9.1 percent since reaching a 10-
month high on March 1. While  Brent crude , copper, gold and
soybeans remain higher this year, wheat, corn and raw sugar have
declined.  Goldman Sachs reaffirmed its neutral near-term stance on
commodities last month, citing European debt concerns and
slowing U.S. growth. Over 12 months, the bank forecast a 13
percent return and kept an “overweight” recommendation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  