-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Increases by Most in 10 Years
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-05-07T19:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-rose-in-march-by-most-in-over-10-years.html
Consumer borrowing  in the U.S. surged
in March by the most in more than a decade on growing demand for
educational financing and autos.  Credit rose by $21.4 billion, the biggest gain since
November 2001, to $2.54 trillion, Federal Reserve figures showed
today in  Washington . The advance was paced by a $16.2 billion
jump in non-revolving debt, including student and car loans.  Americans may have been trying to get school financing
before a possible increase in interest rates takes place on July
1. Rising  consumer confidence  also means that households are
more willing to take on debt to boost spending, which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy.  “There was a burst of borrowing in March as warm weather
pulled forward spring shopping and auto sales were strong,”
said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP
Paribas in New York. “Student loan growth continues to be very
strong and a little worrisome. Smoothing through the monthly
volatility consumers are becoming a little more comfortable with
borrowing to buy cars.”  Stocks rose following the biggest weekly decline in 2012,
led by bank shares. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2
percent to 1,371.1 at 3:30 p.m. in  New York .  The increase in  consumer credit  topped the $9.8 billion
 median forecast  of 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. It
also exceeded the highest estimate, with projections ranging
from increases of $4.5 billion to $15 billion.  Government Lending  The surge in  non-revolving debt  followed a $11.6 billion
gain in February, today’s report showed. The Fed’s data don’t
track debt secured by real estate, such as home equity lines of
credit. Lending by the federal government, which is mainly for
student loans, climbed by $6.9 billion before adjusting for
seasonal variations.  The rate on the student loans is set to double on July 1
without action by Congress. The rate increase would affect about
7.4 million students, according to the White House, adding an
average of $1,000 a year in payments on college loans.  President  Barack Obama  last week sought to keep pressure on
Congress to freeze the  interest rate  on federally subsidized
 student loans , saying a higher education can’t be an
unaffordable luxury for middle-income Americans.  Some economists were concerned the jump in educational
lending reflected a poor job market.  Jobs Outlook  “Most of the improvement in credit is a function of the
explosion student loan debt,” said Neil Dutta, an economist at
Bank of America Corp. in New York. “The reason student loan
debt is exploding? Because the youth population is having
difficulty finding work. Hardly a good reason for credit
extension.”  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, increased by
$5.2 billion, the first gain in three months, according to the
Fed’s statistics.  Consumer confidence climbed to a four-year high in early
April, according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  Americans are buying more cars as hiring and the economy
improve. Sales of cars and light trucks have exceeded a 14
million annual pace in each of the past four months, the best
performance since 2008, according to figures from Ward’s
Automotive Group.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s largest automaker, said
first-quarter U.S. sales climbed 2.7 percent to an industry-
leading 608,320, helped by the Chevrolet Cruze and Malibu
sedans.  Chrysler Group LLC led the five largest automakers by U.S.
sales in exceeding analysts’ estimates for April as the
industry’s increased production drove expansion in the
manufacturing sector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  