-- Copper Stocks Probably Reflect Financings, Macquarie Says
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2012-05-07T06:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/copper-stocks-probably-reflect-financings-macquarie-says.html
Copper is probably being used in more
financing transactions, leading to reduced supplies of the metal
in warehouses monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange, Macquarie
Group Ltd. said.  LME-monitored stockpiles of the metal have dropped 38
percent this year to 230,625 metric tons, the lowest since
October 2008, according to exchange data.  Copper used in financings when there is a shortage of metal
is “rare,” Macquarie said in a report dated today.  “In theory, copper financing shouldn’t work, however it
appears that such trades have occurred,” Ryan Belshaw, an
analyst at Macquarie in London, said in the report. The
decreasing availability of copper on the LME “is now being
driven by a large increase in copper being financed in off-
exchange warehouses.”  Financings of the metal outside the LME warehouse network
will probably keep premiums of the metal over the LME price
“high” outside of  China , Belshaw said. “We expect the
financing deals are unlikely to continue beyond the
fourth quarter.”  Traders are able to make a profit from financings because
metal is selling at a premium over LME prices and metal can be
sold and bought back later at a lower price, according to
Macquarie. The price of copper for immediate delivery
was $78.50 a ton higher than the metal for delivery in three
months on May 4, LME data on Bloomberg show.  Financings are common in aluminum and zinc because both
markets are in surplus, allowing traders to make a profit by
buying metal and selling it later at a higher price that
compensates for the cost of finance, storage and insurance,
Macquarie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  