-- Cost-Benefit Analysis Puts the Brakes on Dodd-Frank
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-05-07T15:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/cost-benefit-analysis-puts-the-brakes-on-dodd-frank.html
Business lobbyists and Republican
lawmakers who failed to stop the Dodd-Frank Act from becoming
law have managed to put the brakes on many of its provisions a
second way: cost-benefit analysis.  A series of legal challenges from business groups against
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ended in a federal
court ruling last year that the agency didn’t adequately analyze
the cost of a new rule. In the months since, SEC rulemaking has
ground to a near-halt, with just 24 agency economists working
full-time to provide analyses for dozens of proposed policies,
including 28 unfinished Dodd-Frank rules.  Now lawmakers are trying to write the cost-benefit strategy
into law. The goal, said Representative  Scott Garrett , a New
Jersey Republican, is to save taxpayers money while also
weakening the ability of regulators to implement Dodd-Frank.  “That may very well be the effect,” said Garrett, who is
the chairman of the House Financial Services subcommittee with
oversight of the SEC. “But if you stood next to me a proponent
of Dodd-Frank, they should be willing, ready and able to support
legislation that would make sure you’re not wasting money in the
implementation of Dodd-Frank.”  The strategy has spread to target other federal agencies as
well. In December, two groups representing Wall Street firms
filed suit against the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
arguing that a rule to limit speculation used a flawed cost-
benefit analysis. Last month, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
the  Investment Company Institute  filed a similar lawsuit
challenging a CFTC rule affecting mutual funds.  Letter to Regulators  The largest financial-industry trade groups sent a letter
to the SEC, CFTC and banking regulators in February, urging them
to conduct a “rigorous cost-benefit analysis” of a proposal
for banning proprietary trading by insured banks. The letter was
signed by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, the Clearing House, the Financial Services
Roundtable and the  American Bankers Association .  In a separate February comment letter,  Bank of America
Corp.  said regulators should write the so-called Volcker rule --
named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , “informed by the
cost-benefit analysis required” by last year’s court ruling.  Roel Campos, a former SEC commissioner, said the court
decision combined with pressure from  Capitol Hill  could prevent
the SEC and other agencies from moving forward with a wide
variety of rules, not just those required by Dodd-Frank.  ‘Powerful Tool’  “The business community has been given a new powerful tool
to use against any rulemakings they dislike,” said Campos, who
is now a partner at the Locke Lord LLP law firm in Washington.
“The standard will prevent the agency from being able to deal
with anything that’s controversial.”  SEC rules still waiting to be completed include one that
would require companies to disclose whether they use material
that was mined in the  Democratic Republic  of the Congo and
another that would govern executive compensation. A recently
enacted law that eases securities regulation for closely held
firms and newly public companies will also add to the SEC’s
rule-writing responsibilities.  As the SEC’s to-do list gets longer, congressional pressure
on the agency is intensifying. Since April 17, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has spent more than five hours before two House
committees answering at least 50 questions about how the agency
calculates the cost of rules it proposes.  New Legislation  Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, introduced
legislation April 26 that would require the SEC to study the
cost of its proposals. The bill is similar to one that Garrett
is shepherding through the House.  “This shouldn’t be remarkable,” said Eugene Scalia, a
lawyer at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Washington. “It should
be normal for federal agencies to look at how costly their rules
are before imposing them.”  Scalia, son of Supreme Court Justice  Antonin Scalia , helped
lay the foundation that would ultimately spur debate in
Congress. He won a case at the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in July
that overturned an SEC rule that would have expanded shareholder
rights. In the decision, U.S. Circuit Judge Douglas Ginsburg
wrote that the SEC “inconsistently and opportunistically framed
the costs and benefits” of the shareholder proposal.  ‘Harsh Language’  Representative  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina Republican
and chairman of a House Oversight and Government Reform
subcommittee, told Schapiro during an April 17 hearing that the
decision included “particularly harsh language” from the
court.  Garrett said the results of the shareholder case, which was
brought by the Chamber of Commerce and the  Business Roundtable ,
was an “indicator that we’re not just speaking off the top of
our head.”  “We’re actually speaking and are able to cite an
independent third party: the court,” he said.  Schapiro has told lawmakers that calculating the cost and
benefit of a rule is much harder than it sounds. Quantifying the
benefits is particularly daunting, she said, because outcomes
are often social improvements that are hard to quantify, such as
increased transparency or enhanced financial stability.  “Quantifying costs is difficult but the task of
quantifying benefits is very much more difficult because they
are often very, very hard to put a dollar number on,” she said
at the April 17 hearing. “Our challenge is to do the best we
can.”  Alternative Approaches  Schapiro is attempting to comply with the proposed
legislation ahead of time by instructing staff that all rules
must be accompanied by an analysis that explains why the
regulation is necessary, identifies alternative approaches and
considers the costs and benefits on both a quantitative and
qualitative basis.  That isn’t enough, said Tom Quaadman, vice president of the
Chamber of Commerce’s Center for Capital Markets
Competitiveness.  “We think it’s a step in the right direction, but it’s
only half a loaf,” Quaadman said in a telephone interview.
“After two years, you should again have the economists reassess
regulations to determine what the real costs are post-
implementation.”  At the April 17 hearing, McHenry was more positive and
thanked Schapiro for her “thoughtful attention to the concerns
that we’ve raised.” Still, he expressed concern that rule-
writers might try to exert influence over economists.  E-Mail Exchange  He referred to a Sept. 13, 2010, e-mail exchange in which
Meredith Cross, director of the SEC’s corporate finance
division, asked that economists “not add qualitative cost-
benefit discussions that could be controversial without having
senior discussions.”  The e-mail reveals a “deeply held cultural problem with
cost-benefit analysis if you have to have senior level
discussions before an economist attaches any real cost that
could raise problem,” McHenry said.  Schapiro defended Cross to McHenry as “one of the finest
public servants I have ever worked with” who “believes deeply
in cost-benefit analysis.”  Judith Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, wouldn’t comment on the
communication between rule-writers and economists.  Though Schapiro’s stance has been well-received by both
Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill, it hasn’t ended
scrutiny of the agency.  “Make no mistake, this subcommittee intends to vigorously
monitor the implementation of this document at the commission,”
McHenry told Schapiro. “We will hold Chairman Schapiro
accountable for the commitments that she’s made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  