-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as European Austerity Backlash Grows
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-07T21:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-european-austerity-backlash-grows.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
increased for the third straight day as election results in
 Europe  indicated a backlash against austerity measures.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of 100.1
basis points at 5:39 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts linked to  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) 
climbed the most in nearly a month as the second-largest U.S.
satellite-television provider reported a 34 percent drop in
profit.  The swaps index rose as  France  elected socialist leader
 Francois Hollande , who has called for a delayed deficit-
reduction effort, and Greek voters picked anti-bailout parties.
The results point to growing opposition to austerity measures
imposed by European governments in response to the debt crisis.  “Uncertainty leads to a higher  risk premium ,” Mark Pibl,
head of credit strategy at broker-dealer Cortview Capital
Securities LLC, said in a telephone interview. “If Europe
sneezes what will happen in the U.S.? Correlation across the
credit markets is fairly high.”  Hollande used his campaign to call for increased spending,
in contrast to austerity policies advanced by European leaders
like German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . Greek elections left the
two biggest parties short of a clear majority to keep bailout
efforts on track.  Trade-Off  There will be a trade-off between deficit-cutting measures
and growth through spending, according to  Michael Kraft , senior
portfolio manager at Vanderbilt Avenue Asset Management LLC.
“There is a push and pull going on and it’s not clear which
direction is going to win,” he said.  The credit swaps measure, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, breached the
100-basis point mark for the first time in almost two weeks.  The default swaps contracts pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The cost to protect against losses on Dish’s debt increased
by 11.2 basis points to a mid-price of 305.8 basis points at
5:27 p.m., Bloomberg prices show. That’s the biggest rise since
the contracts rose by 12.4 points on April 10. First-quarter net
income fell to $360 million, the Englewood, Colorado-based Dish
said today in a statement, compared to $549 million in the same
period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  