-- D.E. Shaw to Start Fund to Buy Europe Bank Loans, Mortgages
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-05-07T16:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/d-e-shaw-to-start-fund-to-buy-europe-bank-loans-mortgages.html
D.E. Shaw & Co., the $26 billion New
York-based hedge fund that uses computer models to pick trades,
plans a fund whose investments will include European loans.  The Alkali Fund, which will start in July, will invest in
residential mortgage-backed securities, consumer asset-backed
debt, troubled loans, credit extensions to borrowers who do not
have access to bank financing, and corporate credit, according
to a document dated April 2012 that was obtained by Bloomberg
News. The Alkali Fund will be managed mostly by D.E. Shaw’s
asset-backed securities team, with some help from the corporate-
credit managers, according to the document.  “We believe that a substantial portion of Alkali Fund’s
opportunity set will result from pressure on European banks to
reduce their leverage,” the firm said in the document. “We
expect that a deleveraging in  Europe  will occur both actively
through asset sales and passively through a reduction in
origination of credit and willingness to roll over debt as it
matures.”  Marc Lasry ’s Avenue Capital Group LLC,  Leon Black ’s Apollo
Global Management LLC and  Bruce Richards ’ Marathon Asset
Management LP are among  hedge funds  and private-equity firms
that have targeted European distressed assets as managers seek
to take advantage of opportunities fueled by the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis. D.E. Shaw did not say how much has been
raised for the Alkali Fund in assets or commitments.  Size of Europe Opportunity  European banks hold about 500 billion euros ($652 billion)
worth of nonperforming loans, with estimates of assets not core
to their main businesses ranging from 1.7 trillion to 2.5
trillion euros, D.E. Shaw said in the document. Lasry said last
week he estimates the size of the European distressed  debt
market  to be about $1 trillion.  D.E. Shaw’s asset-backed securities team was formed in
August 2008, and has been responsible for $800 million in gross
trading profits for one of the firm’s multistrategy funds,
according to the document.  The firm has “in many cases established commercial
relationships with a number of loan servicing partners,
particularly in  Spain  and the  United Kingdom ,” it said. The
fund may partner with servicers for joint ventures.  The  European Central Bank ’s 1 trillion-euro long-term
refinancing operation, initiated in December to provide
liquidity to the region’s lenders, may limit short-term
investments because it allows banks to delay asset sales, D.E.
Shaw said. The Alkali Fund may also capitalize on opportunities
in the U.S. and other regions, the firm said.  “We believe the short-term opportunities for investors to
benefit from buying large portfolios of non-core assets as a
means of gaining exposure to European credit beta may be
limited,” the firm said in the document.  Mortgage-Backed Securities  U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities and consumer
asset-backed securities will comprise “a meaningful, and
possibly the largest, portion” of the Alkali Fund, D.E. Shaw
said.  Hedge fund managers including Kyle Bass’s Hayman Capital
Management LP and Deepak Narula’s Metacapital Management LP have
sought cash for new mortgage funds. Cerberus Capital Management
LP, CQS U.K. LLP and Canyon Partners LLC started similar
investment pools after prices slumped last year.  European banks are estimated to own about 100 billion euros
worth of U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities, which they
may sell to reduce U.S.-dollar funding, a “potentially rich
source of inefficiently priced assets,” D.E. Shaw said. The
firm also expects U.S. financial institutions will serve as a
source of the holdings.  David Shaw , a former Columbia University computer science
professor, founded D.E. Shaw in 1988. A spokeswoman for D.E.
Shaw declined to comment on the fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  