-- Delta Petroleum Selects Laramie Energy to Back Recovery Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-05-07T23:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/delta-petroleum-selects-laramie-energy-to-back-recovery-plan.html
Delta Petroleum Corp., an oil and
natural-gas explorer and developer, decided against selling
virtually all its assets and instead chose to reorganize the
company under a restructuring plan sponsored by Laramie Energy
II LLC.  The company on April 24 and 25 held an informal round of
bidding with six interested parties, entertaining offers to
either buy the assets or proposals to back a reorganization plan
to exit bankruptcy.  Delta determined that Laramie made the “highest and best
offer” for the assets, according to court documents filed May 4
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  “Laramie has offered the highest overall economic value as
compared to the other bids,” said Carl E. Lakey, Delta’s chief
executive officer, in court papers.  Delta and Laramie intend to create a joint venture called
Piceance Energy LLC, which would hold the companies’ oil and
gas, surface real estate and other related assets located in
Garfield and Mesa Counties,  Colorado . Delta’s oil and gas lease
with Buzzard Creek Elk Ranch in Mesa County would be excluded.  Under a yet-to-be-filed plan of reorganization, which would
have to be vetted by creditors and approved by the court, Delta
would get one-third of the equity interest in the joint venture
and Laramie the other two-thirds.  Bankruptcy Court Hearing  Delta will ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey to
approve Laramie as the sponsor for a restructuring plan at a
hearing scheduled for tomorrow.  The company changed its original plan to sell the assets
through a bankruptcy auction, concluding it could generate a
greater recovery for stakeholders if they allowed offers that
would preserve its net operating loss carryforwards and other
tax attributes. Delta has about $885 million in NOLs, which it
says could result in about $309.8 million in tax savings.  Delta, based in Denver, listed $375.5 million in assets and
$310.7 million in debt in Chapter 11 papers filed Dec. 15 when
it sought  bankruptcy protection .  The company predominately operates out of the Piceance
Basin in the Rocky Mountain region of Colorado.  Kirk Kerkorian ,
the billionaire founder of  MGM Resorts International (MGM) , is the
company’s largest shareholder, owning a 33 percent stake in
Delta, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Kerkorian
invested at least $684 million in Delta.  Delta owes $152.2 million on 7 percent notes due in 2015
and $115.5 million on 3.75 percent notes due in 2037, according
to court documents. The 7 percent notes traded at 69.5 cents on
the dollar as of March 29, and the 3.75 percent notes traded at
60 cents on the dollar as of April 13, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulation
Authority.  The case is In re Delta Petroleum Corp., 11-14006, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  