-- Dish Profit Falls as Revenue Misses Estimates, Costs Rise
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-07T21:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/dish-profit-beats-analysts-projections-on-tv-subscriber-growth.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-largest
U.S. satellite-television provider, reported a 34 percent drop
in profit after revenue per customer missed some analysts’
estimates and programming costs increased.  First-quarter net income fell to $360.3 million, or 80
cents a share, Englewood, Colorado-based Dish said today in a
statement. Average monthly revenue per user rose 1.8 percent
from a year earlier to $76.71. Analysts projected $77.31 on
average, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s  Craig Moffett  said.  The “anemic” gain means Dish’s margins are shrinking
while costs to buy programming rise, New York-based Moffett
said. While customer gains exceeded analysts’ predictions,
subscriber-related expenses rose 4.1 percent and sales of $3.58
billion missed the $3.62 billion average analyst  estimate .  “Strong subscriber additions, which were led by better-
than-expected churn, will likely be overshadowed by soft
customer revenue,” said  Michael McCormack , an analyst at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in New York.  Dish  fell  1.2 percent to $30.93 at the New York close. The
shares have risen 8.6 percent this year.  Dish added a net 104,000 customers in the quarter, more
than the 54,000 average of 11 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The company’s decision not to raise monthly rates this year
resulted in lower customer defections, Chief Financial Officer
Robert Olson said on a conference call.  Shrinking Margins  The customer gains may not be big enough for Dish to avoid
narrower profit margins in the second and third quarters, which
are typically weaker for subscriber additions, Moffett said.
First-quarter net income totaled $549.4 million, or $1.22 a
share, a year earlier.  Dish also plans to sell $1.5 billion of debt split between
five-year notes that yield about 4.75 percent and 10-year bonds
at about 5.75 percent to 5.875 percent, according to a person
familiar with the offering, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  Dish is preparing for a trial over an alleged breach of
contract with AMC Networks Inc., which is seeking $2.5 billion
in damages from the company. Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said on
the call that he was prepared to drop AMC Networks’ cable
channels from Dish’s offerings because the programming is
available on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , and thus is
“devalued.” The channels include AMC, WE tv, IFC and Sundance
Channel.  Not There Yet  AMC Networks said May 4 that the move was a response to a
court ruling last month denying Dish the right to appeal an
outstanding lawsuit.  While Dish’s Ergen said it may still make sense to renew
AMC at the right price, “we just don’t think that’s where we
are today.”  Ergen reiterated Dish’s commitment to transition from a TV
provider to a wireless company. The Federal Communications
Commission will determine whether Dish is able to use satellite
spectrum to provide land-based voice and data service, a process
Ergen said he hoped would be “done by the end of the summer.”
The FCC can make a ruling any day after June 1, Ergen said.  Dish is more likely to forge a partnership with an existing
wireless company than sell the spectrum or build a network
itself, Ergen said. The company is “talking to everybody” to
best position itself, he said.  “I think you can expect us to be conservative in how we
enter the wireless business,” Ergen said. “But that doesn’t
mean that you don’t go out and do things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  