-- EDF Drops on Concern About Power Rates, Spending Under Hollande
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-07T10:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/edf-drops-on-concern-about-power-rates-spending-under-hollande.html
Electricite de France SA , the biggest
nuclear operator, dropped the most in more than three weeks on
worries that President-elect Francois Hollande will hold down
regulated power rates while demanding investment to create jobs.  EDF fell as much as 3.2 percent and traded down 22 cents at
16.11 euros at 12:03 p.m. in Paris. The shares have lost about
43 percent over the past year.  Hollande’s victory “doesn’t bode well for regulated
activities,”  Chicuong Dang , an analyst at Richelieu Finance in
Paris, said by telephone. “There are worries that any measures
to boost growth will involve spending for EDF.”  Hollande, who won the French election with 51.6 percent of
the vote, has pledged measures that could affect EDF, as well as
former state-controlled natural-gas monopoly  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  and
 Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest oil company, which has gas
stations across the country. The proposals include shutting one
atomic plant in eastern France, a new system for energy and
water rates and a freeze on pump prices pending levy revisions.  GDF Suez dropped as much as 1.7 percent and traded down 5.5
cents at 17.035 euros. The shares have declined about 35 percent
over the past year.  Hollande has pledged to shut EDF’s oldest reactor at
Fessenheim during his five-year term. This eased concerns last
year that he’d take more reactors offline amid a pledge to boost
alternative energy. EDF provides more than 75 percent of
 France ’s electricity, a proportion Hollande has promised to cut
to about 50 percent by 2025.  The Socialist president-elect has also promised to put in
place “progressive rates” for water, power and natural gas
that would make them more affordable for low-income households.  Another of Hollande’s proposals is to freeze gasoline and
diesel prices for three months to give the new government time
to revise the fuel tax system. More generally, Hollande wants to
boost economic growth in part through additional spending.  The measures would be put in place after a government has
been named, Bernard Cazeneuve, a spokesman for Hollande, told
LCI television today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  