-- Education Department Criticized on Student-Loan Collections
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-05-07T15:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/education-department-criticized-on-student-loan-collections.html
The U.S. Education Department must
step up its oversight of private student-loan debt collectors,
improving the tracking of borrower complaints and changing its
commission system to reward  customer service , a report found.  Contractors hired by the government to chase defaulted
borrowers fail to maintain “fair and efficient” systems to
track complaints, according to the report, released today by the
 National Consumer Law Center , a Boston-based nonprofit advocacy
group. The department weighs collection, rather than complaints,
too heavily in awarding contracts, it said.  With $67 billion of student loans in default, the Education
Department has hired 23 private debt-collection companies to
chase borrowers. They include Pioneer Credit Recovery, a unit of
 SLM Corp. (SLM) , the largest student-loan company, known as Sallie
Mae. In the year ended in September, the department received
1,406 complaints against the debt collectors, up 41 percent from
the year before -- a figure the report said probably understates
conflicts with borrowers struggling to repay loans.  “There is a balance between the need to collect  student
loans  and the need to assist borrowers,” according to the
report’s authors, staff attorney Deanne Loonin and research
assistant Jillian McLaughlin. “At this point, the balance is
tilted overwhelmingly in favor of high collections and
collection agency profits.”  Companies that collect student loans directly for the
department and through state agencies received about $1 billion
in commissions last year, according to a review of contracts and
agency data.  In March, the Education Department said it was reviewing
the commissions it pays collectors and proposed requiring them
to let student-loan borrowers make payments based on what they
can afford, rather than the size of their debt.  Chris Greene, an Education Department spokesman, said the
agency hasn’t had a chance to review the report. Patricia Nash
Christel, a spokeswoman for  Sallie Mae , didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  