-- Edward Conard Says What Mitt Romney Won’t
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-05-07T17:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/edward-conard-says-what-mitt-romney-won-t.html
The people at the  New York  Times
Magazine must think that nobody has ever read Ayn  Rand , or maybe
even  Adam Smith .  Their cover story on Sunday -- misleadingly titled, “ Are
the Rich Worth a Damn? ” -- reports breathlessly that there is
this fellow named Edward Conard who believes in free-market
capitalism and is willing to fill a gap in the argument we’ve
been having about growing income inequality. Until now there
hasn’t been anyone, or at least anyone still alive, willing to
say publicly that what the U.S. needs is more inequality, not
less. (Conard has even written  a book  about “Why Everything
You’ve Been Told About the Economy Is Wrong.”)  The argument is basically Smith’s, carried to extremes: The
invisible hand of free-market capitalism turns individual greed
into prosperity for all. But Conard also shares Rand’s special
twist of portraying the successful businessman as a hero, the
Alpha Male at his finest, and everybody else as mediocre
deadbeats and leeches.  He says  Warren Buffett  should “quit taking a victory lap”
for saying that the rich should pay more taxes, because “that
money is for the middle class.” Conard means, believe it or not,
that the middle class is better off paying more taxes so that
people like Buffett can pay less and use their superior drive
and brains to finance innovation that makes everybody richer.  Necessary Distinctions  Let’s accept the thesis that people have earned their
wealth if their contribution to society outweighs the
contribution to their own pocketbook. This still leaves you a
long way from Conard’s belief that incomes should be more
unequal, not less. There is a necessary distinction between
riches gained through truly productive, socially beneficial
activity, and riches from activities that just enrich the actor.  The New York Times story, by Adam Davidson, concedes that
many large fortunes are nothing more than what economists call
“monopoly rents” such as the value of broadcast licenses given
away free by the government, or ownership of land (“they’re not
making any more of it,” as they say) in places where rising
population makes it more valuable.  Conard clearly believes that he is in the Alpha elite that
should get more money, not less. He was a partner of  Mitt Romney 
at  Bain Capital  until he retired a few years ago at age 51. This
makes him a counterexample to his own theory. His rapid
accumulation of huge wealth (estimated in the story to be “most
likely in the hundreds of millions”) did not cause him to buckle
down and work even harder. It caused him to retire and follow
pursuits more satisfying to him than making more money.  The theory behind free-market capitalism is undeniably true
and undeniably powerful in explaining the world around us. But
it explains less and less as we move up the income scale. At the
tippy-top, among the really rich, it makes no sense at all.  Why do people try to maximize their incomes? The poor
person wants more money in order to eat. The middle class person
wants a better house or a new washing machine. Even a rich
person may want an even better house or a servant to wash the
clothes. But what does a really, really rich person -- worth,
say, “most likely in the hundreds of millions” -- want that
money can buy? What motivates him or her to get up and go to
work every morning?  It’s not hard to come up with a few obvious psychological
factors (competition, egocentrism, lack of imagination … ), but
the desire for even more money to spend can’t be one of them.
The more someone has benefited from free-market economics, the
less the theory behind free-market economics explains her
actions or justifies his remuneration.  Proper Rewards  By Conard’s reasoning, the proper measure for reward of a
billionaire isn’t the value of her contribution to society. It’s
how much it would take to induce him -- or someone like him --
to make that contribution. Facebook’s imminent IPO could leave
its founder,  Mark Zuckerberg , with a fortune of  more than $17
billion .  Let’s accept that the existence of Facebook contributes
more than $17 billion to the good of society. (Conard offers
Sergei Brin of Google to make this same argument.) It doesn’t
follow, as Conard seems to think, that every dollar of
Zuckerberg’s $17 billion is a bargain for society, or that we
should want Zuckerberg to have more money, not less.  Would Zuckerberg not have created Facebook if he only
expected to make, say, $12 billion? If Zuckerberg had never been
born, would no one else have come up with the idea of Facebook?
Even if someone else’s Facebook would be worth less than $17
billion, it would still be worth more than nothing. And it
lowers the amount Zuckerberg needs or deserves, dollar-for-
dollar.  There is no evidence that remuneration at the very top of
society is calculated to extract the maximum amount of
entrepreneurial energy and talent at the minimum price. In fact,
quite the reverse: There’s every reason to think we overpay.  Let’s even imagine that all the paper shuffling and exotic
transactions that go on in American finance are productive
somehow. Does it follow that we need to pay  Jamie Dimon , chief
executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  $23 million  to do
whatever it is that he does?  Maybe Dimon is uniquely talented and simply would not do it
for less. But maybe he would settle for $10 million if pushed to
the wall. Or perhaps someone just as good, or almost as good,
would do the job for a lower price? This doesn’t mean that Dimon
should be fired and replaced. But it does mean that he doesn’t
need to be paid more, or even as much.  Conard’s argument justifying inequality is just a fleshed-
out version of his former colleague Mitt Romney’s campaign  stump
speech  about how he can save the country as a businessman.
Romney might have preferred not to have his old buddy Conard
spelling out the case for  income inequality  in quite so much
brutal detail. I, on the other hand, think that the more of
Romney’s friends there are publishing books and appearing in
magazine articles trying to make the case for more inequality in
the next few months, the better.  In fact, Romney himself should start arguing explicitly for
greater inequality. It would be the result of his announced
economic policies in any event. But I suppose that’s too much to
hope for.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 