-- Legend Holdings Said to Hire Banks for $200 Million Facility
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-05-07T12:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/legend-holdings-said-to-hire-banks-for-200-million-facility-1-.html
Legend Holdings Ltd.’s unit Right Lane
Ltd. hired banks to help arrange a $200 million-equivalent
three-year syndicated  term loan , according to two people
familiar with the matter.  The so-called bullet loan will pay a margin of 2.65 percent
over benchmark rates and banks can fund the facility in either
 Hong Kong  dollars or U.S. dollars, the people said, asking not
to be identified because the details are private. The company
will hold bank meetings in Hong Kong and Taipei starting next
week and is seeking bank commitments by June 11, the people
said.  Officials at Legend Holdings in Beijing couldn’t be reached
to comment on the financing outside of normal business hours.
 Legend Holdings  was established in 1984 by 11 researchers at the
Computing Institute under the Chinese Academy of Sciences. It
now has more than 42,000 employees, including 7,000 outside of
 China , according to its website.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Natixis, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Wing Lung Bank joined the
facility as mandated lead arrangers prior to it being marketed
to a wider group of lenders, the people said today.  Proceeds of the loan, which is guaranteed by Legend
Holdings, will be used for general corporate purposes and to
refinance debt, the people said. Legend Holdings has interests
in information technology, private equity and real estate,
including in Lenovo Group Ltd. and Hony Capital Co., according
to its website.  A bullet loan’s entire principal, and sometimes the
principal and interest, is due at the end of the loan term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  