-- Emerging Stocks Drop to 3-Month Low as Oil Falls on Vote Results
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-05-07T22:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/emerging-stocks-extend-worst-slump-since-2008-on-french-election.html
Emerging-market equities slumped to
the lowest level in more than three months, with Korean and
Taiwanese stocks leading declines, as French and Greek voters
rejected pro-austerity parties and oil slipped to a 2012 low.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 1.1 percent to
1,001.85 by 5:46 p.m. in New York, the weakest since Jan. 25.
Industrial and information technology companies drove declines
as  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140)  fell the most since November.
South Korea’s Kospi Index and Taiwan’s Taiex slid more than 1.6
percent.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  advanced for the first time in
three days as  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3)  jumped in Sao Paulo.  Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande  defeated President
Nicolas Sarkozy in French elections, while  Greece ’s political
leaders struggled to form a coalition government after voters
flocked to anti-bailout parties. Crude oil sank to as three-
month low of $97.94 a barrel, pushing the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of commodities down for a fourth day on concern a
slowing global economy will hit resource demand.  “Emerging market weakness is carrying over from last week
because euro zone debt concerns and slow growth recession
concerns are still floating around,”  Win Thin , global head of
 emerging markets  strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., said
by phone in  New York  today. “The soft data is not good for risk
assets.”  The MSCI developing nations gauge had its seventh weekly
drop last week, its longest run of declines since 2008, paring
its yearly advance to 9.3 percent. The index is  valued  at 10.4
times estimated earnings of member companies, compared with the
 MSCI World Index’s (MXWO)  valuation of 12.2 times. The developed market
measure has added 6.6 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ETF Climbs  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF tracking developing-nation shares,
rose 0.4 percent to $41.51 today, the biggest jump since May 1.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 0.3 percent to 26.68, the
highest level since April 23.  Hollande, the first Socialist in 17 years to control
 Europe ’s second-biggest economy, has called for policies German
Chancellor Angela Merkel opposes, including increased spending
and a delayed deficit-reduction effort for euro region nations.
In Greece, New Democracy and the socialist Pasok party, who were
rivals until the country’s debt crisis pushed them into a
national government, didn’t win enough seats to form a
parliamentary majority.  Hypermarcas Profit  The Bovespa rose 0.7 percent as Hypermarcas, a Brazilian
maker of more than 190 consumer products, climbed 5.8 percent,
the most since March 13. The Sao Paulo-based company reported
today that profit grew 24 percent in the first quarter on rising
pharmaceutical sales.  Vanguarda Agro SA (VAGR3) , a Brazilian agricultural company backed
by Spanish billionaire Enrique Banuelos, added 5.6 percent, the
most since February. It was the second-biggest gainer on the
Bovespa.  Samsung Heavy, a South Korean shipyard, declined 6.4
percent, the most since Nov. 10, in  Seoul . The Kospi slipped 1.6
percent.  The  Taiex Index (TWSE)  tumbled 2.1 percent. Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. slid 2.3 percent and Cathay Financial Holding
Co., the country’s largest financial services company, retreated
2.7 percent.  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  lost 2.8 percent.  Market ‘Jitters’  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China suspended a 15
percent discount on mortgage for first-time home buyers
nationwide, the official Xinhua News Agency reported on May 5.
China Construction Bank Corp., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.
and Bank of China Ltd. all retreated at least 1.5 percent after
Religare Capital Markets said that other banks may follow ICBC.  Payrolls in the U.S. rose by 115,000 in April, falling
short of the median economist estimate for a 160,000 advance,
U.S. Labor Department figures showed on May 4.  The U.S. jobs data and the results of the French
presidential election are sending “jitters through the Asian
markets today,” Vasu Menon, vice president for wealth
management at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore, told
Bloomberg Television. “If the market pulls back another 5
percent, 8 percent, you will see bargain hunters coming back to
bargain hunt for stocks because the fundamentals for  Asia  are
still fairly strong.  China’s exports to  Taiwan  dropped 8.6 percent to $7.37
billion in the first three months of the year, according to the
Commerce. Ministry The country’s consumer-price index rose 1.4
percent in April from a year ago, compared with a revised 1.25
percent increase in March, the statistics bureau said in Taipei
today. The median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists was for a 1.4 percent gain.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 345 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  