-- Employment Index in U.S. Climbs, Showing Job Market Improving
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-07T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/employment-index-in-u-s-climbs-showing-job-market-improving.html
A measure of job prospects in the U.S.
climbed in April, indicating the labor market is healing as the
world’s largest economy expands.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index increased
0.8 percent to 108.04, the highest since July 2008, from the
prior month’s revised reading of 107.18, the New York-based
private research group said today. The measure rose 7.1 percent
from April 2011.  The report follows Labor Department data last week that
showed employers added fewer workers than forecast during the
month, while the jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 8.1 percent
as people left the workforce. Faster hiring is needed to provide
the wage growth that would fuel  consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  The measure “is signaling moderate improvements in
employment,”  Gad Levanon , director of macroeconomic research at
the Conference Board, said in a statement. “The disappointing
job gain in April is probably below the current trend and should
pick up.”  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, it
can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months before
the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months in
advance, the Conference Board said.  Improvements in five of the index’s eight components
contributed to the advance in the overall gauge in April. These
included an increase in the share of companies with positions
they’re not able to fill. The measure was also boosted by fewer
Americans saying jobs are difficult to get and a gain in the
number of temporary workers.  Payrolls climbed 115,000 in April, the smallest increase in
six months, after a revised 154,000 gain in March that was
larger than initially estimated, the Labor Department said on
May 4. The median estimate of 85 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey called for a 160,000 advance. The  unemployment rate  fell
to a three-year low of 8.1 percent, and earnings stagnated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  