-- Euro Area Must Take Austerity Pain Now, Dombrovskis Says
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/eu-must-take-austerity-pain-now-to-end-crisis-dombrovskis-says.html
Europe ’s most indebted nations
shouldn’t use their recessions as an excuse to avoid committing
to austerity plans if the region is ever to emerge from its debt
crisis, Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said.  “It’s important to do the adjustment, if you see that
adjustment is needed, to do it quickly, to frontload it and do
the bulk already during the crisis,” Dombrovskis said yesterday
in an interview in Stockholm.  Latvia’s economy  contracted 18 percent  in 2009, more than
any other nation in the European Union, after Dombrovskis’
government hung on to power to push through austerity measures
mandated by an International Monetary Fund-led bailout. Yet the
program proved successful and the Baltic country’s economy
rebounded in 2010 to achieve growth in excess of 5 percent last
year.  Latvia ’s budget deficit will narrow to 3.3 percent of the
economy this year, from 9.7 percent in 2009, the European
Commission estimates.  Deficit reduction goals inside the euro region suffered a
setback this week as May 6 elections in  France  and Greece saw
voters embrace anti-austerity candidates. In Greece, the
weekend’s election outcome raised speculation Europe’s most
indebted nation may exit the currency bloc as anti-bailout
parties stole the agenda. In France,  Francois Hollande  told
voters “austerity isn’t inevitable” after he defeated  Nicolas Sarkozy  to become the first Socialist to win the presidency in
17 years.  ‘Never Popular’  “Certainly austerity is never a very popular subject and
in this case the question is, are there really alternatives,”
Dombrovskis said. “Of course, a country can say we don’t like
austerity, but then the question they should ask first is who is
going to finance the budget deficits, financial markets aren’t
in the mood to finance large deficits right now.”  The debate as to whether governments should prioritize
austerity over economic growth as Europe struggles to emerge
from its crisis is splitting the region. German Chancellor
Angela Merkel yesterday rejected “huge” stimulus programs in
her first response to Hollande’s election victory.  “The core of the discussion is whether we again need debt-
financed economic programs, or whether we need growth elements
that are sustainable and oriented toward the economic strength
of certain countries,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin
yesterday.  Contracting Economies  The euro region will contract 0.3 percent this year, the
European Commission said in February.  Greece ’s economy will
shrink 4.4 percent after contracting 6.8 percent in 2011, it
said. At the same time, average debt in the currency bloc will
swell to 90.4 percent of gross domestic product, well above the
European Union’s 60 percent threshold. Latvia’s debt will reach
45 percent, the commission estimates.  Greece’s New Democracy leader, Antonis Samaras, yesterday
said he failed to form a government after the weekend’s election
rewarded politicians with anti-bailout agendas. The attempt to
forge a government will now pass toAlexis Tsipras, the head of
Syriza, the second biggest party, which has vowed to cancel the
republic's bailout terms.  Countries that have tried to postpone savings and relied on
deficits to finance spending will send their economies into even
deeper recessions, Dombrovskis said.  “If the EU is to provide assistance to Greece and other
countries they certainly would like to see credible and quick
paths to how those countries will restore sustainable
finances,” he said. “Nobody is willing to put money in some
bottomless place.”  Investment Grade  Latvia’s  economy  contracted about 25 percent in total in
2008 and 2009, then the deepest recession in the world, after a
lending-fueled real-estate boom turned to bust and international
credit markets froze. The economy is growing at a “good pace”
again and expanded 5.7 percent in the fourth quarter,
Dombrovskis said.  Growth in the first quarter will be on the same level, he
said, adding he expects expansion this year to “substantially”
exceed the government’s official forecast for 2 percent.  Standard & Poor’s  on May 2 raised Latvia’s credit rating to
BBB-, restoring its investment grade for the first time since
2009. Five-year credit-default swaps on Latvian debt eased to
245 basis points this week from 365 at the end of last year. The
country’s default swaps peaked at 1,193 basis points in March
2009.  “If we compare with the financial markets assessment it
seems we are still substantially underrated so we would expect
further credit rating increases this year,” Dombrovskis said.  The Baltic country in February sold $1 billion of five-year
bonds, at a yield of 5.375 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The international sale was the first by Latvia
since it raised $500 million from a 10-year bond in June last
year. The country has covered its financing need this year, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in  Stockholm  at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  