-- European Stocks Advance After Elections in France, Greece
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-07T16:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/european-stock-futures-sink-as-voters-punish-austerity.html
European stocks  rose the most in more
than a week as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she will
receive French president-elect  Francois Hollande  with “open
arms” as they work together to tackle the debt crisis.  France’s  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  erased
earlier losses. Italian banks rallied as UBS AG recommended
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   CSM (CSM)  NV jumped 19 percent
after saying it will sell its U.S. and European bakery-supply
units. Greece’s  ASE Index (ASE)  plunged the most since November as
voters switched to anti-austerity parties in yesterday’s
election, boosting concern the nation will default.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.7 percent to 254.83 at
the close of trading, erasing an earlier decline of as much as
0.8 percent as a report showed German factory orders topped
forecasts. Today’s gain was the biggest since April 27 and takes
this year’s advance to 4.2 percent.  “Since last week it has been obvious to most people that
Hollande would defeat Sarkozy, but what we need to see is how
he’ll work together with Merkel and what that will mean for the
euro zone,” Alexander Kraemer, a strategist at Commerzbank AG,
said in a phone interview from Frankfurt. “The question will be
how any new growth initiatives will be implemented. Will it be
spurred by new  government spending , being the absolute opposite
of austerity measures, or will it be achieved through liberating
the labor market.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 12 of the 16 western
European markets open today. Spain’s  IBEX 35 (IBEX)  jumped 2.7 percent
and Italy’s FTSE MIB rallied 2.6 percent. Germany’s DAX added
0.1 percent and France’s CAC 40 increased 1.7 percent, while
Greece’s ASE plunged 6.7 percent.  U.K. and Irish markets were closed for a holiday.  Hollande Victory  Hollande defeated French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to
become the first Socialist in 17 years to control Europe’s
second-biggest economy. He pledged to push for less austerity
and more growth in the region.  Merkel said she will welcome Hollande in Germany with
“open arms,” while rejecting government stimulus as the way to
spur economic growth in Europe.  “This discussion is not whether we should pursue
consolidation or growth, it’s completely clear that we need
both,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin today. “Rather, I think
the core of the discussion is whether we again need debt-
financed economic programs, or whether we need growth elements
that are sustainable and oriented toward the economic strength
of certain countries.”  Banks Climb  BNP Paribas and Societe Generale, the biggest French
lenders, gained 4.2 percent to 30.21 euros and 4 percent 17.99
euros, respectively, erasing earlier losses. The spread between
German 10-year government bond yields and French yields on
similar-maturity debt narrowed.  UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo rose 5.6 percent to 2.85
euros and 3.9 percent to 1.09 euros, respectively, as UBS kept
its positive view of the lenders among Italian banks.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest lender, rallied 4.7
percent to 4.90 euros.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
advanced 5.4 percent to 5.29 euros.  CSM, the world’s biggest maker of bakery ingredients,
jumped 19 percent to 12.94 euros, the biggest gain since at
least 1989, as the company said it will sell U.S. and European
bakery-supply units to fund the Purac and Caravan bio-based
ingredients brands’ growth.  Lafarge, Air France  Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s biggest cement maker, increased 4
percent to 30.50 euros. Analysts at Citigroup Inc., Helvea AG
and Equita SIM SpA upgraded the shares.  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  rallied 6.6 percent to 3.71 euros, the
highest in almost three weeks. Credit Suisse Group AG raised the
stock to neutral from underperform.  German factory orders rose more than forecast in March as
demand from outside the euro area helped Europe’s largest
economy weather the debt crisis. Orders, adjusted for seasonal
swings and inflation, jumped 2.2 percent from February, when
they gained a revised 0.6 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted a
0.5 percent increase, according to the median of 37 estimates.  National Bank of Greece  plummeted 8.3 percent to 1.55 euros
while Alpha Bank SA dropped 19 percent to 84 euro cents. Public
Power Corp.,  Greece ’s biggest electricity company, retreated 14
percent to 2.14 euros.  Greek Election  Greece’s political leaders struggled to find the support
needed to form a coalition government after voters flocked to
anti-bailout parties, calling into question the country’s
ability to impose the measures needed to guarantee its future in
the euro.  New Democracy  won 19 percent of the  total vote  and 108
seats in the 300-seat parliament. Pasok, the Socialist party
that partnered with New Democracy in securing a second rescue
package for the country, trailed in third place with 13 percent
and 41 seats.  Under the terms of the 130 billion-euro ($169 billion)
bailout from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund ,
international lenders expect to hear in June how Greece will
achieve 11.6 billion euros of savings for 2013 and 2014.
Citigroup Inc. economists said the risk of Greece leaving the
euro has risen to as much as 75 percent from 50 percent before
the election.  Should New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras fail to form a
government, the onus will fall to Syriza, a coalition of left-
wing parties that has vowed to cancel the bailout terms.  Budget Plan  “The stock market is responding negatively to the election
result,” said Frank Velling, the chief strategist at BankInvest
Asset Management A/S in Copenhagen, which manages $17 billion.
“The political situation in Greece must be settled quickly as a
new budget plan must be in place by June to secure more economic
aid.”  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  fell the most since November after
abandoning development of an experimental cholesterol drug. The
biggest maker of cancer drugs dropped 3.5 percent to 159.40
Swiss francs after an independent group of experts recommended
stopping the study of the experimental cholesterol drug
dalcetrapib  “due to a lack of clinically meaningful
efficacy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  