-- Euro Strength Intact as Contagion Ends Aussie Dollar Haven
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-07T15:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/euro-strength-intact-as-contagion-ends-aussie-dollar-haven-1-.html
The euro is confounding bears
predicting a meltdown as it gets an unexpected boost from the
economic and political turmoil gripping  Europe .  The 17-nation currency has risen about 1 percent against
nine peers from this year’s low on Jan. 16, while the dollar
slid 2.3 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Futures
traders are trimming bets that it will fall against the dollar,
while options show investors are less bearish.  Europe’s common currency is trading more than 8 percent
above the average against the dollar since its 1999 creation
even after Spain, Greece, Italy and Portugal slid into recession
and Nicolas Sarkozy became the first French president in 30
years to fail to win re-election amid a region-wide backlash
against austerity. The turbulence is infecting economies
including Australia and Sweden, regarded as havens, prompting
policy makers in those countries to cut  interest rates ,
weakening their currencies.  “The euro’s pretty much hanging in there,” Eric Busay, a
currency and international fixed-income  money manager  in
Sacramento at California Public Employees’ Retirement System,
the largest U.S. public pension, with $235 billion in assets,
said in an telephone interview on April 30. “When central banks
are cutting rates, as they are in several countries, there is
clearly not a great reason to be bullish on those currencies.”  Bears Defied  The shared currency’s resilience since the debt crisis
started in Greece in October 2009 has defied investors including
billionaire  George Soros , who said in January that German-driven
austerity plans in Europe risk creating “tensions that could
destroy the European Union.” Bets made at Intrade.com show a
39.5 percent chance of a country exiting the European Union by
Dec. 31, 2013, down from 65 percent in November.  Francois Hollande , 57, defeated Sarkozy, getting about 52
percent against about 48 percent for the incumbent, according to
estimates by four pollsters. Hollande has advocated a more
aggressive European Central Bank role in spurring growth, a
measure opposed by Germany.  Greek voters flocked to anti-bailout parties, throwing
doubt on whether the two main parties can form a government
strong enough to implement spending cuts to ensure the flow of
bailout funds. According to projections based on partially
counted ballots on state-run NET TV, Pasok and New Democracy
would fall one short of the 151 seats needed to win a majority.  ‘Currencies Can Fall’  The euro declined 1.3 percent last week to $1.3084 and was
1.8 percent lower at 104.49 yen. Europe’s common currency has
averaged about $1.20 since it was introduced in January 1999,
and over the last two years has ranged from $1.1877 in June 2010
to $1.4940 in May 2011.  The shared European currency weakened 0.3 percent to
$1.3047 at 11:04 a.m.  New York  time, after dropping to $1.2955,
the lowest level in more than three months.  Strategists say the worst may be over. The median of 48
estimates in a Bloomberg survey is for the euro to trade at
$1.30 by year-end. It will buy 106 yen, a separate survey
showed.  “In a weakening global environment, countries that can cut
rates will do so and their currencies can fall,” Kit Juckes,
head of foreign-exchange research at Societe Generale SA in
 London , said in a telephone interview on May 1. “Europe is an
economy with a currency that isn’t expensive, with not much
scope or appetite for cuts.”  Rate Decision  Traders drove the euro higher on May 3, before it ended
little changed, as the ECB kept rates on hold and President
 Mario Draghi  said policy makers didn’t discuss a cut. It
depreciated 0.1 percent the past three months based on Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-market
currencies, while  Australia’s dollar  dropped 4.6 percent, the
yen 2.4 percent, Sweden’s krona fell 1.2 percent and New
Zealand’s dollar 3.6 percent.  Euro estimates are little changed from current levels even
after  Spain  said last week its gross domestic product contracted
0.3 percent in the first quarter, putting the euro region’s
fourth-largest economy into its second recession since 2009.  At least eight European leaders have either resigned or
lost elections since the start of the debt crisis as austerity
measures contributed to the region’s economic slowdown. Dutch
Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  faces elections in September after his
coalition government collapsed last month amid a dispute over
spending cuts.  ‘Adverse Shocks’  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said April 19 in  Washington  that Europe is the
“epicenter” of risks to global growth. The economy of the
nations that share the euro will probably contract 0.3 percent
in 2012 after expanding by 1.4 percent in 2011, the IMF said
April 17. The Washington-based lender predicted world growth
would slow to 3.5 percent from 3.9 percent last year.  Europe will remain “a potential source of adverse shocks
for some time,”  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  said on May 1 as policy makers reduced their benchmark
by 50 basis points, or 0.50 percentage point, to 3.75 percent.
The bigger-than-forecast cut drove the so-called Aussie down as
much as 1.35 percent against the euro, the biggest intraday drop
since November.  Sweden’s central bank has reduced borrowing costs twice
since December, to 1.5 percent from 2 percent, as the economy
shrank 1.1 percent in the fourth quarter, exceeding the 0.3
percent contraction in the  euro zone . Two out of six Riksbank
board members called for a cut to 1 percent at the April
meeting, when the  main rate  was kept unchanged, minutes of the
gathering showed on May 2.  U.S. Recovery  There’s a 36 percent chance the Riksbank cuts the main rate
at its next meeting on July 4, up from 19 percent on April 26,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps. The
odds of Australia’s central bank lowering its rate at its next
meeting was 89 percent, the Credit Suisse measure showed.  Support for the euro may wane should the U.S. recovery
gather pace, reducing the odds that the  Federal Reserve  will
undertake a third round of stimulus that weakens the dollar.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in April at the fastest
pace in 10 months, data from the Institute for Supply Management
showed on May 1. Four Fed presidents said the same day that more
so-called quantitative easing through bond purchases probably
won’t be needed. American employers added 115,000 workers last
month, fewer than forecast, while the jobless rate fell to a
three-year low of 8.1 percent as people left the workforce, the
Labor Department said on May 4.  Growing Backlash  The euro may also weaken if Europe’s economy slows enough
to cause policy makers to cut their refinancing rate.  “The ECB is facing a lot of pressure to ease,” Guillermo Felices, head of European currency strategy at Barclays Plc in
London, said in an interview on May 1. “Eventually they will
have to ease given the pressures on the economy.”  He sees a decline in the euro to $1.20 in the next year.  The backlash against austerity measures is growing. Spain’s
largest unions led marches involving thousands of protesters in
55 cities April 29. Riots have broken out in  Greece  in response
to government cuts in pensions and wages.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield has jumped about 60 basis points
this year, or 0.6 percentage point, to 5.73 percent. Italian
yields, at 5.43 percent, are 1 percentage point above their
average over the past decade. Spain’s IBEX 35 Index of stocks is
down 20 percent this year, while the broader Euro Stoxx 50 Index
has lost 2.9 percent.  German Economy  Europe’s common currency is getting support as surveys
signal that Germany’s GDP, the region’s largest, will expand for
a third consecutive year. That may prompt the ECB to keep
borrowing costs unchanged as it seeks to tame inflation that’s
been above its  target  of just below 2 percent since December
2010.  Draghi took over as ECB president in November, and reversed
the two rate increases made by his predecessor Jean-Claude Trichet in April and July. He has kept the rate at 1 percent the
past five meetings while pumping about 1 trillion euros into the
banking system by providing three-year loans in two longer-term
refinancing operations, or LTROs, in December and February.  He will keep the rates on hold through at least the third
quarter of 2013, based on the median prediction of analysts in
Bloomberg News surveys.  Shorts Decline  The loans “took the risk of a devastating bank failure
more or less off the table,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst
in Washington at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency
brokerage, said in a May 3 telephone interview. “While they
didn’t necessarily address the underlying issues of the credit
crisis, they did kind of ring-fence euro’s banking sector from
further deterioration. That was positive overall for the euro.”  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro against the
dollar compared with those on an advance -- so-called  net shorts 
-- was 106,990 contracts on May 1, down from a record 171,347 in
January, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  The premium for three-month options granting the right to
sell the euro against the dollar relative to those allowing for
purchases was 2.24 percentage points at the end of last week,
down from as much as 2.98 percentage points in February, the 25-
delta risk reversal rate show.  “There isn’t really going to be a rate cut in the euro
zone,” Christoph Kind, head of asset allocation at Frankfurt-
based Frankfurt Trust, which manages about $20 billion, said on
May 2. “This makes it at least a little bit attractive against
other currencies like the Australian dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  