-- Euro Near Three-Month Low on Greek Leadership Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-05-08T21:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/euro-near-3-month-low-on-greek-leadership-concern.html
The euro weakened for a seventh day
against the dollar as Greek politicians struggled to form a new
government after elections over the weekend raised the prospect
of the country withdrawing from the currency bloc.  The 17-nation euro extended its longest run of declines
against the greenback since September 2008 as German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  rejected government stimulus as the way to spur
economic growth, setting up a clash with French president-elect
 Francois Hollande . The pound dropped against the dollar as a
report showed U.K.  house prices  fell in April. Australia’s
dollar declined after the trade deficit widened.  “This stalemate in Greece in terms of the elections not
leading to a successful formation of a new government is clearly
a concern, especially against some of the euro rhetoric of the
smaller parties,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency
strategist at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “We’re clearly in
a risk-off environment right now.”  The euro declined 0.4 percent to $1.3005 at 5 p.m. in  New
York  after sliding to $1.2955 yesterday, the weakest level since
Jan. 25. The shared currency dropped 0.4 percent to 103.88 yen.
It slipped to 103.24 yesterday, the lowest since Feb. 16. The
yen gained 0.1 percent to 79.87 per dollar.  Mexico’s peso and South Africa’s rand led declines among
the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The peso fell 1.6
percent against the greenback to 13.3673. The rand dropped 1.2
percent to 7.8924 per dollar after touching 7.9384, the weakest
level since April 17.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  lost 0.4 percent and crude
oil for June delivery weakened for a fifth day, falling 0.5
percent to $97.42 a barrel. Greece’s  ASE Index (ASE)  dropped 3.6
percent to 620.54, its lowest level since November 1992.  Greek Turmoil  Alexis Tsipras, whose Syriza party placed second in Greek
elections on May 6, said he would forge ahead with plans to form
a coalition government of left-wing parties after he was handed
the mandate by President Karolos Papoulias.  Tsipras said he wouldn’t agree to join forces with New
Democracy and Pasok, the two Greek parties that have supported
austerity measures in return for international funds. He called
on the leaders of both parties to withdraw their pledges to
impose the terms in writing by tomorrow when he is to meet with
both of them to discuss forming a government.  A left coalition government would nationalize banks to spur
growth, repeal recent labor reforms and immediately cancel the
bailout accords, he said.  ‘A Little Skittish’  “When you have the guy who’s supposed to form the
coalition saying that there’s a moratorium on debt limits, that
the bailout is not necessarily in place -- stuff like that is
getting people a little skittish,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist in  Stamford , Connecticut, at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. “There’s a shadow that’s being cast and there seems
to be an overall more mixed and more downbeat tone to the
market.”  Hollande’s platform calls for policies Germany’s Merkel
opposes, including increased spending and delayed deficit cuts.
Merkel invited Hollande to Berlin for talks “as soon as
possible,” a statement from her government said on May 6.  “This discussion is not whether we should pursue
consolidation or growth, it’s completely clear that we need
both,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  Greece  could exit the euro bloc as soon as next month,
according to  John Taylor , founder and chief executive officer of
hedge fund FX Concepts LLC in New York.  ‘Out of Money’  “This summer I think is very likely,” Taylor said in an
interview with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack” show. “The Europeans aren’t going
to give them the money, the  International Monetary Fund  isn’t
going to give them an OK. They’ll be out of money in June.”  The euro has weakened 3.5 percent over the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 0.9 percent, and
the yen dropped 2 percent.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , which
measures the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, rose for a seventh day, its longest such streak
since June 2010. It advanced 0.3 percent to 79.836.  The pound declined from within two U.S. cents of an eight-
month high against the dollar after an industry report showed a
 gauge  of house prices declined.  The  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said its index
dropped to minus 19 from minus 11 in March. A reading below zero
means more surveyors saw price declines than increases.  Australian Dollar  The pound dropped 0.2 percent to $1.6158 after rising to
$1.6302 on April 30, the highest level since Aug. 31. Sterling
rose 0.2 percent to 80.49 pence per euro.  Australia ’s dollar declined for the sixth time in seven
days after the nation reported a larger-than-estimated trade
deficit in March amid concern spending cuts by the government
will damp economic growth.  The Aussie also depreciated as the government announced its
first reduction in spending in at least 42 years as Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  plans to return the budget to a surplus
and give the central bank scope to cut  interest rates .  “Factors that supported the Australian dollar are peeling
away,” said Yoshisada Ishide, who manages the world’s biggest
mutual fund focusing on Australian dollar-denominated bonds at
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo. “Markets understand that
Australia’s government can’t take stimulus measures and that it
has to rely on monetary policy” to support growth.  The Australian dollar declined 0.8 percent to $1.0121 after
dropping to $1.0089, the lowest since Dec. 29.  Technical Analysis  The  U.S. dollar  is set to rebound against its Canadian
counterpart and appreciate to levels last seen in October,
according to Bank of America Corp.  The  currency pair  has been trading in a range since the
third quarter of last year and has carved out a base in the past
several months, said  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign-exchange and
interest-rates technical strategy at Bank of America in New
York.  “We’re going to see a push to the high end of this seven-
month range -- the trend is turning,” Curry said in a telephone
interview.  The greenback rose 0.6 percent to 99.87 cents after
touching C$1.0023, the highest level since April 16. A close
above C$1.0053 would trigger further rallies to C$1.0568, last
reached in October, and even C$1.0681, a level not seen since
2010, Curry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  