-- Texas Gets Last Shot for July 9 Trial on Voter Photo Law
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-07T23:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/texas-gets-last-shot-for-july-9-trial-on-voter-photo-law.html
Texas  was accused by the federal
judges weighing the state’s voter identification law of
violating court orders over exchange of evidence with the U.S.
 Justice Department .  A three-judge panel in  Washington  today said Texas has one
more chance to meet court-imposed deadlines or the case won’t be
ready for trial on July 9, which could lead to a ruling on the
law coming too late for enforcement in November elections. The
law requires voters to show government-issued photo
identification at polling places before casting their ballots.  Texas, which sued the U.S. seeking permission to enforce
the photo ID requirements, pushed for a quick trial, telling the
federal court that it needed a ruling by Aug. 15 to have the law
in place for the election. A state election official later told
the court a ruling could come as late as Aug. 31.  “This court will not continue to grant such an expedited
review while Texas obstructs discovery in a manner that
potentially severely prejudices defendants’ ability to prepare
for trial,” said the ruling from Circuit Judge David Tatel and
district judges Rosemary Collyer and Robert Wilkins.  Texas failed to turn over state databases, which the U.S.
says are central to its claim that the law is unfair to
minorities, until 35 days after they were due, the judges said.  ‘Monetary Sanctions’  The judges said that based upon Texas’s conduct “this
court would be well within its discretion to impose monetary
sanctions” against the state, postpone the trial, or keep the
trial date and impose evidentiary sanctions.  They ordered the lead lawyer for Texas to certify by May 9
under oath that the state can comply with the deadlines set by
the court.  Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , and Xochitl Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately respond to e-mail messages seeking comment on
the ruling.  The Justice Department on March 12 used its power under the
Voting Rights Act to block the Texas law, saying in a letter to
the state that the measure may disproportionately harm Hispanic
voters. The department in December stopped a similar law in
 South Carolina .  Texas is among 16 states, or jurisdictions within states,
that must obtain permission from the Justice Department or a
federal court in Washington before redrawing their district
lines or changing election procedures because of a history of
voting rights violations.  The case is State of Texas v. Holder, 12-00128, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 