-- Excessive Yuan Move May Hurt Economy, Regulator Yi Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-07T07:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/excessive-yuan-move-may-hurt-economy-regulator-yi-says.html
China  should prevent any excessive
adjustment of the yuan’s  exchange rate  to protect the economy
even as volatility increases, the head of the nation’s currency
regulator said in remarks published today.  “Historical evidence shows it’s possible to see the
exchange rate overshooting when a currency approaches an
equilibrium level, which would hit the economy badly,”  Yi Gang ,
head of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, said in an
interview with Century Weekly, published by Caixin Media. “We
can’t rule out the possibility of this happening in China and we
should strictly guard against it.”  Policy makers in the world’s second-biggest economy have
pledged to allow the market to play a larger role in setting the
yuan’s exchange rate and let the currency flow freely across
borders for investment purposes. The central bank last month
widened the  yuan ’s daily trading band against the U.S. dollar to
1 percent from 0.5 percent, the first such increase since 2007.  Market participants need to brace for more exchange-rate
risk as the Chinese currency will see greater two-way volatility
after the band widening, said Yi, who is also a deputy governor
of the People’s Bank of China. The publication didn’t give the
date of the interview.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said May 4 that
the yuan still needs to appreciate further against the dollar
and other currencies. Even so, China has “significantly”
reduced its intervention in the  currency market , Geithner said
at a press conference in Beijing after talks with Chinese
officials.  In his interview, Yi reiterated that the yuan is no longer
“obviously” undervalued and is gradually approaching an
“equilibrium level.”  China may still see capital inflows in the short term given
the interest-rate spread between the yuan and  U.S. dollar , Yi
said. The benchmark federal funds rate in the U.S. is in a range
of zero to 0.25 percent while China’s one-year deposit rate is
3.5 percent.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  