-- MF Global Singapore Ex-Employees Sue Over Information
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-05-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/mf-global-singapore-ex-employees-sue-over-information.html
A group of former employees at  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s Singapore unit claim in a lawsuit that
they’re not being informed about how they’ll be paid money they
are owed.  The unit of the bankrupt company, once run by Jon S. Corzine, was sued by seven former employees, including the head
of sales for  Asia , seeking more financial information.  “The response from the provisional liquidators was very
frustrating,” Michael Joseph Drennan, former head of sales for
Asia, said in his complaint filed with the Singapore High Court.
“I had to take a proactive approach to ensure that my interests
as a creditor were being protected,” said Drennan, now  head of
North America Futures and Options  at London-based interbroker
 ICAP Plc. (IAP)  A closed hearing is scheduled for May 11.  The legal action by the seven former employees in
Singapore, who claim in court papers they are owed at least
S$3.5 million ($2.8 million) by MF Global Singapore, follows a
claim filed in  London . Employees of MF Global’s U.K. unit are
seeking 39 million pounds ($63 million) of unpaid bonuses,
severance pay and pension contributions from its administrator
 KPMG  LLP.  While KPMG kept customers informed on the distribution of
their funds via at least 13 public statements, creditors in
Singapore were faced with a dearth of information, according to
the lawsuit. MF Global Singapore was a solvent company, based on
information he had access to before the liquidators were
appointed, Drennan said in court papers.  Creditors elsewhere including in  Australia ,  Canada ,  Hong
Kong  and the U.K. were also being kept informed through meetings
and reports, the ex-employees said in their complaint.  Ashok Kumar , the lawyer advising the former employees,
declined to comment.  ‘Misguided’ Complaint  The complaint was “misguided” and should be dismissed,
according to a court filing by Bob Yap, head of transactions and
restructuring at KPMG in Singapore. The former employees appear
to be fishing for information other than for the legitimate
purposes of the liquidation, he said in court papers.  Yap declined to comment on ongoing litigation.  The seven former employees including John Hugh Bulford,
general manager of Asia Pacific and Chief Risk Officer for Asia
Matthew Levins are owed at least S$3.5 million ($2.8 million) by
MF Global  Singapore , according to the lawsuit. Drennan is
claiming S$1.67 million, including S$1.3 million in guaranteed
bonus.  The employees are seeking the right to inspect the
resolutions made in the provisional liquidation, a list of the
business’s liabilities and correspondence between KPMG and the
official receiver, according to the lawsuit.  Meeting of Creditors  MF Global Singapore has paid money owed to more than 90
percent of customers from a court-approved fund of as much as
$350 million, the liquidators said in an April 24 statement. It
had 6,194 customers as at Oct. 31. Creditors have been invited
to submit proofs of debt and the liquidators plan to hold a
meeting of creditors before June 1, according to the statement.  MF Global Holdings, once run by Corzine, a Democrat who
served in the Senate before becoming New Jersey’s governor,
filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after
getting margin calls and bank demands for money at its brokerage
unit MF Global Inc.  The case is Michael Joseph Drennan v. MF Global Singapore
Pte. OS305/2012. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  