-- Facebook Executives Talk Growth as IPO Meetings Begin
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k ,   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-05-08T15:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/facebook-s-zuckerberg-said-to-meet-would-be-investors-today-1-.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  officials are touting
growth prospects for the largest social network in meetings this
week in  New York  and  Boston  with hundreds of would-be investors
before its record initial public offering.  Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  and Chief Financial
Officer David Ebersman led a presentation in Boston today. They
were joined yesterday in New York by Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Zuckerberg . The executives discussed reasons for acquiring
photo-sharing site Instagram and told investors they were
optimistic about potential for future gains.  Facebook plans to raise as much as $11.8 billion in its
IPO, the biggest ever for an  Internet company . Zuckerberg, 27,
has had to pitch his business model during Facebook’s years as a
private company and probably won’t have trouble communicating
the mission to prospective public investors, said  Herman Leung ,
an analyst at Susquehanna International Group.  “It’s important to hear directly from him for investors
who are about to put millions and millions of dollars into a
company,” said Leung, who is based in  San Francisco .
“Convincing others now they should buy shouldn’t be that hard
for a company that has amassed a user base of over 900
million.”  ‘Value-Creation Story’  In New York, potential investors waited in a line that
snaked through the Sheraton New York Hotel lobby and around the
side of the building for a meeting that started about an hour
late. CNBC televised footage of a hooded sweatshirt-clad
Zuckerberg arriving at the hotel.  “The questions were all toward long-term elements of the
business,” said Samuel Schwerin, managing partner at New York-
based Millennium Technology Value Partners, which oversees $1
billion, including Facebook stock it bought in 2008. Schwerin
attended the meeting yesterday, and said he’ll add more shares
in the IPO. “One of the things I was surprised by was the level
of interest in the fundamental elements of how the company grows
and how early it is in the value-creation story for Facebook.”  Attendees also watched a video featuring pitches by
Zuckerberg, Sandberg and Ebersman that had been posted online
last week. Facebook has arranged a meeting in  Palo Alto ,
 California , for the end of the week.  Executives addressed Facebook’s slowdown in revenue growth,
saying the company is now facing a larger base of users and is
working to be useful to them and advertisers, according to
meeting attendees. Facebook is working on new ways to make money
from mobile users, and on getting partners besides game maker
Zynga Inc. to use its platform and currency, which is used to
buy so-called virtual goods.  Instagram Deal  Zuckerberg, in New York, told investors that the $1 billion
Instagram acquisition, announced last month, was contemplated
over a long period. He said he had watched the company grow for
a while and opportunities like Instagram are unique, according
to several meeting attendees.  The  Menlo Park , California-based company is seeking a
market value of as much as $96 billion. Facebook is offering
337.4 million shares at $28 to $35 each, and is scheduled to
price the offering on May 17, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The shares will be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol FB. Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are leading the sale.  Facebook is offering 180 million shares, while existing
owners such as  Accel Partners , Goldman Sachs and Digital Sky
Technologies are offering 157.4 million shares. Zuckerberg is
offering 30.2 million of his 533.8 million shares, and may
control about 57 percent of the voting power of Facebook’s
capital stock outstanding after the offering, the filing shows.  Attendance Required  “His attendance might demonstrate that the company
processed the message that Mark’s absolute voting control makes
his presence, at least at some of the larger meetings, much more
important than would otherwise be the case,”  Lise Buyer ,
principal at Class V Group in Portola Valley, California, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The company’s job -- Mark, Sheryl,
David together -- is to convince investors that Facebook’s
brightest days are ahead and that therefore, there is
significant room for an increase in the company’s value.”  Sandberg, who isn’t selling in the IPO, holds 1.9 million
shares.  The initial share sale would eclipse the 2004 IPO of  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s most valuable Internet company. Google’s
offering, the same year Zuckerberg helped found Facebook, raised
$1.9 billion and valued the company then at about $23 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  