-- Facebook’s Organ Donation Success Needs Follow-Up
-- B y   S a l l y   S a t e l
-- 2012-05-07T23:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/facebook-s-organ-donation-success-needs-follow-up.html
Facebook Inc. took a momentous
action last week. And I don’t mean its announced intention
to sell shares for $28 to $35 in an initial public offering
later this month.  Of more importance to at least one segment of the
population was the company’s invitation to users to
register to become organ donors. Forty-eight hours later,
more than 100,000 people had indicated, on  Facebook
Timeline , their wish to be a donor when they die.  As a result, online state donor registries experienced
a remarkable 23-fold surge, according to Donate Life
America, a nonprofit alliance of national donor advocate
organizations.  Better yet, a week later, the traffic was sustained.
Typically, Web-based promotions lead to a spike of interest
that dissipates within hours.  For the 114,000 people waiting for a kidney, liver,
heart or lung -- 7,000 to 10,000 of whom die each year --
Facebook has performed a great public-health service. For
more than two decades, advocates have been urging people to
sign up as donors when they renew their driver’s license,
yet only about 43 percent have done so. Facebook has made
registering much easier.  And although this impressive achievement won’t be
enough to fill the great demand for transplantable organs,
it may also help show the way forward to encourage live
donations.  Social Persuasion  Facebook’s donor-registration strategy is unique in
that it allows people to announce to their friends what
they have done, encouraging them to become donors, too.
Studies have shown how information about people’s decisions
to perform a public good can persuade others to follow
suit. In 2004, for example, researchers at the University
of Zurich reported that students were more likely to donate
money to help financially disadvantaged students when told
that more than half of their peers had given in previous
years. If told that less than half of the previous students
had given, they were less likely to donate.  Similarly, a 2009 study of public-radio on-air
fundraising found that when listeners were told about a
recent large donation, the amount of money promised rose 12
percent. In that same year, other researchers found that
towel reuse at a hotel increased by a third when guests
were told that almost 75 percent of other guests reused
their towels.  None of these studies involved social media, however.
Given Facebook’s reach, the site might be able to amplify
positive peer pressure and drive awareness more powerfully
than standard public-health appeals do.  “We are now in a great position to understand
patterns of behavior -- what kinds of people are
enthusiastic, who needs more persuasion,” said  Judd
Kessler , an economist at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s
Wharton School. He plans to analyze the demographics of
people who now join state organ-donor registries.  Organ-donation groups are rightly thrilled with
Facebook’s initiative. Yet it’s important to keep the
 larger picture  in mind. Even if every American agreed to be
an organ donor, there still wouldn’t be enough kidneys for
transplantation.  I specify kidneys because people with renal failure
represent about 80 percent of those on the national organ
waiting list. Last year, roughly 91,000 people needed a
renal transplant, but only one fifth of them received one.  Transplant Math  Now look more closely at the donor math: Of the
roughly 2 million Americans who die annually, it has been
estimated that only 10,500 to 13,000 possess organs healthy
enough for transplanting. So, if every eligible person
donated his organs at death, surgeons might be able to
double the number of transplant surgeries. (Last year,
7,433 deceased donors yielded an average of 1.5 kidneys
each, for a total of 11,043 operations; the rest were done
with organs supplied by living relatives and friends.)  Without doubt, a deceased-donation windfall would
shorten the time some people languish on dialysis, and it
would prevent the premature deaths of others.  But a “shadow list” of ill people is waiting in the
wings.
These are patients on dialysis who could benefit from
transplantation, but whose doctors have never referred them
for the surgery. Jesse Schold, an epidemiologist at the
 Cleveland Clinic , estimates this pool to number from 80,000
to 130,000 people.  Thus, the true waiting list may be double its current
size. And with enhanced public awareness of efforts to
generate more donations, people who are not currently
listed (perhaps their physician never enrolled them;
perhaps they thought their chance for a transplant was too
slim to bother) might now come forward. Their family and
friends may now be more likely to urge them to do so.  In other words, paradoxically, more awareness will
bring new donors but also greater demand. The supply of
organs from the deceased will not be able to keep up.  More living donors are needed, as well.  Can the Facebook initiative be leveraged to increase
living donation? Deciding to give a kidney while alive to a
loved one, let alone a stranger, is very different from
checking a box that instructs medical professionals to take
your organs when you are gone. (I myself received a kidney
transplant from a living donor.)  Donor Rewards  What’s needed to complement Facebook’s breakthrough
are rewards for living donors. These could take many forms
-- perhaps a contribution to a retirement fund, an offer of
lifetime health insurance, a tuition voucher or a large
charitable contribution in the donor’s name.  In-kind rewards such as these would not attract
desperate people who might otherwise rush to donate for a
large sum of instant cash. Living kidney donors would be
carefully screened for physical and emotional impediments
to safe donation and be guaranteed follow-up medical care
for any complications.  Right now, such incentives are illegal. The 1984
National Organ Transplant Act considers any kind of donor
enrichment a felony punishable by a maximum of five years
in prison and/or a fine of as much as $50,000. With ample
public support, that law could be changed to allow pilot
trials of incentives.  Facebook’s donor sign-up is a brilliant way to harness
the power of social networks to save lives through donation
after death. Next, perhaps the social-media giant can add
another status question that allows people to “like” the
idea of rewarding people who are willing to give a kidney
and save more lives -- and tell their friends.  (Sally Satel, a physician, is a resident scholar at
the  American Enterprise Institute . She is the editor of
“When Altruism Isn’t Enough: The Case for Compensating
Kidney Donors.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  “superbugs,” 
 France ’s  new president  and Obama’s failures on  gay
marriage ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  getting tough with Syria ;
 Mark Buchanan  on the  causes of the “flash crash” ;  Noah
Feldman  on  justice at Guantanamo Bay ;  Michael Kinsley  on
 rising inequality .  To contact the writer of this article:
Sally Satel at  slsatel@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  