-- Fannie Refused to Punish Countrywide for Bad Debt, Lockhart Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-07T20:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/fannie-refused-to-punish-countrywide-for-bad-debt-lockhart-says.html
Fannie Mae  refused to seek large
amounts of mortgage repurchases from Countrywide Financial Corp.
as housing began to  crash , according to the former head of its
regulator.  James Lockhart , who led the  Federal Housing Finance Agency 
until 2009 and its predecessor, the Office of Federal Housing
Enterprise Oversight, “spent a lot of time” pushing Fannie Mae
executives to seek more so-called putbacks on Countrywide loans
that failed to match their promised quality, he said today.  “They didn’t want to offend their largest customer,”
Lockhart, now the vice chairman at investment firm WL Ross &
Co., said during a speech at a Mortgage Bankers Association
conference in  New York .  Trends in mortgage-repurchase demands are among
“procyclical” issues in the market, or items that can lead to
looser  credit  during a boom and tighten standards during tougher
times, Lockhart said. Policy makers should strive to lessen the
dynamic as they remake the housing-finance system, he said.  “If people had known how bad the repurchases were going to
get, we’d certainly have had a lot more disciplined
underwriting,” Lockhart said in an interview. His discussions
with  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  officials about Countrywide loans took place in
2006 or 2007, he said.  Fannie Mae and competitor  Freddie Mac , the mortgage-finance
companies, are being sustained on injections of taxpayer capital
after being seized in 2008. Countrywide, once the largest U.S.
home lender, was bought by  Bank of America Corp.  that year.  Bank of America’s backlog of pending demands for
repurchases reached a record $16.1 billion last quarter as a
dispute deepened between Fannie Mae and the second-largest U.S.
deposit-taker. In January, Fannie Mae stopped accepting new
loans from the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  