-- Dewey, Fenwick & West, Sullivan: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-05-09T01:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/fenwick-west-latham-sullivan-cromwell-business-of-law.html
(Corrects spelling of Frank Wu’s name in Hastings item in
report published yesterday.)  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP sent a notice to
employees May 4 warning it eventually may have to close if it
can’t work out its financial difficulties, a person familiar
with the matter said.  Dewey, based in  New York , told employees it was
distributing the letter to comply with  labor laws  that require
60 days’ notice of large-scale layoffs, said the person, who
didn’t want to be identified because the matter wasn’t public.  “Although we continue to pursue various avenues, it is
possible that adverse developments could ultimately result in
the closure of the firm, which would result in the termination
of your employment,” the firm said in the notice, according to
the person.  “Accordingly, in order to give you as much advance notice
as possible, and to comply with any legal obligations that we
may have, this letter will serve as conditional advance notice
under the Federal Worker Adjustment Retraining and Notification
Act,” known as WARN, according to the letter.  Angelo Kakolyris, a Dewey spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment after regular business
hours on the letter to employees.  Dewey’s six partners in its Russian and Almaty,  Kazakhstan ,
offices will move to Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, according to a
person familiar with the situation.  In addition to the six partners, the firm’s associates and
staff will also move to Morgan Lewis, said the person, who
declined to be named because the changes haven’t been publicly
announced.  Stephen Jurgenson, head of Dewey’s Abu Dhabi office, and
 James Simpson , a London partner, also departed last week, for
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP. Simpson served as co-head
of Dewey’s project finance and infrastructure practice,
Pillsbury said in a  statement . Jurgenson oversaw the development
of the Abu Dhabi office since 2010, according to the statement.  In Frankfurt, a Dewey corporate finance team is moving to
McDermott Will & Emery LLP, the firm said in a statement. The
team includes Dewey’s  Frankfurt  office head Philipp von Ilberg
and Joseph W. Marx. The move gives McDermott its third German
office alongside Munich and Dusseldorf.  Morgan Lewis said May 3 that Peter Sharp, the managing
partner of Dewey’s London office, and two other lawyers would
join its outpost in the U.K. capital.  Dewey was the 11th-largest U.S.  law firm  with 1,300 lawyers
after a merger during the 2007 recession. American Lawyer’s 2012
rankings put the firm in 28th place, with revenue of $782
million for 2011 and 1,040 lawyers.  Capital Markets  Fenwick & West, Simpson Thacher Work on Facebook IPO  Facebook Inc. (FB)  will play up its prospects for expanding in
mobile advertising when it begins pitching its initial public
offering to investors in New York,  Boston  and Silicon Valley
next week.  “Mobile is a key area of growth for Facebook,” Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  said in a  video  posted May 3
to accompany the investor road show. The shares are scheduled to
start trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol FB on
May 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Executives met with the social-networking service’s lead
underwriters at Morgan Stanley,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. on Friday in New York to go over talking points
ahead of the IPO, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter.  JPMorgan pasted a Facebook sign flanked by two of the
website’s signature thumbs-up icons on the front of its Park
Avenue headquarters to welcome the management team.  Fenwick & West LLP is Facebook’s lead counsel. Working on
the IPO are partners Gordon Davidson and Jeffrey Vetter and
associate James Evans. In-house at Facebook are general counsel
Theodore Ullyot, and in-house counsel David Kling and  Michael
Johnson . Additionally, from Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
representing the underwriters are, partners William H. Hinman, Jr. and Daniel N. Webb, both in  Palo Alto .  Latham & Watkins,  Sullivan & Cromwell  on the IPO for Tilly’s  Tilly’s Inc. (TLYS) , the seller of West Coast-inspired apparel for
teens and young adults, jumped in its first day of trading after
pricing above expectations for its initial public offering,
closing at $16.81 per share.  Tilly’s priced 8 million shares of Class A common at $15.50
each, according to a statement on Friday. The  Irvine ,
California-based company expected a price of $11.50 to $13.50,
according to a May 3 regulatory filing.  Latham & Watkins LLP advised Tilly’s on the offering with a
corporate team based in the firm’s Orange County, CA office
included partners Cary Hyden and Michael Treska, with counsel
Regina Schlatter and associates Jason Liljestrom, Andrew Western
and Drew Capurro. Partner Ana O’Brien and associate Mimi Chao in
 Los Angeles  provided tax advice and Orange County associates
Carol Samaan and Daniel Ricks provided employee benefits and
compensation advice.  General Counsel Patrick Grosso also worked on the IPO.
Additionally, Sullivan & Cromwell LLP partner Robert Buckholz in
New York and partner Patrick Brown and associate Jason Anderson
in Los Angeles, represented the underwriters.  Tilly’s, based in Irvine,  California , operates about 145
stores and sells merchandise through its website. According to
its filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the
company plans to expand to more than 500 U.S. stores during the
next 10 years, and to build its e-commerce business to 15
percent of sales from 11 percent.  Bankruptcy  Dilworth Paxson Represents Philadelphia Orchestra in Bankruptcy  The Philadelphia Orchestra Association, the symphony behind
Disney’s “Fantasia,” will hold a special fundraising drive
this summer with a unique goal: collect enough money to get out
of bankruptcy.  According to the orchestra’s attorney, Lawrence G. McMichael, a partner at Philadelphia’s Dilworth Paxson LLP, the
orchestra in July will try to raise $3 million to $4 million
needed to pay creditors and exit bankruptcy under a plan of
reorganization.  As Bloomberg’s Steven Church reports, orchestras across the
country, including the seven biggest, have been cutting costs to
balance the quality of their programs with what the local
communities can pay for.  Philadelphia is the only major U.S. symphony to file
bankruptcy. While under court protection from creditors,
orchestra managers cut about $6 million in annual costs, in part
by canceling pensions and renegotiating the lease on its main
performance space, McMichael said.  Later this month the orchestra will file its plan of
reorganization,  and in July will ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Eric L. Frank, who is overseeing the case, to approve the plan.  Once the plan is approved, the orchestra will be able to
raise the exit money, mostly from its more than 70 board
members, McMichael said.  McMichael said he has never heard of a company raising
money to exit bankruptcy through a charity fundraiser. Since the
orchestra wasn’t the first nonprofit to file for bankruptcy, it
probably isn’t the first to use a fundraiser to get out of
bankruptcy, McMichael said.  The orchestra’s effort isn’t much different from what
happens when a for-profit company in bankruptcy seeks new
investors.  In addition to McMichael, the other lawyers from Dilworth
working on the bankruptcy are partner Anne Aaronson and
associate Catherine Pappas. Partners Claudia Springer and Derek
Baker and associate Brian Schenker from  Reed Smith LLP  represent
the committee of unsecured lenders.  For more, click here.  Education  Hastings College of Law to Reduce Class Size Among Other Changes  The  University of California, Hastings College of Law  is
embarking on a restructuring of the school that will include a
reduction in its class size by 20 percent.  The school will, for the incoming class of 2015 slated to
arrive in August, will have approximately 330 students, down
from 425 in other classes.  While a smaller number of students reflects the
circumscribed legal market, Chancellor and Dean Frank H. Wu said
in a telephone interview on Friday that the new class size is
only one part of an overhaul of the Hastings curriculum. “We
did a comprehensive strategic plan, one piece of which we’re
calling rebooting legal education. We are focusing more on real
world skills training, the Pacific Rim, and an interdisciplinary
approach to education.”  Wu said the school “should have reduced class size 25
years ago. The current crisis gives us more reason to do this.
Smaller classes will provide a “much improved student
experience, just like the K-12 grades, and of course employment
will be better.”  Fewer students will also affect the school’s bottom line.
According to school spokesman Alex Shapiro, the school will have
a $9 million revenue shortfall from the loss of tuition. To
close the gap, Wu said, the school is in the “midst of a
capital campaign. We are not funding depreciation and we
restructured the staff. Like every law firm, business and
government agency we had to reorganize the staff.” That he
said, was “very hard to do.”  Moves  IP and International Commercial Litigator Joins  Baker & McKenzie   Litigator Robert P. Parker has joined Baker & McKenzie as a
partner in the firm’s Washington office.  Mr. Parker, who previously was a partner at Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, has litigated a wide variety of
intellectual property and international trade matters over the
course of his 28 year career, the firm said in a statement, and
has played a leading role in a number of major internal
corporate investigations.  Over the last several years, Mr. Parker’s practice has
focused on the representation of companies in  Asia , particularly
in Japan and  Korea , in a variety of commercial and intellectual
property matters. Mr. Parker is a past president of the
International Trade Commission Trial Lawyers Association and
served as counsel to the chairman of the International Trade
Commission. He has litigated matters in numerous courts
including federal district courts and the Court of International
Trade. He has also represented clients in domestic and
international arbitration proceedings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  