-- Flash-Crash Story Looks More Like a Fairy Tale
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2012-05-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/flash-crash-story-looks-more-like-a-fairy-tale.html
Two years after the frightening spring
day when the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost and regained
about 600 points in a matter of minutes, we still don’t really
know why. This is a problem, because it means something similar
-- or worse -- could happen again.  The Flash Crash of May 6, 2010, was more than a mere
technical glitch. A hedge fund in  Dallas  lost several million
dollars when the price of options it was buying suddenly spiked
from 90 cents to $30 per contract. A man named  Mike McCarthy 
lost $17,000 because his order to sell shares in  Procter &
Gamble Co . happened to be executed at roughly 2:46 p.m., just
after the price hit rock bottom.  The crash brought a different kind of trouble for the
Kansas-based investment company Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. In
a September 2010  report , the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission fingered a
single “fundamental seller” -- easily identified as Waddell &
Reed -- as the culprit behind the crash. At 2:32 p.m., the
report asserted, the company triggered a cascade of selling by
trying to unload 75,000 so-called E-mini futures contracts, the
value of which reflects investors’ perceptions about the future
of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. “Lone $4.1 Billion Sale Led
to `Flash Crash’ in May,” the  New York  Times duly reported.  The CFTC-SEC report focused on the concept of liquidity, or
how easily a security can be traded without moving its price.
Waddell & Reed’s sell order, the logic goes, was so large and
hit the market so hard that it overwhelmed the available buyers.
This sucked liquidity out of the market and allowed prices to go
into freefall.  Concern for Price  Problem is, that’s not exactly what happened. As  documented 
by the market-data firm Nanex, Waddell & Reed didn’t actually go
into the market and sell, as the report suggested, without any
concern for the price.  Eric Scott Hunsader, a software engineer and the founder of
Nanex, parsed 6,483 trades that Waddell & Reed made as it tried
to sell the 75,000 E-mini contracts. He found that the trades
were passive, meaning that Waddell & Reed stood ready to sell at
preset prices if buyers appeared. The company’s execution broker
fed the orders into the market throughout the day -- a tactic
specifically designed to minimize the price impact of a large
sale.  In other words, Waddell & Reed was providing liquidity to
the market, not removing it.  The actual crisis struck in the three minutes between 2:41
p.m. and 2:44 p.m., when the market fell another 5 percent to 6
percent. Hunsader’s analysis suggests this plunge was caused by
high-frequency traders. They typically act as liquidity
providers, standing ready to buy and sell at certain  price
levels . But the day’s volatility prompted them to dump their
holdings to avoid losses. In a matter of minutes, they actively
sold an accumulated stock of about 2,000 E-mini contracts. It
was this selling, not Waddell & Reed’s passive orders, that
caused liquidity to disappear.  There is nothing blameworthy about what the high-frequency
traders did. Market makers aren’t charities, and their
algorithms were only saving their skins amidst extreme market
turbulence. Their actions do, however, rather undermine the
common argument that high-frequency traders bring wonderful
benefits to the market through the liquidity they provide. That
liquidity, as many have pointed out, has a rather ghostly
quality and tends to vanish when needed most.  Also troubling is the way the CFTC and SEC report, in
placing responsibility for the crash on Waddell & Reed,
contradicted its own definition of liquidity: “buy-side and
sell-side market depth, which is comprised of resting orders
that market participants place to express their willingness to
buy or sell at prices equal to, or outside of (either below or
above), current market levels.”  Providing Liquidity  This is the standard industry use of the term. It implies
that someone placing limit orders in the book -- precisely what
Waddell & Reed was doing -- provides liquidity to the market.
Yet the CFTC-SEC report, as Hunsader has  documented ,
nevertheless refers repeatedly to Waddell & Reed’s trading as
“taking” or “competing for” liquidity.  The SEC referred questions to the CFTC, where a spokesman
said the commission stands by the report but declined to comment
further.  Given the evidence, the report is starting to look like a
case of interpreting the data creatively to match a foregone
conclusion: The crash was caused by some exceptional and unusual
shock to the market, not by the inherent instability within the
ecology of high-frequency trading. Don’t worry, therefore --
everything is OK.  Too bad for Waddell & Reed.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  “superbugs,”    France ’s
 new president  and Obama’s failures on  gay marriage ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  getting tough with Syria ;  Noah Feldman  on  justice at
Guantanamo Bay ;  Michael Kinsley  on  rising inequality ; Sally
Satel on improving  organ donation .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 