-- Former Sanofi Chemist Gets 18 Months for Trade Secrets Theft
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-07T22:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/former-sanofi-chemist-gets-18-months-for-trade-secrets-theft-1-.html
A former  Sanofi (SAN)  research chemist was
sentenced to 18 months in prison for stealing company trade
secrets and making them available for sale through the U.S. unit
of a Chinese company.  Yuan  Li, 30, was sentenced today in federal court in
Trenton, New Jersey, where she pleaded guilty Jan. 17 and
admitted to stealing information about Sanofi compounds and
trying to sell them on the website of Abby Pharmatech Inc. Li, a
Chinese national who lives in Somerset, New Jersey, was also
ordered by U.S. District Judge Joel Pisano to pay $131,000 in
restitution.  Li is a 50 percent partner in Abby, which sells
pharmaceuticals. Abby is a U.S. unit of a Chinese company,
Xiamon KAK Science & Technology Co., according to court papers.  Li worked from 2006 to 2011 in the U.S. headquarters of
Paris-based Sanofi in Bridgewater,  New Jersey , where she worked
to develop compounds that could be used in future drugs and that
hadn’t been disclosed to the public, including in patent
applications, according to a statement by U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman.  In pleading guilty, Li admitted that from January 2010 to
June 2011, she downloaded data on compounds, including their
chemical structures, and used personal e-mail or a USB thumb
drive to transfer it to her home computer, Fishman said.  ‘Ill-Conceived Plan’  Under advisory sentencing guidelines, Li faced between 18
and 24 months in prison, said her attorney, Paul Brickfield.  “We are grateful that the judge gave her the lowest end of
the guideline range,” Brickfield said.  “The ironic thing was that the website didn’t have the
items that they listed for sale, because they belong to
Sanofi,” he said. “It was a very ill-conceived plan from the
beginning. She was, by all accounts, a  rising star  from
Sanofi.”  After her release from prison, Li will be deported to
 China , according to Brickfield.  The case is U.S. v. Li, 12-cr-34, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 