-- France’s Monsieur Normal Should Just Say ’Non’ to Germany
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-07T15:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/france-s-monsieur-normal-should-just-say-non-to-germany.html
It would be a mistake to interpret the
election of France’s socialist presidential challenger,  Francois Hollande , as portending a seismic shift for  Europe ’s second-
largest economy.  All indications are that Hollande doesn’t owe his victory
to any passion among the electorate for a sweeping left-leaning
platform. The defeated incumbent,  Nicolas Sarkozy , is merely the
latest leader felled by Europe’s economic crisis and the
lassitude of its citizens. His flamboyant, hyperkinetic persona
had grown jarringly dissonant with the grayness of the times and
undermined his demands for belt-tightening and sacrifice by his
countrymen.  In this respect, at least, Hollande is his opposite. He
exudes an almost-studied lack of charisma, projecting the kind
of sobriety and seriousness -- blandness, even -- that has
earned him the nicknames of Monsieur Normal, and Flanby, after
an unexciting mass-produced caramel pudding.  However different their images, the two candidates were
never all that far apart on substance. Both have recognized that
no pain-free solutions exist for  France ’s, and Europe’s,
deepening economic malaise. Both have vowed to defuse the time
bomb of the country’s record 1.7 trillion-euro ($2.2 trillion)
debt, now at around 86 percent of gross domestic product. And
both correctly said that one of their top priorities would be to
bring down the  unemployment rate , which is at a 12-year high of
9.8 percent.  Marginal Differences  To move ahead, Hollande favors a little more spending;
higher taxes on wealth; a little less austerity; and generally,
preserving or expanding, rather than cutting, France’s social-
safety net. Sarkozy campaigned on a vow to cut taxes for
business and continue the reform of entitlements that he had
begun by raising the  retirement age  to 62 from 60 and easing
restrictions on the labor market, such as the 35-hour workweek.
These are changes around the margins, concessions to their
respective political bases.  That is why the markets took the change in stride. Ten-year
French debt yields were 124 basis points higher than comparable
German securities. That’s down from 145 basis points after
Hollande won the first round of voting on April 22 and lower
than the 133 basis points at the start of the year. Far more
alarming was the uncertain outcome of the vote this weekend in
Greece, which triggered the biggest rout on the Athens Stock
Exchange in four years.  The turnover in the Elysee Palace, however, is far from
meaningless. It could, in fact, have a salutary effect by
forcing  Germany  to abandon its obstinate insistence on the
drastic austerity measures that have driven economies from the
Netherlands to Spain back into a recession.  Hollande has made clear that he will be less compliant than
Sarkozy in the face of Germany’s demands. He has promised to
renegotiate the fiscal pact agreed by European leaders in March,
and to temper its emphasis on budgetary discipline with measures
aimed at spurring growth, including an increased role for the
 European Investment Bank  in boosting infrastructure spending.  We have said before that German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
needs to budge from her my-way-or-the-autobahn approach to the
debt crisis. A little resistance -- which Hollande has said he
will offer -- from Paris might be just the ticket. Germany must
do more to help struggling countries, such as Italy and  Spain ,
to avoid a spiral of sputtering growth and ballooning deficits.
That means Europe’s largest economy must either transfer funds
to its partners or enact policies that prod its consumers to buy
more from outside Germany’s national borders. Increasing German
demand by a percentage point would lift output in the euro area
by about half a percentage point.  Shift to Growth  Hollande also has said he will push Germany to agree to
measures that could boost short-term growth, whether allowing
the  European Central Bank  to act as lender of last resort or
issuing euro-area bonds jointly backed by all the currency
union’s members. Germany, Hollande said in an  interview 
published by Slate today, “cannot block both,” as it has done
until now.  The new French leader is right to insist that Germany back
down from its single-minded insistence on punitive spending cuts
in the euro area. Spain and  Greece , for example, need more time
to bring down their debt. The requirement in the March budget
pact that they slash education, research and development, and
other spending is a prescription for prolonging the crisis. In
the Slate interview, the president-elect correctly pointed out
that if the austerity measures aren’t supplemented with some
pro-growth policies “it will be difficult, if not impossible, to
reduce deficits and keep debt in check.”  Any fresh European economic packages should also
recapitalize the euro zone’s troubled private-sector banks so
they can begin lending again. Merkel has refused to give ground
here, too. Prodding from Hollande could break the deadlock.  Will his presidency follow the profligate model of France’s
last socialist president,  Francois Mitterrand ? Such concerns are
overblown. Hollande hasn’t been given a mandate to transform
France, but to save it from disaster. A poll last week showed
that 62 percent of French people believe that in coming months
or years their nation could be in the same perilous situation as
Greece or Spain are today. The French people may have voted, to
some extent, against the harshest forms of austerity, but they,
and Hollande, know that reckless spending, protectionism and
denial about the unsustainable path of France’s social welfare
state aren’t the way to avoid Greece’s fate.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  bank-capital rules  and
 force-placed insurance ; William D. Cohan on  e-mails from the
fall of Lehman ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  accusations against the Indian
military ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  congressional elections ;  Michael
Ross  on  Vladimir Putin ’s  oil-money machinations .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 