-- Frederick’s of Hollywood Hires Adviser for Possible Sale
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-05-07T20:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/frederick-s-of-hollywood-hires-adviser-for-possible-sale-1-.html
Frederick’s of Hollywood Group Inc .,
the unprofitable maker of the namesake women’s lingerie, hired
an adviser to pursue a possible sale.  Allen & Co., a New York-based investment bank, has been
retained to explore a broad range of strategic alternatives,
which may include selling the company, Hollywood, California-
based Frederick’s said in a statement today. The company said it
has no timeline for the strategic review.  Frederick’s of Hollywood, which was founded as a mail-order
lingerie business more than 60 years ago and pioneered the push-
up bra, has posted four consecutive years of losses on shrinking
sales as competition has increased in the U.S. Limited Brands
Inc.’s Victoria’s Secret chain in contrast has been thriving,
and posted an 11 percent sales gain last year.  “Victoria’s Secret and others have probably made them
irrelevant,” Walter Loeb, president of Loeb Associates Inc., a
New York-based retail consulting firm, said in a telephone
interview. “They will have to develop a new image for the
company, and innovative merchandise, to attract new customers,
to be younger and to be more up-to-date.”  The shares  rose  12 percent to 28 cents in  New York . They
slid 21 percent this year.  Frederick’s  board  “has received several inquiries
regarding various transactions” during the past few months,
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Lynch said in the statement.  The retailer had a net loss of $3.54 million, or 9 cents a
share, in the quarter ended Jan. 28. Second-quarter sales
dropped 0.2 percent to $32.5 million after Frederick’s reduced
prices and sold clearance items.  The business was created by Frederick Mellinger, who was
the first to sell the bikini in the U.S. The company filed for
 Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in 2000 and emerged 2 1/2 years
later. It became a publicly held company in a deal announced in
2006 to merge with New York-based Movie Star Inc. Frederick’s,
whose main store location is on Hollywood Boulevard, now sells
what it calls sexy women’s intimate apparel and swimwear through
117 stores, a catalog and website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  