-- French Voters Pack Lipstick to Personalize Election Ballots
-- B y   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2012-05-07T10:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/french-voters-pack-lipstick-to-personalize-election-ballots.html
French voters were given two choices
in the election yesterday, each printed in block letters on a
quarter sheet of off-white paper. So some came prepared, with
blank sheets, extra lipstick and glue to express themselves in
ways modern computer voting doesn’t allow.  Asked to help count the votes in my local precinct in
central Paris in my first go-through as a newly minted French
voter, I found a bright pink kiss to  Nicolas Sarkozy , which
failed to see him through to victory; a blank sheet of paper,
cut into ribbons; a vote for  Francois Hollande , the eventual
winner, folded into the shape of a paper boat; and one envelope
with names of both candidates glued back-to-back, implying they
were essentially the same.  France  has deliberately stuck with a low-tech voting
system, with nearly all towns and cities, including Paris, using
pre-printed slips of paper. Voters then stuff one slip into a
small blue envelope marked French Republic and after their
identification is checked against a large blue binder that
includes hand-written entries at the end for those who
registered late, put the envelope in a clear plastic box.  “The issue is reliability,” said Serge Lemesles, a Paris
election official. “We worry about something happening like it
did in the U.S. in 2000. This is a deliberate choice.”  In the U.S., candidates  George W. Bush  and  Al Gore  fought a
weeks-long legal and political battle in 2000 over recounting
machine-cast votes in  Florida . Gore conceded the election to
Bush after the U.S. Supreme Court, voting 5-4, ended the
recounting of ballots. Baltimore, where I vote in the U.S., now
uses touch-screen voting machines.  Counting Ballots  France also has a participative counting system in which
random voters are asked if they would be willing to return when
the polls close to count ballots.  After I’d shown my identification and been found at the
back, I took my paper slips into a maroon-curtained booth.
Inside, I slipped a name into my envelope and looked in the
trash there. Of the 16 slips I read without rummaging, 11 were
Sarkozy, a deceiving figure since I would later find him to be
the majority vote-getter in my district.  I then went to the plastic box where the president of the
voting center found me in the ledger again, called my name out
loud, and then repeated it once I had slipped my envelope in the
box.  “ Alan Katz  has voted,” she said so two other
commissioners could hear her. “Would you like to come back and
help us count at eight tonight?”  It was an invitation I’d never received in the U.S., so I
agreed.  Power of Democracy  Seated at a table with a student, an investment banker and
a marketing manager for a topographical map maker, I counted 400
votes in the local library branch-cum-voting center near the
Luxembourg Gardens.  As we counted we discussed changes in the neighborhood’s
voting habits over the years and whether we might be offered a
drink at the end of the evening for our help (we weren’t).  Most of all, we discussed how helping to count, reading out
loud name after name, each with a voter behind it, drove home
the power of democracy in a way we hadn’t before appreciated and
would long remember.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Katz in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net . 