-- Gamesa Suspends U.S. Offshore Wind Test, Focuses on Spain
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-05-07T19:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/gamesa-to-install-first-offshore-wind-turbine-in-spain-in-2013.html
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) ,  Spain ’s
largest maker of wind-power equipment, suspended plans to
install what may have become the first U.S. offshore turbine.  Gamesa postponed the deployment of a 5-megawatt prototype
in Virginia’s Chesapeake Bay because of doubts about permitting
and sales prospects, the company said today in a statement. It
will move forward with a similar project in Spain.  There are no offshore wind projects in operation in  North
America  and it’s not clear when there will be demand for
Gamesa’s sea-based turbines in the region, said  David Rosenberg ,
a spokesman for the Zamudio, Spain-based company.  When Gamesa initiated the Virginia project about two years
ago, “we felt the market was moving along rather nicely,”
Rosenberg said in a telephone interview. “Our analysis of
market conditions today differs completely. We thought the
market would be ready, but there are a number of conditions that
have prevented a commercial market from being here.”  The Virginia project received a state approval in March and
installation was initially expected to be complete by late 2013.
Gamesa was developing the prototype with  Huntington Ingalls
Industries Inc. (HII) ’s shipbuilding unit.  No Viable Market  “A viable commercial market in the United States is still
farther out, as much as three or four years away, at the
earliest,” the company said in the statement. The lack of a
mature market makes it “extremely difficult to justify the
enormous expenditure of capital” needed to build and install
the prototype, it said.  Gamesa said it’s “approaching completion” of a critical
design review for the Virginia turbine and will suspend the
project once that’s finished.  The Spanish prototype will be anchored off Gran Canary
island sometime after the second quarter of 2013 and will be the
country’s first offshore turbine, Gamesa said in a separate
 statement  on its website. The 5-megawatt turbine’s blades will
extend 128 meters (420 feet).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  