-- Gasoline in Los Angeles Weakens on Chevron Plant Startup
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-05-07T22:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/gasoline-in-los-angeles-weakens-on-chevron-plant-startup.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  weakened for the second day after  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  reported
a plant startup at the El Segundo refinery in Southern
 California .  Chevron, based in  San Ramon , California, reported a plant
startup at the 279,000-barrel-a-day El Segundo refinery, a
filing with the California Emergency Management Agency showed.
The company simultaneously reported unplanned flaring related to
a breakdown to the  South Coast Air Quality Management District .  California-blend, or Carbob, gasoline in Los Angeles
slipped 0.5 cent to 27.5 cents a gallon above futures traded on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The premium for the fuel in Los Angeles narrowed 13
cents May 4 on thin trading.  “These are very routine notices and have a very limited
impact if at all on the refinery,” Rod Spackman, a Chevron
spokesman at the El Segundo refinery, said in a telephone
interview. “The refinery is very much alive and well.”  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles rose 0.75
cent to a premium of 10 cents a gallon versus Nymex heating oil
futures. The same fuel in San Francisco dropped 1 cent to 17
cents a gallon above futures.  San Francisco Carbob gained 1 cent to a premium of 39 cents
above gasoline futures.  Phillips 66 (PSX-W) ,  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  are performing maintenance on units at their
Northern California refineries.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , a
benchmark price for the U.S. Northwest, rose 1 cent to 37 cents
a gallon above futures. Low-sulfur diesel  there  was unchanged at
29 cents a gallon over heating oil futures.  BP Plc (BP/)  is starting the 234,000-barrel-a-day Cherry Point
refinery in Washington state after shutting the plant in
February to repair equipment damaged by a fire and to perform a
maintenance turnaround. The refinery is expected to resume
operations over the next several days, a person with knowledge
of the situation said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  