-- Geneva Bank Pictet Used in Offshore Tax Scheme, U.S. Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-05-08T09:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/geneva-bank-pictet-used-in-offshore-tax-scheme-u-s-says.html
Pictet & Cie, Switzerland’s largest
closely held private bank, was used by three Americans charged
in a scheme to hide millions of dollars in assets from U.S. tax
authorities, prosecutors said.  The three men, indicted Dec. 8 in Phoenix, used Pictet and
 UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, to set up secret bank
accounts not reported to the  Internal Revenue Service , according
to an April 27 filing. That motion referred to Pictet, which
prosecutors called “Swiss Bank A” in the indictment.  Pictet said May 6 that it’s not a target of a U.S. tax-
evasion probe after Swiss media suggested the firm may be under
investigation. The bank denied that it was a target of U.S. tax
authorities, according to a May 6 e-mailed statement.  The case involves Stephen M. Kerr and Michael Quiel, who
separately ran venture capital firms, and former San Diego
attorney Christopher M. Rusch. In the indictment, prosecutors
said Kerr and Quiel, with the help of Rusch, set up secret
accounts in 2007 at UBS for entities named Red Rock and Legacy.  In the April 27 filing, prosecutors said Kerr and Quiel
“were also the beneficial owners of additional nominee Swiss
bank accounts at Pictet & Cie” held in the names of Red Rock
and Legacy. In the filing, prosecutors asked a judge to rule
that Rusch’s conversations with Kerr and Quiel aren’t subject to
the attorney-client privilege because they furthered a crime.  ‘Swiss Bank A’  The May 6 statement by Pictet said the bank “wishes to
make clear that it is not being accused by U.S. authorities of
being in breach of the law of that country. Moreover, we
vigorously refute any allegation that Pictet is being targeted
by the U.S. tax authorities.”  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on the case or the bank.  Pictet said the  Arizona  indictment, “to which we are not
party, refers to our bank only as ‘Swiss Bank A,’ thereby
confirming that we are not being targeted by these
proceedings.”  The accounts “were opened in 2007 by an external asset
manager on behalf of two Swiss companies that were set up
without any involvement on our part,” according to Pictet.  In 2010, Pictet closed the accounts, according to the bank.
In September of that year, U.S. authorities sought documents
about the case through a request for “administrative
cooperation” to Pictet through the Swiss Federal Tax
Administration, according to the bank. Two months later, the
bank handed over the file through the SFTA, according to the
bank.  Financial Firms  Switzerland and the U.S. are holding talks to resolve a
 Department of Justice  investigation involving 11 Swiss financial
firms including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the nation’s second-
biggest bank,  Julius Baer  Group Ltd. and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s
Geneva-based wealth unit.  Credit Suisse set aside 295 million Swiss francs ($321
million) for U.S. tax matters in the third quarter of last year.
Julius Baer, the wealth manager established in 1890, said the
cost of the investigation isn’t “reliably assessable” after
the U.S. indicted two employees of the Zurich-based firm. HSBC
said last week fines and penalties related to the probe “could
be significant.”  Pictet wasn’t on the original list of 11, which also
included Wegelin & Co., the first Swiss bank to be indicted by
the U.S. on charges of helping Americans evade taxes.  Private Clients  Pictet was overseeing 247 billion Swiss francs for private
and institutional clients at the end of 2011, making it
 Switzerland ’s third-largest wealth manager.  Kerr attorney Michael Kimerer said in an interview: “At
this point in time, Mr. Kerr is not cooperating in the case. I
do not think Mr. Kerr is guilty of what they say. There was
nothing wrong with any of the structures he set up, and there
was never any intention to evade taxes. Mr. Kerr certainly never
intended to cheat the government out of any taxes.”  Rusch was arrested Jan. 29 in Miami after being expelled
from  Panama  at the request of the U.S. government. Rusch
attorney Baltazar Iniguez and Quiel attorney Joy Malby Bertrand
didn’t immediately return phone calls and e-emails seeking
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Kerr, 11-cr-02385, U.S. District Court,
District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  