-- Merkel Rejects Stimulus in Challenge to Hollande’s Growth Plans
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-05-07T13:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/germany-maps-out-steps-to-eu-growth-after-hollande-s-election.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
rejected government stimulus as the way to spur economic growth
in Europe, setting up a clash with French President-elect
Francois Hollande before he’s even taken office.  In her first response to Hollande’s victory in yesterday’s
French election, Merkel rejected a return to the “huge”
stimulus programs following the financial crisis in favor of
business-friendly economic changes. She and Hollande will talk
“very openly” about the form of growth to pursue, a discussion
now taking place across Europe and “to which the new French
president will bring his own accents.”  “This discussion is not whether we should pursue
consolidation or growth, it’s completely clear that we need
both,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin today. “Rather, I think
the core of the discussion is whether we again need debt-
financed economic programs, or whether we need growth elements
that are sustainable and oriented toward the economic strength
of certain countries.”  Merkel, who backed incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy , has invited
the French president-elect to Berlin for an inaugural visit
expected “very soon” after his inauguration on May 15.
Hollande won election yesterday after he campaigned to reopen
the European Union’s fiscal pact and focus on efforts to spur
growth, clashing with Merkel’s insistence on budget austerity.  The chancellor, who heads Europe’s biggest economy,
reiterated her opposition to opening up the fiscal treaty to
renegotiation, saying that the pact “is not up for debate.”  ‘Simply Can’t’  ‘If we start to think we can renegotiate all this, then
Greece would come along and say they want to renegotiate the
troika package, then probably the other program countries would
follow suit,” Merkel said. “You simply can’t do this.”  She added that “it is of utmost importance” that the
international rescue programs agreed on with  Greece  “continue
to be implemented” even after a “not uncomplicated” election
result that saw unprecedented support for anti-bailout parties
and no clear government emerging. “The process is a difficult
one, but despite that it should go on,” she said.  Hollande celebrated his victory late yesterday in Tulle,
 France , pledging that he will push for less austerity and more
growth as “Europe is watching.”  “Austerity isn’t inevitable,” he said. “My mission now
is to give European construction a growth dimension.”  Merkel said that a telephone call she had with Hollande
yesterday to congratulate him on his victory was their first
conversation.  ‘The First Time’  “As far as I can remember, that was the first time,”
Merkel said. “Maybe we met decades ago, I don’t know. That was
our first telephone discussion. As I said, it was a very good
talk and he will be received in  Germany  with open arms and we’ll
work together.”  European leaders have long been working on steps to bolster
economic growth and the theme will be discussed again at an EU
summit in June as part of an “employment package,” she said.  “The question is what kind of growth you mean,” Merkel’s
chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, told reporters earlier, when
asked about Hollande’s stated aims. “We have to create the
conditions for companies to be productive and innovative so they
can give people jobs.”  “We have to get rid of the restraints holding them back,”
Seibert said. “We have to scale back bureaucracy. It’s about
all of that, and the fact that only a country that gets serious
about reducing debt is a country that gains the confidence of
people and business.”  Merkel and Hollande agreed in their phone call “that we
plan to cooperate well and intensively,” she said. “German-
French cooperation is essential for  Europe . And since we all
want Europe to succeed, this cooperation will start very
quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  