-- German Factory Orders Rose More Than Forecast in March
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-05-07T10:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/german-factory-orders-increased-more-than-forecast-in-march.html
German  factory orders  rose more than
economists forecast in March as demand from outside the euro
area helped  Europe ’s largest economy weather the debt crisis.  Factory orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
jumped 2.2 percent from February, when they gained a revised 0.6
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News predicted a 0.5 percent increase,
according to the median of 37 estimates. From a year ago, orders
dropped 1.3 percent when adjusted for work days.  German companies are tapping faster-growing  emerging
markets  as the sovereign debt crisis curbs demand in the euro
region. Business confidence climbed to a nine-month high last
month and investor sentiment unexpectedly rose to a two-year
high. Still, economic growth will slow to 0.6 percent this year
from 3 percent in 2011, according to the Bundesbank, as fellow
euro-area members drop back into recessions.  Today’s data are “a very positive surprise,” said  Klaus Baader , senior economist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong .
“The numbers show that despite the crisis in the euro area,
 Germany  is growing and benefiting from a revival in
international trade.”  The euro rose to $1.3039 after the report from as low as
$1.2956 earlier today. It fell after Francois Hollande yesterday
won the French presidency and Greek voters stripped the ruling
coalition of its majority, igniting concern that the region is
losing its appetite for austerity.  Export Orders  European stocks declined, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
retreating 0.2 percent at 12:30 p.m. in Frankfurt. The index is
up 3.4 percent this year. By comparison, Germany’s benchmark  DAX
index (DAX)  has gained more than 10 percent.  First-quarter profits at German carmakers Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG, Volkswagen AG and Daimler AG all beat analyst
estimates. VW’s Audi unit will create 2,000 new jobs in Germany
to keep up with demand.  Schuler AG, a German maker of metal-forming machines, last
week raised its full-year forecast on higher investment spending
in  Asia  and Europe. “The order situation is very good,” Chief
Executive Officer Stefan Klebert said on May 2.  Today’s report showed domestic factory orders rose 1.3
percent in March while export orders climbed 3 percent, driven
solely by a 4.8 percent increase in sales outside the euro area.
Orders from within the currency bloc were unchanged from
February, when they fell 3.3 percent.  Investment Goods  Orders for investment goods rose 4.2 percent and those for
 consumer goods  jumped 5 percent. Basic goods orders slipped 1.1
percent. The Economy Ministry said overall orders fell 0.7
percent in the first quarter from the fourth quarter of 2011.
February orders were revised up from a 0.3 percent gain and the
volume of big-ticket items in March was average, it said.  “After the expected weakness in winter, the trend is
gradually turning positive again,” the ministry said in a
statement. “Industrial production should also benefit.”  Still, governments and households across Europe are
reducing spending in response to the debt crisis, which has
already driven  Spain  and the Netherlands back into recessions.  Spanish industrial production declined the most in more
than two years in March. Output at factories, refineries and
mines adjusted for the number of working days fell 7.5 percent
from a year earlier, the most since October 2009, the National
Statistics Institute in  Madrid  said today.  U.S. Consumers  In the U.S., Federal Reserve figures may show consumer
borrowing rose by $9.65 billion in March, according to the
median estimate of 28 economists.  In  Australia , retail sales jumped 1.8 percent in the first
quarter from the final three months of last year, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today.  Puma SE, Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, on
April 25 reported first-quarter profit that trailed analysts’
estimates and said it faces challenges as European consumers cut
back. German unemployment unexpectedly increased in April.  “The German economy is in relatively good condition,”
said Jens-Oliver Niklasch, an economist at Landesbank Baden
Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart. “But we have perhaps reached a
turning point and the economic outlook could worsen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in  Frankfurt  at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  