-- Greek Bonds Lead Declines as Election Threatens Euro Membership
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-07T15:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/german-yields-drop-to-record-lows-after-french-greek-votes.html
Greek bonds led declines among the
government debt securities of  Europe ’s high-deficit economies
after voters flocked to parties opposed to the nation’s
financial bailout, threatening its euro membership.  German five-, 10- and 30-year bonds were little changed
after gains earlier that pushed yields to record lows. Socialist
Francois Hollande ousted  Nicolas Sarkozy  as French president
after yesterday’s elections and pledged to push for less
austerity.  Greece ’s ability to form a government that can
implement measures needed to guarantee its future in the
currency bloc was questioned after the two main parties failed
to secure a majority after elections yesterday.  “The risks related to Greece exiting the euro or
defaulting outright have increased again, which is probably an
even stronger boost for bunds,” said  Michael Leister , a rates
strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “The outcome in Greece
looks messy. It looks like the recent moves will continue so
that bund yields remain biased to the downside.”  Greece’s 2 percent bond maturing in February 2023 jumped
273 basis points, or 2.73 percentage points to 23.30 percent at
4:21 p.m. London time, leaving the price at 20.44 percent of
face value. Spain’s 10-year yield increased one basis point to
5.75 percent. The yield on similar-maturity Italian bonds was
four basis points lower at 5.40 percent, after jumping as much
as 14 basis points to 5.57 percent.  Bunds Gain  Greek government bonds have lost investors 6.1 percent this
year while  Spain ’s securities slipped 0.7 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds have returned 1.8 in
2012 as investors sought safety, the gauges show.  Bunds reversed gains as  factory orders  in Europe’s largest
economy rose more than economists forecast in March, signaling
demand from outside the euro area has helped German companies
weather the debt crisis.  The 10-year bund yield was two basis points higher at 1.60
percent, after falling by three basis points to 1.552 percent.
The 1.75 percent bond due July 2022 traded at 101.35. The 30-
year yield was little changed at 2.30 percent after dropping to
2.272 percent. Two-year yields rose two basis points to 0.10
percent.  ‘Austerity Not Inevitable’  France ’s 10-year yield decreased three basis points to 2.80
percent after rising as much as six basis points. The two-year
yield was four basis points lower at 0.55 percent.  “Austerity is not inevitable,” Hollande told supporters
in Tulle, France, last night after he won with about 52 percent
of the votes against about 48 percent for Sarkozy.  Hollande, France’s first Socialist leader in 17 years,
inherits an economy that is barely growing, with jobless claims
at their highest in 12 years and a rising debt load.  In Greece,  New Democracy  and  Socialist Pasok  were a seat
short of a majority that would allow them to govern together, an
Interior Ministry projection showed. Syriza, a coalition of
left-leaning parties that has vowed to cancel the bailout terms,
got 16.1 percent.  Voters across Europe are punishing governments for failing
to control a debt crisis triggered by Greece in October 2009,
leading to international bailouts for that country, together
with Ireland and  Portugal . It also spread to larger economies
including Italy and Spain, whose governments also fell last
year. Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  faces elections in
September after his coalition collapsed last month.  ‘Hard Part Starts’  “The elections may be over, but now the hard part
starts,”  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of euro-area rate strategy at
Societe Generale SA in Paris, wrote in a client note today.
“Forming new governments in Europe will still take weeks, in
which time sovereign debt will be in limbo and at risk.”  Finland’s 10-year yields were two basis points higher at
1.96 percent after falling to a euro-era low of 1.922 percent.
The Dutch 10-year yield was little changed at 2.16 percent,
after falling by as much as three basis points to 2.12 percent.  Volatility in Greek debt securities was the highest in the
euro area, followed by Ireland, according to measures of 10-year
bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Irish bonds due October 2020
increased six basis points to 6.88 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  