-- Ghana’s Measures to Boost Cedi Seen Raising Treasury Yields
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2012-05-07T09:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/ghana-s-measures-to-bolster-cedi-seen-boosting-treasury-yields.html
Ghana ’s  three-month  borrowing costs
are poised to climb to the highest since February 2010 as the
central bank implements measures to stem a drop in the cedi, the
world’s third-worst performer against the dollar this year.  The 91-day Treasury-bill rate, used by banks as a benchmark
for setting their own lending rates, may rise to 16 percent by
the last auction in December, Kobla Nyaletey, head of liquidity
management and market making at the Ghanaian unit of  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , said in an interview on May 3. That would be the highest
since Feb. 26, 2010, when 91-day borrowing costs reached 16.5
percent. The rate rose to 15.4 percent at an auction on May 4.  The central bank’s measures, meant to strengthen the cedi
by removing excess local money from the market, will make assets
denominated in the domestic currency more attractive than
dollar-denominated ones, Nyaletey said. The weakening cedi
drives up the cost of goods in Ghana’s import-dependent, $31
billion economy, adding pressure on inflation.  “The policy directives essentially will drain cedi
liquidity from the market,” he said. “Recent policy-rate hikes
and jumps in the government yield suggest the  Bank of Ghana  is
predisposed to see cedi  interest rates  rise and make the cedi
expensive.”  Ghana’s central bank raised its benchmark interest rate for
the second time in three months to 14.5 percent on April 13
after the cedi slumped to the lowest in at least 19 years. It
has depreciated 12 percent this year, the second-worst in  Africa 
after the Malawian kwacha dropped 16 percent today following a
devaluation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Myanmar kyat is the world’s worst performer this year. The cedi
dropped less than 0.1 percent to 1.8637 per dollar by 9:30 a.m.  Cedi Reserves  Ghanaian lenders, which keep 9 percent of local and foreign
currency deposits as reserves with the central bank, will now
keep all reserves in cedis, according to a directive issued by
the central bank on April 30. Banks must also provide 100
percent cover at the central bank for all so-called vostro
balances, or cedi accounts held by foreign financial
institutions, according to the policies.  “Banks may have to resort to borrowing cedis or even
selling off some of their cedi investments to meet the reserve
requirement,” Philip Duodu Fynn, head of treasury at  CAL Bank
Ltd. (CAL) , said in an interview at his office on May 4 in Accra.  The Bank of Ghana also re-introduced Treasury bills with
maturities of 30, 60 and 270 days to support its move to mop-up
liquidity by providing other ways to invest in cedi assets.  “They represent useful additions because sometimes
investors come and say I want 30 days or I prefer to hold the
cash,” Fynn said.  He expects the 30-day note to yield about 13.2 percent and
13.5 percent for the 60-day bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  