-- Gillard Seeks Australia Budget Surplus to Halt Poll Slide
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-05-07T23:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/gillard-seeks-australia-budget-surplus-to-halt-poll-slide.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  plans to end four years of deficits in her government’s
annual budget today, seeking to reverse a slide in opinion polls
and strengthen its economic credentials.  The governing  Labor party , which trails the opposition by
18 percentage points in the latest survey, says a return to
surplus will give the central bank room to lower borrowing costs
in a nation where almost 90 percent of mortgages have variable
rates. Economists predict  Australia ’s unemployment rate last
month rose to a seven-month high of 5.3 percent, according to
the median forecast ahead of a report due May 10.  “By coming back to surplus, we give the Reserve Bank
maximum flexibility to cut  interest rates  should they decide to
do so independently of the government,” said Treasurer Wayne Swan, who will deliver the budget to parliament at about 7:30
p.m. in Canberra.  The nation’s first female prime minister, battling
political scandals that threaten her minority government’s
control of parliament, is aiming to use the budget to shore up
Labor before elections due by November 2013. Gillard received a
fillip on May 1, when the central bank lowered its benchmark
rate, the highest among major economies, by half a percentage
point, to 3.75 percent, following cuts in November and December.  The government may have to cut spending and other fiscal
measures by the equivalent of about 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product as it battles lower-than-expected  tax revenue ,
according to Treasury data. Swan today estimated the revenue
shortfall at A$150 billion ($153 billion) in the past five
years.  ‘Strongest Economies’  “Bringing the budget back to surplus, making sure our
prosperity is fairly shared, and looking after the most
vulnerable is what this budget is really about,” Swan said
today. “In uncertain times we live in one of the strongest
economies in the world.”  The government has relied on the support of independent
lawmakers and the Green party to pass legislation following the
closest election in seven decades in 2010. In February, Gillard
saw off a challenge by  Kevin Rudd , whom she ousted as Labor
leader and prime minister two years ago.  Gillard asked Labor lawmaker  Craig Thomson  to quit the
party last month in the wake of allegations he used a union
credit card to pay for prostitutes while working for the Health
Services Union before becoming a lawmaker in 2007. Thomson, who
has denied the claims, said he will continue to vote with the
government.  Thomson Affair  The Thomson affair overshadowed the budget today on the
front pages of newspapers including The Australian and the
Australian Financial Review. Fair Work Australia, the industrial
relations regulator, said yesterday it will take civil action in
federal courts over the alleged misconduct.  Peter Slipper, the parliamentary speaker on whom Gillard
had relied to solidify her control of the lower house, last
month stepped aside to deal with fraud and sexual harassment
claims that he denies.  Tony Crook, a National party member of parliament for
 Western Australia  who voted as an independent, announced last
weekend he will join the opposition Liberal-National coalition
when parliament reconvenes tomorrow.  The opposition increased its lead over Labor in an April
27-29 Newspoll survey to 18 points, on a two-party preferred
basis that takes into account the country’s preferential voting
system. The survey of 1,148 people had a margin of error of plus
or minus 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  