-- Google’s Android Infringed Oracle’s Java, Jury Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/google-s-android-infringed-oracle-s-java-jury-says.html
A federal judge said  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
can’t seek $1 billion in damages from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for infringing
copyrights when it developed Android software running on more
than 300 million mobile devices because a jury couldn’t agree on
whether it was “fair use.”  A jury in San Francisco yesterday found that Google, the
largest Web-search provider, infringed Oracle’s copyrights for
programming tools and nine lines of code. U.S. District Judge
William Alsup said at this point Oracle can only seek damages on
the nine lines, which by law would be at most $150,000.  “There has been zero finding of liability on copyright,
the issue of fair use is still in play,” Alsup said about the
12-member jury’s decision on the programming tools. He ordered
the patent phase of the case to begin today; damages will be
taken up by the jury in the last phase of the eight-week trial.  Anyone can use copyrighted work without consent of the
owner if it advances the public interest by adding something new
or functional. Google attorney Robert Van Nest asked Alsup to
declare a mistrial, saying the issue of whether the company is
liable for infringement is directly linked to the question of
whether it was fair use. Alsup gave each side until May 10 to
submit arguments on that issue and didn’t say when he’ll rule.  “Google won the battle and it remains to be seen who won
the war,” said Brian Love, an intellectual property attorney
and teaching fellow at  Stanford Law School .  Mobile Devices  Oracle alleged that Google, based in  Mountain View ,
 California , stole copyrights and patents for the Java
programming language when it developed the Android operating
system for mobile devices, which were released in 2007. Oracle
acquired Java when it bought Sun Microsystems Inc. in 2010.  Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , is seeking
damages as well as a court order preventing Google from
distributing Android unless it pays for a license.  “Oracle, the nine million Java developers, and the entire
Java community thank the jury for their verdict in this phase of
the case,”  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. “The overwhelming evidence demonstrated that Google
knew it needed a license.  ‘‘Every major commercial enterprise -- except Google --
has a license for Java and maintains compatibility to run across
all computing platforms,’’ she said.  Last Word  The jury’s findings may not be the last word on
infringement. While the panel was asked to decide whether Google
infringed parts of Java called application programming
interfaces, or APIs, the ultimate decision on whether APIs are
covered by copyrights will be made by Alsup later in the case.
Alsup told the jury to assume APIs are copyrightable; he can
decide later that they aren’t.  Alsup must also rule on Oracle’s request for a judgment in
its favor that Google infringed Java copyrights and its copying
wasn’t fair use. A ruling for Oracle could set aside the jury’s
decision.  ‘‘We appreciate the jury’s efforts, and know that fair use
and infringement are two sides of the same coin,” Google
spokesman Jim Prosser said in an e-mail. “The core issue is
whether the APIs here are copyrightable, and that’s for the
court to decide. We expect to prevail on this issue and Oracle’s
other claims.”  Seven Notes  The jury found yesterday that Google didn’t infringe the
documentation for the 37 APIs at issue. The panel also
determined that Google infringed just 1 of 3 Java codes that
were in dispute. In addition, jurors concluded that while Google
proved that “Sun and/or Oracle” led the company to believe it
didn’t need a license for the Java technology, Google didn’t
show that it relied on that knowledge when it decided not to
seek a license.  The verdict came on the fifth day of deliberations in the
trial, which began April 16. The jury sent Alsup seven notes
during its discussions with questions, including some about the
meaning of “fair use.” A May 3 note said the panel couldn’t
reach a unanimous decision. Alsup ordered jurors to continue
deliberations, and after learning the panel was still at an
impasse, ordered them to deliver a partial verdict.  Java is a free language. Oracle argued that the parts of
Java that Google used are covered by copyrights and that the
search engine company was required to pay for a license to use
the technology.  Operating System  Google denied infringement, saying it developed Android
from scratch and that the Java elements it used aren’t covered
by copyrights. Any bits of copied Java in Android constituted
fair use because Google gives Android away for free to
programmers and it expanded the language’s usefulness by finding
a way to build a smartphone operating system with Java,
something Sun and Oracle were unable to do.  Oracle argued that the Java copying was for Google’s
commercial benefit -- to increase use of Google’s search engine,
which generates advertising revenue -- and added nothing new to
Java.  The next phase of the case is about two Java patents Oracle
alleges were infringed.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 