-- Greek Stocks Slide Most Since October 2008 After Election
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-07T15:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/greek-stocks-slide-most-since-october-2008-after-election.html
Greek stocks  tumbled the most in six
months after the country’s two main political parties failed to
achieve a combined majority in yesterday’s election as voters
flocked to anti-austerity parties.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s largest lender,
plunged 8.3 percent. Public Power Corporation SA, the nation’s
biggest electricity producer, fell 14 percent.  The benchmark  ASE Index (ASE)  slid 6.7 percent to 643.87 at the
close of trading in Athens, with 53 of 59 stocks declining. The
gauge earlier dropped as much as 8.3 percent, the largest
decline since October 2008. The measure has fallen 5.4 percent
this year as the country remains mired in recession with
unemployment at a record high.  “Greece has entered into political uncertainty,” Manos Giakoumis, research director at Euroxx Securities SA in Athens,
wrote in a note to clients. “The next days are crucial for
political developments and the potential formation of a
coalition/national unity government or the call for new
elections.”  New Democracy  and the socialist Pasok party, rivals until
the country’s crisis threw them together into a national
government, are two seats short of the 151 seats needed for a
parliamentary majority.  New Democracy led in the election, receiving 19 percent of
the vote and 108 seats in the 300-seat Parliament. Syriza, a
coalition of left parties, got 17 percent to score 52 seats,
while Pasok came third with 13 percent and 41 seats.  Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras said today his party will
honor its election pledge to overturn austerity policies,
rejecting an overture to join a national salvation government
with New Democracy.  Venizelos Proposal  Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  proposed a government to
include all pro-European parties, including Syriza and
Democratic Left; that members of his Pasok party didn’t need to
be in the new government; and that the prime minister of this
government should be a person of wide acceptance.  The government should be underpinned by the principle that
 Greece  remains in the euro and begin talks with European Union
partners on changing some of the austerity measures included in
the bailout plan, he said. Venizelos commented after meeting
with New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras.  National Bank of Greece , the country’s largest bank, slid
8.3 percent to 1.55 euros, its biggest drop since April 11.
Alpha Bank, Greece’s second largest lender, plunged 19 percent
to 84 euro cents, its biggest drop in seven months.  EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA (EUROB)  tumbled 19 percent to 51.2 cents and  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) 
fell 13 percent to 22.9 cents.  Public Power Corp. retreated 14 percent to 2.14 euros, its
biggest decline since September, 2008  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO) , Greece’s
largest telephone company, dropped 9 percent to 2.12 euros.  Opap SA (OPAP) , Europe’s largest publicly listed gambling company,
dropped 7 percent to 6.21 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  