-- Greek Elections Raise Euro-Exit Risk, Calls for Growth
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-05-07T15:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/greek-elections-raise-euro-exit-risk-calls-for-growth.html
New Democracy  leader Antonis Samaras
began trying to put together a government after a Greek election
that raised fresh questions about the country’s euro membership
and triggered the biggest stock-market drop in six months.  Samaras was given three days from today to put together a
coalition from an assembly split down the middle on whether to
renege on the terms of bailout agreements negotiated since May
2010.  New Democracy  and the socialist Pasok party, rivals until
the country’s crisis threw them into a national government
together this year, are two seats short of the 151 seats needed
for a parliamentary majority.  “We respect the will of the Greek people,” Samaras told
President Karolos Papoulias in Athens today as he formally
received the mandate. Exploratory talks to form a government
began immediately and Samaras’s first meeting with Alexis
Tsipras, the head of Syriza, which came in second place, ended
with Tsipras saying he’d rejected an offer to join a coalition.  New Democracy led in the election, receiving 19 percent of
the vote and 108 seats in the 300-seat Parliament. Syriza got 17
percent to score 52 seats; Pasok came third with 13 percent and
41 seats.  As voters across  Europe  rebel against austerity measures
imposed to stamp out the debt crisis, Citigroup Inc. said today
that the risk of Greece leaving the euro by the end of 2013 has
risen as high as 75 percent. Yesterday’s election propelled into
Parliament one party that wants to put  land mines  on the border
with  Turkey  to stop illegal immigrants and another that wants
Germany, the country’s biggest donor, to pay World War II
reparations. The benchmark ASE Stock index plunged 6.7 percent
in Athens today, its biggest drop in six months.  ‘Leave the Euro’  “The risk is huge that Greece will not have in the near
future a government ready and able to fully continue the current
adjustment program,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London , said in an e-mailed note. “The Greek
result adds to the risk that Europe could turn off the flow of
support funds and thus force  Greece  to leave the euro.”  Samaras will probably focus his advances on the Democratic
Left, which won 19 seats in Parliament and rejects austerity
measures yet is in favour of remaining in the euro, said
Lefteris Farmakis, a strategist at Nomura International Plc in
London.  For now, Democratic Left has indicated it doesn’t want to
join a government with New Democracy and Pasok. He will meet
with Fotis Kouvelis, the head of the leftist party, later today,
after meetings with Pasok leader and former Finance Minister
 Evangelos Venizelos .  Cancel the Bailout  Independent Greeks leader Panos Kammenos declined to meet
with Samaras, NET TV reported, without saying where it got the
information. Kammenos’s party secured 33 seats in the
parliament.  If Samaras fails to get the necessary number of seats, the
onus on forming a government will fall to bailout opponent
Syriza, a coalition of left parties, which has vowed to cancel
the bailout terms. After that, Pasok takes the baton.  If the nine-day process fails to yield a coalition,
President Papoulias must try to broker a government of national
unity, the constitution says. If that process fails, the Greek
constitution stipulates that new elections are to be held.  Even if a new government is formed, it may not survive for
long, said Spyros Economides, a senior lecturer at the  London
School  of Economics.  “How long will they be able to cohabit?” Economides said
in a phone interview. “The question is, if you’re a supporter
of the pro-European line, can you get the sticky-tape out and
hold them together for six months or are you going to have a
second election before the summer?”  Euro Falls  Greece’s ASE Stock Index dropped as much as 8.3 percent to
632.77 points, close to the 20-year low of 626 hit in January.
Shares of Alpha Bank SA fell 19 percent. National  Bank of Greece (TELL) 
SA, the nation’s largest lender, dropped by 8.3 percent. The
euro also fell as French socialist  Francois Hollande  defeated
 Nicolas Sarkozy  in the country’s presidential election
yesterday. The single currency dropped 0.3 percent to $1.3041.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  urged Greece to stick to
its commitments.  “It is of utmost importance” that the international
rescue programs agreed to with Greece “continue to be
implemented” even after a “not uncomplicated” election
result, Merkel said today in Berlin. “The process is a
difficult one, but despite that it should go on.”  Golden Dawn  With anti-bailout rhetoric benefiting parties as diverse as
 Golden Dawn , which wants land mines along Greece’s borders to
halt immigrants, and Independent Greeks, which wants  Germany  to
pay compensation for World War II war crimes, Pasok and New
Democracy’s coalition partners are limited. Democratic Left
might be convinced to join because of its more clearly European
orientation, Nomura’s Farmakis said. “It’s the only realistic
coalition partner.”  The  Communist Party  won 8.5 percent and will get 26 seats.
Anti-immigrant Golden Dawn got 7 percent of the vote with 21
seats, entering Parliament for the first time.  The success of anti-bailout parties in the Greek election
may spark speculation about the country’s ability to push
through the cuts needed to ensure funds keep flowing from
Europe. At the same time, European taxpayers now hold the bulk
of the country’s debt, meaning governments may have little
option but to keep the country’s finances afloat.  Greek Debt Burden  Of Greece’s 266 billion euros ($347 billion) of debt, about
194 billion euros, or 73 percent, is held by the  European
Central Bank , euro-area governments and the  International
Monetary Fund , according to the Greek Debt Management Office in
 Athens . In 2010, before the first bailout, Greece owed about 310
billion euros, all to the private sector.  Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann became the first major
European leader today to reopen the debate about Greece’s
membership of the euro.  “Every country can decide to leave the common euro area,
of course Greece can as well,” Faymann told Austrian state
radio ORF. “You just have to know what it means -- and the
Greeks will have to consider that.”  Tsipras, the head of Syriza, said voters had given him a
mandate to renege on bailout agreements negotiated with the EU
and the International Monetary Fund.  ‘Bailouts of Barbarism’  “The people of Europe can no longer be reconciled with the
bailouts of barbarism,” Tsipras, 37, said on state-run NET TV
late yesterday. He said he would begin talks with parties of the
Greek left to achieve that goal. The head of the Communist
Party, Aleka Papariga, said she won’t team up with Syriza.  The Greek election result came amid unemployment of almost
22 percent and a jobless rate of almost 51 percent for those
under the age of 24.  Voter turnout was 65 percent, the  Interior Ministry  said on
its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson  at   tquinson@bloomberg.net 
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  