-- Groupon CEO Sees ‘Enormous Opportunity’ After Rapid Growth
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-05-07T20:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/groupon-ceo-sees-enormous-opportunity-after-rapid-growth-1-.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Mason  sees “enormous opportunity” ahead after three and
a half years of rapid growth, he said in a letter to
shareholders.  “Although there are risks in moving too fast, companies
often don’t survive long enough to apologize for moving too
slow,” Mason said in the  letter , filed today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. “By moving quickly, we
reached a scale that has helped us solidify our market
leadership, and accumulated data that is enabling our future and
helping us continuously improve the experience of our
customers.”  Groupon, the biggest online coupon company, has lost half
its value since a November initial public offering amid concern
over its ability to translate growth into profit. Mason is
taking steps to shore up confidence in the Chicago-based
company’s ability to account for its business, which centers on
the distribution of coupons for discounts on products and
services.  “Groupon’s chief accomplishment to date has been
discovering a business model that brings the power of the
Internet to local commerce,” Mason said in the letter.
“Entertainment, media, politics, and the way we buy products,
connect with each other, and consume information -- nearly every
aspect of life has been fundamentally changed by the Internet.”  Shares Rise  The  shares  rose 4.9 percent to $10.46 at the close in  New
York . The stock has dropped 49 percent this year.  Groupon in March reported a “material weakness” in
financial controls and lower fourth-quarter revenue than
previously stated.  By the end of last year, the company sold more than 170
million so-called Groupons to more than 33 million active
customers on behalf of more than 250,000 merchants, Mason said
in the letter. The company pared losses to 12 cents a share in
the fourth quarter of 2011, from 48 cents in the first quarter
that year, according to the letter today.  Last month, almost 30 percent of transactions in  North
America  were completed on mobile phones, up from 25 percent four
months ago, Groupon said. The typical mobile customer in this
region spends 50 percent more than customers who never purchase
on phones.  In the past year, Groupon said it doubled the efficiency of
SmartDeals, its formula for personalizing coupon pitches. In
 Chicago , for example, the company said coupons emailed using
SmartDeals had a 50 percent higher purchase rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  