-- ICE Expanding Default Fund as Risk, Volatility Climb
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-05-07T21:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/ice-boosts-expanding-default-fund-as-risk-volatility-increase.html
(Corrects headline to remove extraneous word.)  ICE Futures U.S., home to markets for
commodities including sugar, cotton and orange juice, said it
will increase the size of a fund created to protect members
against trading defaults after an increase in volatility and
risk during the past year.  The so-called Guaranty Fund, which is supported by
surcharges on trading, will increase to a minimum of $250
million from $215.89 million, the exchange said today in a
statement. The fund is designed to cover the greatest potential
loss at any one clearing member given the largest historical
price move in any one commodity, it said.  The exchange uses margin deposits and position limits by
the clearing house to reduce  default risk , while the Guaranty
Fund provides additional protection against “extreme market
conditions,” Brookly McLaughlin, a spokesman for ICE, said in
the statement. McLaughlin, contacted by e-mail, declined to
elaborate on how the change will affect margin requirements or
trading fees.  The contribution of each clearing member to the fund is
based 80 percent on open interest, or the number of contracts
outstanding, and 20 percent on volume, McLaughlin said in an e-
mail.  Commodity exchanges have been bolstering measures to
protect customers after the bankruptcy last year of  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, will require brokers to report daily customer
fund levels as $1.6 billion in client money is still missing
related to the MF Global collapse, the bourse said April 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  