-- Michelle Obama’s Food Desert Plan Yields Few New Stores: Retail
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-05-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/michelle-obama-s-food-desert-plan-yields-few-new-stores-retail.html
After vowing to open more than 1,000
stores selling fresh fruit and vegetables in underserved urban
neighborhoods, or “food deserts,” grocers have opened a
fraction of them, putting in jeopardy  Michelle Obama ’s effort to
improve food choices for low-income Americans.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which said last July it would have
300 food-desert stores nationwide by 2016, has opened 23 and
delayed opening some locations after a backlash from activists.
 Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , which pledged to double to 2,376 its Save-A-Lot
stores, has slowed the pace of openings amid declining  sales  and
scarce financing for its licensees. Meanwhile, grocers are
opening stores in wealthier urban enclaves.  Food desert locations, by definition, aren’t profitable,
according to  Nelson Lichtenstein , director of the Center for the
Study of Work, Labor and Democracy at the  University of
California  at  Santa Barbara .  “The whole phrase ‘food desert’ sort of implies the
weather created it,” said Lichtenstein. “It’s not the weather
-- it’s because people don’t have any money.”  Shoppers who live in low-income city neighborhoods “don’t
fill up a basket and spend $100, they buy $10,” said
Lichtenstein, who wrote “The Retail Revolution: How Wal-Mart
Created a Brave New World of Business.”  The First Lady has made the eradication of food deserts a
central part of her anti-obesity “Let’s Move!” campaign. About
23.5 million Americans live in low-income areas that are more
than 1 mile from a supermarket, according to Obama’s  Healthy
Food Financing Initiative .  Fresh Fruit  Her calls for more grocery stores selling fresh fruit and
vegetables come as grocers seek new ways to grow. Sales at U.S.
supermarket and grocery stores, which totaled about $495 billion
last year, have stagnated and will grow 0.1 percent annually
until 2016, on average, according to IBISWorld Inc., a research
firm based in  Santa Monica ,  California .  Wal-Mart is trying to rekindle growth in the U.S. and has
made opening urban stores a central piece of its strategy. The
world’s largest retailer has encountered resistance from unions
and activists who say Wal-Mart’s move into U.S. cities won’t
create jobs that pay well and offer benefits.  As part of its effort to persuade Chicago officials to let
it open stores in the third-largest U.S. city, Wal-Mart in June,
2010, vowed to open “several dozen stores” to “help eradicate
food deserts and stimulate local economic development.”  Since then, Wal-Mart has opened four Chicago stores. It has
three more in the works, according to Steve Restivo, a company
spokesman.  Better Access  “We will continue to identify sites where residents need
jobs and better access to fresh food, while also looking for
opportunities to help all Chicagoans save,” Restivo said in an
e-mail. This year Wal-Mart will open between 50 and 60 stores in
food deserts nationwide, he said.  On May 9, Wal-Mart will open a store in the city’s
gentrifying River North neighborhood, about half a mile from a
 Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  location and less than a mile from a
Trader Joe’s and a Supervalu-owned Jewel-Osco.  “They really messaged publicly about being the savior to
the food deserts and look at where they’re at,” said Elizabeth
Drea, a Rosemont, Illinois-based spokeswoman for the Local 881
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union,
representing workers in  Illinois  and Northwest  Indiana .
“They’re kind of going in a different direction.”  Suburban Competition  Supervalu, the third-largest U.S. grocery chain, also has
put a priority on opening urban stores as competition from low-
priced, big-box retailers Wal-Mart and  Target Corp. (TGT)  cut into the
 Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based company’s sales. In January 2010,
Save-A-Lot’s then President Bill Shaner vowed to double the
number of locations by 2015 by tapping into under-served demand
in “urban food-desert” centers.  The 1,330-location Save-A-Lot chain, which sells food
that’s about 40 percent cheaper than that sold by mainstream
grocers, will open 50 stores in fiscal 2013, compared with 52 in
2012 and 92 in 2011. Save-A-Lot is “still seeing good growth in
the licensees, but it’s not quite the pace that we had outlined
a couple of years ago,” Chief Financial Officer Sherry Smith
said at an investor conference on April 24.  It may be easier for  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the second-biggest U.S.
drugstore chain by revenue, to live up to its food-desert
promises because it already has the locations, according to
Meredith Adler, a New York-based analyst at  Barclays Capital .
The drugstore is “already in food deserts -- they’re just going
to be shifting space around in their stores to sell more food.”  Food Oasis  Last July, Walgreen pledged to open or convert at least
1,000 so-called food oasis stores over the next five years in
the U.S. It has so far opened nearly two dozen, according to
Robert Elfinger, a company spokesman, who added that Walgreen is
“on pace” to meets its goal. The Deerfield, Illinois-based
company’s “urban oasis” project includes stores that carry
about 750 more food items, including fresh fruits and
vegetables.  Customers now see Walgreen stores as a “destination for
meal solutions,” said John Grant, market vice president for
 Chicago  and and Northwest Indiana. In food oasis locations,
submarine sandwiches and fruit are selling well, he said.  “They see us a little different than what they’ve seen us
as in the past,” Grant said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  