-- Microsoft Counters Motorola Mobility’s $4 Billion Demand
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-05-07T21:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/microsoft-counters-motorola-mobility-s-4-billion-demand.html
Microsoft Corp. urged a federal judge
in  Seattle  today to rule that  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) 
unfairly demands as much as $4 billion in annual patent
royalties.  Microsoft said Motorola Mobility failed an obligation to
offer fair licensing terms on some patents. Motorola Mobility
filed suit in the U.S. and  Europe  to ban Microsoft products,
saying the software maker refuses to pay to use inventions
essential to industry standards for Wi-Fi and video technology.
U.S. District Judge James Robart said he’ll rule later.  “The court is well aware it is being used as a pawn in a
global, industrywide business negotiation,” Robart  said ,
according to the Seattle Times.  A ruling for Microsoft may support a similar complaint
against Motorola Mobility at the European Commission, and help
avoid a ban on sales of its products in Germany. Such a decision
could bolster Microsoft’s arguments in a trade dispute that the
Asia-made Xbox shouldn’t be barred from the U.S., where it was
the top-selling gaming system last year.  “It could take a lot off the table,” said  Michael
Carrier , a professor at Rutgers Law School in Camden,  New
Jersey , who specializes in intellectual property and antitrust
issues. “It could affect what’s going on in both the courts and
the agencies.”  Royalty Dispute  The hearing today centered on whether Motorola Mobility
fulfilled its obligation to make a fair offer to Microsoft for
use of its patents that relate to industry standards. The judge
also is considering if Microsoft lost the right to complain
because it made no counteroffer to letters Motorola Mobility
sent in October 2010 asking for 2.25 percent in royalties on the
retail price of Microsoft products.  That rate would equal about $4 billion a year in royalties,
Microsoft contends. Motorola Mobility disputes that figure.
Should he reject Microsoft’s arguments, a trial is scheduled for
November that would determine the appropriate royalty rate.  Motorola Mobility said in a statement it has established
cross-licensing relationships with more than 50 companies. Not
all of the patents it’s asserted against Microsoft are related
to industry standards.  ‘Aggressive Litigation’  “Microsoft has refused to negotiate and has instead
initiated and continued to pursue an aggressive litigation
strategy aimed at attacking Motorola Mobility and the Android
platform,”  Jennifer Erickson , a company spokeswoman, said in
the statement. “Regardless of their transparent tactics, we are
focused on resolving this matter in a way that fairly
compensates Motorola Mobility for the use of our valuable IP and
protects the interests of our stakeholders.”  A ruling for Microsoft may limit Motorola Mobility’s
ability to strike back in patent-infringement disputes with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  involving phones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system. Google, in offering $12.5 billion to buy
Motorola Mobility, has cited the handset manufacturer’s history
and trove of patents as a bulwark against litigation meant to
slow the growth of Android.  The ITC is scheduled to announce May 18 a final decision in
Microsoft’s case against Motorola Mobility over Android phones.  Sales Bans  Microsoft and Apple have pledged not to use standard-
essential patents to block competitors’ products and demanded
that other companies follow suit. They retain the right to seek
import or sales bans on products that infringe patents that
aren’t part of any industry standard.  Motorola Mobility and Google, in letters to U.S. and
European regulators, have said they wouldn’t seek a ban on the
use of standard-essential patents as long as there are licensing
talks under way. In court papers, Motorola Mobility said neither
Microsoft nor Apple will negotiate fairly.  Robart blocked Motorola Mobility on April 12 from taking
steps to implement a ban on Microsoft products in  Germany  until
he rules on the contract issue, a decision Motorola Mobility is
appealing.  David Howard , deputy general counsel for Microsoft, said
the company is pleased that order remains in place and “we look
forward to seeing Judge Robart’s decision on today’s hearing.”  European Commission Inquiry  The European Commission is investigating patent-misuse
complaints filed by Microsoft and Apple against Motorola
Mobility.  A different judge with the U.S. International Trade
Commission rejected similar arguments Microsoft made in a case
that may result in a ban on imports of the Xbox gaming system.
That case is under consideration by the six-member commission in
 Washington .  The ITC judge found that Microsoft infringed four Motorola
Mobility patents, while a second trade judge found that Apple
infringed a different Motorola Mobility patent related to 3G
technology. Apple has its own breach-of-contract suit pending
against Motorola Mobility.  Limiting the power of standard-essential patents may mean
lower royalty payments on them. Mobile-phone chipmaker  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM) , which gets more than a third of its revenue from
licensing, has said the high-profile nature of the fight may
push regulators and courts to make sweeping rules that hurt the
industry.  ‘Unforseen Circumstances’  It also could discourage companies from working together to
ensure products work across platforms, Carrier said.  The regulators or judges “could set a broad rule that
could really have unforeseen circumstances considering how
fragile a lot of these arrangements are,” Carrier said.
“Standard-essential patents should have special obligations,
but those obligations should stem from the rules of the
organization.”  The question of limits on standard-essential patents has
more urgency for Microsoft now that it faces the possibility it
won’t be able to bring the Xbox into the U.S. from manufacturing
plants in  Asia .  Motorola Mobility has called Microsoft’s objections “a
competitive tool rather than a principled objection.” Last
year, in a written  statement  to the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission, Microsoft supported the right to assert standard-
essential patents at the ITC.  Competition Concern  “I don’t think the agency looks upon itself as being in
the position to grant a compulsory license,” said Tom Scott, a
patent lawyer with Goodwin Procter in Washington, who handles
ITC cases.  In a March 15 letter to the  Justice Department  and the ITC,
the Senate Judiciary Committee said it was concerned “that
patent holders may choose to seek an exclusionary order from the
ITC in a manner that would threaten competition, rather than
simply dispute the reasonable terms of the license in court in a
way that would allow continued use by competitors.”  While the largest companies spend millions of dollars in
legal fees, the fight hurts small businesses that may want to
enter the market, said  Carl Howe , an analyst with Boston-based
research firm  Yankee Group .  “There are some broad questions about what the future of
these patents holds,” Howe said. “Maybe the idea of having
industry standards has gone by. A patent is no longer something
to promote innovation, but simply a weapon to be used in a court
of law.”  The U.S. case is  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  v. Motorola Inc.,
10cv1823, U.S. District Court for the District of Washington
(Seattle).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  