-- Tiger Brands in Talks With Dangote Industries on Flour Mills
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-05-07T16:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/tiger-brands-in-talks-with-dangote-industries-on-flour-mills-1-.html
Tiger Brands Ltd. (TBS) , South  Africa ’s
largest food company, said it’s in talks with Dangote Industries
Ltd. regarding the Nigerian company’s shareholding in  Dangote
Flour Mills Plc. (DANGFLOU)  Dangote Flour shares rose for a fourth day.  Tiger Brands didn’t give details of the negotiations in a
statement distributed by the Stock Exchange News Service today.
The Johannesburg-based company urged investors to exercise
caution when dealing in its stock until a further announcement
is made.  The company needs to find a new market for growth as it has
become too big for its home territory of South Africa, said
Wayne McCurrie, a portfolio manager at Momentum Asset
Management, said by mobile phone today. Momentum is a unit of
Momentum Investments which has more than 320 billion rand ($41
billion) in assets under management.  “They need a market outside  South Africa  and  Nigeria 
offers exactly that,” McCurrie said.  Tiger Brands spent 2.1 billion rand  buying  stakes in
companies outside South Africa in the 12 months through
September, including UAC Foods Plc in Nigeria, sub-Saharan
Africa’s most-populous nation and the continent’s second-largest
economy. In April 2011, it acquired all the  shares  in biscuit
maker Deli Foods Nigeria Ltd. and this year promoted Thabi
Segoale, the managing executive of its grain division, to head
the Nigerian business.  Dangote Flour  climbed  4.6 percent to 4.96 naira by the 2:30
p.m. close in Lagos, extending its gains over the past four days
to 16 percent. Tiger Brands was trading at 287.01 rand at the 5
p.m. close in Johannesburg, down 1 percent on the day, giving it
a market value of 54.7 billion rand.  Aliko Dangote, president of  Dangote Group , would want to
sell Dangote Flour to focus on cement and infrastructure,
“which is more lucrative than food business,” Adedoyin
Adelakun, a Lagos-based analyst at Vetiva Capital Management,
said by phone today.  Dangote Flour said on Jan. 5 that profit will probably rise
78 percent in the fourth quarter of its 2011 fiscal year. its
results have been due for release since March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net ;
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  