-- India Said to Deny Local Branch for Iran Bank on U.S. Pressure
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-05-07T07:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/india-said-to-deny-local-branch-for-iran-bank-on-u-s-pressure.html
India  barred an Iranian bank from
opening a branch in the country because of U.S. pressure, making
it harder for the Persian Gulf state to settle oil trades with
its second-biggest crude customer, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Parsian Bank, based in Tehran, had sought approval for a
Mumbai office to facilitate trade transactions in rupees, the
people said, declining to be identified because the information
is confidential.  An official at Parsian Bank in Tehran who declined to be
identified said the lender was yet to be granted a permit. A
person who answered the telephone at India’s finance ministry in
New Delhi said D.S. Malik, a spokesman, was unavailable to
comment.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will meet Indian
leaders in  New Delhi  today where she will discuss assurances
from the South Asian nation that it is curtailing Iranian crude
imports. The U.S. and its allies are seeking international
support for a campaign to pressure the Islamic Republic over its
nuclear program which they say is a cover for building atomic
weapons and  Iran  says is for civilian purposes.  Banking Transactions  India, which relies on imports for almost 80 percent of its
oil requirements, has faced difficulties finding banks willing
to transfer payments to Iran since the  Reserve Bank  of India in
December 2010 dismantled a mechanism to settle trade in euros
and dollars.  Transactions are now routed through Ankara-based  Turkiye
Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , which has told Indian refiners it may no longer
be able to act as an intermediary when European Union sanctions
take effect in July, four people with knowledge of the matter
said Jan. 10.  India’s government-run  UCO Bank (UCO)  has been approved to be
used by Indian refiners to deposit as much as 45 percent of
crude payments in rupees, which will then be transferred to
Iran, people with knowledge of the matter said March 28.  A Mumbai branch for Parsian would have made such
transactions easier and may have helped skirt U.S. sanctions,
the two people said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  