-- India Defers Tax Avoidance Rule in Boost for Currency
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-05-08T04:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/india-defers-tax-avoidance-rule-in-boost-for-currency-stocks.html
Indian Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  retreated on tax proposals in a bid to salvage
investor confidence in Asia’s third-largest  economy , lifting
stocks from a four-month low and buoying the nation’s currency.  The applicability of a new rule to reduce  tax avoidance 
will be delayed until the fiscal year beginning April 2013,
Mukherjee said in parliament yesterday. The clampdown in the
planned General Anti-Avoidance Rule, or GAAR, had stoked concern
that foreign investment will decline, hurting growth.  Emerging-market policy makers are under pressure to protect
investor confidence as  Europe ’s debt crisis boosts  risk
aversion , with net investment into developing-nation equity
funds recording outflows three of the four weeks ended May 2.
India, with the worst performing Asian currency in the past
three months, joins  China  in easing impediments for overseas
companies after a series of policy reversals by Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  hurt sentiment.  “With multinationals becoming more discerning about where
they invest, countries are facing competition to attract
funds,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “Countries need to ensure that reforms
are done in a holistic way where the right hand knows what the
left hand is doing. The trick is to make yourself attractive for
investors but not shoot yourself in the foot at the same time.”  China Measure  China agreed this month to raise the ceiling on foreign
banks’ stakes in securities ventures for the first time in more
than a decade, lifting the limit to 49 percent from 33 percent.
In April, Asia’s biggest economy more than doubled the amount
overseas investors can pump into its  capital markets  to $80
billion, seeking to attract investment as the economy cools and
the benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slumped in the past year.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index tumbled 2.3 percent yesterday
as France’s election of a socialist president fueled concern a
weakening commitment to spending cuts will deepen the region’s
debt crisis. Stocks rose today.  Elsewhere in Asia, Australia’s trade deficit widened to
A$1.587 billion ($1.6 billion), from a revised A$754 million
deficit in February, the Bureau of Statistics said in a report
in Sydney today. The government will unveil its budget today.  New Zealand’s budget deficit was NZ$787 million ($626
million) wider than forecast in the nine months through March as
 tax revenue  slowed, according to a Treasury Department report.
South Korean  producer prices  rose 2.4 percent in April from a
year earlier, the smallest increase in more than two years, a
report showed today.  U.S. Confidence  In the U.S., confidence among small businesses probably
climbed in April from a month earlier, a Bloomberg survey showed
ahead of a report by the National Federation of Independent
Business today. A U.K. house-price index fell to a six-month low
in April as demand weakened after a stamp-duty exemption for
first-time buyers ended, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors said.  India’s government is struggling to revive an economy
expanding at the slowest pace since 2009, hobbled by earlier
policy setbacks including the suspension in December of plans to
open India’s retail industry to foreign companies such as Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. Stocks and the rupee rose after Mukherjee
backed down from the anti-avoidance measure less than two months
after announcing it in India’s annual budget.  Positive ‘Flip Flop’  “It’s a flip flop in the positive sense since the finance
minister wouldn’t want to tarnish the image of the economy,”
said Jay Shankar, chief economist at Religare Capital Markets
Ltd. in Mumbai. “But it shows the indecisiveness and lack of
leadership in the government.”  The rupee strengthened 1.1 percent to 52.9150 per dollar
yesterday, while the BSE India Sensitive Index of stocks rose
0.5 percent, erasing earlier losses. The currency weakened 16
percent last year and 6.8 percent in the past three months, the
worst performance in  Asia .  In the March 16 budget, Mukherjee unveiled GAAR to target
avoidance by companies that use tax treaties between India and
other countries. Foreign funds that route investments into India
via other nations were concerned the new rule may apply to their
holdings.  The burden of proving  tax evasion  under GAAR will be on the
revenue department and steps will be taken to ensure it’s
applied objectively, he said.  Short-Term Boost  The deferral of the rule “should be positive in the short
term,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, chief economist at
Mumbai-based ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. “I expect
capital flows should pick up because the India-related
uncertainty has gone away.”  Mukherjee in the budget also proposed retrospective
clarifications to ensure the taxation of deals conducted
overseas in which an Indian business is transferred. That plan
followed a ruling in January by India’s  Supreme Court  that
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  doesn’t have to pay $2.2 billion in tax on
its purchase, conducted offshore, of the Indian business of
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  in 2007.  The retrospective clarification won’t override India’s
double-taxation agreements and cases where assessment orders
have already been finalized won’t be reopened, he said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  discussed the
tax plans with Mukherjee last month after American trade and
lobby groups said they may lead to retroactive bills for periods
of as much as 50 years and deter foreign investment.  Widest Deficit  The Indian finance minister also said yesterday that the
long-term capital gains tax rate for non-resident investors and
private equity firms will be reduced to 10 percent from 20
percent. Proceeds from initial public offerings will be exempt
from the levy, while being subject to a securities transaction
tax of 0.2 percent, he said.  Mukherjee, who faces the widest fiscal deficit among the
biggest emerging economies, has said he aims to narrow the
shortfall to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product this fiscal
year from 5.9 percent in the 12 months through March 2012.  Singh’s administration is facing one of the most
challenging periods since taking office in 2004 as opposition
from within the ruling coalition stymies efforts to further open
up the economy.  India  is also grappling with the fastest  inflation  in the
so-called BRIC group of biggest emerging nations that also
includes Brazil, Russia and China. India also has a record trade
deficit that’s pressured the rupee.  Outlook Cut  Standard & Poor’s  lowered India sovereign credit outlook to
negative from stable on April 25, citing weaker investment and a
deterioration in the current account, the broadest measure of
trade. The move took the economy a step closer to so-called junk
status.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut the repurchase
rate by a greater-than-forecast half a percentage point on April
17 to 8 percent, seeking to bolster expansion with the first
reduction since 2009. Inflation was 6.89 percent in March.  The government estimates that India’s  economy  expanded 6.9
percent in 2011-2012, the slowest pace in three fiscal years,
hurt by costlier credit, inflation and slower exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  