-- India Stock-Index Futures Fall on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-05-08T02:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/india-stock-index-futures-fall-on-global-growth-concern.html
(Corrects fund flow figure in eighth paragraph in story
published yesterday.)  Indian stocks rebounded from their
lowest level in four months as the finance minister delayed a
tax avoidance rule by a year after the plan stoked concern that
foreign fund flows to the $1.1 trillion market will decline.  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the biggest power-equipment
producer, surged 6 percent, rebounding from a five-year low.
 Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the largest engineering company, jumped
the most in two months. The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.5
to 16,912.71 at close, erasing an intraday drop of 1.9 percent.  Foreigners were net sellers of Indian shares in April for
the first time this year on concern the government’s proposal to
introduce the General Anti-Avoidance Rule to curb evasion of
taxes by companies through misuse of tax treaties would apply to
their holdings of shares. GAAR will be deferred until the fiscal
year beginning April 2013, and steps will be taken to ensure the
rule is applied objectively, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee
told lawmakers in  New Delhi  today.  “Investors now have a timeframe and they can plan ahead,
and hopefully after one year there will be an equal playing
field for all foreign investors,” Juergen Maier,  fund manager 
at Raiffeisen Capital Management, said from Vienna. The  money
manager  has about $1.1 billion of emerging-market assets.  The rupee had its biggest rally in more than a month on
optimism the tax move will boost flows from overseas. The
currency rose 1.1 percent to 52.915 a dollar at close, ending
four days of losses.  Policy Reversals  India is grappling with the fastest  inflation  and widest
fiscal deficit among the largest emerging economies, as well as
a record trade gap that’s weakened the rupee. Policy reversals,
including the suspension of plans to allow overseas retailers to
open supermarkets, have clouded the outlook for investment.
 Standard & Poor’s  last month reduced India’s credit outlook to
negative, taking the nation a step closer to junk status.  Offshore  funds  have still poured a net $8.9 billion in
local stocks this year, a record for the period, on optimism the
 Reserve Bank  of India will ease monetary policy to revive
growth. Asia’s third-biggest  economy  grew 6.1 percent in the
December quarter, the least in almost three years, as costlier
credit and inflation hurt  consumer spending  and investment.  Foreign funds bought a net  5.13 billion rupees  ($95.4
million) of local stocks on May 4, a fourth straight day of
purchases, according to the data compiled by the nation’s market
regulator. They withdrew a net $102.6 million in April.  “At least now we do not have to worry about foreign fund
outflows,”  Samir Arora , founder of Singapore-based hedge fund
Helios Capital Management Pte., said by phone today. “The GAAR
clarity will assuage concerns. It was the right thing to do.”  Inflation Risks  The  Reserve Bank of India  cuts its repurchase rate for the
first time in three years on April 17, and said inflation risks
may limit the room for further reductions. Inflation was 6.89
percent in March, the fastest among the BRIC group of  emerging
markets  that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  India VIX, which measures the cost of protection against
losses in the S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index, plunged 4.3 percent to 20.22,
ending a four-day advance. The Nifty climbed 0.5 percent to
5,114.15 and its May futures settled at 5,125.95. The  BSE 200
Index (BSE200)  added 0.6 percent.  A total of 957 million shares changed hands on the BSE and
NSE on May 4, 6 percent more than the daily average in the past
12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Sensex trades at 13.2 times future earnings,  compared
with  the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 10.4 times. The 30-stock
gauge sank to a four-month low earlier, tracking Asian markets,
amid renewed concern on Europe’s debt crisis after French
Socialist Francois Hollande was elected President and as U.S.
employers added fewer jobs than forecast.  Bharat Heavy soared 6 percent to 226.95 rupees, the most
since Feb. 28. Larsen gained 4.9 percent to 1,202.9 rupees.  State Bank of India , the nation’s biggest lender, rose 1.6
percent to 2,028.2 rupees, rebounding from an intraday drop of 6
percent.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  increased 1.8 percent to 848.25 rupees,
reversing losses of as much as 4.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  