-- Indonesia Economy Expands 6.3% as Investments Counter Europe
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-05-07T06:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/indonesia-s-economy-expands-6-3-as-investments-counter-europe.html
Indonesia ’s economic growth exceeded 6
percent for a sixth quarter as investment gained, countering a
slowdown in export growth and reducing the need for further
interest-rate cuts.  Gross domestic product  increased 6.3 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, compared with a 6.49 percent pace
reported previously for the last three months of 2011, according
to a statistics bureau report today. The median of 20 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for 6.31 percent growth.  Bank Indonesia has paused rate cuts after lowering
borrowing costs in February to support  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy as  Europe ’s protracted sovereign-debt crisis threatened
demand for Asian exports. Investment in the country increased
32.9 percent in the first quarter and inflation pressure has
climbed as costlier oil forces the government to consider ways
to reduce its subsidy bill that may push up local fuel prices.  “The solid gains in investment and household spending are
positive signs for the economy,” said Fred Gibson, an associate
economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “Rates will remain on
hold in the months ahead as the central bank looks to avoid
stoking elevated inflation.”  The rupiah rose 0.5 percent to 9,228 a dollar as of 12:18
p.m. in Jakarta today, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark Jakarta Composite index of
stocks fell 1.9 percent.  Investment Push  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  plans to spur economic
expansion by boosting spending on projects ranging from mass
rapid transit systems to  power plants  and ports to cut poverty
and boost incomes. The strategy is similar to that of Philippine
President  Benigno Aquino , who estimates his country’s economy
probably grew at least 5.2 percent in the first quarter, the
fastest pace in more than a year.  Indonesia’s GDP expanded 1.4 percent last quarter from the
previous three months, compared with the 1.47 percent median
estimate of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The year-on-year increase in GDP was the smallest since the
third quarter of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The slower growth was caused by easing exports, said Suryamin,
head of the statistics bureau.  While Indonesia’s export growth has fallen below 10 percent
since December, from as much as 49.1 percent in June, the
central bank’s cut in its  reference rate  to a record-low 5.75
percent has helped support domestic demand and boosted profit at
lenders such as PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia.  Price Pressures  Indonesia’s foreign and domestic investments increased in
the first quarter on an expansion of its mining, food and
plantation industries, a report by the nation’s Investment
Coordinating Board showed last month. Investment rose to 71.2
trillion rupiah ($7.7 billion) in the three months ended March
31 from a year earlier.  While economic expansion staying above 6 percent reduces
the need to cut borrowing costs further, inflation at a seven-
month high of 4.5 percent in April is putting pressure on the
central bank to contain prices.  Indonesia’s central bank will probably hold its  key rate  on
May 10, according to all but one of the 21 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  The country’s parliament rejected a proposal for a 33
percent increase in subsidized-fuel prices from April 1 after
public protests against the plan. Lawmakers instead allowed the
government to raise prices only if the Indonesia Crude Price
exceeds the state budgetary assumption of $105 a barrel by 15
percent over a six-month period. President Yudhoyono’s
administration now plans to cap the sale of below-market-rate
fuel for certain vehicles.  “Indonesia faces external and internal pressure amid no
improvement in Europe, while uncertainty in energy subsidies
will reduce consumption,”  Destry Damayanti , chief economist at
PT Bank Mandiri in Jakarta, said before the report. “ Bank
Indonesia  will hold  interest rates  unchanged this year to spur
domestic consumption as exports still face slowdown risks.”  The economy can grow 6.3 percent to 6.5 percent in the
second quarter, central bank Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah said
today. Indonesia’s domestic demand is “still strong,” even as
a change in the fuel policy may slow consumption by people with
fixed salaries, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  