-- Indonesia’s Rupiah Gains on Suspected Intervention; Bonds Fall
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-05-07T08:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/indonesia-s-rupiah-gains-on-suspected-intervention-bonds-fall.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah rose, halting a
five-day slide, on speculation the central bank is supporting
the currency to help stem imported inflation. Bonds fell.  The currency sank to a 23-month low on May 4 as  Bank
Indonesia  said it would remain in the market to keep the
exchange rate stable. The central bank participated in the
foreign-exchange and debt markets to stabilize the rupiah, it
said last month. Growth in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy
cooled last quarter as  Europe ’s debt crisis dented exports.  “The authorities want to ensure a stable rupiah, given
that the market is concerned about slowing growth and possible
capital outflows,” said Taufan Tito, a Jakarta-based foreign-
exchange dealer at PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia. The intervention
has been “light and in small amounts,” he said.  The rupiah strengthened 0.5 percent to 9,228 per dollar as
of 3:37 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached 9,276 on May 4, a
level not seen since June 7, 2010.  The currency’s one-month implied volatility, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, jumped 100
basis points, or 1 percentage point, to 7.5 percent.  The economy grew at an annual rate of 6.3 percent in the
first quarter, compared with 6.49 percent in the final three
months of 2011, the statistics bureau said today. The median
forecast was for a 6.31 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey.  The  yield  on the government’s 7 percent bond maturing in
May 2022 climbed one basis point to 6.06 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
notes has risen 72 basis points since January.  Consumer prices  increased  4.5 percent in April from a year
earlier, the most since September, official data show. The
government failed to push a proposed fuel-price increase through
parliament in March. It plans limit sales of subsidized fuel
from this month, President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said in
Jakarta on April 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 