-- Irving Channels ‘Garp’ With Transsexual Wrestler
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-05-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/irving-channels-garp-with-transsexual-wrestler-in-new-novel.html
Thirty-four years ago, in “ The
World According to Garp ,” John Irving created a transsexual
for the ages in a former football player named Roberta
Muldoon. ( John Lithgow  played her in the movie.)  In his 13th novel, “ In One Person ,” he’s created
another one: a former wrestler, now a librarian, named
Alberta (Big Al) Frost.  He doesn’t allow Miss Frost enough pages, though.
Instead, he devotes most of the book to Billy Abbott, a
writer who is also the narrator and who, notwithstanding
his bisexuality, has a lot in common with John Irving.  Much of the story unfolds at Favorite River Academy in
First Sister,  Vermont  (nothing in the novel surpasses these
names), where Billy is the adopted son of a faculty member,
and wrestling figures large as a sport. Irving was the
adopted son of a faculty member at Phillips Exeter Academy,
in  New Hampshire , where -- unlike Billy -- he distinguished
himself as a wrestler.  Another faculty child, Elaine Hadley, will remain
Billy’s best friend and occasional lover for the rest of
his life. But as a character she never comes fully into
focus.  None of the women in this novel do; it belongs to its
men, almost all of them, to use Irving’s term, sexual
outsiders -- bi- and homosexuals, transvestites and
transsexuals.  Presiding Spirits  Billy and Elaine both fall in love with a mocking
wrestler named Jacques Kittredge, a beauty as alluring as
he is cruel. Kittredge’s magnetism rivals Miss Frost’s and,
like her, he leaves the book far too early. Thereafter the
two of them continue to hover as presiding spirits.  In their place, over the course of the novel’s
fractured time scheme we get accounts of Billy’s later love
affairs -- with a soprano in Vienna, a transsexual in
Hamburg.  We also get an obligatory-feeling chapter on the era
of AIDS, including Billy and Elaine’s arrival at the
deathbed of a minor character, where the hysterical
melodrama that unfolds seems both unlikely and unearned.  Irving screws up the chronology, too. He has straight
wrestlers panicking over exposure to gay blood in 1981, two
years before the virus was isolated and the fear of
contagion really began to grip the general public.  Pleas for Tolerance  That’s nitpicking, I know, and a better novel would be
impervious to it. Maybe the nits hurt this one because the
author’s lack of full engagement has already weakened it.  Billy’s stepfather calls his novels “pleas for
tolerance,” which is just what “In One Person” is. It’s a
very well-meaning book. And I mean for that statement to be
as damning as it sounds. It’s a tale about sex that never
becomes sexy.  Irving is still a first-rate storyteller, with a fluid
style and a talent for piling on whimsical detail; there
was never a point during this long novel when I wasn’t
content to be reading. But once Miss Frost and Kittredge
disappeared, I missed them badly.  What would impel a writer to abandon such riveting
characters in order to concentrate on the familiar and (I’m
afraid) less-than-scintillating Billy? The answer seems all
too clear. A novelist is sunk when he loses interest in the
other people in the room because he’s so fascinated by what
he sees in the mirror.  As I was reading, I remembered an evening 20 years ago
when I saw Irving interview Michael Ondaatje. It wasn’t
long after the publication of Ondaatje’s novel “ The English
Patient ,” and the spotlight was supposed to be his --
Irving was just the interviewer, even though at that point
he was more famous. Poor Ondaatje, though, could barely get
a word in edgewise.  “In One Person” is published by  Simon & Schuster (CBS)  (425
pages, $28). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on business
books and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 