-- Japan’s Youngest Billionaire Loses $702 Million After Stock Rout
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-05-07T09:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/japan-s-youngest-billionaire-loses-702-million-after-stock-rout.html
Yoshikazu Tanaka, Japan’s youngest
billionaire and founder of  Gree Inc. (3632) , lost $702 million today
after his social-gaming company plunged by the daily limit in
Tokyo on concerns one of its sales methods may be illegal.  Japan’s second-biggest operator of social games fell 500
yen, or 23 percent, to 1,651 yen, the biggest drop since its
December 2008 listing, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That wiped out 56.1 billion yen ($702 million) from the value of
the 35-year-old Tanaka’s shareholding, based on calculations by
Bloomberg.  Gree led drops among Japanese game-related companies. The
Consumer Affairs Agency is considering whether a sales method
called “complete gacha” violates the law, Kazuyuki Katagiri, a
section chief at the agency, said by phone today. The Yomiuri
newspaper said May 5 the agency  will ask  social-network game
operators to stop using the system because it prompts customers
to pay excessive fees.  “The companies may need to change their business models,”
Masamitsu Ohki, a  fund manager  at Stats Investment Management
Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund, said by phone. “Companies
shouldn’t rush to expand, as the very existence of social games
is being questioned and that would deter some investors.”  Tanaka was the youngest billionaire in Japan with an
estimated fortune of $3.5 billion,  Forbes  magazine said in
March. His 48.18 percent stake in Gree is worth $2.32 billion
after today’s rout.  ‘Complete Gacha’  Shinichi Iriyama, a spokesman for Gree, declined to comment
on the report and the share decline by phone today.  DeNA Co., the country’s biggest social-game operator,
plunged by its daily limit of 500 yen, or 20 percent, to 1,990
yen. Tomoyuki Akiyama, a spokesman for DeNA, declined to comment
on the report by phone.  Other video-game software makers fell in  Tokyo  trading
because an agency order may hinder their efforts to expand in
social games, said Makoto Sengoku, a Tokyo-based market analyst
at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co.  Konami Corp. (9766) , the maker of “Metal Gear Solid” games,
slumped 18 percent, the biggest drop in more than a year, to
1,890 yen. The company said in March it agreed to publish its
games on social-network game maker  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ’s new platform.  “The market for social games may shrink if the warning is
issued,” Sengoku said. “This would ruin profit pillars.”  Namco Bandai Holdings Inc. (7832) , the creator of “Pac-Man”
games, declined 9.5 percent to 1,030 yen.  Capcom Co. (9697) , the maker
of “Biohazard” games, fell 6.6 percent.  CyberAgent Inc. (4751) , the
operator of Ameba social-networking site, had the biggest drop
in more than nine years, falling 20 percent to 203,000 yen.  Most Shorted  Gree was the most-shorted stock in  Asia , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Short interest as a percentage of free
float was 27 percent before today’s move.  The “complete gacha” system charges players about 300 yen
apiece for virtual items that can be collected and converted
into a rare item once a certain combination is obtained. The
system may violate the law through unjustifiable premiums and
misleading representations, according to the Yomiuri report.  The ban could reduce Gree’s net income by 18 percent and
DeNA’s by 6 percent, said David Gibson, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Macquarie Securities Ltd., who has an underperform  rating  on
both companies.  Gree forecast net income may total between 44 billion yen
and 50 billion yen in the year ending June 30, the company said
Feb. 2. DeNA  estimated  the profit of 32.6 billion yen in the
year ended March 31, it said Feb. 7.  High Charge  In one incident, a user’s charge totaled 4 million yen in
two months playing games with the sales system, according to the
 minutes  of the Consumer Affairs Agency’s panel meeting in
February. Some users also put up rare virtual items on auction
sites, the panel said.  The consumer agency plans to issue an opinion on the system
“soon,” Katagiri said. The government hasn’t decided on the
details of the order, he said.  Amid growing criticism, six operators, including Gree and
DeNA, said they were working to improve the gaming environment.
That included a ban on the “real money trade,” where users
sell those rare items to other players, the companies  said  April
23.  On April 1, Gree began limiting monthly fees for users who
are 19 years old or younger.  Japan ’s social-gaming market may expand 33 percent from a
year earlier to about 343 billion yen this fiscal year, Yano
Research Institute Ltd. forecast in January. That would be
almost 70 times the 4.9 billion-yen market in 2008, according to
estimates by the researcher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  