-- Jordan Expects Agreement on Shale-Oil Plant With Estonia’s Eesti
-- B y   M o h a m m a d   T a y s e e r
-- 2012-05-07T15:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/jordan-expects-agreement-on-shale-oil-plant-with-estonia-s-eesti.html
Jordan expects to sign a final
agreement within a few weeks with Estonia’s Eesti Energia AS for
the construction of a power plant that burns shale oil, the
Natural Resources Authority’s director-general said.  The 700-megawatt plant in the central Attarat region is due
to be ready for operation in 2016, Mousa Ali Alzyoud said today
in an interview at a conference at the  Dead Sea .  “We are in the process of finalizing the documents for the
agreement, and very soon we will ink the deal,” he said. When
asked about the timing, Alzyoud indicated that the two sides
would complete the signing in a few weeks.  Jordan says it holds the world’s fourth-largest reserves of
shale oil, a sedimentary rock containing solid bituminous
materials that are released as petroleum-like liquids when the
rock is heated. The government is turning to shale oil along
with nuclear, solar and wind power to help meet rising demand
for electricity.  The kingdom holds about 40 billion metric tons of shale-oil
reserves and plans to increase the share of energy it generates
from these deposits to 14 percent of the country’s total
requirements, Alzyoud said.  Jordan may attract $20 billion in investment in shale-oil
development in coming years, he said. A final agreement with
companies from  China , Jordan and the  United Arab Emirates  for a
$1.25 billion shale-oil-fired 900-megawatt power plant is
expected to be signed by the end of the year, Alzyoud said.  The government has signed three shale-oil agreements so
far, including the one with Eesti, another with  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and a third with Karak International Oil, a unit of
 Tunbridge Wells , England-based Jordan Energy & Mining Ltd.  “Jordan is serious about plans to attract investments in
the shale-oil sector as about one fifth of the country’s gross
domestic product is spent on imported oil,” Minister of Energy
and Mineral Resources Alaa Batayneh said at the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammad Tayseer in Amman, Jordan, through the Dubai newsroom at
   mtayseer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  