-- Kellogg’s Kashi Targeted as Web Food Fighting Escalates
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-05-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/kellogg-s-kashi-latest-target-as-web-food-fight-spreads-health.html
Kellogg’s Kashi natural cereal uses
some genetically modified ingredients. That was enough to
convince an organic grocer in Portsmouth,  Rhode Island  to pull
the brand from his store’s shelves.  Then, a photo of a sign displayed on one of the empty
shelves explaining what had happened quickly went viral,
lighting up the Web.  Kellogg Co. (K) ’s Kashi unit responded last
week with a video on  Facebook (FB)  defending its use of the
ingredients. By then, however, the noise level was rising, with
some online groups threatening a boycott.  It was just the latest skirmish in an escalating Internet-
based uprising. Facebook, Twitter and petition sites like
Change.org have birthed a brand of consumer activism that lets
people rally supporters under a common cause at breakneck speed.
The tactic has caught on in a big way, taking on one company
after another, putting practices under a spotlight: bug extracts
at  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , livestock antibiotics at Cargill Inc. and
the treatment of animals by  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)   “It used to be the most power you had was writing your
congressman” and waiting, said  Amanda Hitt , director of the
food integrity campaign at the Government Accountability Project,
a Washington-based public advocacy group. “Now petitions are
becoming an especially powerful tool.”  That tool has proven especially effective against lobbying
efforts among lawmakers. Agribusiness, for instance, spent $124
million in 2011 on lobbying, up from $77 million in 1999, said
the  Center for Responsive Politics  in Washington.  Mad Cow Disease  Following last month’s discovery of a case of mad cow
disease, online petitions at Change.org began popping up to
demand that the U.S. allow cows to be fed only a vegetarian diet
and that all beef be tested for the disease.  In March, a coalition called the Just Label It campaign
submitted 1.1 million  names  -- about the population of  Dallas  --
to the  Food and Drug Administration  calling for genetically-
modified food to be labeled.  The upside of these petition drives “is it forces the
attention of the government and politicians,” said  Rohit
Bhargava , senior vice president of the global strategy and
planning group at Ogilvy in Washington. The downside is that
“people can combine efforts around things that aren’t really
facts,” he said in an interview.  No recent social media campaign has captured consumers’
imagination in quite the way the “pink slime” controversy has.
The idea struck blogger Bettina Elias Siegel in the kitchen of
her home in Houston. Ammonia-treated beef scraps were showing up
in hamburgers in U.S. schools, a “pink slime” that the former
lawyer saw as risky to children.  260,000 Signatures  The mother of two started a petition on March 6 on
 Change.org , garnering almost 260,000 signatures. In less than
two weeks, the U.S. Agriculture Department said it would let
schools order beef without the scrap meat. By April 2, Beef
Products Inc., the biggest producer of the so-called lean,
finely textured ground beef, had closed three plants, while
Yucaipa Cos.’s AFA Foods Inc. cited the controversy as a factor
pushing it into bankruptcy.  “Bettina’s petition just exploded,” said Sarah Ryan, a
campaigner at San Francisco-based Change.org, a social action
website. “It’s really given the consumers the motivation they
need to realize they can change the  food industry .”  BPI has been making lean, finely textured beef for three
decades and said it’s worked to inform consumers about the
product’s safety. The Dakota Dunes, South Dakota-based company
puts beef trimmings in a centrifuge to separate the meat from
fat and then uses ammonium hydroxide to kill pathogens such as E.
coli.  Internet Democracy  “Our company has faced unprecedented and often unfair
coverage in the media,” BPI said in a statement. “We have done
our best to set the record straight on a product that is not
only safe, but an extremely effective way to make lean ground
beef available to consumers using 100 percent beef.”  BPI will have to become more savvy in responding to social
media campaigns, said  Bill Marler , a Seattle food safety lawyer.
BPI took too long to support its product after Siegel’s petition
and media stories gained momentum, he said.  “It’s not bad to get people engaged, but it’s going to
require more engagement from the other side,” Marler said in an
interview. “Information is now instantaneously available, so
you have to come up with a different strategy of managing the
Internet democracy.”  ‘Disgusting’ Opinions  More than 6,500 people signed a Change.org  petition  asking
Starbucks to stop using dried insects to color products such as
Strawberries & Creme Frappuccino. The petition urged the
Seattle-based coffee retailer to drop the red dye made from
female cochineal insects because it isn’t vegan and consumers
“don’t want crushed bugs in their designer drinks.”  Supporters have added comments such as “the idea of eating
bugs without knowing...well, it’s kind of gross,” and “bugs!!??
Disgusting!!”  Starbucks bowed to pressure on April 19, saying it would
switch to lycopene, a tomato-based extract, by late July in U.S.
stores. Starbucks takes feedback from social media channels
seriously,  Linda Mills , a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The
company is moving away from the cochineal extract, which had
been used in products including raspberry swirl cake, red velvet
whoopee pie and two beverages.  “As our customers you expect and deserve better, and we
promise to do better,” Cliff Burrows, Starbucks president for
the U.S. and the Americas, said in a news release.  Siegel, the mother who started the pink slime petition,
said she was wowed by the public response to her cause.  “Greater transparency in our  food supply  is always a
victory for consumers,” Siegel said in an e-mail. “Though I’m
a blogger and use social media all the time, nothing could have
prepared me for the astounding reaction my petition received,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  