-- Kenya Shilling Drops Second Day on Europe; Uganda Shilling Falls
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-05-07T11:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/kenya-shilling-drops-second-day-on-europe-uganda-shilling-falls.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened for the
second day after elections in France and  Greece  spurred concern
 Europe  will struggle to resolve its debt crisis, curbing
investor appetite for riskier assets.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
by 0.2 percent 83.30 and was trading 0.1 percent lower at 83.25
to the dollar by 1:03 p.m., the highest since May 2 in Nairobi.  Emerging-market stocks fell the most in a month and the
euro plunged to a three-month low against the dollar as Frances
president-elect, socialist  Francois Hollande , pledged less
austerity and Greek voters picked anti-bailout parties.  “The shilling is on a weak note on account of the on-going
potential re-alignment in the euro zone as Hollande has rejected
austerity as the measure for economic growth and is calling for
government support,” Raphael Agung, a currency trader at
Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone
interview.  Kenya accepted 5 billion shillings ($60 million) of bids
for seven-day  repurchase agreements  at a weighted average rate
of 17.363 percent, after receiving offers totalling 6.1 billion
shillings. The bank had offered 5 billion shillings of the
securities, an official in the bank’s money market department
who asked not to be identified citing policy, said in a phone
interview today from Nairobi, the capital.  The Ugandan shilling weakened for the second day, the most
in almost four weeks, depreciated 0.9 percent lower to 2,483. A
close at this level will be the biggest decline since April 11.  Tanzania’s shilling gained for the third day, appreciating
0.1 percent to 1,582 against the dollar. A close at this level 
will be the strongest since Jan. 13, according to data compiled 
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  