-- Knicks Aren't Counting on Lin for Game in Miami, Coach Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-07T17:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/knicks-are-not-counting-on-lin-s-return-for-game-5-woodson-says.html
The injury-riddled  New York  Knicks
aren’t relying on Jeremy Lin to return in two days as the team
tries to avoid elimination from the National Basketball
Association playoffs.  Lin, who last played on March 24 and had surgery in early
April to repair a torn meniscus in his left knee, probably won’t
return for Game 5 of the best-of-seven series with the  Miami
Heat , according to Knicks coach  Mike Woodson . New York trails 3-
1 in the series.  “I’m not counting on Jeremy Lin to play,” Woodson told
reporters today on a conference call, a day after New York beat
the Heat 89-87 while losing point guard  Baron Davis  to his own
knee injury. “It’s going to be up to the doctors and Jeremy to
make that decision. It won’t be my decision. I guess we’ll gauge
it as we go along.”  Lin, the second-year player out of  Harvard University  who
made a surprise rise to the team’s starting point-guard role in
February, is getting treatment and will be further assessed when
the Knicks practice today and tomorrow in New York before flying
to Miami.  The absence of practice time has made it difficult for
Woodson to assess Lin’s readiness to return to game action, and
the coach said he’d never tell someone to play before he was
able.  “I can’t be that selfish and say, ‘Son, put on a uniform
and play,’” Woodson said. “I just can’t do that.”  Stoudemire Back  Amar’e Stoudemire returned to New York’s lineup yesterday
after cutting his hand while punching a fire-extinguisher case
in frustration following Game 2. The forward-center scored 20
points and grabbed 10 rebounds.  With guard Iman Shumpert sustaining a season-ending knee-
ligament tear in the series opener, the possibility of Lin’s
return became more important after Davis dislocated his knee cap
in yesterday’s win, probably ending his postseason.  Davis was removed from the Madison Square Garden court on a
stretcher during the third quarter after falling to the floor
while planting his foot on a fast-break drive to the basket.  The 33-year-old Davis, who is having more tests done on the
knee today, played in 29 of the Knicks’ 66 games during the
lockout-shortened regular season. He signed in December and
didn’t see his first action until Feb. 20 because of a herniated
disk in his back.  “I spoke with him after the game and he was in great
spirits,” Woodson said. “Baron’s a trooper, man. The one thing
he said was, ‘Hey, I tried to give you all I could.’”  Thin Roster  The depleted roster will leave Woodson relying on veteran
 Mike Bibby  to start Game 5. Third-year player Toney Douglas, who
has been used sparingly since Woodson took over the team in mid-
March, also could see playing time.  “I haven’t buried Toney, by any means,” Woodson said. “I
know I haven’t played him but, again, I can’t play everybody.”  The Heat could use a big lineup with  Shane Battier  and Mike Miller joining All-Stars  LeBron James ,  Chris Bosh  and  Dwyane Wade . Woodson said that might lead him to counter with J.R.
Smith or  Carmelo Anthony  handling point guard for the Knicks,
who will be trying to force a sixth game back in New York on May
11.  “There’s a possibility when they go big, we can go big,”
Woodson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 