-- Korean Won Climbs, Bonds Fall on IMF Forecast, Spain
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-05-07T06:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/korean-won-climbs-bonds-fall-on-imf-forecast-spain.html
South  Korea ’s won fell the most in a
month and government bonds rose after U.S. data showed a
slowdown in hiring and French election results fanned concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  U.S. payrolls increased by 115,000 in April, the least in
six months, figures showed on May 4. French Socialist Francois
Hollande, who has called for a re-negotiation of the budget-
discipline pact crafted by European leaders, was elected
president. Four Korean mutual savings banks were ordered to halt
operations as they failed to meet financial strength criteria,
the industry regulator said yesterday. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index of shares
dropped the most since December following a decline in U.S.
stocks.  “U.S. stock declines reflecting weak job data and European
concerns will put downward pressure on the won,” said Ryu Kyungwon, a Seoul-based currency trader for the Bank of  New York 
Mellon. “South Korea’s mutual savings bank issue will heighten
risk-averse sentiment as it’s the result of a real-estate market
downturn and investors are concerned it may spread to the
banking sector.”  The won weakened 0.6 percent to 1,138.50 per dollar at the
close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the biggest drop since April 4. One-month implied volatility for
the won, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, climbed 42 basis points, or 0.42 percentage point, to
7.80 percent.  Rate Review  The  Bank of Korea  will probably leave its benchmark
interest  rate  unchanged at 3.25 percent for an 11th month at a
May 10 policy meeting, according to all 13 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.25 percent bonds due December
2014 dropped five basis points to 3.37 percent, Korea Exchange
Inc. prices show. That’s the lowest rate since Feb. 1. Three-
year debt futures climbed 0.13 today to 104.48 and the one-year
 interest-rate  swap fell two basis points to 3.45 percent.  “With the spread between three-year bonds and the
benchmark interest rate having narrowed, local investors were
hesitant in buying bonds today but overseas investors were
aggressive, especially in the futures market, driving up
prices,” said Moon Hong Cheol, a Seoul-based fixed-income
strategist at Dongbu Securities Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  