-- KT Climbs Most in 8 Months as Net Income Beats Estimates
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-05-07T07:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/kt-corp-s-first-quarter-profit-falls-on-phone-rate-cut-costs.html
KT Corp.,  South Korea ’s largest phone
and Internet company, climbed the most in eight months in  Seoul 
trading after reporting first-quarter profit that exceeded
analyst estimates, helped by demand for data use on smartphones.  KT rose 5.9 percent to 30,500 won at the close in Seoul,
the most since Aug. 18.  Net income  fell to 407.6 billion won
($358 million) from 555.2 billion won a year earlier, Seongnam,
South Korea-based KT said today. Profit beat the 311 billion-won
average of 13  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company earned more revenue from the wireless business
than expected as it boosted the number of subscribers to
costlier mobile-phone plans covering more data, Kim Yoon Jeong,
a Seoul-based spokeswoman for  KT, (030200)  said by telephone. KT is
counting on fourth-generation network services using the so-
called long-term evolution, or LTE, technology to lure
subscribers to more profitable data plans.  “As premium phones become more popular, the subsidy per
user is declining,” Ahn Jae Min, a Seoul-based analyst at
Kiwoom Securities Co., said by phone. “As LTE subscribers
increase, the average revenue per user will likely rise as
well.”  KT’s rival  SK Telecom Co. (017670)  also advanced in Seoul trading,
adding 3.4 percent, while South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index
declined 1.6 percent.  KT’s  operating profit , or sales minus the cost of goods
sold and administrative expenses, fell 20 percent to 574.7
billion won. Sales gained 9 percent to 5.76 trillion won.  Wireless Sales  Revenue from the mobile business dropped 1.4 percent to 1.7
trillion won, KT said in a statement. The company had 8.54
million smartphone users at the end of the first quarter,
accounting for 51 percent of its overall customers, according to
the statement.  Increasing smartphone users helped KT cushion the impact of
a government-led phone rate cut.  KT began in October to reduce monthly basic fees for its
mobile-phone subscribers by 1,000 won and offer 50 free  text
messages , a month after SK Telecom started offering similar
discounts under an agreement with the government.  SK Telecom reported a 40 percent drop in first-quarter
profit this month.  KT spent 30.3 percent more than a year earlier in capital
expenditure on a parent basis to upgrade networks and
accommodate surging data traffic.  KT began the LTE service in January, six months behind SK
Telecom and  LG Uplus Corp. (032640) , after a court blocked its plan to
use 2G networks for the next-generation service.  SK Telecom had signed up 2.4 million LTE users as of the
end of April, the company said May 2. KT aims to have 4 million
LTE subscribers by the end of the year, the carrier said today.  The inclusion of BC Card Co., a credit-card issuer acquired
last year, also contributed to the gain in sales, helping KT
diversify away from the telecommunication business, the phone
operator said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  