-- Napa’s Sequoia Grove Cabernet Makes a Comeback: Review
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-05-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/napa-s-sequoia-grove-cabernet-makes-a-comeback-review.html
Michael Trujillo, director of wine
making and president of  Napa Valley ’s  Sequoia Grove  winery
shrugs when I tell him his wines have been omitted by recent
influential tomes on California wines.  “I’m not surprised,” he says upon hearing there’s no
mention of Sequoia in either Stephen Brook’s “The Finest Wines
of California” or “The New Connoisseurs’ Guidebook to
California Wine & Wineries” by Charles E. Olken and Joseph
Furstenthal.  “In the 1990s there was a falling off of the brand. Oddly
enough, in the eighties, Sequoia was a cult wine in the media,
but economic pressures and phylloxera took their toll and our
competitors shot right past us,” he explains. “Our wines were
okay but we just weren’t running with the pack.”  After tasting Sequoia Grove’s Napa Valley, its workhorse
label that sells for about $38, I am convinced that Sequoia’s
exclusion from these works is unjustified.  Indeed, the winery has come a long way from those days of
variable quality when its reputation foundered.  Trujillo, 50, has been Sequoia Grove’s winemaker since
1998. He grew up on a family ranch in La Jara,  Colorado , and
studied engineering before a chance meeting at the winery with
owner  Jim Allen  led to a job offer.  Cellaring School  Trujillo accepted and went on to study wine making at the
University of California Davis and the Napa Valley School of
Cellaring.  After  Kobrand Corporation  bought the vineyard in 2001,
Trujillo took over all wine making and became president. His
first vintage was in 2002. Since then he has been buying up
small estate holdings to help improve the label’s quality and
image.  The winery currently sits on 22 acres in the Napa Valley
region called the Rutherford Bench, known for its excellent
California cabernet sauvignons. Trujillo also buys grapes from
other Napa vineyards to make cabernets in the blended, Bordeaux
style.  Sequoia Grove might not produce the greatest California cab
I’ve ever tasted, but it has all those qualities that show how
the blending of other grapes with cabernet adds complexity and
levels of flavors. And it proves that a California cab need not
be a blockbuster wine weighing in above 15 percent alcohol.  Robust Cabernet  The 2007 Sequoia Grove I drank was a robust but reasonable
14.2 percent; its single estate bottlings, like Cambium and
Stagecoach, top out about 14.5 percent.  “A lot of Napa Valley wineries are still trying to capture
a few palates accustomed to that massive, in-your-face style of
cab,” Trujillo said.  “But I look for balance and structure, seamless wines with
great length of finish. I’m after the guy who wants flavor, not
over ripeness in a wine. Those who make those huge cabs hang on
one man’s word,” he said, referring to wine critic  Robert Parker  who has awarded many high alcohol wines very high scores.  “High alcohol is not a vehicle for making a wine that’s
going to last a long while. Such wines taste pleasantly sweet at
first, and people like that in the first glass. But the wines
don’t age well. I have no problem adding water during
fermentation if the alcohol is too high. Or I cut those big boys
out of the herd,” he said.  Sugar Accumulation  The California problem is that while grapes achieve what’s
called “phenolic maturity” through gradual sugar accumulation
in cooler climates like Bordeaux (where wines typically have 12
to 14 percent alcohol), in hot climates like Napa Valley, grapes
only reach maturity at higher sugar levels later in the fall,
and those sugars ferment into high alcohol. Picking so late in
the harvest can also decrease desirable acids, which give wines
their fresh, bright flavors.  “I have no problem picking early,” says Trujillo, “but
2007 was such a perfect gift of weather, Mother Nature just
handed it to us on a silver platter. In 2007 anyone could make
good wine. It was a steady growing season, no big heat waves, no
spikes in the sugars, and we picked early.”  I asked Trujillo why, given his antagonism toward overripe
red wines, he continues making a chardonnay that tilts above 14
percent alcohol. “In one sense that was the style I was
handed,” he said, “but I’ve been aiming to get the big flavors
of a great white Burgundy that isn’t spoiled by too much
oakiness.”  ‘Fuzzy Wine’  He also does not allow the wine to go through malolactic
conversion, whereby acids are reduced. “I want it to be a warm
and fuzzy wine.”  Sequoia Grove’s popularity and reputation have improved to
the point where 80 percent of its bottlings are sold direct at
the winery or through a wine club offering members first dibs on
new releases.  Trujillo is especially excited about Cambium, a
blended red of which he made only 350 cases last year, which
sells for a whopping $140 a bottle.  “I figure I’ll have to row pretty hard against the stream
with Cambium,” he said. “Funny thing is, when I raised the
price at the winery, I sold even more.”  Sympatico Sommeliers  He’s also hoping to find receptive sommeliers at
restaurants who will buy the wine. “I’m looking for those who
want something different on their list because they know who put
it together.”  Given the improvements at Sequoia Grove, I asked those
authors who excluded Trujillo’s winery if they’d had a change of
heart. “Since 2007 my experience with the wines has been
good,” said Charles Olken, “they seem to have hit their stride
and their pricing is very reasonable.”  In an e-mail response Stephen Brook said it had been years
since he’d tasted Sequoia’s wines. “But I used to stop by
regularly when in Napa 10-15 years ago and always enjoyed the
wines - well, the reds are what I remember. There’s no plan for
a new edition of the book, so I have no idea whether SG would
make the cut. But I’ll be in Napa in May and if I have time,
will stop by at the tasting room.”  I suspect Michael Trujillo will be rubbing his hands in
anticipation when he reads that.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  theater  and  book  reviews.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 