-- Nationals Outfielder Werth Breaks Wrist Attempting Catch
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-07T21:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/nationals-outfielder-werth-breaks-wrist-attempting-sliding-catch.html
Washington Nationals outfielder  Jayson Werth  is out of surgery after breaking his left wrist sliding to
make a catch, similar to an injury that forced him to miss the
entire 2006 Major League Baseball season.  Werth, 32, broke his non-throwing wrist when his glove got
caught behind him on an attempt to snag a low line drive,
manager Davey Johnson said yesterday after the team’s 9-3 loss
to the Philadelphia Phillies.  He underwent successful surgery today at the  Mayo Clinic  in
Rochester, Minnesota, team spokesman John Dever said in an e-
mailed release. Rehabilitation will begin immediately, and the
outfielder is expected to begin strengthening exercises six
weeks from now, when the fracture has healed, according to the
release.  Werth broke the same wrist in 2005 as a member of the  Los
Angeles Dodgers  and missed the 2006 season because of
complications from the injury. This break is in a different part
of the wrist than his previous injury, Dever said.  Werth initially made the catch in yesterday’s game in
Washington on the drive off the bat of  Placido Polanco , then the
ball came out of his glove when his wrist bent backward. He
rolled the ball into the infield while clutching his left arm
and was immediately removed from the game.  The Nationals are 18-10, in first place in the National
League East division and tied with Los Angeles for the NL’s best
record. The team hasn’t made the playoffs in the seven full
seasons it has played in  Washington .  New Contract  The outfielder signed a seven-year deal with the Nationals
worth $126 million dollars, according to ESPN, following a 2010
season in which he batted .296 with 27 home runs and 85 runs
batted in as a member of the Phillies. In 27 games this season,
he is hitting .276 with three home runs and 12 RBI.  Werth’s injury might mean increased playing time for 19-
year-old outfielder Bryce Harper, who was called up to the team
last month when third baseman  Ryan Zimmerman  was placed on the
disabled list. Zimmerman is expected to return this week,
according to MLB.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  