-- Nigerians Outstrip Americans in London Fashion Spending
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-05-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/nigerians-outstrip-americans-in-london-fashion-spending.html
Nigerian businessman Godwin Patrick
took a three-week holiday to the U.K. this month to visit his
British-based cousins. It wasn’t the only reason for his trip.  “I’m here to shop,” the 38-year-old said on London’s
Oxford Street, clutching bags from  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  and
 Associated British Foods Plc’s (ABF)  Primark containing underwear and
trousers for himself, and dresses for his family in Lagos.  Patrick is a regular visitor to London, where retailers are
fully accustomed to Nigerian shoppers. The African country was
the fourth-biggest contributor to overseas tax-free shopping in
the U.K. last year, behind only  China ,  Russia  and the  Middle
East , according to tourism services provider  Global Blue U.K.  A
growing Nigerian  population  in the U.K. and more-frequent direct
flights between the countries has led to an influx of visitors
who have more to spend because of a booming oil-driven economy.  “Nigerian travelers are very particular to the U.K.; you’d
never see them as a top-10 nationality in other markets,” said
 Richard Brown , vice-president of Global Blue U.K., which runs a
network that enables foreign shoppers to claim back value-added
tax. In total, Nigerians “spend more as a total business than
Americans do,” he said. Visitors from the U.S. are the sixth-
biggest shopping group.  Retailers in London are particularly dependent on overseas
shoppers. Foreigners account for a third of spending in the
English capital’s shopping district of  Bond Street , Oxford
Street and Regent Street and will spend more than 2 billion
pounds ($3.2 billion) this year, according to the New West End
Co., which represents 600 retailers in the area.  Spending by Nigerians in U.K. shops rose 32 percent last
year, according to Global Blue, which declined to disclose their
expenditure. Visitors from the West African country accounted
for 6 percent of the U.K.’s foreign retail spending in March,
the researcher said.  Union-Jack Teapot  Unlike mostly luxury-seeking Russian and Middle Eastern
tourists, Nigerian visitors also want to spend their money at
mass-market chains such as Marks & Spencer and  Debenhams Plc, (DEB) 
where they can obtain better quality products than at home.  “There is a misconception that they just come here for
middle- or lower-value items, but they shop across all brands
from mass-market high street right up to department-store and
luxury brands as well,” said Global Blue’s Brown.  Nigerian visitors spend an average of about 450 pounds per
individual transaction, compared with more than 1,000 pounds by
Middle Eastern customers, Global Blue said.  At Debenhams’ store on London’s Oxford Street, Nigerians
provide the biggest source of overseas spending as they seek out
perfume and moisturizer gift sets, British-themed products like
a 20-pound union-jack printed teapot, clothing and shoes,
according to spokeswoman Ruth Attridge.  Multilingual signs advertising discounts at the store are
printed not only in Chinese and Arabic, but also Hausa, a
Nigerian language.  Living in Britain  The popularity of the U.K. as a shopping destination for
Nigerians partly reflects the growth in the number of people
from the country living in Britain. About two-thirds of shoppers
are on holiday or visiting family and friends, while a third are
traveling for business, according to Global Blue.  The U.K.  Office for National Statistics  estimates that
174,000 Nigerians lived in the U.K. between July 2010 and June
2011, the ninth-largest nationality. That’s an increase of
34,000 compared with three years earlier.  Daily flights from Lagos by airlines such as British
Airways Plc are also fueling shopper journeys. The London-based
carrier allows Nigerian passengers an additional 23-kilogram
suitcase compared with the majority of its flights. Air  Nigeria 
plans to start flights to London’s Gatwick airport this month.  Economic Expansion  Wealth among Nigeria’s elite has increased since the turn
of the century as the former British colony has become  Africa ’s
top oil producer, spurring economic expansion. The country’s
 gross domestic product  grew 7.7 percent in the fourth quarter
year over year, according to the Abuja-based National Bureau of
Statistics, compared with the prior quarter’s 7.4 percent gain.  While the African nation may be better off than before it
gained its independence from Britain in 1960, its shopping
facilities aren’t of a standard to compare with the U.K.  “In Nigeria, there is very little formal retail,” said
Siemon Scamell-Katz, global consulting director at researcher
TNS. “So in terms of retail, Primark and Marks & Spencer is
quite something if you haven’t come across much retail before.”  That’s true of Patrick, who said it’s “the quality and the
pricing” of  London ’s stores that keep him coming back.  “We don’t have the same standard of retailing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  