-- No Repeating Slowdown Seen by U.S. With Banks to Housing
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-07T20:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/no-repeating-slowdown-seen-by-u-s-with-banks-to-housing.html
The smallest gain in U.S. payrolls in
six months need not presage the kind of slowdown that bedeviled
the world’s largest economy for the past two years.  Rising auto sales, improving bank credit and stabilization
of housing are among the signs the economy is more resilient now
than it was around the same time in 2010 and 2011, according to
Marisa Di Natale, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West
Chester , Pennsylvania.  “From where we sit right now, we think the economy looks
fundamentally stronger,” Di Natale said. “Surveys of business
and consumer confidence are better, the labor market data looks
a lot better than it did last year, even some of the housing
data looks better.”  Stocks and bond yields fell on May 4 after a report showing
payrolls climbed 115,000 in April, less than the 160,000 median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 85 economists. The
slowdown followed data showing the pace of economic expansion
cooled in the first quarter, prompting concerns that another
pickup in growth may again be sputtering.  In 2011, the economy was rocked by repeated shocks.  Oil
prices  soared as a result of political upheaval in the Middle
East, a tsunami and earthquake in  Japan  disrupted manufacturing
supply chains,  Europe ’s debt woes deepened and U.S. lawmakers
struggled to reach an accord to raise the debt ceiling.  Payroll growth slowed to an average monthly pace of 80,000
in the period from May through August 2011, from 207,000 in the
first four months of the year.  Tax Credit  The expiration of a U.S. government tax credit to
homebuyers contributed to a slowdown in residential construction
that hurt growth in late 2010. The economy grew at an average
2.4 percent pace in the last six months of that year after
expanding at a 3.9 percent pace in the first half.  Most stocks rose following the biggest weekly decline of
the year, as investors weighed Francois Hollande’s election as
France’s president and Greek voters flocking to anti-bailout
parties. About six stocks rose for every five that fell on U.S.
exchanges at the close in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index increased less than 0.1 percent to 1,369.58.  Elsewhere, German factory orders climbed more than forecast
in March as demand from outside the euro area helped Europe’s
largest economy weather the sovereign debt crisis.  In  Australia , retail sales jumped 1.8 percent in the first
quarter from the final three months of last year, the strongest
performance since 2009, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney.  Comparisons Overstated  Comparisons between the  U.S. economy  this year and last are
overstated, said  Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S. economist for
Valhalla, New York-based High Frequency Economics.  “The economic cause of the slowdown last year was much
more substantial,” ” he said, adding that energy prices are
already declining and Europe’s debt crisis hasn’t spread to U.S.
banks. “There’s nothing I see fundamentally changed in the
economy over the last couple of months.”  The average price of regular  gasoline  fell to $3.78 a
gallon on May 6 from a 2012 high of $3.94 on April 4, according
to data from AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group. The price of oil
fell to $98.49 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on
May 4 from a 2012 high of $109.77 on Feb. 24.  First-time applications for  unemployment benefits  are also
falling. Jobless claims dropped to 365,000 in the week ended
April 28 from 392,000 the previous week, close to the  lowest
level  since the economic recovery began in June 2009.  Average Jobless Claims  Claims this year have averaged 373,000, compared with
417,000 in the first four months of 2011 and 475,000 in the same
period of 2010.  The current level of claims is consistent with gains in
payrolls of about 200,000, Shepherdson said. He forecasts the
economy will add 230,000 jobs in May.  Not everyone agrees the U.S. economy is out of the danger
zone. Oil prices may yet rise again, Europe’s debt crisis is
still smoldering and Congress is gridlocked over budget cuts,
said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC in
Austin,  Texas .  “There are big risks out there, and those haven’t gone
away,” Schenker said. “And the current state of the economy,
even excluding those risks, is one of very modest  job creation 
and modest growth.”  Still,  consumer confidence  is higher this year,
underpinning the spending that accounts for 70 percent of the
world’s largest economy.  Consumer spending  rose at a 2.9 percent
pace in the first quarter, the fastest in more than a year.  Comfort Index  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index reached a four-year
high in early April. Other measures also improved, with the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment gauge reaching
a one-year high last month, and the Conference Board’s index
hovering near the one-year high reached in February.  Stock-market gains, propelled by better-than-forecast
corporate earnings, are helping to boost consumer wealth and
optimism. The S&P’s 500 Index was up almost 9 percent this year
through May 4, even after last week’s jobs report trimmed its
rally.  About 70 percent of S&P 500 companies that reported results
since the start of the earnings season have beaten  projections ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Visa Inc. (V) , the biggest payments network, said May 2 that
its fiscal second-quarter profit surged 47 percent as customer
spending on credit and debit cards rose. The company boosted its
profit outlook and its stock is now up 16 percent this year.  Credit Products  “Our strong financial performance this quarter was fueled
by continued growth of U.S. credit products, strong cross-border
spending and expansion of Visa’s core business in international
markets,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders said in a statement.  Job gains, record low mortgage rates and cheaper properties
are underpinning residential real estate. Data released last
month showed better-than-estimated new-home sales and a slowdown
in price declines are bolstering optimism that the market is
poised for a sustainable recovery.  Warren Buffett , whose Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has more than
$19 billion invested in U.S. banks, said the lenders have ample
liquidity and are a class apart from European rivals.  “I would put European banks and American banks in two very
different categories,” Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said May 5 at the firm’s annual meeting in
Omaha,  Nebraska . “The American banking system is in fine
shape.”  Loan Standards  U.S. banks “reported having eased standards on credit
card, auto and other consumer loans,” according to the  Federal
Reserve ’s survey of senior loan officers, released April 30.
“Demand for consumer loans reportedly continued to increase,
especially for auto loans.”  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP
Paribas in New York, said that report shows “there is some
credit easing, and I would categorize it as the fading of a
headwind” for the economy.  Loan growth has helped bolster U.S.  auto sales  that reached
an annual pace of 14.4 million in April, up from an average of
12.7 million in 2011 and 11.6 million in 2010, according to data
from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Stronger demand for automobiles bolstered U.S.
manufacturing, which grew in April at the fastest pace in almost
a year, according to Institute for Supply Management. The
group’s factory index climbed to 54.8 last month, the best
reading since June.  Skipping Shutdowns  Chrysler Group LLC, the biggest gainer of U.S. market share
through April, said four plants will skip normally scheduled
two-week midyear shutdowns to meet increased demand.  Factories in Belvidere, Illinois; Toluca, Mexico; and
Detroit, and a parts factory in Toledo, Ohio, will stay open,
the company said May 2 in a statement on its website. Two more
plants will shut for one week instead of two, according to
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler.  “We need to build a few more vehicles, so they’re staying
open,” Jodi Tinson, a company spokeswoman, said in a phone
interview last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  