-- North Korea’s No. 2 Official to Visit Indonesia, Singapore
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-05-07T08:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/north-korea-s-no-2-official-to-visit-indonesia-and-singapore.html
North Korea ’s second-highest ranking
official will travel to  Indonesia  and  Singapore  in what may be
an effort by the totalitarian regime to seek support and
guidance in improving its impoverished economy.  Kim Yong Nam, President of the Supreme People’s Assembly,
will visit Indonesia at the invitation of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono from May 13 until May 16, Yudhoyono’s office
said today in an e-mailed statement. Kim will also go to
Singapore, the official Korean Central News Agency said
yesterday, becoming the most high-profile official to travel
overseas since Kim Jong Un took over as leader in December.  North Korea’s isolation has deepened since the  United
Nations  expanded sanctions and the U.S. scrapped a food aid deal
in response to last month’s failed rocket launch. With an
economy one-fortieth the size of  South Korea ’s, the government
may use Kim Yong Nam’s trip to learn more about Singapore and
Indonesia’s development, said analysts including Cho Bong Hyun.  “Kim is the diplomatic face of the country and his visit
may be a way for the North to make arrangements for its
officials to study these two countries’ economic policies,”
said Cho, a researcher at the IBK Economic Research Institute in
Seoul.  Singapore is North Korea’s third-largest trading partner
after  China  and South Korea, according to the U.S. State
Department.  “North Korea has been trying to arrange educational
exchange programs with the Singaporean government on finance,
international law and ways to attract foreign investment,” Cho
added. “Indonesia’s economic strong suit is using its national
resources and North Korea can definitely learn from them.”  North Korea has become a magnet for Chinese enterprises
thanks to its mineral reserves valued at more than $6 trillion,
according to South Korean state-owned mining company Korea
Resources Corp. Of the 138 Chinese enterprises registered as
doing business in North Korea in 2010, 41 percent extract coal,
iron, zinc, nickel, gold and other minerals, according to the
U.S. Korea Institute at  Johns Hopkins University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  