-- Oaktree’s Marks Says Share Sale Was Humbling Experience
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S h e i l a   D h a r m a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-07T12:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/oaktree-s-marks-says-share-sale-was-humbling-experience.html
Howard Marks , whose  Oaktree Capital
Group LLC (OAK)  has declined 3.1 percent after raising less than
sought in an initial share sale last month, said going public
was a humbling experience.  “It was very challenging,” Marks said of the IPO, citing
declining markets during the firm’s roadshow, a nine-day pitch
to investors leading up to the offering. “We had to do a small
deal at the bottom end of the range. You have to accept that
you’re not a master of the universe, and that these things are
not within your control.”  Oaktree raised $380 million selling 8.84 million shares for
$43 each, the bottom of the proposed range. The firm and some of
its stakeholders had offered to sell 11.3 million shares for as
much as $46 apiece, according to regulatory filings.  Oaktree, which is based in  Los Angeles , joins  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ,  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG)  in losing value since their public offerings as
investors show wariness in businesses that produce unpredictable
earnings and use metrics that can be difficult to understand.
Ultimately, Marks said, the stock price will reflect how
successful the firm is in investing client money.  “My greatest priority for the years ahead is that there be
no change in how we pursue our basic business,” Marks,
Oaktree’s chairman and co-founder, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s Sheila Dharmarajan. “I believe that if
we are successful in our business then the public market will
take care of itself.”  ‘Great Incentive’  Blackstone, based in New York, has declined 58 percent
since its 2007 IPO. Fortress Investment Group LLC and  Och-Ziff
Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) , which held their own U.S. IPOs
that year, have since lost 81 percent and 74 percent. Apollo,
whose shares were previously traded on a private exchange run by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., held a $565 million U.S. share sale in
March 2011 and has lost 36 percent since then.  Marks, 66, founded Oaktree in 1995 with Bruce Karsh and
five other partners from TCW Group Inc. He and Karsh, Oaktree’s
president, had been set to get almost 40 percent of the proceeds
from the share sale. Marks said he sold about 7 percent of the
stock he owned in the IPO.  “I have a great incentive to make the stock successful,”
he said. “It’s not at all reasonable to think that if you’re a
stockholder, your interest and mine are divergent.”  ‘Riskiest Thing’  Marks said he approaches deals with a caution that many
other investors shun. He said there are too many “structural”
problems in the U.S. -- the rising cost of health care, the
 budget deficit  and education shortfalls -- that have worsened
with the financial crisis, giving him reason to be concerned
about the pace of the U.S. recovery.  “I believe that the main reason we got into the crisis is
because these elements of risk management -- caution,
skepticism, fear -- were in short supply,” said Marks. “The
riskiest thing in the world is the belief that there is no
risk.” Marks said he advocates a “gradual” combination of tax
increases and spending reductions to address the rising deficit.  Oaktree oversees more than $70 billion for pension funds
from  Massachusetts  to  Florida  and the world’s biggest sovereign-
wealth funds, such as China Investment Corp. The firm finds
buying opportunities “when there’s not money available to
otherwise solve problems,” Marks said, which isn’t the case in
the U.S. as much as it is in  Europe .  ‘Looking at Europe’  “We’re certainly looking hard at Europe,” said Marks, who
spends a third of his year working from Oaktree’s London office.
“If they have to sell in a rush into a non-accommodative
market, if the amount for sale overwhelms the amount of willing
buyers, then you could have some significant bargains there.”  Oaktree in March finished raising a 3 billion euro ($3.9
billion) fund, 20 percent more than it had sought, that will
seek control of distressed European companies, two people
familiar with the results said at the time. The European
Principal Fund III is 76 percent bigger than Oaktree’s previous
fund using the same strategy.  “Our mantra is to move forward but with caution,” Marks
said of his firm’s investment philosophy. “Investing is an art
form, not a science. I sleep very well with my confidence that I
don’t know what the future holds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Sheila Dharmarajan in New York at 
 sdharmarajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  