-- Loan Funds Lure Investors Adding Risk in Search for Yield
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-05-07T18:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/loan-funds-lure-investors-adding-risk-in-search-for-yield.html
Individual investors are putting more
money into bank-loan funds, taking added risk in a search for
higher yields and a hedge against inflation as the  Federal
Reserve  vows to keep  interest rates  at near-record lows.  U.S. floating-rate funds in April had the biggest inflows
in 11 months, according to preliminary data from  EPFR Global , a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm. Investors poured
$729 million into the funds, the most since $2 billion last May.
The funds buy speculative-grade loans, a type of floating-rate
debt that ranks senior to bonds and is used to finance buyouts.  “Where else can you get 4 percent to 5 percent with zero
duration? Few places, as far as I know,” said Christopher
Remington, institutional  money manager  for Boston-based  Eaton
Vance Corp. (EV) , which oversees about $24.7 billion in floating-rate
loans for retail and institutional investors. Duration is a
measure of interest-rate sensitivity. Most fixed-income
investments fall in value as interest rates rise.  The Fed has pushed investors into riskier corporate credit
by suppressing long-term rates on safer Treasuries under a $400
billion bond-buying program known as Operation Twist. To aid the
economic recovery, the central bank has also kept its target
interest rate within a record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  The underlying loans  returned  5.57 percent this year
through May 4, compared with 3.08 percent through the same
period of 2011, according to the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index. The funds that buy them aren’t immune
to losses.  Yields and Risk  That’s because the funds buy loans whose higher yield is
accompanied by higher credit risk. Leveraged loans are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- by
S&P. The debt’s interest rate generally resets on a quarterly
basis.  Some advisers say that’s an advantage if rates rise, such
as in response to a pickup in inflation, although holders could
be left in line with other creditors if borrowers default.  “I think it’s a sweet spot right now,” said Maury Fertig,
chief investment officer of Relative Value Partners LLC, which
manages about $650 million on behalf of individual investors and
wealth managers.  “When stacked against other fixed-income assets I think at
least I have the opportunity for some  capital appreciation , and
in the event of higher rates I’m not going to lose a tremendous
amount of principal,” said Fertig. Bank loans account for about
15 percent of his clients’ fixed-income portfolios at the
Northbrook, Illinois-based firm.  2008 Declines  Bank-loan mutual funds lost about 30 percent during 2008,
compared with about a 26 percent decline for funds that invest
in high-yield bonds, according to data from  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , a
Chicago-based research firm. This year through May 3 loan funds
have gained about 4.8 percent, compared with 6.8 percent returns
for high-yield funds.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries were 1.88 percent at 1:50 p.m.
in  New York , compared with about 3.15 percent a year earlier.
Inflation was about 2.7 percent over the 12 months through March
before seasonal adjustment, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  Fertig said he likes that the loans have less interest-rate
risk than many other fixed-income investments, because of their
ability to reset rates, and that recovery rates on defaults are
on average higher than those of traditional high-yield bonds.  Stronger Protections  Investors on average recovered about 66 percent of their
principal on bank loans in default from 1991 to 2012, compared
with a recovery rate of about 41 percent on high-yield bonds
from 1983 to 2012, according to a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  research
report.  The loan funds offer attractive income and stronger
protections in bankruptcy than some other types of high-yield
debt, said Jonathan Bergman, chief investment officer of
Scarsdale, New York-based Palisades Hudson Asset Management LP,
which oversees more than $1 billion.  Not all advisers are stocking up.  “People are so starved for current yield that I think it’s
pushing them into spots they otherwise wouldn’t go,” said Mark Balasa, chief investment officer for Itasca, Illinois-based
Balasa Dinverno Foltz LLC, which manages more than $2 billion.
“In 2008 these things got shelled.”  Correlated With Stocks  Leveraged loan prices plunged to 59.2 cents on the dollar
in mid-December 2008, as investors were dumping risky debt two
months after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
deepened the worst recession since the Great Depression. They
 averaged  94.37 cents on May 3, which was the highest since July
29, according to the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index.  Investors buying bank loans may not realize that the loan
prices tend to be correlated with  stocks , said Douglas Anderson,
a director in  Palo Alto ,  California , with Harris MyCFO LLC,
which manages about $20 billion on behalf of families and is a
unit of  Bank of Montreal .  “The more you take out of traditional high-quality fixed
income, the more exposure you’ll have in the event of a
significant market correction,” Anderson said.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the securities
industry’s self-funded regulator, in July issued an  investor
alert  warning investors about purchasing complex products,
including floating-rate loan funds, that may promise higher
returns than traditional investments.  Significant Risks  “Funds that invest in floating-rate loans may be marketed
as products that are less vulnerable to interest rate
fluctuations and offer inflation protection, when in fact the
underlying loans held in the fund are subject to significant
credit, valuation and liquidity risk,” Finra said in the alert.  JPMorgan in November was ordered by Washington-based Finra
to reimburse customers almost $500,000 for losses stemming from
unsuitable sales of floating-rate loan funds.  Tom Kelly , a
spokesman for the New York-based bank, declined to comment.  “When everyone is concerned about yield, and return, and
growth, rather than  risk , especially on an asset like fixed
income, it invariably leads to bad outcomes,” said Joe Duran,
chief executive officer of  Newport Beach , California-based
United Capital, which advises on about $14 billion.  A decline in mergers and acquisitions left fewer
opportunities for new loans backing deals during the first
quarter, while speculative-grade companies owned by private-
equity firms tapped the loan market to pay shareholder dividends
at the fastest pace in a year.  Piling on Debt  Buyout firms’ practices of piling debt onto companies they
own to extract payouts may reduce the credit worthiness of
borrowers.  SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment Inc., the  Orlando , Florida-
based amusement-park operator and home of Shamu, the killer
whale, was downgraded by S&P after getting a $500 million loan
in March to fund a distribution to owner  Blackstone Group LP. (BX) 
SeaWorld’s credit rating was lowered to B+, four levels below
investment grade, from BB-, because of the increase in leverage
following the dividend.  The Fed said in January that economic conditions may
warrant keeping rates “exceptionally low” through late 2014,
extending a previous pledge to do so until the middle of 2013.  “The bias would be for a higher-rate environment and it is
Fed policy that is keeping rates suppressed,” said Christine McConnell, who manages the $10.2 billion  Fidelity Floating Rate
High Income Fund. (FFRHX)  The  fund  has returned 3.27 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Get in Now  “When interest rates really look like they’re about to
rise, investments such as this become very scarce and very
expensive. I’d rather get in now when you have an asset class
that may be a little bit cheaper, and that’s paying you to sit
around and wait,” said Cam Albright, director of  asset
allocation  at Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, a unit of
 M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)   Client portfolios may hold about 2 percent to 3 percent in
bank loans, said Albright, who’s based in Wilmington,  Delaware .
The firm has built the positions since the beginning of the year
as economic improvement has enhanced the appeal of holding
securities with credit risk, he said.  U.S. floating-rate funds had $1.02 billion of inflows this
year through May 2, according to EPFR, compared with withdrawals
of $8.8 billion in the second half of 2011.  Mutual funds bought about 19 percent of new leveraged loans
sold to non-bank lenders in the first quarter, compared with 16
percent in the last three months of 2011, data from S&P Capital
IQ Leveraged Commentary & Data show.  Top Funds  The best performing bank-loan fund this year is the  Pyxis
Floating Rate Opportunities Fund (HFRAX) , with returns of 7.36 percent
through May 3, according to Morningstar.  ING Senior Income Fund (XSIWX) 
ranks second, with a 7.3 percent gain.  The debt may provide less protection against rising rates
than some investors realize, since some loans have interest-rate
floors that are boosting yields, said Chris Cordaro, chief
investment officer of Morristown, New Jersey-based
RegentAtlantic Capital LLC, which manages about $2.2 billion.
Payouts on such loans may take longer to increase if interest
rates start to rise, he said.  “If you’re buying this thinking you’re hedging away your
duration risk, you might be in for an awakening,” Cordaro said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net 
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  