-- Obama Hits Syria With Brutal Blast of Adverbs
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-05-07T23:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/obama-hits-syria-with-brutal-blast-of-adverbs.html
The crackdown by Syrian dictator
Bashar al-Assad against his own citizens counts as one of the
most blood-soaked acts of political repression in the  Middle
East  since his father and predecessor, Hafez al-Assad, waged his
own onslaught against anti-regime activists three decades ago.  Almost 10,000 people have died in the current Syrian
uprising, and each passing day brings the killing and torture of
more civilians, including many children.  Some critics say the U.S. has shamed itself by not
intervening aggressively on behalf of  Syria ’s rebels and
dissidents.  They’re wrong. The Obama administration hasn’t helped to
arm the rebels, nor has it created safe havens for persecuted
dissidents. But it has done something far more important: It has
provided the Syrian opposition with very strong language to
describe Assad’s various atrocities.  The administration’s unprecedented verbal and written
sorties against the Assad regime have included some of the most
powerful adjectives, adjectival intensifiers and adverbs ever
aimed at an American foe. This campaign has helped Syrians
understand, among other things, that the English language
contains many synonyms for “ repulsive .”  Shock and Awe  But a crisis is fast approaching: America’s stockpile of
vivid adjectives is being depleted rapidly. Some linguists of
the realist camp are now arguing for restraint in the use of
condemnatory word combinations. They note that the
administration, in its effort to shock and awe the Assad regime
with the power of its official statements and the stridency of
its State Department briefings, has prematurely stripped bare
its thesaurus, leaving the U.S. powerless to come to the
symbolic aid of the Syrian people.  When the uprising began last year, the Obama administration
clearly hoped that softer language would persuade Assad to cease
murdering Syrians. It relied on traditional formulations of
diplomatic distaste,  calling on  Syria to “exercise restraint”
and “respect the rights of its citizens.”  When it became clear that mild criticism wouldn’t stay
Assad’s hand, the administration began carpet-bombing Damascus
with powerful sentences and, at times, whole paragraphs.  In April 2011, shortly after Syrian security forces killed
more than 80 unarmed demonstrators, President  Barack Obama  said,
“This outrageous use of violence to quell protests must come to
an end now.” He  accused  the Syrian government of using “brutal”
tactics against civilians.  Somehow, such combative words still didn’t persuade Assad
to change course. Soon, the president’s press secretary,  Jay Carney , was forced to remind Assad, and the world, of the
president’s rhetorical militancy.  “I’m sure you did see the president’s very strong statement
of Friday where he condemned in the strongest possible terms the
use of force by the Syrian government against demonstrators,
referred to an outrageous use of violence to quell protests,”
Carney said. He also mentioned that the White House didn’t
merely “oppose” the Syrian government’s treatment of its
citizens, but “strongly” opposed it.  Assad insolently ignored Carney’s amplification of the
president’s muscular language.  A few months later, shortly after the Syrian government
killed more than 30 people in the city of Latakia, Obama reached
into the arsenal again and  said  the people of Syria had “braved
ferocious brutality at the hands of their government.” This
onslaught, Obama said, was “disgraceful.”  The White House appeared surprised when Assad nevertheless
chose not to flee Damascus.  Heinous, Outrageous  So the administration upped the ante. In the months that
followed,  Carney said  the war waged on the Syrian people was
both “heinous” and “unforgivable.”  He wasn’t alone.  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the
 United Nations , became a point person in deploying the full
might of the American thesaurus. On Nov. 28, Rice  accused  Assad
of perpetrating “outrageous and now well-documented atrocities,”
and noted that the “patience” of the international community had
“evaporated.” On Feb. 7, she  reported  Assad was now “off the
reservation.”  On Feb. 9, Rice said the world was “horrified to watch the
violence” in Syria. On Feb. 23, she said the Syrian government
“has accelerated the killing of its people,” and the violence
“has continued unabated for nearly a year at a breathtaking
scale.” On April 2, she spoke of Assad’s “massive
intensification of violence.” She also said she  expected  the
Syrian government would implement a UN-negotiated cease-fire
“without any conditions or codicils.” (The word “codicil” is
known to strike fear in the hearts of dictators.)  Rice later said “a moment of truth” was coming up “very
soon.” It is hard to imagine the Assad regime can take such
punishment much longer.  The U.S. has also used other tools to press its case. For
instance, it has supported sanctions that prevent Assad’s wife,
Asma al-Assad, from shopping in  Europe . And it has supported a
UN plan to station dozens of unarmed observers in Syria to watch
Assad’s forces kill civilians and then write reports about it.  Still more action may be needed. At the risk of deepening
U.S. involvement in this very complicated conflict, my
suggestion is that Obama and his team conduct a “surge” of new
adjectives and adverbs in their campaign, including such words
as “callous,” “merciless,” “pitiless” -- and even, perhaps,
“barbarous.”  The optimist in me believes that the White House wouldn’t
have to maintain this surge for too long. Why? Because several
months after saying that the patience of the international
community had “evaporated,” Rice  wrote on Twitter  that our
patience had been “exhausted.” Now that patience has been both
evaporated and exhausted, even Assad must understand that his
time is nearly up.  Of course, Rice reported that patience had been exhausted
on April 24. My suspicion is that, in three or four more weeks,
we will learn that U.S. patience is “completely exhausted.”  Then Assad should really be careful.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  “superbugs,”    France ’s
 new president  and Obama’s failures on  gay marriage ;  Mark
Buchanan  on the  causes of the “flash crash” ;  Noah Feldman  on
 justice at Guantanamo Bay ;  Michael Kinsley  on  rising inequality ;
Sally Satel on improving  organ donation .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 