-- Obama Pressed by Rights Groups to Back Same-Sex Marriage
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/obama-campaign-says-biden-s-gay-marriage-remarks-no-change.html
Gay-rights advocates are seeking a
definitive answer from President  Barack Obama  on same-sex
marriage after two senior administration officials backed giving
gay couples the same rights as heterosexual married couples.  Vice President  Joe Biden  and Education Secretary Arne Duncan said in separate television interviews that they support
gay marriage. Obama supports equal rights for gays while
stopping short of endorsing same-sex marriage.  Such mixed messages will hurt Obama with gay voters, who
will be less inclined to volunteer for and donate to the
president’s re-election campaign, said John Aravosis, a gay-
rights advocate and 2008 Obama supporter.  “It’s a gaping wound of hurt,” Aravosis said, adding that
the administration’s position won’t satisfy either side in the
debate.  “What really happens is once again people on the left feel
like the president is playing games with our civil rights and
people on the right think he’s for gay marriage anyway,”
Aravosis said in an interview.  The same-sex marriage issue remains divisive among black
and Hispanic voters, two core Obama constituencies. Recent polls
show same-sex marriage, which is legal in six states and
 Washington , D.C., gaining acceptance nationally. Still, the
issue poses political risks for Obama as he seeks to build
enthusiasm for what the campaign expects will be a close race
against Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney .  ‘Absolutely Comfortable’  Biden said on May 6 on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program
that he is “absolutely comfortable with the fact that men
marrying men, women marrying women and heterosexual men and
women are entitled to the same exact rights, all the civil
rights, all the civil liberties.”  On the NBC program, Biden, 69, emphasized that it is Obama
who “sets the policy” for the administration.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  and  David Axelrod ,
Obama’s chief political strategist, said yesterday that Biden’s
remarks were “entirely consistent” with Obama’s views.  “The president is the right person to describe his own
personal views,” Carney told reporters at his daily briefing,
where he was repeatedly questioned about Obama’s stance. “He,
as you know, said that his views on this were evolving, and I
don’t have an update for you on that.”  Stronger Statement Sought  Joe Solmonese , president of the advocacy group the Human
Rights Campaign, said Biden’s words amount to an endorsement of
gay marriage, and he urged Obama to make a stronger statement.  “We are encouraged by Vice President Biden’s comments, who
rightly articulated that loving and committed gay and lesbian
couples should be treated equally,” Solmonese said in a
statement on the group’s website. “Now is the time for
President Obama to speak out for full marriage equality for
same-sex couples.”  Obama has highlighted his efforts on behalf of gay rights,
including expanded hospital visitation rights for same-sex
couples and a repeal of the policy prohibiting openly gay people
from serving in the armed forces.  Duncan, asked on  MSNBC  yesterday whether he believes same-
sex couples should be able to marry legally, replied, “Yes I
do.”  Axelrod told reporters on a conference call that Biden was
expressing a view “entirely consistent with the president’s
position, which is that couples who are married, whether they’re
gay or heterosexual couples, are entitled to the very same
rights and very same liberties.”  Carney said Duncan “was asked a question about his
personal views on an issue and he offered them.”  Romney Stance  Romney was governor of  Massachusetts  when the state’s
Supreme Judicial Court ruled same-sex couples had a right to wed
under the state’s constitution. Romney supported putting the
issue to a referendum.  During the presidential campaign, Romney has said he would
propose a constitutional amendment to define marriage as a
relationship between and man and a woman.  While he has said he supports equal rights in employment
and other areas while opposing same-sex marriage, some factions
in the  Republican Party  are against expanding rights for gays
and are keeping up pressure on the candidate.  Romney’s spokesman on national security matters, Richard Grenell, who is openly gay, resigned his campaign post on May 1
following attacks by anti-gay activists.  Rising Support  Support for same-sex marriage has been rising. In a March
7-10 ABC/Washington Post poll, 52 percent said it should be
legal for gays to marry, with 43 percent saying it should be
illegal. In a February 2010 poll, 47 percent said same-sex
marriage should be legal.  Gay marriage is legal in Massachusetts,  Connecticut ,  Iowa ,
 Vermont ,  New Hampshire  and  New York  and the nation’s capital.
Legislatures in Maryland and Washington have passed legislation,
though the measures haven’t yet taken effect. Voters in the
swing state of  North Carolina  go to the polls today to vote on a
ballot initiative that would ban gay marriage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  