-- Oil Near Three-Month Low; Al-Naimi Says Prices Too High
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-05-08T12:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/oil-trades-near-three-month-low-as-supplies-seen-rising.html
Oil fell for a fifth day after  Saudi
Arabia ’s Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said prices are too high and
a survey signaled that inventories rose to the most in more than
21 years in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consumer.  West Texas Intermediate futures in New York dropped as much
as 1.3 percent after closing at a three-month low yesterday.
Crude prices are “still a little bit high,” al-Naimi said in
 Tokyo  today. U.S. stockpiles climbed  1.9 million barrels  to
377.8 million last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before tomorrow’s Energy Department report. Crude’s 14-day
relative strength index slipped, suggesting that further
declines may not be sustained.  “We’ve seen a fairly significant inventory build-up,” Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney, said
in a telephone interview today. “The recent trend of the market
is obviously down and at this stage, from a technical point of
view, looks to be remaining in a short-term downtrend.”  Crude for June delivery fell as much as $1.23 to $96.71 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and pared some losses to trade at $97.38 as of 1:01 p.m. London
time. The contract slid 55 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $97.94
yesterday, the lowest close since Feb. 6. Prices are down 1.5
percent this year.  Brent oil for June settlement was at $112.39 a barrel, down
77 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $15.04, from $15.22 yesterday.  Spare Capacity  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter, is
storing as much as 80 million barrels and has 2.5 million
barrels a day of spare capacity, al-Naimi said today before
board meetings of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., of which he is
chairman. The kingdom is pumping 10 million barrels a day, he
said on April 13 in  Seoul . That’s close to the fastest rate in
at least 31 years, according to official data.  “If the macro sentiment stays subdued and Iranian nuclear
negotiations do not derail, there is a good chance that Saudi
Arabia will be able to push the OPEC basket price toward $100”
by keeping production high, Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodity
analyst at SEB AB, said in a note. He forecasts Brent will
average $117 a barrel this year.  The basket , a weighted average price of the main crude
grades produced by Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, was at $110.12 yesterday, data on its website showed
today. That was the least since Jan. 3.  Downward Sloping  Crude’s 14-day relative strength index was at 30.74 today
after falling to 32.9 yesterday. A reading below 30 signals
prices have fallen too far and further losses may not last.  Oil in  New York  has dropped out of a downward-sloping trend
channel on the daily chart going back about 10 weeks, signaling
a breach of technical support, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The lower boundary of the channel is about $98.29 a
barrel. Investors typically sell contracts when prices fall
below chart-support levels.  “We’ve had large stockbuilds in the U.S. during the price
correction and we’ve seen lower geopolitical risk” amid planned
talks between  Iran  and members of the  United Nations Security
Council , Torbjoern Kjus, an oil analyst at DNB ASA, said by
phone from Oslo. “Fundamentals have been weak for a while,”
said Kjus, who forecasts Brent will average $115 in 2012.  WTI crude in New York climbed as high as $110.55 this year
amid speculation that Western sanctions aimed at halting  Iran’s
nuclear program  will disrupt Middle East shipments.  India  will curtail its imports of Iranian oil by 20
percent, officials said, as U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  held talks in  New Delhi  to enlist India’s help with
sanctions aimed at pressuring Iran over its nuclear program.  Iranian Crude  Crude purchases by India,  Asia ’s third-biggest importer of
Iranian oil, will be cut to 14 million metric tons from 17.5
million in the 12 months ending March 31, according to two
Indian diplomats and two refinery officials who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.
Iranian crude would account for 7 percent of India’s imports in
fiscal 2013, down from 10 percent currently, the officials said.  U.S. crude supplies probably rose last week to the highest
level since September 1990, according to the median estimate of
eight analysts in the Bloomberg survey. That would be the
seventh weekly increase, and the longest run since April 2010.  Gasoline stockpiles probably rose  250,000 barrels  last
week, according to the survey. Distillate inventories, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, may have
increased 750,000 barrels, the survey showed.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
data at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington . The industry-funded
 American Petroleum Institute  will report its own data today.  U.S. gasoline prices at the pump fell below year-earlier
levels for a third week as refineries returned to service
following seasonal maintenance. The  national average price  for
regular gasoline dropped 1 percent to $3.79 a gallon as of
yesterday from a week earlier, the Energy Information
Administration said in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  