-- Oil Slumps to Three-Month Low After European Elections
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-05-07T20:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/oil-slumps-to-2012-low-as-european-elections-stir-concern.html
Oil fell to a three-month low as the
euro weakened against the dollar after European elections stoked
speculation that austerity efforts will be derailed.  Futures dropped for a fourth day after  France  elected
Francois Hollande president and Greek voters flocked to anti-
bailout parties, sending the euro to the lowest level since
January. Hollande, who will become the first Socialist in 17
years to control Europe’s second-biggest economy, pledged less
austerity and more growth.  “The election’s been bearish for the euro and a stronger
dollar typically helps put downward pressure on oil,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at Societe Generale SA in
New York. “Certainly it’s been seen as bearish for oil today.
But if it does result in some moves toward growth, it may be
positive for  oil prices  in the future.”  Crude for June delivery slid 55 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$97.94 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Feb. 6. The price fell to $95.34 in intraday
trading, the lowest level of the year. Prices have fallen 11
percent since Feb. 24.  Brent oil for June slid 2 cents to settle at $113.16 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The euro fell as much as 1 percent against the dollar to
the lowest level since January. It was down 0.2 percent to
$1.306 at 3:48 p.m. When the euro weakens against the dollar, it
reduces oil’s appeal as an investment.  ‘New Range’  “There is this big change of political parties in France
and Greece and the euro got whacked,” said Rich Ilczyszyn,
chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in  Chicago .
“We are developing a new $10 range from $95 to $105.”  Hollande inherits an economy that is barely growing, with
jobless claims at their highest level in 12 years. His platform
calls for policies that German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opposes,
including higher taxes, increased spending and delayed deficit
reduction. Germany is Europe’s largest economy.  “Austerity isn’t inevitable,” Hollande told supporters in
Tulle, France, last night after he won 52 percent of the vote.
He defeated  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Hollande’s comments were echoed in Greece, where voters
flocked to anti-bailout groups, leaving the two main parties,
New Democracy and Pasok, a seat short of a majority if they
govern together, an Interior Ministry projection showed. New
Democracy leader Antonis Samaras said today that he failed to
forge agreement to form a new government.  “The European election results make people worry that
there is going to be instability and weaker economic results in
Europe,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts.  Euro Declines  Greece  now faces a 50 percent to 75 percent likelihood of
leaving the euro in the next 18 months, Citigroup Inc.
economists Guillaume Menuet and  Juergen Michels  wrote in a
report today. They’d previously estimated the risk of a euro
exit at 50 percent.  “Europe may become locked in turmoil again and it’s
obviously going to decrease economic activity and create
uncertainty,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst at PFGBest in
Chicago.  Crude may fall further on “lackluster” macroeconomic
conditions and bearish fundamentals,  Hussein Allidina , head of
commodities research at Morgan Stanley, said in a research note
dated yesterday.  Oil supply is forecast to exceed demand by 813,000 barrels
a day through 2012,Allidina said. The corresponding increase in
inventories will occur as long as the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries maintains current production levels, which
rose “counterseasonally” to 31.4 million barrels a day in
March, he said.  Rising Inventories  U.S. oil inventories  climbed 2.84 million barrels to 375.9
million in the week ended April 27, the most since September
1990, according to the Energy Department. Domestic  output 
increased 8,000 barrels a day to 6.12 million, the highest level
since November 1999. Total consumption fell for a third week,
dropping 1.1 percent to 18.5 million barrels a day.  “Production continues to rise but demand is still
relatively weak,” Flynn said. “Fundamentals don’t look good
and we’ll see lower prices.”  Hedge funds  raised net-long positions, or wagers that
prices will rise, by 12 percent in the seven days ended May 1,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report on May 4. It was the largest
increase since Feb. 14.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 530,063
contracts as of 3:49 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 884,050
contracts on May 4, 42 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.61 million, the highest level in almost a
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  