-- Hong Kong Builders Go West in China With Bet on Chengdu
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-05-08T01:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/hong-kong-builders-go-west-in-china-with-bet-on-chengdu.html
Hong Kong  developers  are heading
deeper into China to lure shoppers, investing at least $1.3
billion to build malls in Chengdu, the city vying with Chongqing
as the economic hub of the country’s west.  Swire Properties Ltd. (1972)  will open a 6.4 billion  yuan  ($1
billion) retail and office project in downtown Chengdu in early
2014.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s second-biggest
property company, Henderson Land Development Co. and Wharf
Holdings Ltd. also plan malls in the city of 11 million people.  The builders are betting on the western region even after
the national government imposed property curbs that contributed
to the slowest economic growth in almost three years. The region,
home to a quarter of the country’s population, remained
undeveloped until the government 12 years ago adopted the “Go
West” policy, designed to help it catch up with wealthier
coastal areas such as  Shanghai , about 2,000 kilometers (1,243
miles) to the east, and  Guangdong province  in the south.  “It’s still very hard to find good shopping malls in
 Chengdu ,” said Eddie Ng, managing director for the city at
property broker  Jones Lang  LaSalle Inc. “Luxury brands couldn’t
find proper space here. The projects coming onboard in the next
few years will change the retail landscape.”  The central government’s investment in Chengdu’s projects
accelerated after the 2008  earthquake  killed almost 87,000
people in Sichuan province. More than 4,000 died in the area
around Chengdu, the provincial capital about 80 kilometers from
the quake’s epicenter, as buildings were damaged.  City Revival  Chengdu’s economy grew 15.2 percent in 2011, compared with
the 11.9 percent average among cities run independently from
provincial governments that include Guangzhou and Shenzhen in
the south, and Dalian in the north.  “The earthquake and the global financial crisis created
huge disruption to Chengdu’s economy,” said Philip Wu, managing
director for Western  China  at broker CBRE Group Inc. “The
central government made reviving Chengdu a priority.”  Chongqing, two hours by train southeast of Chengdu, has the
fastest growth rate among the country’s four municipalities, or
cities that are under direct central government control, and is
western China’s biggest manufacturing hub, according to Chicago-
based Jones Lang. Chongqing has been engulfed in a political
crisis sparked by the ouster of its former party chief, Bo Xilai.  Bo's Chongqing  Before his ouster, Bo had sought to balance growth with
more measures to help lift the city’s rural migrants out of
poverty. China’s government on April 10 suspended Bo from the
ruling Politburo, saying he was “suspected of being involved in
serious discipline violations,” China’s official Xinhua News
Agency reported. His wife and household helper were being held
as suspects in the murder of a 41-year-old British associate and
family friend, Neil Heywood, following a business dispute,
according to Xinhua.  “Even with Bo’s ouster, it doesn’t mean the central
government will reduce its funding for Chongqing,” Wu said.
“Go West is a national policy. It won’t change because of one
person.”  Hong Kong  builders are seeking opportunities away from
their home market as an almost 80 percent surge in  housing
prices  since the start of 2009 led to government curbs to damp
price increases. Hong Kong is the world’s most expensive place
to buy a home and to rent an office, according to property
brokers including London-based Savills Plc and Los Angeles-based
CBRE.  Ancient Civilization  Chengdu was at the center of ancient Chinese civilization
as far back as the Shang dynasty more than 3,000 years ago.
Today, the city is one of the nation’s biggest technology and
logistics centers, and the downtown Chunxi Road area is filled
with department stores, restaurants and retail brand billboards.  “The pie in Chengdu is huge,” Alan Lee, general manager
for Swire Properties in the city, said in an interview. “Except
for Beijing and Shanghai, where else in the country can you find
such a big cluster of Hong Kong developers?”  Swire’s  project  in the Chunxi Road area is built around the
Daci Temple, a historical monument near two subway lines under
construction, and will include almost 1.2 million square feet
(111,484 square meters) of mostly street-level shopping space.  Across the road,  Wharf (4) , which operates Hong Kong’s Times
Square and Harbour City shopping malls, is scheduled to complete
the Chengdu IFC, a high-end residential and commercial complex
of 4.7 million square feet in mid-2013, according to Agnes Hui,
a company spokeswoman.  “It’s almost like they’re creating a  Causeway Bay  here,”
said Backy Fung, managing director for western China at Savills,
referring to the Hong Kong shopping district that has the
world’s second-most expensive retail strip, after  New York ’s
Fifth Avenue.  Retail Sales  Swire Properties’ shares rose 0.2 percent to HK$20.80 as of
9:48 a.m. in Hong Kong, bringing the gain since they first
traded on Jan. 18 to 21 percent, compared with the 4.7 percent
advance in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  in the period. Wharf
advanced 0.2 percent to HK$44.15 and is up 26 percent this year.  Wharf in 2007 paid 7.24 billion yuan for the site, a record
for a Chengdu government land sale. Wharf is building six other
projects in the city, according to its website.  Retail sales in Chengdu rose 18 percent in 2011 to 286
billion yuan, the eighth highest among Chinese cities. That
accounted for about 42 percent of the city’s economy, according
to government data. Retail space in Chengdu will more than
double to 6.6 million square meters by 2014,  Savills (SVS)  forecasts.  Chengdu has the highest number of luxury retailers,
including brands such as Gucci and Burberry among Chinese cities
outside of Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, according to  data 
compiled by Jones Lang.  Flat Terrain  Chengdu’s largely flat terrain, in contrast with
Chongqing’s hills and mountains, also makes it a more attractive
place for developers outside the region.  “The flat surface means you can build more varieties of
properties, such as low-rise villas,” said Thomas Lam, the
Greater China head of research at Knight Frank LLP, a property
broker. “In Chongqing, the strategy is more restricted. Most
developers would just get a site along the two rivers and build
tall apartments and offices.”  Luxury  home prices  in Chengdu fell 2.9 percent from a year
earlier to 12,779 yuan per square meter in the first quarter,
according to Jones Lang, the world’s second-biggest commercial
real estate firm. That compares to 39,216 yuan in Beijing,
54,600 yuan in Shanghai and 10,706 yuan in Chongqing.  “We have received invitations to bid for projects in
Chongqing,” said Lee at Swire Properties. “I’ve studied them,
but couldn’t figure out what kind of people our projects can
draw, given its geographical location.”  Swire Project  Swire Properties’ project, a joint development with Sino-
Ocean Land Holdings Ltd., will have about 2.8 million square
feet of shopping space, offices, service apartments and a hotel.
The owner of Pacific Place and Island East complexes in Hong
Kong also has works in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou.  The mainland projects, when completed, will account for
about a third of its total assets, Lee said. Swire Properties is
also seeking projects in other western Chinese cities including
Chongqing and Xian, he said.  “For the project size we are looking for, it could be hard
for us to find opportunities in cities such as Beijing and
Shanghai,” said Lee. “My radar screen is on China’s west.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  