-- Hong Kong Exchanges First-Quarter Profit Falls, Beats Estimates
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-05-07T10:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/hong-kong-exchanges-first-quarter-profit-falls-beats-estimates.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) ,
the world’s second-biggest bourse by market value, said first-
quarter profit fell 7 percent, less than analysts expected as
listing fees held steady.  Net income in the three months ended March 31 slid to
HK$1.15 billion ($148.1 million) from HK$1.24 billion a year
earlier, the company said in a statement. That compares with the
average  HK$1.12 billion  estimate from four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Listing fees dropped 1 percent from a year earlier to
HK$244 million, the exchange said.  “The global and political economic uncertainties persisted
in the first quarter and investors’ confidence remained
subdued,” Chow Chung-Kong, newly-appointed chairman of the Hong
Kong bourse, said in a statement. “Hong Kong, as an
international financial centre, could not abscond from the
whirlpool of instability.”  Hong Kong Exchanges is studying an offer for the London
Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest metals trading platform, as
it seeks to add commodities to its offerings while large initial
public offerings from China slow and trading volume drops. The
average daily value of shares traded fell 17 percent from a year
earlier to HK$63.2 billion in the first quarter, according to
exchange.  The bourse’s shares slid 1.9 percent to HK$121.70 at the
4:00 p.m. close in Hong Kong before the earnings announcement,
bringing its losses this year to 1.9 percent. That compares with
an 11 percent rally in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  in 2012.  New Listings  Eighteen companies including Canadian energy explorer
Sunshine Oilsands Ltd. debutted their shares on the bourse in
the first three months of 2012, the same number as last year,
the company said.  Hong Kong Exchanges said on April 30 that it was one of
several interested parties looking to buy the LME, which handles
more than 80 percent of global trade in metal futures. The
London bourse received preliminary bids from CME, NYSE Euronext
an IntercontinentalExchange Inc., three people with direct
knowledge of the matter said in February. Offers for the LME had
to be submitted by today.  Chow, former chief executive officer of subway operator MTR
Corp., was named chairman of the  Hong Kong  bourse on April 24.
He replaced Ronald Arculli, who stepped down after serving a
maximum term of six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  