-- Hong Kong Exchanges Net Income Beats Estimates on Investments
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-05-07T16:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/hong-kong-exchanges-net-income-beats-estimates-on-investments.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) ,
the world’s second-biggest bourse by market value, said first-
quarter profit fell 7 percent, less than analysts expected, as
listing fees held steady and investment income improved.  Net income slid to HK$1.15 billion ($148 million) from
HK$1.24 billion a year earlier, the company said in a filing
yesterday. That compares with the average  HK$1.12 billion 
estimate from four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Listing fees
dropped 1 percent from a year earlier to HK$244 million, as net
investment income doubled to HK$227 million, it said.  “The bourse’s investment income was higher than expected
and that’s masked the increase in operating costs,” said  Sam Hilton , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Asia
whose coverage includes Asian exchange companies. “Assuming
trading volumes remain weak, we’re likely to see another
challenging quarter ahead.”  Hong Kong  Exchanges is studying an offer for the London
Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest metals trading platform, as
it seeks to add commodities to its offerings while large initial
public offerings from China slow and trading volume drops. The
average daily value of shares traded fell 17 percent from a year
earlier to HK$63.2 billion in the first quarter, according to
exchange.  Operating expenses climbed 20 percent from a year earlier
to HK$532 million during the quarter, according to the exchange.
Staff and related costs increased 20 percent, while legal and
professional fees jumped 180 percent, it said.  The bourse’s shares slid 1.9 percent to HK$121.70 at the
close in Hong Kong yesterday, before the earnings announcement,
bringing its losses this year to 1.9 percent. That compares with
an 11 percent rally in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  in 2012.  New Listings  Eighteen companies including Canadian energy explorer
Sunshine Oilsands Ltd. debuted their shares on the bourse in the
first quarter, the same number as last year, HKEX said.  Hong Kong Exchanges said on April 30 that it was one of
several interested parties looking to buy the LME, which handles
more than 80 percent of global trade in metal futures. The
London bourse received preliminary bids from CME, NYSE Euronext
an IntercontinentalExchange Inc., three people with direct
knowledge of the matter said in February. Offers for the LME had
to be submitted by yesterday.  Chow Chung-Kong, former chief executive officer of subway
operator MTR Corp., was named chairman of the Hong Kong bourse
on April 24. He replaced Ronald Arculli, who stepped down after
serving a maximum term of six years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  