-- Morgan Stanley Boosts Collateral Impact of Ratings Cut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-08T15:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/morgan-stanley-sees-9-6-billion-collateral-call-if-cut-3-grades.html
Morgan Stanley, the U.S. firm facing
the biggest potential cut in its  credit rating  from Moody’s
Investors Service, boosted top estimates for collateral and
termination payments it may face to $9.61 billion.  Counterparties may demand $7.21 billion if Morgan Stanley’s
rating is cut three levels by Moody’s and two grades by  Standard
& Poor’s , the bank estimated yesterday in a filing based on
March 31 data. The New York-based firm also said it would have
to post $2.4 billion in collateral to exchanges and
clearinghouses. The total rose from $6.52 billion as of Dec. 31.  U.S. and European banks are bracing for downgrades from
Moody’s after the ratings company said in February it was
reviewing grades for 17 firms with capital markets operations,
based on more fragile funding conditions and increased
regulation. Moody’s cut Macquarie Group Ltd. and Nomura Holdings
Inc. one level each in March.  “There is no sign that Standard and Poor’s is planning to
move its ratings,” Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote in an e-mail. “But even if it did,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  has sufficient cash on hand to meet a ten billion
dollar collateral call.”  June Deadline  Morgan Stanley’s  credit ratings  may be reduced by as many
as three levels, the largest potential downgrade among U.S.
lenders, Moody’s has said. The ratings firm will take actions by
the end of June, according to a statement last month.  The combined cost for one- and two-level downgrades by
Moody’s, and a cut to the same levels by S&P, were $1.03 billion
and $6.78 billion, respectively, according to the filing. Those
compared with $1.04 billion and $5.17 billion at the end of
2011. The bank didn’t estimate the impact of a multiple-level
cut by Moody’s only.  Hintz estimates that the firm would have to post $5 billion
of collateral in the event of a three-level downgrade by Moody’s
while S&P maintained its A- rating on the firm.  A three-level cut would bring the grade to Baa2, two levels
above junk, from A2. That could force Morgan Stanley to post
more collateral on derivatives trades and pay more to borrow.
Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 53, said last month the
investment bank has taken steps to ensure any fallout from a
downgrade would be manageable, and Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat, 54, said the firm has liquidity of $179 billion.  Not ‘Catastrophic’  “We’ve created a number of work-around situations where we
can deal with this,” Gorman said in an April 19 interview on
Bloomberg Television. “Is it another thing we have to deal
with? Absolutely, as does every other bank. Is it a catastrophic
outcome? No, it is not.”  Mary Claire Delaney, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the new estimate for potential collateral calls.  A two-level downgrade is the most likely outcome of the
Moody’s review, Donald Jones, a Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. credit
analyst, wrote in a report to clients last week. The chance of a
two-grade cut is 75 percent, and a reduction of one level is
more likely than three, he wrote.  John Guarnera, an analyst at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , wrote in
a note yesterday that there is a 60 percent chance that Moody’s
downgrades the firm three levels, and a 40 percent probability
of a two-grade cut. Moody’s “backed itself into a corner” with
its initial announcement and is reluctant to appear to bow to
pressure for more moderate action, Guarnera wrote.  Daily Results  Morgan Stanley also said yesterday that it lost money in
its trading businesses on four days in the first quarter, up
from three a year earlier. The firm’s traders generated more
than $100 million on nine days in the quarter, compared with
10 in the first three months of 2011.  Morgan Stanley, which got 40 percent of its 2011 revenue
from trading, had the largest year-over-year jump in trading
revenue among the nine largest U.S. and European investment
banks, excluding accounting gains, as it posted a 21 percent
increase in the first quarter to $4.43 billion.  Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S. lender by
assets, reported last week it made money on trading every day of
the quarter.  Morgan Stanley also disclosed a lawsuit filed last month by
Prudential Insurance Co. of America tied to $1 billion of
mortgage pass-through securities. Prudential claimed the bank
made “untrue statements and material omissions” in connection
with the sale of the securities, according to the filing. The
complaint, which Morgan Stanley said was filed in state court in
 New Jersey , couldn’t immediately be located in court records.  Delaney declined to comment on the complaint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  