-- Mortgages Beat Corporates With Fed Q3 Discounted
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-07T16:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/mortgages-beat-corporates-with-fed-q3-discounted.html
Government-backed mortgage bonds are
beating corporate notes even as investors see shrinking odds the
 Federal Reserve  will expand its holdings of U.S. housing debt.  When compared with similar-duration Treasuries,  returns  on
the home-loan securities are exceeding U.S. investment-grade
company bonds by 11 basis points since March, partly because a
Fed purchase program for mortgages is limiting a decline in
demand as low yields deter some investors. In the first quarter,
excess returns on mortgage debt trailed those on corporates by
276 basis points, Barclays Plc index data show.  While the  bond market  is scrutinizing Fed officials for
signs they’ll expand the central bank’s balance sheet with a
third round of debt  buying , a program to reinvest proceeds from
past mortgage purchases is fueling record-low borrowing costs
and aiding housing. This year’s tally of more than $110 billion
represents almost a third of issuance in the 30-year notes being
targeted, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Fed’s been a large factor in why we’re here and their
influence is even greater as other buyers pull back at these low
yields,” said Brad Scott, Bank of America Corp.’s head trader
of pass-through agency mortgage securities. Scott worked on the
central bank’s initial purchases of $1.25 trillion of the debt
in 2009 and 2010 while at Pacific Investment Management Co.  Fannie Mae  Investors who drove a rally across credit markets in the
first quarter are demanding higher relative yields on concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening and the U.S. recovery is
faltering, or that bond rates are too low if conditions improve.
Fannie Mae’s 3.5 percent securities, which package the most new
home loans, dropped to a record low 2.53 percent as of 11:33
a.m. in New York.  The Fed is signaling it will wait to see whether to
increase its balance sheet, with four district bank presidents
casting doubt on the need on May 1. Earlier this year, central
bankers were stressing the need to revive housing, with Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  sending lawmakers a report on policy options.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk rose, with the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbing by 0.8
basis point to a mid-price of 99.6 basis points as of 12:14 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the highest level since April 25 on an intra-day
basis for the index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Rate Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, rose for a fourth day, climbing 0.8 basis
point to 29.75 basis points as of 12:13 p.m. in New York. The
gauge widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
 government securities  and narrows when they favor assets such as
corporate bonds.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
are the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers today, with 34 trades of $1 million or more as of 12:14
p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Agency mortgage bonds have returned 1.45 percent this year
to beat similar-duration Treasuries by 0.85 percent, the best
start of a year since 2009, when the Fed began buying, Barclays
data show. The gains are also being fueled by purchases by
banks, whose holdings are up by about $70 billion, and real
estate investment trusts, as both benefit from the Fed holding
short-term borrowing costs near zero, central bank data show.  Quantitative Easing  Returns on mortgage bonds have trailed behind government
notes by 16 basis points from the end of March through last
week, compared with an underperformance of 27 basis points for
investment-grade company bonds, Barclays data show. In the first
quarter, corporates outperformed by 377 basis points and
mortgages by 101 basis points.  Mortgage-bond trading at the end of last week implied
investors put the odds of a third round of so-called
quantitative easing by the Fed, or QE3, at about 22 percent,
less than half levels reached in February and March, according
to Credit Suisse Group AG calculations.  The Fed’s monetary-policy panel said after its April 25
meeting it wasn’t changing its current program of reinvesting
the $5.4 trillion market for mortgage bonds guaranteed by
government-supported  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac or U.S.-owned
Ginnie Mae.  Bernanke signaled in a news conference later that day that
further Fed stimulus is unlikely unless the economy unexpectedly
deteriorates, saying allowing inflation faster than its target
would be “reckless.”  Operation Twist  The central bank has bought $190 billion of mortgage bonds
since October, after shifting from purchasing Treasuries with
cash generated by homeowner refinancing, defaults and property
sales. The plan was announced in September with its decision to
sell $400 billion short-term government notes to buy longer-term
ones in a program known as Operation Twist.  Unlike Operation Twist, which is scheduled to end next
month, there’s no specified end date for its reinvestment
programs.  The Fed is getting repaid on bonds backed by mortgages with
higher rates, which are gaining as investors grow less concerned
that they’ll be damaged from a faster pace of refinancing by
homeowners amid record low borrowing costs and expanded Fannie
Mae and  Freddie Mac  guidelines. The central bank is moving into
the lower-coupon securities that guide new loans rates, which
have fallen to 3.84 percent, according to Freddie Mac surveys.  ‘Scarcity Value’  The Fed has been “one of the largest contributing factors
to the scarcity value” in the market, whose size has remained
essentially unchanged since 2009, Glenn Schultz,  Wells Fargo &
Co .’s head of residential mortgage research, wrote in a May 2
report. Its recent buying has represented from 70 percent to 94
percent of new bonds daily, based on the amounts from
originators reported to clients by dealers, he said.  While those figures tracking forward sales contracts tend
to understate actual issuance volumes because banks retain some
securities and individual dealers aren’t bidding on all of the
debt, they underscore how traders and investors are viewing the
size of the Fed’s presence.  “You look at what originators are making and what the
Fed’s buying, and often it’s most of it, if not all of it,”
 Scott Buchta , the head of mortgage strategy at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Done Well’  Bill Roth, co-chief investment officer of Two Harbors
Investment Corp., a mortgage REIT, said lower-coupon bonds have
“done well because of the buying but also partly because
volatility has come down” as investors view the Fed as unlikely
to raise short-term rates before 2014 and economic growth as
subdued, leaving benchmark yields trading in a limited range.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch MOVE Index, which
measures volatility based on prices of over-the-counter options
on Treasuries maturing in two to 30 years, fell to 57.8 basis
points on May 4, the lowest since June 2007.  Higher forecasted rate volatility increases doubt about
when mortgage debt will be repaid as projected homeowner
refinancing fluctuates. Investors in bonds trading for more than
face value because of their high coupons get damaged as
prepayments return their cash faster at par and curb interest.  Fannie Mae’s 6.5 percent notes, backed by loans with rates
averaging about 7 percent, rose last week to almost 113 cents on
the dollar, the highest since July, according to Bloomberg data.  HARP 2.0  Gains accelerated after April 5, when monthly prepayment
data signaled a limited pace of increasing use of Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac’s Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP, after
changes begun in December.  “Investors keep pushing their timeframe for the HARP 2.0
impact out month-by-month,” Chad Stephens, a  money manager  in
Atlanta at Stable River Capital Management, which oversees about
$9 billion, said May 3. “I don’t think it’s going to be enough
to dramatically move the needle, so I still like the up-in-
coupon trade.”  Higher-coupon bonds, which carry shorter expected lives
because of relatively higher projected combined default and
refinancing rates, are also benefiting from investors’ desire to
guard against higher yields, Bank of America’s Scott said.  Some asset managers are “weeding out the pools that they
think are going to be the most adversely impacted” by HARP,
such as ones serviced by particular banks, Buchta said. Still,
they don’t want to sell too much because they are concerned it
will be hard to find again and may also leave them betting too
much that long-term rates will stay low, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  