-- Politically Connected Mayor Emanuel Fundraises for Chicago
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-07T21:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/most-politically-connected-mayor-emanuel-begins-final-fundraiser.html
Former President  Bill Clinton  towers
over  Chicago  Mayor Rahm Emanuel at a south side union hall,
paying tribute to the skill that helped define his one-time
White House adviser.  “He’s a genius at raising money,” Clinton tells the
audience of construction workers and business leaders gathered
in early March for the unveiling of a centerpiece of Emanuel’s
plan to rebuild Chicago: a public-private partnership to upgrade
buildings, transportation and utilities.  For Emanuel, the famously foulmouthed and aggressive aide
to two Democratic presidents, Clinton and  Barack Obama ,
restoring the city’s crumbling underpinnings is becoming the
ultimate fundraiser, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
June issue. The mayor says he has $1.7 billion in private
commitments for the partnership and that new user fees and
spending cuts will help pay for $7.2 billion of rebuilding.  Emanuel, who took office in May 2011, is the most
politically connected  mayor  in America. He will need those
relationships and more to dig his city out of its fiscal hole.
Like many U.S. localities hurt by the recession and not yet
feeling much relief from the nation’s tepid recovery, Chicago
faces a litany of  economic challenges . It suffers from a
shrinking population and the effects of financial profligacy
inherited from Emanuel’s predecessor,  Richard M. Daley , who
ruled the city for 22 years until 2011.  ‘Lost Decade’  Emanuel, 52, has repeatedly called the 2000s a “lost
decade” and warns that the city can’t afford another one.  While all U.S. cities began the decade with one recession
and ended it with another, Chicago, under Daley, squandered cash
reserves meant to build a long-term fiscal cushion, says Michael Pagano, dean of the College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs
at the  University of Illinois  at Chicago.  The most ill-fated Daley decision that Emanuel must contend
with is the former mayor’s 75-year deal with Morgan Stanley that
pledged the city’s parking-meter revenue. Chicago sold the
rights to the meters for almost $1 billion less than Daley’s own
inspector general said they were worth. Daley then used most of
the proceeds to plug immediate budget holes. “It postponed the
day of reckoning for Chicago, and now it’s come with a
vengeance,” Pagano says.  Chicago retains its ranking as the third-largest U.S. city,
although its population dwindled by 192,000 in a decade, to 2.7
million as of 2010, census figures show. That’s the largest drop
by far among the top 10 metropolises. Its four municipal pension
funds face a combined unfunded liability of $14.7 billion, equal
to $5,473 for every man, woman and child in the city. The public
school system projects a second year of $700 million deficits.  Never Sits  These conditions feed Emanuel’s restlessness and
impatience. The 5-foot, 8-inch (1.7-meter) politician has a
tendency to begin sentences with “Look,” and end them with
“OK?” On a late-February morning at  City Hall , Emanuel drops
in on a committee hearing on technology for people with
disabilities. “Happy to be here,” he says. He never sits. Four
minutes later, he’s out the door, saying to his appointees, only
partly in jest, “Don’t screw it up.”  The Chicago that Emanuel inherited in May 2011 boasts
towering new residential buildings and a glittering lakefront
park meant to spur tourism -- a goal the new mayor shares with
his predecessor. In 2010, the U.S. Department of Commerce ranked
Chicago No. 10 among U.S. cities visited by  overseas travelers ,
behind smaller places such as Miami;  Orlando ,  Florida ; and
 Boston .  NATO Summit  Emanuel aims to move the city to No. 5 by 2020 and grab at
least an additional 1 percent of the estimated $140 billion that
foreign visitors to the U.S. spend annually.  “A billion dollars is at play for every point,” Emanuel
says in an interview in his fifth-floor City Hall office. “And
when I say a billion dollars, that’s a lot of jobs.”  Emanuel’s jawboning of the White House assured that the
city would host the North Atlantic Treaty Organization  summit  on
May 20-21 (though Obama moved a companion Group of Eight meeting
to Camp David). He sees the event as an opportunity for Chicago
to showcase its architecture, restaurants, lakefront and museums
to more than 2,000 journalists covering it.  “All of this is about a marketing strategy to bring the
tourism here, so people have an up-to-date, modern, contemporary
image of what Chicago has to offer,” he says.  Shallow Roots  The city’s 46th mayor is a departure from the Chicago
template. The Daleys -- Richard M. and his father, Richard J. --
were lifelong residents who ruled Chicago for 43 of the past 57
years. They symbolized the Byzantine ward political system, the
neighborhood-level machine that for decades determined who got
elected and who, in turn, got city jobs.  While Emanuel worked as the younger Daley’s fundraiser in
his successful 1989 mayoral campaign, his city roots are
comparatively shallow. The second of three sons born to Jewish
parents -- his father, Benjamin, is a pediatrician, and his
mother, Marsha, is a social worker -- Emanuel moved out of the
city with his family and grew up in nearby Wilmette.  He studied liberal arts, including ballet, at Sarah
Lawrence College in  New York ’s Westchester County, where he
earned a bachelor’s degree. He went on to get a master’s degree
in speech and communication from  Northwestern University  in
Evanston, another Chicago suburb. In June 2011, in recognition
of his background in dance, the renowned Joffrey Ballet named
him honorary chairman of its board of directors.  Unlike the Daleys, Emanuel learned his political skills in
 Washington . He describes himself as a “pragmatic progressive”
who eschews the “ideological left-center crap.” He doesn’t
like labels. “I think it’s all bull,” he says. “The real
debate is whether you move forward or not.”  Taking on Labor  In his first year in office, Emanuel took on a traditional
Democratic support group, organized labor. He demanded, for
example, that teachers work longer hours, a part of his plan to
improve  Chicago schools , and he reached an agreement on work-
rule changes with sanitation workers last week. While Emanuel’s
approval rating stood at 79 percent in an internal poll done in
January, some groups are unhappy, including the police.  “He promised 1,000 new police officers, and he did it by
shifting around existing officers to do new duties,” says Pat Camden, spokesman for Chicago Lodge 7 of the Fraternal Order of
Police. “This idea of doing more with less doesn’t necessarily
work with the police department.”  In the first three months of this year, the union says,
homicides in Chicago jumped by 66 percent, to 111 from 67 a year
earlier.  Wasserstein Job  Emanuel’s biggest challenge is to find new sources of
revenue. That includes reaching out to the investment community
where he worked for three years. After leaving the White House
in 1998, Emanuel took a job with one of Clinton’s top
fundraisers, buyout baron  Bruce Wasserstein . As a mergers and
acquisitions adviser in the Chicago office of Wasserstein
Perella & Co., Emanuel tapped the contacts he had made in
government to close deals.  He earned at least $17 million at the firm, congressional
disclosure records show -- more than he took home in 14 years as
a White House aide and three-term member of the  House of
Representatives .  At a time when politicians play up their private-sector
bona fides and disparage time within the Beltway, Emanuel is
almost dismissive of his years at Wasserstein. “Look, I don’t
think I could be mayor if I hadn’t worked for two great
presidents,” he says. “What’s more influential for me being a
mayor was my time in public service than my time in the private
sector.”  Transparency Vow  While campaigning for mayor, Emanuel promised voters a
sharp change from Daley’s style of doing things. He vowed
greater transparency in government, saying he would make
contracts available for viewing and put the names and salaries
of every city employee online.  Yet in his first major bond sale, held in October -- $500
million of general obligation bonds and $250 million of debt
backed by sales tax receipts -- the mayor stuck with the
practice of privately negotiating the terms of the sale rather
than bidding the deal competitively on the open market.
Municipal borrowers from Buffalo, New York, to  Dallas  say they
have saved on borrowing costs by opening such sales to
competitive bids.  Chicago plans to sell more debt later this month. Asked if
those bonds would be competitively bid, the former investment
banker deferred to Lois Scott, his finance director. “I take my
guidance from Lois,” he says. Scott says she is not considering
competitive bids for this sale and that negotiated sales have
provided the best outcomes for the city.  Daley’s Departure  During his mayoral campaign, Emanuel used the slogan “No
more business as usual.” It was a clear reference to the deal
Daley struck in 2008 to sell the city’s parking-meter revenue to
a group led by Morgan Stanley. Chicago got a $1.16 billion
upfront payment from Morgan Stanley, an amount derided as a poor
deal by Daley’s inspector general, David Hoffman.  “The city received about $974 million less for the
parking-meter system than it was worth,” Hoffman concluded in a
2009 report.  The following year, a Chicago Tribune poll showed that four
out of five surveyed opposed the deal and 53 percent didn’t want
Daley to seek another term. Two months later, Daley, now 70,
announced he wouldn’t run.  Emanuel is no fan of privatization. During the campaign, he
opposed the sale of Chicago’s second airport, Midway, which
Daley had been exploring. Emanuel takes pains in an interview to
note that his plans to rebuild Chicago don’t involve selling any
city property.  Cutting Services  What he’s doing is cutting services. His $6.3 billion
budget for 2012 trimmed spending by $410 million by, among other
things, shaving public library hours and closing six mental-
health clinics and three police stations.  Emanuel has yet to fully address the city’s biggest fiscal
challenge: Chicago’s pension shortfall rose fivefold from 2001
to 2010. The mayor is putting the onus on the state government
to craft the solution. In an April 26 letter to legislative
leaders, he echoed measures Governor  Pat Quinn  had already
called for, including increases in the  retirement age  and
employee contributions.  Time is running short. The same day he sent the letter,
Moody’s Investors Service changed its outlook on Chicago bonds
to negative from stable, citing the unresolved pension matter.
That liability hangs over Chicago and “threatens the city’s
solvency,” because retirement costs eventually will strip the
city of its ability to pay its bills, says Laurence Msall,
president of the  Civic Federation , a nonpartisan government
research group.  ‘Walking a Tightrope’  Emanuel also has not yet spelled out the details of the
$7.2 billion building-and-repair plan, which he announced in
late March. “I’m not opposed to this,” says  Richard Ciccarone ,
chief research officer at McDonnell Investment Management LLC,
which oversees $14 billion in assets. “But on the other hand,
where are you going to get the money? The city’s already walking
a tightrope with big liabilities.”  Emanuel says he’ll be able to pay for improvements with
spending cuts, user fees, budget efficiencies and the Clinton-
inaugurated investment trust. “I wouldn’t go out there if we
didn’t know where the money is,” Emanuel says. The city council
approved the trust after some aldermen said the program lacked
sufficient oversight.  Not Running  Riding in the back of a black Chevrolet Tahoe, his seat
belt unbuckled, Emanuel spends his time between appointments on
his mobile phone. On a late-February day while touring the south
side, he thanks an official for supporting a recent education
program. He calls a state senator whose district was hit by
tornadoes. Then he’s on the line with an adviser, railing
against opponents of school system changes.  The phone rings again. It’s U.S. Transportation Secretary
Ray LaHood, a Republican in Obama’s cabinet and a friend of
Emanuel’s from their days together in the House. Before the
vehicle pulls up to a produce warehouse and distributor, Emanuel
assures LaHood that he will appear at an event in Peoria,
 Illinois , the transportation secretary’s hometown.  He sets one condition. “It can’t be politics,” Emanuel
says into the phone. “I don’t want to be accused of running for
governor.”  Emanuel has grown wary of anything that provides fodder for
speculation about whether he may eventually run for governor or
senator or even president. He’s already fended off questions on
national television about whether he will seek the country’s
highest office.  Policy Brain  The rookie mayor knows political success can be ephemeral.
The Democratic majority he engineered in the House in 2006 was
gone four years later. Emanuel says he’s no longer as much the
political animal as he was in those days.  “There is another part of my brain, and that gets lost a
lot,” he says. “I’m as fascinated and interested in the policy
piece of governance as I am about the politics.”  Asked again in the quiet of his  City Hall  chamber whether
he aspires to higher office, Emanuel smiles and answers with a
gesture, raising the middle finger of his left hand. “I’ll
never be able to communicate it,” he says, laughing and leaning
forward with his finger still extended. “I’m not running for
another office. I’m staying focused on being mayor.” Only then
does he lower his finger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  