-- Louboutin’s Fetish Stilettos Lure Fashionistas to London
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/louboutin-s-6-500-fetish-stilettos-lure-fashionistas.html
The “Fetish” section of shoemaker
 Christian Louboutin ’s new  exhibition  features a slipper lined
with steel spikes and stilettos clamped with metal handcuffs.  These were designed to be displayed, not worn, and produced
for a show with filmmaker-photographer David Lynch. They’re now
in a dark, curtained room in the enticing Louboutin
retrospective at London’s  Design Museum .  “Most people see shoes as an accessory to walk in,” reads
the section’s label. “However, some shoes are made for running
-- and some shoes are made for sex.”  “If there was to be just only one fetish element in a
woman’s wardrobe, I think it would have to be her shoes,” goes
the caption.  Paris-based Louboutin, 48, is a darling of the fashion set.
Some women yearn to slip on his footwear, recognizable by a red
sole. That single attribute is now the focus of a legal battle:
Louboutin is asking a U.S. appeals court to prevent  Yves Saint
Laurent  from selling red-soled shoes.  In London for the exhibition’s media preview, the designer
wears an ochre jacket and steel-tipped lace-ups. His news
conference is a mob scene: Reporters point camera-phones at him,
including one with pink rabbit ears, and an eager questioner
raises her hand to ask for an internship.  Painful Beauty  To Louboutin, ease of wear is not a top priority.  “My work is not about comfort,” he says in English. “I
am concerned by comfort, and I know it’s important, but I do not
want to have this evoked in my design.”  His show seems an illustration of the old French adage:
Beauty requires suffering. The heels on display are like mini-
stilts, towering and needle thin. Yet as Louboutin points out,
“I never met a girl who wanted to have shorter legs.”  Strewn all around are items from his latest collection,
which is certain to get a boost from the show. On the whole, the
shoemaker looks back at his 20-year career, which started in
1992 with a public endorsement from Princess Caroline of  Monaco .  Highlights include a pair of stilettos with heels made of
Guinness beer cans, platform shoes featuring the Rolls-Royce
hood ornament, low-heeled pumps crafted with dried salmon and
mackerel skin, and boots made with palm bark.  Royal Shoes  The shoes can retail for between $450 and $6,500 or more. A
lavish pair in the show, from the Marie Antoinette collection,
features a miniature 18th-century hat over the instep, the work
of master embroiderers in Paris.  Louboutin avoids turning the museum into a shoe store by
bringing in the customer-experience design company Household.
The main gallery has a catwalk-sized red sole running down the
middle, with a cushioned salon at one end. There, visitors can
sit and watch a holographic performance by the burlesque dancer
Dita Von Teese, who is flanked by a pair of glittery Louboutins.  Nearby, a carrousel recalls Louboutin’s past as a dancers’
assistant at the Folies Bergeres in Paris, where he sketched
shoes for the showgirls in his free time. The carousel is
covered with pictures of Louboutin in exotic settings, and
footwear inspired by those cultures.  “Christian Louboutin” is at the Design Museum, Shad
Thames,  London  SE1 2YD, through July 9. Information:
 http://designmuseum.org  or +44-20-7940-8790.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 