-- House Panel Reduces Aid for Poor to Avoid Defense Cuts
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-05-08T15:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/house-panel-targets-aid-to-poor-to-spare-defense-cuts.html
A U.S. House panel voted to cut
spending on  food stamps , health insurance and other aid for the
poor to avoid planned cuts in defense spending.  The House Budget Committee voted 21-9 yesterday for
legislation that would reduce  government spending  by more than
$300 billion over the next decade.  Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, said
the measure would eliminate duplicative programs and wasteful
spending to head off Pentagon cuts without raising taxes.  “We shouldn’t be taking more from hardworking Americans to
fix Washington’s mistakes,” Ryan said at the committee meeting.
“We should be solving the problem with structural reforms to
our entitlement programs to make them strong and sustainable.”  Democrats criticized the cuts and said they would
disproportionately hurt the poor.  “Republicans have a real fairness problem,” said
Representative  Kathy Castor , a Florida Democrat, at the
committee meeting. “Democrats and Republicans agree on the
importance of reducing the deficit, but we have starkly
different visions on how to get there.”  The House plans to vote on the bill this week. It won’t
advance in the Democratic-controlled Senate, though it will
establish the Republican position for negotiations later this
year over what to do about automatic spending cuts due to begin
in January.  Supercommittee’s Failure  The spending reductions are triggered by a so-called
supercommittee’s failure last year to come up with a plan to
reduce the government’s $1.2 trillion  budget deficit . About $55
billion would be subtracted from the Pentagon  budget , with an
equal amount from non-defense programs.  Also yesterday, the House Appropriations Committee unveiled
plans to boost defense spending next year by $1 billion to $519
billion, with an additional $88.5 billion for the war in
 Afghanistan .  The Budget Committee’s measure would cut off food stamps to
1.8 million Americans, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office , while reducing assistance to millions more. About
280,000 children would no longer be automatically eligible for
free school lunches because they receive food stamps, according
to CBO.  The bill would give states more ability to pare their
Medicaid rolls and would end social services block grants, which
fund programs such as Meals on Wheels for senior citizens. The
bill would tighten rules on who may claim child-care tax credits
in an effort to prevent aid from going to illegal immigrants.  Federal Retirement Benefits  Other provisions would reduce retirement benefits for
federal workers, decrease funding for the administration’s
health-care overhaul, raise premiums in the government’s flood
insurance program and tighten medical malpractice laws, which
the CBO said would reduce health-care costs.  The food stamp cuts are among the most contentious. Forty-
six million Americans now receive aid, up 75 percent since 2007.
Annual costs are projected to reach $80 billion, more than the
annual budgets of many federal agencies. The average household
receiving aid in 2010 had an annual income of about $8,800,
according to CBO.  Food stamp aid averaged $287 per month, about $4.30 per
person per day, according to the agency. Three-fourths of the
households included a child, a disabled person or someone age 60
and older.  Food Stamp Cuts  The legislation would cut projected food stamp spending by
about 4 percent over the next decade. Republicans say the state
governments that administer the program have abused the rules
for determining who qualifies for assistance.  “All we’re saying in this reform is the people who are
actually eligible for the program, those are the people who
should get it,” Ryan said. “That shouldn’t be a partisan
issue. That’s common sense.”  He said the social services block grants are duplicated by
“dozens” of other programs.  Democrats said the cuts went beyond targeting waste.  “It’s shifting all of the costs onto the most vulnerable
people that don’t have strong enough lobbyists to stand up for
themselves, and I think it’s a terrible wrong,” said
Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat, at the committee
meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  