-- Ranieri Says Housing Market in U.S. Is Reaching Bottom
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-07T15:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/housing-market-in-u-s-is-reaching-bottom-ranieri-says.html
The U.S. housing market is reaching a
bottom, according to Lewis Ranieri, the mortgage-bond pioneer.  While “broad” concern that  home prices  have further to
fall is restraining  sales , “many, myself included, think we are
at a bottom,” Ranieri said today at a conference hosted by the
 Mortgage Bankers Association  in New York.  The second or third quarter will prove the nadir, said
Ranieri, who added that in his distressed mortgage business “we
can’t buy loans fast enough anymore.” Home prices have  slumped 
35 percent since a 2006 peak, S&P/Case-Shiller index data show.  Ranieri, chairman of Uniondale, New York-based Ranieri
Partners, helped expand the mortgage-securities market in the
1980s at Salomon Brothers Inc., where he was vice chairman. His
firm’s investments include Selene Finance LP, which targets
 soured debt , and home lender Shellpoint Partners LLC.  Ranieri is concerned that policy makers won’t undertake
many sales of foreclosed homes in so-called rent-to-own
initiatives that give tenants the option of later purchasing
properties, he said in a speech at the conference.  He and L. William Seidman, the former chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., used the approach in  Texas 
during the 1980s, Ranieri said. It works well since “the person
acts like a homeowner because he truly believes that he is,”
Ranieri said.  Rental Test    Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the government-supported
mortgage financiers, are exploring bulk sales of seized
properties to investors that would rent them out, starting with
a test involving 2,500 homes held by Fannie Mae.  Ranieri said he asked their overseer, the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , “which is worse: a  vacant house  that becomes a
virus in a neighborhood or a poorly rented house which becomes a
drug den?”  One of Ranieri’s firms has been approached in recent weeks
by two long-time home lenders that are looking for a buyer, and
“the stated reason was regulatory uncertainty,” he said.  Among the most troubling potential rules would be so-called
qualified mortgage regulation that fails to give lenders “safe
harbor” from lawsuits over whether they adequately assessed
borrowers’ ability to repay their debt, he said.  “I truly believe the future of the industry will be
decided in the next eight months” as regulators come up with
new rules, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 