-- Loyola Maryland Is No. 1 Seed in Men’s Lacrosse Tournament
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-07T18:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/loyola-maryland-is-no-1-seed-in-2012-men-s-lacrosse-tournament.html
Loyola University Maryland  is the top
seed in the National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s
lacrosse tournament, while  Ivy League  champion  Yale University 
is back in the event for the first time in 20 years.  Syracuse University ,  Johns Hopkins University , the
 University of Virginia  and  Princeton University  -- winners of 19
of the past 20 championships -- are also part of the  16-team
bracket , announced yesterday by the NCAA.  The University of  Florida , which launched its program in
2010, is the top seed in the  women’s draw , also announced
yesterday by the NCAA. Defending-champion Northwestern received
the second seed, followed by Maryland and Syracuse, which plays
Ivy League-champion  Dartmouth College  in the first round.  The tournaments begin this weekend. The men’s final is on
May 28 at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough,  Massachusetts , with
the women’s championship the previous day at  Stony Brook 
University in Stony Brook, New York.  Loyola (14-1) finished with a program-record 14 victories,
including wins over tournament teams  Duke University  and the
 University of Denver , and secured the Baltimore school’s first
No. 1 seed in the tournament since 1999. The Greyhounds, who
missed out on an undefeated record with a 10-9 overtime loss to
local rival  Johns Hopkins  in the final game of the regular
season, will play  Canisius College  (6-7) on May 12 in the first
round.  “It’s a special day for our program,” Loyola coach
Charley Toomey said on the school’s athletics website. “I am so
proud of our guys. They have worked so hard, day-in, day-out.
Our senior leadership and our captains have been special this
year.”  Yale Season  Yale (11-4) won the Ivy League’s automatic bid with a 15-7
victory over Princeton yesterday in the conference-tournament
final. The Bulldogs will play the fourth-seeded  University of
Notre Dame  (11-2) on May 13; the Tigers (11-4) received an at-
large bid and will play defending-champion Virginia (11-3) the
same day.  Yale won nine straight games to end the season and take the
Bulldogs’ first NCAA tournament berth since 1992.  “It’s been a long hiatus,” coach Andy Shay said on the
school’s athletics Web page. “We’ve been hammering at this for
a long time, and it’s a big step for our program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  