-- Toyota Seen Exceeding GM’s Profit This Fiscal Year
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-05-08T02:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/toyota-seen-exceeding-gm-s-profit-this-fiscal-year.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s profit may climb
to a five-year high and exceed  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s earnings
this year, signaling  Asia ’s biggest carmaker is close to full
force after reeling from natural disasters and a recall crisis.  Net income at the Camry-sedan maker, which reports
financial results tomorrow, may triple to 817.7 billion yen ($10
billion) in the fiscal year ending March 2013, according to the
average of 21 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
more than Detroit-based GM’s estimated profit over the next four
quarters.  Akio Toyoda, grandson of the founder, is rolling out new
Prius hybrids, Corolla compacts and Lexus sedans as he seeks to
regain market share in what may be his first crisis-free year
since becoming president in 2009. While production has returned
to normal, Toyoda now faces a reborn GM that’s No. 1 in global
sales, a rising  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and a growing  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
that’s dominating luxury-car sales in China.  “This will truly be a test year for Toyoda because the
success of a president’s business strategies can really be seen
when there are no irregular factors,” said  Mitsushige Akino ,
who oversees about $600 million at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. in Tokyo. “He must be coming out stronger
because of the many challenges he’s faced, so I think we can
look forward to seeing how he narrows the gap against GM.”  Shares Outperform  Shares of Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota rose as much as
1.1 percent in Tokyo trading today. They’ve gained 22 percent
this year, outperforming  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and
GM. The stock has recouped more than half of its losses since
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami ravaged northeastern  Japan 
last year.  Toyota may forecast sales will climb 12 percent to 20.8
trillion yen in the 12 months ending March 2013 and top all
carmakers in terms of revenue, though not in terms of net
income, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. VW is
projected to earn more.  By volume, the Japanese carmaker said in February that
deliveries -- including those of its  Daihatsu Motor Co. (7262)  and  Hino
Motors Ltd. (7205)  units -- will increase 21 percent to a record 9.58
million vehicles in the regular calendar year. That would be
more than last year’s sales by GM, which hasn’t given a forecast
for 2012.  Toyota’s rebound is already under way. Analysts estimate
profit during the fiscal fourth quarter jumped fivefold to 140.1
billion yen, the highest in almost two years, as Toyota cranked
up  production  36 percent and led the Japanese auto industry’s
recovery. The yen, which appreciated and eroded the value of
Japanese exports in 2010 and 2011, has reversed course by
becoming the worst-performing major currency during 2012.  Not Enough  GM last week  reported  net income fell 61 percent to $1.32
billion on losses and restructuring costs in  Europe . Analysts
estimate it will earn $7.38 billion over the next four quarters,
excluding preferred dividends, which last year totaled $1.61
billion. Volkswagen’s first-quarter  profit  almost doubled to
3.17 billion euros ($4.1 billion).  Toyota’s fourth-quarter rebound wasn’t enough to keep full-
year income from tumbling 33 percent to 272.9 billion yen as the
Japanese disaster and subsequent floods in  Thailand  crippled
automotive output, according to the analyst estimates. Toyota
wasn’t alone as Tokyo-based Honda last month reported annual
profit fell 60 percent and Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan, which
reports May 11, has said since February that net income would
slide 7.9 percent in the year ended March 2012.  For Toyoda, the natural disasters followed the crisis he
oversaw during 2009 and 2010, when defects related to unintended
acceleration led to the recall of more than 10 million vehicles
-- more than Toyota has sold in its best year.  Toyoda’s Wish  “What we want more than anything is for nothing to go
wrong this year,” Toyoda told reporters in  Tokyo  in March.  After ceding its title as the world’s largest automaker to
GM in 2011, not much is going wrong for Toyota in its two
biggest markets this year.  Pent-up demand and government subsidies, which last until
January, have helped Japan grow faster than any other major auto
market this year. Passenger-vehicle sales in the country have
jumped 57 percent during the first four months of 2012, led by
Toyota’s Prius hybrids, according to the  Japan Automobile
Dealers Association . That has benefited Toyota, which produces
about two out of five vehicles sold in the country.  In the U.S., Toyota’s deliveries have increased 12 percent
this year -- outpacing GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Nissan and Honda --
led by sales of the Camry sedan and the Prius hybrids, as buyers
who put off purchases returned to dealerships to find more fuel-
efficient models. Total U.S. light-vehicle sales, which rose to
a  seasonally adjusted annual rate  of 14.4 million in April, have
exceeded analysts’ estimates three out of four months this year.  China Vulnerability  In Europe and China, where auto sales fell during the first
quarter, Toyota has been less vulnerable to slumping demand
because it is less reliant on those markets than companies such
as  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and GM. Toyota, which had a global market
share of about 10 percent in 2011, accounted for 3.2 percent of
Europe’s market and 4.3 percent in  China , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Recovering market share in the U.S. won’t be hard for
Toyota, but whether they will be able to grow in China and other
markets where their presence is weak is going to be a
challenge,” said Takashi Aoki, a  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “As profitability recovers in the
U.S., Toyota should look for ways to utilize that to catch up in
China and elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at   amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in  Osaka  at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  