-- Pfizer Arthritis Pill Raises Safety Concerns, FDA Staff Says
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-05-07T20:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/pfizer-s-arthritis-pill-raises-safety-concerns-fda-staff-says.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s experimental pill to
treat rheumatoid arthritis, one of the company’s leading drug
candidates, raised “serious safety concerns” in trials, U.S.
regulators said today.  The pill, tofacitinib, carried increased risks of serious
infections and malignancies, in particular a higher chance of
lymphoma, Food and Drug Administration staff wrote. The agency
released the report ahead of a May 9 meeting of FDA medical
advisers who will review tofacitinib’s benefits and risks.  Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease in which the
body attacks itself. It causes deterioration of the joints,
which can make basic tasks such as walking or holding items
painful. The condition is treated with anti-inflammatory pills
like Aspirin, or drugs that attack the disease directly by
modifying the immune system.  The data the FDA saw also didn’t show that the pill stopped
the disease from progressing, according to the  staff report .
“This is particularly important in determining the overall
benefit-risk profile of tofacitinib, which is associated with
serious safety concerns.”  About 1.3 million people in the U.S. had the disease in
2009, according to the  National Institutes of Health . Early
detection can help slow or stop its progression.  Pfizer rose less than 1 percent to $22.45 at the close of
New York trading.  First New Pill  If approved, tofacitinib would be the first new pill for
rheumatoid arthritis in a decade, according to Pfizer. It would
be used in patients who have tried and failed on methothrexate
or injections such as  Abbott Laboratories’ (ABT)  Humira.  Pfizer, based in New York, is seeking approval for doses of
five and 10 milligrams. The FDA report said that the higher dose
wasn’t justified, though. The 10 milligram dose “is not
supported by the design of the Phase 3 studies, controlled data
or pre-determined analyses,” the report said.  The FDA is scheduled to rule on the pill by August.  Pfizer has said it would first market the drug to patients
who have failed on the injectable treatments called TNF-
inhibitors.  “That’s where the greatest unmet need exists today,” Geno Germano, Pfizer’s president of specialty care, said on a May 1
conference call. In a statement, Pfizer spokeswoman Kristen Neese said the company believed the data showed a “favorable
benefit/risk profile.”  Don’t Respond  Pfizer estimates that 30 percent to 40 percent of
rheumatoid arthritis patients don’t respond to the TNF-
inhibitors, including Humira, which generated $7.9 billion in
2011, and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Enbrel, which Pfizer shares some rights
to. Humira and Enbrel were among the top seven best-selling
medicines in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The drug may generate $1 billion in sales by 2015 if
approved, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in
New York who has a buy rating on the stock. Most of the risk of
a rejection by regulators involves safety, he said in a May 2
webcast with investors.  Tony Butler , an analyst with Barclays in New York, said in
an e-mail today that the FDA’s negative view of the pill was
“as expected.”  Investors mostly have priced the drug’s approval into the
stock, Schoenebaum said. “We expected a tough AdCom and the
summary and questions reflect the FDA’s hard look at both tofa’s
efficacy and safety,” he said in a note to clients today.  “We see about a 5 percent downside to the stock, maybe $1,
if the thing is completely rejected,” he said.  The FDA may take a stricter line on approval than it did
with previous rheumatoid arthritis drugs, Schoenebaum said.
“Because it’s not as much of an unmet medical need as it was a
few years ago, the requirements have gone up,” Schoenebaum
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  