-- Phillies’ Cole Hamels Gets 5-Game Ban for Hitting Bryce Harper
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/phillies-pitcher-hamels-suspended-five-games-for-hitting-harper.html
Philadelphia Phillies pitcher  Cole Hamels  began serving a five-game Major League Baseball
suspension yesterday for intentionally hitting  Washington 
Nationals rookie Bryce Harper with a pitch.  Hamels, who was also fined an undisclosed amount, drilled
Harper in the back with a 93 mile per hour (150 kph) fastball in
the first inning of the Phillies’ 9-3 victory two days ago in
Washington. The 28-year-old pitcher said after the game that he
deliberately threw at the 19-year-old outfielder -- the top pick
of the 2010 draft -- who’s in his second full week in the major
leagues since being called up to the Nationals.  “He could have been a little bit more discreet about it,
or a little less honest,” Phillies manager  Charlie Manuel  said
before yesterday’s 5-2 loss to the  New York  Mets.  The ban will probably move Hamels’s next start back by one
day. He was scheduled to pitch May 12 against the  San Diego
Padres  and will probably instead start the following day.  Roy Halladay , who started last night’s game, will pitch in Hamels’s
place Saturday on his usual four days of rest since Philadelphia
is off on May 10.  “It’s kind of disappointing it even happened,” Phillies
General Manager Ruben Amaro Jr. told reporters yesterday.
“That’s not what we’re about. We’re not about trying to injure
people, if that’s what people are thinking out there.”  Two innings after Hamels hit Harper, Nationals starting
pitcher Jordan Zimmermann hit Hamels in the leg with a first-
pitch 93 mph fastball. After the game Zimmermann said he didn’t
intentionally hit the Phillies pitcher. He wasn’t suspended or
fined.  Hamels said the pitches he and Zimmermann threw were “old-
school” baseball.  “I think they understood the message and they threw it
right back,” he said.”  The Nationals lead the  National League East  with an 18-10
record, while the Phillies, who have won the division title the
past five years, are in last place at 14-16. The teams next meet
in a three-game series May 21-23 in Philadelphia.  “Once they hit Hamels, that’s baseball and it’s back on
even ground,” Manuel said. “It’s kind of like they got even.
That’s kind of what baseball is about.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  