-- Putin Return Lifts Futures: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-05-07T23:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/putin-return-lifts-futures-as-gazprom-advances-russia-overnight.html
Russian  stock futures  climbed as
 Vladimir Putin  returned to Russia’s presidency for a third term
promising to forge ahead with state asset sales and improve the
nation’s investment climate.  Futures expiring in June on Moscow’s dollar-denominated RTS
Index added 0.6 percent to 143,745 in New York trading. American
depositary receipts of  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , Russia’s biggest company and
the world’s largest natural gas producer, rallied from their
lowest level this year, while  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , the
nation’s biggest mobile-phone operator, gained the most in more
than a week.  Putin, whose first eight years in the Kremlin saw average
economic growth of 7 percent as  oil prices  rose fivefold, signed
at least a dozen decrees after being sworn in yesterday and said
the world’s biggest energy exporter was beginning a “new
stage” in its development.  Russia ’s Micex Index has tumbled 20
percent since Putin passed on the presidency to Dmitry Medvedev
in May 2008 because of  term limits .  Futures gained “on the back of President Putin’s fast
reaction to sign and define timelines for pro-market reforms
only hours after being sworn in,” Marco Casas, vice president
of equity sales at Otkritie Inc., the New York arm of Moscow
brokerage Otkritie Financial Corp., said by phone yesterday.
“Investors have been looking for signals from Putin or his
officials to get a sense of what path he will be taking this
time. Today’s actions have been taken positively.”  Gazprom, Russia’s state-run natural gas monopoly, rose 2
percent to $11.01 in  New York  yesterday, after slumping to
$10.79 on May 4, the weakest since Dec. 30. The Moscow-based
company’s  stock  advanced 0.9 percent to 165.60 rubles, or $5.52,
on the Micex. One Gazprom ADR is equal to two ordinary shares.  More Jobs  Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller said he isn’t joining
the government and plans to remain at Gazprom, the RIA Novosti
news agency reported yesterday.  ADRs of Mobile TeleSystems climbed 2.7 percent to $18.91,
the steepest one-day gain since April 25. The company’s shares
gained 0.5 percent to 233.78 rubles, or $7.79 on the Micex,
where trading was reduced because of Russian holidays yesterday
and today. One ADR is equal to two shares.  Putin nominated Medvedev as his prime minister and signed
decrees designed to boost real incomes, create more jobs and
boost investment and  labor productivity , the Kremlin said in an
e-mailed  statement  yesterday.  The former KGB officer, who held the premier’s position
during Medvedev’s presidential reign, ordered the government to
formulate plans this year for state companies to divest “non-
core assets” and for government stakes in non-commodity
producers to be reduced, according to the statement.  Power Stocks to Benefit  Power and utility stocks will benefit most from Putin’s
return, on prospects the new government will set new rules that
provide predictability for the industry, according to Mattias Westman, founder of London-based Prosperity Capital Management,
a Russia-focused  fund manager  with about $5 billion of assets.  Putin and his team “want to make a good impression, they
do want to be serious, but they have to lift the horizon a bit
as unpredictability is one of the things that is holding the
market back,” Westman said in a May 4 phone interview. “We
were slightly paralyzed by this election period for the past six
months.”  The Micex -- which was little changed in Moscow yesterday
and has slipped 1.2 percent this year -- may gain as much as 30
percent by the end of 2012, Westman said.  Oil Drop Hits Index  ADRs of  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY) , Russia’s largest hydropower producer,
gained 0.3 percent to $3.13 in New York, after trading little
changed at 94 kopeks, or 3 U.S. cents, in Moscow. One ADR is
equal 100 ordinary shares. RusHydro trades for 7.7 times
estimated earnings in the U.S., compared with an average
multiple of 12.3 times for power and utilities companies on the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies in the U.S. slid to a four-month low
yesterday, led by oil producer  OAO Surgutneftegas (SGTPY) , as crude
slumped to the weakest level in three months on global economic
concerns. The gauge sank 0.5 percent to 96.35, the least since
Jan. 13.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 0.5 percent to $27.51, the lowest
since Jan. 9. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected
swings in the index futures, fell 1.6 percent to 31.30 points.  Surgutneftegas, Russia’s fourth-largest oil producer,
declined 3.4 percent to $6.02 in New York, the lowest since Jan.
30. The ADRs traded at a 1.2 percent discount to the company’s
Moscow-listed shares, the most since April 20. The company
gained 0.8 percent to 26.86 rubles, or 90 U.S. cents on the
Micex yesterday. One depositary receipt is equal to 10 ordinary
shares.  Protesters Detained  Urals crude , Russia’s chief export blend, was little
changed at $111.06 a barrel. Crude for June delivery slid 0.6
percent to $97.94 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
lowest since Feb. 6. Prices have fallen 11 percent since Feb.
24, when they reached a 2012 high of $109.77. Brent oil for June
settlement slid 2 cents to settle at $113.16 on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Hundreds of protesters were detained at a rally in central
Moscow after clashes with police yesterday, when Putin was sworn
in. The new president’s campaign was accompanied by
demonstrations after allegations of ballot-box fraud in the
December parliamentary vote.  ‘Not Constructive’  “A lot of people expected things to settle down already,”
 Ian McCall , a managing partner at Quesnell Capital SA, an
emerging-markets investment adviser in Geneva that oversees 100
million Swiss francs ($109 million), including Russian assets,
said by phone yesterday. “These protests, coupled with
electoral results in  Greece  and France, suffering U.S. economic
data and problems in  China , are not constructive for the Russian
market.”  Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande  defeated President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  in French elections on May 6, while Greece’s
political leaders struggled to form a coalition government after
voters flocked to anti-bailout parties.  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s most-used Internet search engine, fell
3.3 percent to $22.57 in New York. The company’s share of
Russian Internet searches climbed in the week to May 6, while
the portions for competitors Mail.ru Group Ltd. and Google Inc.
declined, data compiled by Liveinternet.ru showed.  “Putin’s third government will not be undertaking any
serious reforms at all,” Ian Hague, who manages Russian
equities as a partner at Firebird Asset Management, which
oversees $1.3 billion, said by phone yesterday in New York. “As
long as energy prices remain high they will not undermine the
consensus within the political elite on transformational
policies, innovation and real reform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  