-- Rajoy Says He May Use Public Funds to Clean Up Spanish Banks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-07T09:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/rajoy-says-he-may-use-public-funds-to-clean-up-spanish-banks.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
opened the door to using public funds to clean up Spanish
lenders and said the government will pass a decree this week to
bolster confidence in the banks.  “The last thing I want to do is lend public money, as has
been done in the past, but if it were necessary to get the
credit to save the Spanish banking system, I wouldn’t renounce
that,” he said in an interview with radio station Onda Cero
today. He didn’t give details on the decree that will be passed
on May 11.  Spain’s government tightened provisioning rules in February
to make banks recognize deeper real-estate losses and is now
working on a plan to allow lenders to offload written-down
assets into separate vehicles.  Spain  has tried to shield its
public finances from the cost of cleaning up the banks and ruled
last year that the industry would bear the cost of restructuring
failed lenders.  Rajoy said the government hasn’t decided whether public
funds will be used and in any case it wouldn’t affect the
deficit, which is the third largest in the euro region. Using
public funds would be a “last resort,” he said.  “I am not in favor of a bad bank,” Rajoy said. “The main
aim of the decree is that there should be no doubts about the
situation of Spanish banks.”  Rescue Fund  Spain’s previous government created the FROB bank-rescue
fund in 2009, which bought preference shares and, in a second
phase, ordinary shares in struggling lenders. As losses at the
fund inflated the  budget deficit  last year, the former
government ruled that any costs from the restructuring would be
borne by the industry-financed Deposit Guarantee Fund.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis De Guindos said last week the
plan to allow banks to hive off assets will be voluntary and
each bank may set up its own vehicle. He said provisioning
levels set in February of 80 percent for land and 65 percent for
unfinished property were sufficient, allowing banks to offload
the assets without generating additional losses.  The February decree requires banks to set aside 53.8
billion euros ($70.7 billion) in buffers and provisions this
year, unless they win a later deadline by merging.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net  