-- Rand Falls as Euro, Metals Drop on French Election Result
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-07T14:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/rand-falls-as-euro-metals-drop-on-french-election-result.html
The rand retreated to the lowest in
almost three weeks and yields rose after French socialist
 Francois Hollande  was elected president and Greek voters picked
anti-bailout parties, limiting investor appetite for risk.  South Africa ’s currency depreciated as much as 0.8 percent
to 7.8914, the weakest since April 17, and traded at 7.8393 by
3:36 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the nation’s 6.75
percent bonds due 2021 climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 7.60 percent.  Hollande, the first Socialist in 17 years to control
Europe’s second-biggest economy, pledged to push for less
austerity. The new Greek parliament will have three new anti-
bailout parties represented, fueling concern deficit-reduction
efforts in Europe may be derailed. The euro region buys 22
percent of South Africa’s exports.  “It is likely that in the day ahead we see local bonds and
equities both come under pressure as more uncertainty and
elevated risk is priced in,”  George Glynos , an economist at
Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments
today. “Emerging market currencies will find themselves on the
defensive and the rand has already begun to reflect exactly
this.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index fell for a fourth day, all
but erasing this year’s gains, and an index of global  emerging-
market stocks  declined to the lowest level since January. South
Africa’s benchmark stock  index  declined for a third day as
commodity exporters including  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  fell.  Metals and other commodities account for 45 percent of
South Africa’s exports, according to government data.  The euro declined as much as 1 percent to $1.2955 per
dollar, the lowest since Jan. 25 on an intraday basis. The rand
often moves in tandem with the euro against the dollar, with a
statistical correlation of 0.60 over the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A value of one would mean they moved
in lockstep.  The rand pared its decline after German factory orders rose
more than economists forecast in March, providing evidence
 Europe ’s largest economy is weathering the debt crisis.  The yield on South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 percent
coupon bonds due 2024 dropped 26 basis points, or 0.26
percentage point, to 4.10 percent, narrowing the premium over
U.S. Treasuries by 10 basis points to 220 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  