-- Rating Companies, Banks Must Face Suits Over Investments
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-07T23:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/rating-companies-banks-must-face-suits-over-investments-1-.html
Credit-rating companies Moody’s,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch must face a claim they misled
investors who lost money in structured investment vehicles, a
federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan  dismissed
several claims from suits filed by institutional investors in
two vehicles, named Rhinebridge and Cheyne. Scheindlin said the
investors may go forward with claims the rating companies and
other defendants, including Morgan Stanley and IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG, negligently misrepresented the quality of the
investments.  “Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that the rating
agencies possessed unique or specialized expertise, and that the
rating agencies knew and intended that their ratings would be
used by investors in deciding whether or not to invest in
Rhinebridge,” Scheindlin said in an opinion filed publicly
today.  In a separate opinion, Scheindlin said her reasoning also
applied to the case filed by investors in the Cheyne structured
investment vehicle.  King County,  Washington , and Iowa Student Loan Liquidity
Corp. sued  Morgan Stanley (MS)  & Co., IKB, Moody’s Investors Service
Inc.,  Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services  and Fitch Inc. They
claimed Morgan Stanley and IKB structured Rhinebridge to hold
low-quality mortgage-backed securities and misled investors into
believing the vehicles were safe.  ‘Deeply Entrenched’  The rating companies collaborated in structuring the
investments and gave them a falsely high rating, according to
the investors’ complaint.  “Regardless of their historical roles, the rating agencies
did not merely provide ratings; rather, they were deeply
entrenched in the creation and operation of Rhinebridge,”
Scheindlin wrote, citing the investors’ complaint.  “We are pleased that Judge Scheindlin dismissed most of
the claims that the plaintiffs tried to add into the cases,”
said John Piecuch, a Standard and Poor’s spokesman, in a
statement. “As the ruling permits the negligent
misrepresentation claim to survive this preliminary motion to
dismiss, we believe the ruling is inconsistent with decisions of
other courts and incorrect.”  “We are pleased that the court dismissed three of the four
claims made by plaintiff,” Daniel J. Noonan, a Fitch spokesman,
said in a statement. “We respectfully disagree with the court’s
decision with respect to the fourth claim and we will continue
to vigorously defend ourselves in this case.”  Martin Act  Moody’s didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail left
with its media relations desk seeking comment on the ruling.  Scheindlin said that after the investors sued, the federal
appeals court in  New York  ruled for the first time that common-
law claims for  securities fraud  aren’t preempted by a New York
state law, the Martin Act.  The investors then amended their suit to include claims
against the defendants for negligence, negligent
misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty and aiding and
abetting. Scheindlin today said the plaintiffs may go forward
with the negligent misrepresentation claims and dismissed the
others.  Scheindlin made similar rulings in the suit filed by Cheyne
investors. In that case, investors including Abu Dhabi
Commercial Bank are seeking damages from Morgan Stanley, Moody’s
and Standard and Poor’s.  Morgan Stanley spokeswoman Mary Claire Delaney declined to
comment on the rulings. Joerg Chittka a spokesman for
Dusseldorf, Germany-based IKB, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message left after business hours.  The cases are King County, Washington v.  IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG (IKB) , 09-CV-8387; Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank v.
 Morgan Stanley & Co ., 08-CV-7508, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  