-- Rating Firms Offered Partial Repreive on EU Rotation Rule
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-05-07T15:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/rating-firms-offered-partial-repreive-on-eu-rotation-rule.html
Companies that issue securitized debt
may have to change their credit-ratings provider at least every
four years as part of a possible European Union compromise to
promote competition in assessing such securities.  Businesses would be able to sidestep the rotation rule if
they use at least four ratings suppliers at the same time,
according to an EU document on the proposed measures obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The rule, intended to “mitigate the risk of conflict of
interest and to enhance competition,” would apply to
securitized debt and other types of so-called structured finance
instruments, according to the draft compromise drawn up by
Denmark, which holds the EU’s presidency. “Smaller” credit-
ratings companies would be exempt from the measure.  The Danish proposal would water down plans by  Michel Barnier , the region’s financial services chief, that would have
forced businesses to switch ratings company every three years.
Barnier proposed that the measure should apply to all of a
company’s debt issuance, not just structured finance.  The Danish plan, dated May 7, follows discussions with
officials from the other 26 national governments in the region.  Finance ministers reached an agreement last month to water
down the mandatory rotation plans which some regulators said may
worsen the quality of ratings in the short term. Denmark has
previously proposed that rotation should only take place every
six years.  Companies seeking to benefit from the exemption would have
to ensure that each of the at least four ratings suppliers they
hire rates more than 10 percent of the structured finance
instruments they issue,  Denmark  said in the document.  The credit-ratings law requires approval by national
governments and by lawmakers in the European Parliament, before
it can come into effect. Denmark is targeting a May 15 deal
among ministers on the rules, which would also allow investors
to sue ratings firms in cases of gross negligence or misconduct.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  