-- Rato Steps Down at Bankia as Spain May Use Public Cash for Banks
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-07T13:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/rato-steps-down-at-bankia-as-spain-may-use-public-cash-for-banks.html
Rodrigo Rato  stepped down as head of
the Bankia group as the government prepared a bailout of the
lender and Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  retreated from his
pledge to avoid using public money to save lenders.  Rato, a former International Monetary Fund Managing
Director, proposed Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, ex-president and
chief operating officer of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
as executive chairman, he said in an e-mailed statement today in
Madrid. The government is planning to inject funds into the
lender by buying contingent-capital securities, an Economy
Ministry official said earlier today.  Spain  is struggling to douse speculation it will need an
international rescue to shore up its banks. The Bankia group is
key to Rajoy’s efforts to overhaul the industry. Its assets
amount to almost a third of the Spanish economy and it held 38
billion euros ($49 billion) of real estate at the end of 2011,
more than any other Spanish lender.  “Goirigolzarri was a very good leader and administrator at
BBVA and he is very well-regarded as one of Spain’s best CEOs,”
said Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage about $300 million at
London-based Abaco Financials Fund. “You couldn’t ask for
someone better qualified to lead a Spanish bank that’s in
trouble.”  Shares in  Bankia (BKIA)  fell as much as 6.2 percent, and traded
3.8 percent lower at 3 p.m. in Madrid, taking their loss since
listing on the stock market in July to 37 percent. Spain’s 10-
year bonds fell, increasing the yield 5 basis points to 5.78
percent.  The government may inject 7 billion euros into BFA-Bankia,
El Confidencial reported, citing Economy Ministry officials it
didn’t name. A ministry spokeswoman declined to comment.  Rajoy, battling to restore confidence in banks, opened the
door today to using public funds to shore up the industry. He
said it would be a “last resort.”  “The last thing I want to do is lend public money, as has
been done in the past, but if it were necessary to get the
credit to save the Spanish banking system, I wouldn’t renounce
that,” he said in an interview with radio station Onda Cero.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net  