-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Touches 3-Month Low on Europe Debt
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-07T21:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/treasuries-rise-as-europe-sovereign-debt-concern-drives.html
Treasury 10-year note yields touched a
three-month low on safe-asset demand after elections in France
and  Greece  raised concern governments will drop deficit-cutting
plans used to combat the region’s debt crisis.  U.S. debt rallied after  Francois Hollande , who defeated
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , pledged to push for less
austerity. U.S. 10-year swap spreads widened to the most since
January on demand for government debt versus higher-yielding
assets. The  Federal Reserve  purchased $1.83 billion of
Treasuries.  “The world is a dangerous place,” said  Charles Comiskey ,
head of Treasury trading at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in New York, one
of 21 firms that trade Treasuries with the Fed. “A lot of the
austerity measures are turning people against incumbents. It
keeps a bid in the Treasury market.”  U.S. 10-year  yields  fell by 1 basis point to 1.87 percent
at 4:59 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
data. The 2 percent security due February 2022 rose 2/32 or 63
cents per $1000 face amount to 101 1/8. The yield fell as low as
1.82 percent, the least since Feb. 3.  “It’s a wait-and-see for how France and  Germany  work
together,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of
Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in  New York .  Record Trend  Treasury 10-year note yields may fall to a record low 1.5
percent as global economic growth concern persists, according to
Dominic Konstam at Deutsche Bank AG, a primary dealer. The yield
reached an all-time low of 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  “The lack of impetus to growth in the U.S., as well as
abroad, is fast unraveling prospects for sustainable fiscal
tightening,” analysts led by Konstam wrote in a note to clients
dated May 4. “European elections, and particularly those in
France and Greece, are being construed as a plebiscite on growth
versus austerity. Fiscal backsliding is likely to further crowd
out lending to the private sector.”  Volatility dropped on May 4 to the lowest since June 2007.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures
Treasury price swings based on options, fell to 57.8 basis
points. It reached 93.3 basis points on March 20, the highest
level this year. It has averaged 112.5 basis points for the past
five years.  The difference between the 10-year  swap rate  and the yield
on similar-maturity  U.S. debt  widened to as much as 14.63 basis
points, the most since Jan. 18. Swap rates are usually higher
than Treasury yields in part because the floating payments are
based on  interest rates  that contain credit risk. Swap rates
serve as benchmarks for investors in many types of debt,
including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  Fed Buys  The Fed purchased securities due from February 2036 to May
2041 as part of the debt-swap plan known as Operation Twist to
lower borrowing costs and boost the economy, according to the
Fed Bank of New York’s website.  The U.S. will auction $32 billion in three-year notes
tomorrow, $24 billion in 10-year debt May 9 and $16 billion in
30-year bonds the following day, the same amounts sold in each
so-called refunding month since November 2010.  Hollande, who becomes the first Socialist in 17 years to
control  Europe ’s second-biggest economy, pledged to push for
more growth in the region. “Austerity is not inevitable,” he
told supporters in Tulle,  France , yesterday. The result of Greek
elections also cast doubt on whether the government can make
spending cuts needed to ensure the flow of bailout funds.  Measures aimed at stemming Europe’s debt woes have driven
economies from the Netherlands to  Spain  back into recession,
emboldening politicians campaigning for growth. Spanish and
Italian bond yields surged to records last year on concern that
governments in the region won’t be able to pay off their loans.  Inflation View  While yields on Treasuries due in 10 years or less are
below the pace of inflation, demand for safety is being buoyed
by concern about U.S. jobs growth and Europe’s debt crisis. The
 International Monetary Fund  said the amount of global assets
that investors consider “safe” will shrink by $9 trillion by
2016.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices during the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, was 2.21 percentage points, touching the lowest
since February. The average for the past decade is 2.15
percentage points.  Valuation measures show Treasuries rose to the most
expensive level in three months. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.73 percent,
the most expensive since Feb. 6. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  Treasuries rallied on May 4 as employers in the U.S. added
115,000 jobs in April, versus 160,000 projected by a Bloomberg
News survey of economists before the report.  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.52 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  