-- Record U.S. Chemical Exports Show Kirby Barges Now Full
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-05-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/record-u-s-chemical-exports-show-kirby-barges-now-full.html
Kirby (KEX)  Corp., the biggest owner of tank
barges on U.S. waterways, says its chemical-carrying vessels are
running at full capacity as slumping prices for natural gas used
to make the products spur record exports.  The U.S. shipped $14 billion of chemicals in the first two
months, 4.2 percent more than a year earlier and extending the
record $86.9 billion sold in 2011, Census Bureau data show.
Kirby’s barges will earn the most since at least 2004, according
to  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , an investment bank. Shares of the
Houston-based company will rise 20 percent in 12 months, the
average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Natural-gas slumped to a 10-year low in New York last month
after the fourth-warmest winter on record cut demand as supply
expanded. That’s driving down feedstock costs for  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  and other U.S. producers at a time when competitors using
crude oil are paying the most ever. The cargo surge is aiding
President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 goal of doubling exports by 2015.  “Kirby is completely unique in the public market as a way
for investors to play the comparative advantage in U.S. natural
gas prices,” said Jonathan Chappell, an analyst at Evercore in
New York. “Improving manufacturing and petrochemical production
means more movement on barges.”  Kirby barges will earn 8.04 cents per metric ton of cargo
moved a mile in 2012, an industry measure known as ton-mile, 5.9
percent more than in 2011, Chappell estimates. Its fleet,
accounting for 26 percent of U.S. inland tank barges, will have
a utilization rate of 95 percent this quarter, the most
possible, said Steve Holcomb, the company’s vice president for
 investor relations .  Shipping Index  Shares of Kirby rose 20 percent to $65.39 in the past year
in  New York  trading, compared with a 21 percent drop in the
Lloyd’s List-Bloomberg Top 50 Shipping Index Value of the 50
largest companies operating everything from  oil tankers  to
container and chemical carriers. The stock will reach $78.36 in
12 months, the estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company will report record profit of $226.5 million in
2012, 23 percent more than last year, the mean of 10 analyst
estimates shows. Eleven of 14  analysts  covering the company and
tracked by Bloomberg recommend buying the stock, while the rest
have a “hold” recommendation.  The U.S. met 81 percent of its energy demand in 2011, the
most since 1992, according to Energy Department data compiled by
Bloomberg. The country became a net exporter of refined
petroleum products for the first time since 1949 last year,
adding to demand for Kirby’s vessels. Shipments of gasoline,
 diesel fuel  and other products surpassed imports by an average
of 439,000 barrels a day in 2011, according to the department.  Weakening Growth  Petrochemicals including benzene and styrene, used to make
everything from plastics to paints, account for 65 percent of
the cargoes on Kirby’s tank barges, Holcomb said. First-quarter
U.S. chemical production rose 1.3 percent from a year earlier,
estimates the American Chemistry Council, a Washington-based
industry group. The capacity of the barge fleet increased by an
annual average of 1 percent or less over the past 19 years,
according to Kirby.  Demand for chemicals, and the barges that carry them, may
weaken on signs that the global economic recovery is weakening.
 China ’s first-quarter gross domestic product rose 8.1 percent,
the slowest pace in almost three years, while  India’s economy 
expanded 6.1 percent in the fourth quarter, from 8.3 percent a
year earlier. The 17-nation euro region will contract 0.3
percent in 2012, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  Advantage Eroded  The relative advantage of  chemical companies  using natural
gas would be eroded should prices rally. Gas for delivery in
December is trading at a 37 percent premium to supply for June,
data from the New York Mercantile Exchange show. That compares
with a 2 percent discount in  Brent crude , the European
benchmark, according to ICE Futures Europe data.  The jump in barge earnings is spurring more orders at ship
yards, accelerating capacity expansions. About 230 vessels will
be delivered this year and 100 scrapped, translating into net
fleet growth of about 4 percent, Evercore estimates. Analysts
for now don’t expect that to dent Kirby’s earnings, predicting
profit of $256.5 million in 2013, a 13 percent advance, the mean
of 10 estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fleet growth is limited because federal law requires them
to be built in the country. The regulation, known as the Jones
Act, also prevents foreign-owned ships from competing with Kirby
for cargoes within the U.S. The next-biggest owners of tank
barges are American Commercial Lines LLC and Canal Barge
Company, both privately owned.  Capacity Glut  Rising barge profits contrast with slumping earnings for
other types of shipping, where owners face a capacity glut.
Rates for Capesizes hauling  iron ore  dropped 71 percent this
year as the fleet swelled 14 percent, data from the  Baltic
Exchange  in  London  show. The cost of a tanker carrying 2 million
barrels of oil has declined for four straight years, in which
time the number of vessels expanded 18 percent, according to
data from London-based  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s biggest
shipbroker.  “Once we do have a more sustained recovery in the U.S. and
get back to 2008 levels, that will just be extra gravy on top,”
said Kirby’s Holcomb.  Demand for chemicals is driven by the consumption of
manufactured goods. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index climbed to 54.8 last month, the best reading since
June, according to the Tempe, Arizona-based group. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.1
percent in April, a three-year low, the Bureau of Labor
Statistics said May 4.  Dow, Exxon  Kirby’s largest customers are Dow, the biggest U.S.
chemical maker by revenue, and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the country’s
largest oil company, Holcomb said. Dow’s factories ran at 84
percent of capacity last quarter, 12 percentage points more than
in the final three months of 2011,  Andrew Liveris , chief
executive officer of the Midland, Michigan-based company, said
on a conference call last month. Exxon will report record sales
of $493.6 billion this year, seven analysts predict.  “There’s growth in an industry that’s not seeing a lot of
new barges being built,” said Douglas Mavrinac, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in Houston. “Petrochemicals plants are
producing more and also exporting more, and that’s going to go
in and out on a Kirby barge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net  