-- Repo Trades, Drugmaker Probe, Thomson Reuters: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-07T12:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/repo-trades-drugmaker-probe-thomson-reuters-rbs-compliance.html
Repurchase agreements are set to be
excluded from a proposed European Union financial transaction
tax, an EU official said.  At a working group meeting May 4 in Brussels, a consensus
emerged to remove repos from the types of trades covered by the
proposed tax in order to prevent potential damage to banks’
funding markets, the official said on condition of anonymity
because the discussions are private. EU governments remain
divided on other issues such as where the levy will be collected
in cross-border situations and whether to exempt pension funds
and so-called UCITS funds.  The  European Commission , the EU’s regulatory arm, proposed
a wide-ranging tax last fall that it estimates could raise 57
billion euros ($75 billion) annually across the 27-nation bloc.
In the May 4 discussions, the commission said that excluding
repos could reduce potential revenues and weaken the levy’s
effectiveness.  In a typical repo agreement, a company sells a security to
another in exchange for cash in a transaction that reverses
after an agreed period of time. Financial institutions often use
repos as an alternative to other forms of inter-bank lending.  Spain, France, the U.K., Belgium, Sweden, the Czech
Republic and the Netherlands all pressed for taking repo
transactions out of the scope of the proposed tax, the EU
official said. The Netherlands also continues to push to exclude
pension funds, which the commission has opposed.  If pension funds are excluded, that could lead to more
pressure from nations including France and Germany to exempt
UCITS funds, the official said. UCITS, meaning Undertakings for
Collective Investment in Transferable Securities, is a regulated
European fund format that allows managers to invest in
derivatives, according to the commission’s website.  Officials are also debating who should collect the tax on
trades by bank branches that do business in other EU nations.  Compliance Policy  Bond-Disclosure Rules Backed by SEC to Protect States From Banks  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in August will
begin enforcing regulations that require banks to warn state and
local governments about the risks and conflicts of interest in
bond deals they arrange.  The rules were proposed by the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board last year and are aimed at preventing Wall
Street underwriters from steering public officials toward
complicated debt financing without disclosing the risks. They
were approved May 4 by the SEC, which will enforce them.  The disclosures are part of the effort to reshape financial
regulations to prevent a repeat of the credit-market crisis of
2008, and stem from Congress’s decision to provide added
protections for state and local governments. The economic crisis
hit taxpayers with billions of dollars in unexpected costs when
complex bond deals, once pitched as money savers, backfired as
credit markets seized up.  Under the regulations, banks that underwrite bond deals for
public officials will have to disclose risks tied to those
transactions. Among them is the possibility that interest costs
could soar, as they did for local governments that issued
floating-rate bonds tied to derivatives known as  interest-rate
swaps . Those contracts failed to produce the protection from
rate changes that they were designed to provide and forced
governments to pay penalties to escape when they backfired.  Banks will also have to disclose incentives they have to
recommend such transactions, including payments received from
other parties in the deal, such as a bank that provides
investments or derivatives in connection with it.  Underwriters will have to disclose whether they trade
credit-default swap contracts that provide them money only if
their client stops paying its debts.  For more, click here.  SEC’s Schapiro to Meet Group Seeking Political-Disclosure Rule  A coalition of groups pushing the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to require that public companies disclose
political donations will get a chance to press their case with
the agency’s top official this week.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  will meet tomorrow with
representatives including  New York  City Public Advocate Bill de
Blasio and Common Cause President Bob Edgar, the coalition said
in a statement May 4. The meeting will be Schapiro’s first with
groups seeking the disclosure requirement after earlier sessions
involving SEC staff and an adviser to the chairman, according to
memos on the agency’s website.  With almost six months until the presidential election,
groups opposed to a 2010 Supreme Court decision that lifted bans
on corporate campaign spending are turning to the SEC to address
their concerns. Since August, the SEC has received comments from
almost 260,000 people expressing support for some type of
disclosure requirement, according to its website.  A spokesman for Schapiro didn’t respond immediately to
requests for comment on the meeting. The related 2010 Supreme
Court case was Citizens United v. Federal Elections Commission.  Luis Aguilar , a Democrat who is one of the agency’s five
commissioners, has said he would back a disclosure rule.  Compliance Action  Drugmakers’ Deal With Obama Said to Be Probed by House Panel  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  are being pulled into an
expanding congressional investigation into the agreement
drugmakers reached with the Obama administration to support the
Democrats’ overhaul of the U.S. health-care system, according to
three people familiar with the talks.  The probe began last year, with Republicans on the  House
Energy and Commerce Committee  seeking documents from an industry
trade group, said the people, who aren’t authorized to speak
publicly. When that group didn’t cooperate, the panel decided to
target Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, along with Merck,
 Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , said one of
the people.  The Republicans last month began negotiating directly with
the companies in e-mails, calls and meetings demanding documents
and information outlining what the industry agreed to with
President Barack Obama in 2009 and 2010, when the law was being
worked on in Congress. Michael Burgess, a Representative from
Texas, said in a telephone interview he’s been frustrated by a
lack of cooperation.  A White House spokesman declined to comment about the
investigation.  Peter O’Toole , a spokesman for New York-based
Pfizer, said the company is cooperating, as did  Tony Jewell , an
AstraZeneca spokesman. Kelly Davenport, a spokeswoman for
Thousand Oaks, California-based Amgen, said the drugmaker is
aware of the probe.  Adelle Infante, an Abbott spokeswoman, and Ron Rogers, a
spokesman for Merck, didn’t immediately reply to e-mails seeking
comment.  For more, click here.  Thomson Reuters Seeks to Overcome EU Antitrust Concerns  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  offered extra commitments to European
Union regulators in a bid to settle an antitrust probe over its
securities identification codes.  The financial news and information provider made the
revised offer after an earlier attempt to end the case failed to
satisfy EU demands to make it easier for customers to switch
suppliers of market data.  The European Commission opened an investigation into the
 Thomson Reuters  codes in 2009, saying customers may potentially
be locked-in to working with the company because replacing the
codes required “a long and costly procedure” to rewrite or
reconfigure software applications.  “After reviewing the feedback from the European
Commission’s market test, Thomson Reuters submitted a revised
offer to the EC which is aimed at addressing the comments of our
customers,” said Yvonne Diaz, a spokeswoman for the New York-
based company. “It is premature to comment further.”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner has
increased scrutiny of financial markets with probes into whether
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and 14 other
investment banks colluded to shut out rivals from information on
the swaps market. He’s also investigating the setting of the
London Interbank Offered Rate.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia, said the EU had
received the commitments. He didn’t give details.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  RBS Damps Speculation of Immediate Sale After Aid Repayment  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  damped speculation of an
immediate sale of the government’s stake in the bank after the
lender said it’s poised to repay the last of the emergency loans
received in its bailout.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester told reporters as
the lender posted a 4 percent increase in first-quarter
 operating profit  May 4 and there is “no desire” to sell at the
current share price.  The repayment of 164 billion pounds ($265 billion) of
emergency aid it received from the U.K. and U.S. governments by
will remove an obstacle to the lender’s return to private
ownership. The U.K. could start selling its stake in RBS at a
loss,  Jim O’Neil , chief executive officer of U.K. Financial
Investments Ltd., the body that manages the government’s holding
in the bank, told lawmakers on March 14. The government has also
made presentations to potential investors. The talks are still
at an early stage, the people said.  RBS said it will resume discretionary dividend payments to
preference shareholders after a European Union ban expired at
the end of April.  For more, click here.  SEB’s $8.3 Billion Real-Estate Fund Faces Make-or-Break Day  Investors in Frankfurt-based SEB Asset Management AG’s
6.4 billion-euro ($8.3 billion) property mutual fund had until 1
p.m. today to decide whether to pull their money out of the
fund, which will be liquidated if it’s unable to meet all
demands for repayment.  SEB ImmoInvest (SEBIMMO) , the largest of 13 German real-estate funds
that suspended redemptions after the global financial crisis,
was opened for one day to take requests. ImmoInvest has
“considerably” more than 30 percent of its assets in cash or
equivalents after selling properties, SEB Asset Management Chief
Executive Officer Barbara Knoflach said last month.  Since the global recession that ended in 2009, German real-
estate mutual funds have struggled to meet redemption requests,
causing six funds to be liquidated. Several more, including
funds owned by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , face deadlines
this year to reopen or liquidate, according to Germany’s
financial trade group, Bundesverband Investment und Asset
Management, or BVI.  SEB ImmoInvest (S3EA)  is the first German property fund to open
for one day to offer redemptions. The fund would allow
withdrawals once a year, instead of daily, if it continues after
today.  SEB ImmoInvest has been closed for almost two years. The
fund owns buildings in Paris, Singapore and Rome as well as 19
properties in Berlin’s  Potsdamer Platz  complex. CS Euroreal must
tell investors this month whether they plan to reopen, according
to regulatory deadlines.  SEB Asset Management, a unit of  Skandinaviska Enskilda
Banken AB (SEBA) , is due to announce the level of requests for
redemptions later today.  S. Korea Financial Services Regulator Suspends 4 Savings Banks  South Korea’s  Financial Services Commission  ordered four
banks to halt operations after they failed to meet financial
strength criteria. The lenders are  Solomon Savings Bank (007800) ,  Korea
Savings Bank (025610) , Mirae Mutual Savings Bank and Hanju Savings Bank,
according to the regulator.  U.K. Banks May Face FSA Probe of Rate-Swap Sales, Telegraph Says  U.K. banks may face an investigation by the Financial
Services Authority into the alleged mis-selling of interest rate
swaps to small businesses, the Sunday Telegraph reported, citing
an unidentified spokesman for the regulator.  The FSA completed an initial investigation last week and
ordered the banks to provide more information before a decision
likely to be made in June, the newspaper said.  Courts  Wal-Mart Directors Sued by Pension Fund Over Mexico Bribe Probe  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s board was sued by a California
pension fund over its mishandling of allegations that the
world’s largest retailer bribed Mexican officials to help fuel
the company’s growth in the country.  Wal-Mart directors and executives responsible for
overseeing the company’s Mexican unit should reimburse the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer for damages the chain
suffered as a result of the bribery scheme, lawyers for the
 California State Teachers Retirement System  said in a lawsuit
filed May 3 in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  The suit claims the board’s “failure to address detailed
and credible allegations of criminal activity” has caused the
retailer “substantial harm.”  Both U.S. and Mexican prosecutors said last month they
started probes of the bribery allegations, first reported by the
 New York Times. (NYT)  The retailer’s growth in Mexico has turned the
company into the country’s largest private employer with more
than 209,000 employees.  “We are reviewing the lawsuit closely and thoroughly
investigating the issues that have been raised,” David Tovar, a
Wal-Mart spokesman, said May 3 in a telephone interview.  The
case is California State Teachers’ Retirement System v. Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., 7490, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Sky Capital Broker Harrington Gets Five Years for Fraud  Adam Harrington , a former broker at Sky Capital Holdings
Ltd., was sentenced May 4 to five years in prison for his role
in what prosecutors said was an eight-year scheme that defrauded
investors of $140 million.  Sky Capital’s founder, Ross Mandell, who was tried with
Harrington and convicted of the same four counts, was sentenced
to 12 years in prison by the same judge, U.S. District Judge
Paul Crotty in Manhattan May 3.  The pair defrauded investors with private placement
investments in Thornwater LP and Sky Capital and manipulated the
prices of the stocks by bribing brokers, prosecutors said.
Harrington worked at Thornwater and Sky from 2000 to 2005 and
managed Sky’s New York office. He and Mandell were found guilty
in July 2011 of conspiracy,  securities fraud ,  wire fraud  and
mail fraud. Both must report to prison on June 18, the judge
said. Harrington was ordered to forfeit $20 million.  The case is U.S. v. Mandell, 09-cr-00662, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Buffett Says U.S. Banks Are ‘In Fine Shape,’ Unlike Europe’s  Warren Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has more than
$20 billion  invested  in U.S. banks, said the nation’s lenders
have “liquidity coming out of their ears” and are in better
shape than European rivals.  “I would put European banks and American banks in two very
different categories,” Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive
officer, said May 5 at the firm’s annual meeting in Omaha,
Nebraska. “The American banking system is in fine shape. The
European system was gasping for air a few months back” until
getting assistance from the European Central Bank, he said.  Wall Street firms including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , emboldened after raising capital levels ahead
of stricter international guidelines, are contesting efforts by
U.S. policy makers to limit trading and risk. European banks
have struggled amid the continent’s sovereign debt crisis and
turned to the ECB for 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in three-
year loans at a 1 percent interest rate.  Buffett, 81, is seeking to insulate Berkshire’s holdings
from the concerns that weighed on the stocks of European
lenders, said Mark Williams, a former Federal Reserve bank
examiner who teaches finance at Boston University.  For more, click here, and click here.  Rochdale’s Bove Discusses Dodd-Frank Bank Regulation  Richard Bove, vice president and equity research analyst at
Rochdale Securities LLC, discussed the Federal Reserve’s
interpretation of the Dodd-Frank Act, and its impact on banks.
Bove talked with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and Courtney Donohoe on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock.”  For the audio, click here.  Arthur Levitt Questions SEC Investigation of Egan-Jones  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and senior adviser to Goldman Sachs, said
the SEC probe of credit rating firm Egan-Jones Ratings Co.
“doesn’t rise to the highest level of what the SEC should be
fighting about.” Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and
Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  U.K. Watchdog Will Question Banks Putting Profit Before Customer  The  Financial Conduct Authority  will question banks’
business strategies where there is a risk they will prioritize
profits over treating customers fairly, Martin Wheatley, the
agency’s chief, said in a speech May 3.  The FCA, due to begin operations next year, will expect
banks to generate “good profits rather than profit at any cost,
either to firms’ own stability or their customers’ best
interests,” Wheatley told an audience of bankers in Scotland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 