-- Rheinmetall Plans Automotive Unit IPO, Will Stay Majority Owner
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-05-07T17:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/rheinmetall-plans-automotive-unit-ipo-will-stay-majority-owner.html
Rheinmetall AG (RHM) , the maker of KS
Kolbenschmidt engine pistons and a partner in  Germany ’s Puma
battle tank, will sell shares in its automotive division in an
initial public offering in the first half of this year in order
focus on its defense business.  Rheinmetall will initially remain the majority shareholder
in Kolbenschmidt Pierburg AG, or KSPG, after it lists on the
Frankfurt Stock Exchange and will cede control “in steps,” the
Dusseldorf-based company said in an e-mailed statement.  “With this IPO, Rheinmetall and KSPG are consistently
pursuing their strategy of each focusing on their core
businesses,” Rheinmetall Chief Executive Officer Klaus Eberhardt said in the statement. “This brings about additional
potential for both companies to continue growth, increase their
market share and improve their competitive positions.”  The company could sell a 50 percent stake in an IPO, which
may value the division at about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion),
people with knowledge of the plans said last week, declining to
be identified as the plans were private. The final amount to be
raised as well as the size of the stake that would start trading
in June will depend on investor demand and market conditions,
the people said.  Rheinmetall said last month that it expects revenue from
auto parts to increase 5 percent to about 2.4 billion euros this
year. The IPO of Kolbenschmidt, which makes car parts such as
pistons that help reduce fuel consumption and emissions, was
postponed in November because of market volatility, people said
at the time.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  are serving as bookrunners in the IPO, while Barclays
Plc, Credit Agricole CIB and Unicredit Bank will co-lead the
offering.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  has been acting as an adviser for the
listing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  