-- Tribune Creditors Drop Claims Against Small Shareholders
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-07T21:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/tribune-creditors-drop-claims-against-small-shareholders.html
Creditors of Tribune Co. asked a judge
to drop legal claims against shareholders who got less than
$50,000 from the 2007 leveraged buyout that critics blame for
the newspaper publisher’s bankruptcy.  The official committee of unsecured creditors asked U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey in Wilmington,  Delaware , to
remove the smaller shareholders from a so-called intentional
fraudulent transfer lawsuit. The creditors claim shareholders
wrongly benefited from the buyout because the debt taken on to
fund the sale made Tribune insolvent.  Removing those shareholders from the case “will conserve
the resources of the court and the debtors’ estates,” committee
lawyers with the law firm of Zuckerman Spaeder LLP said in a May
4 court filing.  Tribune, the Chicago-based owner of the Los Angeles Times
and the Chicago Tribune newspapers, filed for bankruptcy one
year after the leveraged buyout led by real-estate billionaire
 Sam Zell . Since then, the company and  hedge funds  holding
Tribune’s senior debt have sought approval for a plan to divide
ownership among the lenders that financed the $8.3 billion
buyout. Pre-buyout creditors oppose that plan, claiming Zell’s
deal was doomed from the start.  The committee and other Tribune creditors have filed
lawsuits seeking to hold shareholders and others involved in the
transaction responsible for the bankruptcy, which would leave
billions of dollars in debt unpaid under the proposed
reorganization plan.  Tribune, valued earlier this year by the company at more
than $7 billion, owes creditors about $13 billion.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  