-- Roche Drops After Halting Cholesterol Drug Development
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-05-07T19:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/roche-halts-testing-on-dalcetrapib-cholesterol-treatment-1-.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  fell the most in
almost six months in Zurich trading after abandoning development
of an experimental cholesterol drug as a late-stage trial showed
it wasn’t working.  An independent group of experts recommended stopping the
study of dalcetrapib “due to a lack of clinically meaningful
efficacy,” Basel, Switzerland-based Roche said in a statement
today. The company had planned a six-trial development program
that could have put more than 35,000 patients on the drug,
intended to boost so-called good cholesterol.  The failure may have repercussions beyond Roche, tempting
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  to write off the good-cholesterol approach, said
 Tim Anderson , an analyst Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Lilly and
 Merck & Co. (MRK)  are working on medicines that target good
cholesterol. Gbola Amusa, an analyst at UBS AG, had estimated
dalcetrapbib could generate $6.8 billion in annual sales by 2020
and given it a one-in-four chance of success.  The heart drug “was potentially one of the largest new
assets they had in the late-stage pipeline,” Karl Heinz Koch,
an analyst at Helvea SA in Zurich, said by phone. “It does
leave a large gap.” He said he maintained his sales forecasts
for Roche because he had assumed the medicine wouldn’t work.
Koch rates the stock neutral.  Roche fell 3.5 percent to 159.40 Swiss francs at the close
in Zurich, the steepest decline since Nov. 21.  Dalcetrapib was one of nine medicines with potential sales
of more than 1 billion Swiss francs ($1.1 billion) each that
Roche planned to introduce by 2016.  Approach Questioned  Dalcetrapib’s failure is the latest in a series of trials
to raise questions over whether boosting good cholesterol, or
HDL, actually helps patients.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  scrapped development
of a similar medicine, torcetrapib, in 2006 after fatalities
were higher among patients taking it in a study than among those
who didn’t. In May 2011, a study found that an  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  drug designed to raise good cholesterol didn’t
prevent heart attacks.  Still, Roche boosted some investors’ hopes last year when
data from a pair of smaller tests showed dalcetrapib didn’t
raise  blood pressure , setting some safety concerns to rest.  Results from a trial of more than 15,000 patients called
dal-Outcomes had been expected to show by next year whether
dalcetrapib could help keep patients alive and block heart
attacks and strokes in people who had already had acute coronary
syndrome. Roche then started recruiting patients in January for
what was to have been a 20,000-person test on a broader group of
patients, including those at risk for cardiovascular disease who
hadn’t had heart attacks yet.  The results may cast doubt on the HDL hypothesis and may
mean “all the possible drugs in development that are based on
the mechanism will similarly fail,”  Erik Gordon , a business
professor at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , said in an
e-mail. “The failure is for lack of efficacy, and that is less
fixable than failing due to side effects.”  Clearing Arteries  HDL flushes fat deposits in arteries out of the body via
the liver. That’s different from the way statins such as
Pfizer’s Lipitor work to decrease levels of bad cholesterol, or
LDL, which clogs arteries.  “This is admittedly an important setback for Merck and for
the pharma group in general,”  Mark Schoenebaum , a New York-
based analyst for ISI Group, wrote in a note to clients today.
Merck still has a chance of success, though, because its drug
anacetrapib works differently than the Roche attempt,
Schoenebaum wrote.  Lilly may abandon its compound, which stands at the
beginning of a large-scale final-phase trial program, Anderson,
an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a report to
investors today. “Lilly may determine that the risk and cost
associated with carrying out another mega-trial is simply not
worth it given the various uncertainties,” Anderson wrote.  Lilly didn’t respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  “Merck remains confident in our development program for
anacetrapib,” Pamela Eisele, a Merck spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail.  The Data and Safety Monitoring Board made the
recommendation to stop the trial. The board didn’t report safety
signals related to the trial, Roche said. The Swiss company
licensed dalcetrapib from  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  in 2004.  The findings don’t close the door on the Merck and Lilly
drugs, said  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at the  Cleveland
Clinic  in  Ohio . Both raise good cholesterol by more than 100
percent, significantly more than dalcetrapib, and lower bad LDL
cholesterol by 35 percent or 40 percent. The Roche drug doesn’t
affect bad cholesterol. Nissen is leading research on the Lilly
drug.  “What I worry about is the way this gets played out,”
Nissen said. “People are starting to say HDL isn’t going to
work. We don’t know that yet. It’s too early to bury the HDL
hypothesis.”  The studies cost hundreds of millions, if not billions, of
dollars. Nissen said he would have told Roche to save its money.  “If Roche had asked my advice, I would have never
developed dalcetrapib,” he said. “It was never going to answer
the question about the HDL hypothesis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  