-- Roger Clemens Asks Judge to Strike Pettitte’s Testimony
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-05-07T13:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/roger-clemens-asks-judge-to-throw-out-andy-pettitte-testimony.html
Roger Clemens , the former  New York 
Yankees pitcher on trial for allegedly lying to Congress about
using steroids and human growth hormone, asked a judge to throw
out some testimony of former teammate  Andy Pettitte .  Under questioning May 2, Pettitte said it was possible he
misunderstood Clemens in a conversation about use of HGH during
a workout more than a decade ago. Pettitte agreed under cross-
examination that there was a 50 percent chance he didn’t
understand what Clemens had told him.  The testimony “is not definitive enough to qualify to be
an admissible statement” and “the court should not allow the
jury to consider an alleged ‘admission’ that has all the weight
of a coin flip,” Clemens’s lawyers said in papers filed today
in federal court in  Washington .  Clemens, 49, is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury. He faces as long as 21
months in prison if convicted.  Pettitte, 39, testified that during an offseason workout,
“Roger mentioned to me that he had taken HGH and that it could
help with recovery. That’s really all I remember of the
conversation.”  ‘Could Have’ Misunderstood  On May 2, Pettitte testified that he was no longer sure
Clemens told him he used HGH and that he “could have”
misunderstood Clemens in that exchange, which took place
sometime in 1999 or 2000.  The testimony “falls short” of the preponderance-of-the-
evidence standard for admissibility, Clemens’s lawyers said in
the filing, citing federal evidence rules.  They also cited “the risk of undue prejudice” to Clemens
if U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  doesn’t strike the
testimony, and said allowing it “would be terribly unfair given
the limitations Mr. Pettitte put on his own memory.”  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  