-- Romanian Lawmakers Hold Confidence Vote in 3rd Cabinet This Year
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-05-07T08:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/romanian-lawmakers-hold-confidence-vote-in-3rd-cabinet-this-year.html
Romanian Prime Minister-designate
Victor Ponta is preparing to ask lawmakers to approve the
country’s third Cabinet this year to complete agreement on a
stalled   International Monetary Fund  precautionary accord.  Lawmakers will hold a confidence vote in the proposed
government beginning at 4 p.m. in Bucharest today, after the
previous Cabinet collapsed in a vote called by the  Social
Democrats  and Liberals, who support Ponta. The two parties
together control 232 votes in Parliament, one ballot more than
needed to win parliament backing, and can count on the support
of two other parties to increase their majority margin.  “With the support of independents and minorities parties,
I’m counting on a stable majority that will allow us to carry
out our governing objectives until the elections later this
year,” Ponta said before the vote.  The new government needs to meet pledges to the IMF and the
European Union to keep a precautionary agreement of 5 billion
euros ($6.5 billion) and rebuild investor confidence after the
collapse of the previous administration plunged the country’s
currency, the leu, to a record low on May 1.  Ponta’s government vowed to stick to a budget deficit
target of as much as 3 percent of gross domestic product this
year and satisfy voter demands to restore public wages to pre-
austerity levels.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service
warned that a reversal of fiscal consolidation measures and
populist policies may put pressure on  Romania ’s investment-grade
rating.  Limited Prospects  “Although the new leadership has announced that retaining
International Monetary Fund,  World Bank  and EU support is a
priority, its own past rhetoric and the current unpopularity of
fiscal austerity in Romania limit the prospects of the
government pursuing reforms before elections,” said Atsi Sheth,
a senior analyst at the ratings company, in Moody’s Weekly
Credit Outlook today. “Policy paralysis would make borrowing
conditions more challenging for the government, which needs to
refinance $13 billion of government debt over 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  