-- Romney Economic Outsider Image Backed by Bush-Era Policy
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-05-07T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/romney-economic-outsider-image-backed-by-bush-era-policy.html
Mitt Romney  is campaigning across the
country as a business-turnaround specialist, casting himself as
a political outsider who understands “the real economy.”  Yet to craft his economic plans, the Republican
presidential candidate has turned to a group of Washington
insiders.  Among the financial and business experts advising Romney’s
campaign are Columbia University’s R. Glenn Hubbard and  Harvard
University ’s N.  Gregory Mankiw , both economists who headed the
Council of Economic Advisers under President  George W. Bush .
Rounding out the team are former Missouri Senator Jim Talent and
onetime Minnesota Congressman Vin Weber, now Republican
lobbyists at Washington-based firms.  The like-minded group marks a sharp contrast from four
years ago, when Republican nominee  John McCain , an  Arizona 
senator, drafted a diverse mix of advisers, including supply-
side economics advocate  Jack Kemp , former Texas Senator  Phil Gramm  who became a UBS Securities LLC adviser, and onetime
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive Officer  Carly Fiorina .  More so than McCain, Romney has his own views on economic
issues and sometimes overrules his advisers on politically
sensitive topics, such as China trade and illegal immigration to
the U.S., where he has taken tough positions.  The Romney advisers, who’ve known each other for many
years, take a more practical approach to economic policy, one
honed by years in Congress and the  Bush administration .  Seasoned Team  Coordinating their day-to-day operations is policy director
Lanhee Chen, a Harvard political scientist who also worked on
Bush’s re-election in 2004 and Romney’s 2008 presidential bid.  “They are a team that will not make too many mistakes
because they are naive academics, nor cut deals that are
inappropriate,” said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , who ran the
Congressional Budget Office during the Bush presidency and
directed domestic and economic policy for McCain’s presidential
campaign.  Still, as Romney works to frame the election as a question
of whether people are satisfied with the economy under President
 Barack Obama , Democrats are determined to define a vote for
Romney as a return to Bush’s policies, and they point to the
economic team as evidence of that.  Ties to Bush  Hubbard, who helped craft the 2001 Bush  tax cuts , played a
key role in drafting Romney’s tax initiatives. He, and later
Mankiw, chaired the Council of Economic Advisers amid the
slowest job growth for any prior president since World War II.  “ Glenn Hubbard  helped George Bush turn record budget
surpluses into record  deficits  with massive tax cuts for the
rich, and he’s ready to do the same for Mitt Romney,” said
Obama for America Policy Director  James Kvaal  in an April 25
statement.  Hubbard dismissed the criticism, describing Romney’s tax
plan as “radical” and pointing to the changes the former
Massachusetts governor has proposed for Social Security and
Medicare. Romney has said he would raise the retirement and
eligibility age for the programs and give future retirees the
option of purchasing private health insurance using government
vouchers to help pay for it.  “They might want to read his policies,” he said in an
interview. “It’s actually quite different. The ad hominem
doesn’t seem appropriate.”  Republicans, too, have criticized Romney for what some say
is a cautious approach to the fundamental issue of the campaign:
reviving the country’s economy.  Be Bolder  The 59-point economic plan the campaign released on Sept. 6
was labeled “both too timid and too complex,” by Richard Rahn,
an economist at the libertarian Cato Institute in  Washington .  “He should become bolder in his prescriptions, presenting
a confident agenda for economic growth and renewed prosperity
through reforms of tax, regulatory and energy policies,”  Karl Rove , who was Bush’s top strategist, wrote in a February
editorial for the Wall Street Journal.  An effort by Romney to articulate a more compelling message
in a Feb. 24 address at Detroit’s Ford Field was overshadowed by
the optics of an almost empty stadium  Holtz-Eakin said the campaign -- not the advisers -- is to
blame for any ineffective messaging. “I don’t think you get a
group of four or five academic outside advisers and expect them
to deliver a unified vision,” he said. “The candidate, in the
end, is the person who has to want, distill, and convey that.”  Romney Trumps Advisers  Romney aides say the campaign’s policies come from the
candidate, who co-founded a private equity firm. And the
candidate doesn’t always agree with his advisers.  “Given what he’s done in the business world, he knows what
he believes works,” said Andy Puzder, the CEO of Carpinteria,
California-based CKE Restaurants Inc., who helped craft Romney’s
business-regulation policy. “And sometimes he knows better than
the policy team.”  Some of the choices are also driven by politics, a person
close to the campaign said. Romney limited his proposed
elimination of capital gains taxes to incomes up to $200,000.
Some of his advisers think the ceiling is too low. In a primary
debate last year in Orlando, Florida, Romney said the tax break
is aimed at the middle class.  A number of advisers disagree with Romney’s vow to take a
harder line on  China  with policies that go further than either
Obama or Bush in confronting the country’s trade practices.
Romney has said he would label China a “currency manipulator”
on the first day of his presidency and impose new tariffs.  Fixing Housing Market  On housing, Mankiw and Hubbard have called for the  Federal
Reserve  to ease monetary policies and reduce  interest rates  to
strengthen the market. Romney has said the government should
stay out of the issue and let the market “hit bottom.”  Hubbard said he wouldn’t comment on personal conversations
with Romney. Mankiw didn’t respond to interview requests.  Romney also consults a network of associates in the
business world. Former Sun Microsystems Inc. CEO Scott McNealy,
Hewlett-Packard President and CEO Meg Whitman, and Puzder, whose
company owns the Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s fast-food chains, all
wrote sections of Romney’s jobs plan.  “Sometimes business people see things happening faster
than economists do,” said Hubbard.  Hubbard briefs Romney every few weeks or when the candidate
has a specific concern, he said. The candidate typically arrives
well-read and ready to quiz the team on their latest proposals.  “Does he agree with every person all the time?” asked
Hubbard. “No. But that’s a good thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  