-- Romney Silent as Ohio Supporters Call Obama Treasonous
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-08T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/romney-asked-about-his-foreign-tax-credits-at-ohio-campaign-stop.html
Presumptive Republican presidential
nominee Mitt Romney, in his second White House bid, was reminded
of just how easily outside forces can distract a campaign’s
message.  The former Massachusetts governor had intended to keep his
focus on the  U.S. economy  and joblessness during an appearance
yesterday at a metals stamping plant near  Cleveland . He instead
drew criticism, and his message was blurred by an Ohio
Republican leader who compared President  Barack Obama  to fast-
food clown Ronald McDonald and a supporter who said the
president should be tried for treason.  On stage, Romney declined to challenge either statement,
though he later told reporters that he disagreed with the
treason remark. Days earlier, Romney had suggested that the
presidential campaign had already become too ugly.  “Some of the rhetoric is too hot for both sides of the
aisle,” he said May 4 at a stop in Pittsburgh.  Romney’s response to the treason remark stood in contrast
to how Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  handled a situation in
2008 when he was the Republican nominee and a supporter called
Obama “an Arab.”  “No, ma’am,” McCain  replied . “He’s a decent family man,
citizen, that I just happen to have disagreements with on
fundamental issues, and that’s what this campaign is all
about.”  Santorum Endorsement  Romney’s appearance came hours before he received the
public endorsement of former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of
 Pennsylvania , his one-time rival for the Republican nomination
who withdrew from the race on April 10.  During the campaign, Santorum spent several months
portraying Romney as a phony while offering himself as the
candidate who best understood middle-class voters. In a
statement on his website, Santorum said he and Romney agreed
that “President Obama must be defeated.”  “ Governor Romney  has my endorsement and support to win
this the most critical election of our lifetime,” he said.  Santorum  said  that he couldn’t consider an endorsement
until after meeting privately with Romney in Pittsburgh on May 4
to discuss issues critical to “social conservatives, tea-party
supporters, lower and middle income working families.”  Foreign Investment  During his stop in  Ohio  yesterday, Romney was asked by an
audience member about taxes he paid to foreign countries on
investments outside the U.S. Boos greeted the question.  “I’ll look at it,” Romney said. “I’m not familiar with
that. I don’t think I paid any foreign income taxes, but I’ll be
happy to take a look at it.”  Romney claimed a foreign tax credit of $129,697 on his 2010
federal return. To prevent double taxation, Americans who pay
taxes to foreign governments for income earned outside the U.S.
can receive a credit against their U.S. income taxes.  The foreign tax credit form on Romney’s return shows he
received $1.5 million in passive income earned in “various
countries.”  Romney, who helped form the private-equity firm Bain
Capital LLC, has estimated his wealth to be as much as $250
million on financial disclosure statements. He earned $21.6
million in 2010, mostly from investments, according to tax
returns he released in late January.  Democrats have raised questions about Romney’s ability to
relate to people facing economic hardship, citing as one example
his $12 million renovation of a San Diego-area beach home that
includes an elevator for his cars.  Tax Credit  Obama’s campaign also has criticized Romney for having a
now-closed account with Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , titling one of its
ads as “Swiss Bank Account.” Obama’s campaign hasn’t directly
raised the foreign tax credit issue.  The Democratic president claimed a $5,841 foreign tax
credit in 2011 associated with overseas sales of his books.  The calculations that determine the foreign tax credit can
be complicated and the amount of the credit depends on a number
of limits and other rules. The forms and statements associated
with the foreign tax credit make up 22 pages, or more than 10
percent of Romney’s 203-page tax return for 2010.  Another audience member suggested, as an aside to a
question about adherence to the U.S. Constitution, that she
thought Obama should be tried for treason.  Romney confined his answer to the question’s main thrust,
saying, “I happen to believe that the Constitution was not just
brilliant, but probably inspired.”  Treason Comment  After his event, he said, “No, of course not,” when asked
if he agreed with the comment about treason.  In a prelude to Romney’s appearance, Ohio Auditor  Dave Yost 
criticized vacations the Obama family has taken while in the
White House, including trips to  Hawaii  and  New York  City.  “Mr. President, that’s not middle class and you stop
lecturing us about our lives,” Yost told the crowd.  He also said Obama has taken too much credit for the
killing of  Osama bin Laden .  “It strikes me as a little weird,” Yost said. “I mean
that’s like giving Ronald McDonald credit for the Big Mac you
had for lunch. Everybody knows it’s really the guy at the grill
that deserves the credit, right, not the pitchman on TV.”  Romney’s decision not to publicly criticize some of the
comments made during the event drew a rebuke from Obama’s
campaign.  Rebuke From Obama  “We saw  Mitt Romney ’s version of leadership: standing by
silently as his chief surrogate attacked the president’s family
at the event and another supporter alleged that the president
should be tried for treason,” Lis Smith, an Obama campaign
spokeswoman, said in a statement.  “Time after time in this campaign, Mitt Romney has had the
opportunity to show that he has the fortitude to stand up to
hateful and over-the-line rhetoric and time after time, he has
failed to do so,” she said.  Over the weekend, Obama officially began his on-the-road
campaigning for re-election with rallies in the swing states of
Ohio and  Virginia . With the economy the dominant issue in the
November election, the president asserted that, while the
recovery has been uneven, the U.S. is making progress.  The previous day, the Labor Department said employers added
fewer workers than forecast in April and the jobless rate
unexpectedly dropped as people left the  labor force .  Romney said yesterday the tendency of workers to leave the
labor force because of frustration over finding a job.  Employment Record  “You might assume that that number came down from 10
percent to 8.1 percent because of all the jobs that have been
created,” he said. “That assumption would be wrong. The reason
that percent came down was because of all the people that
dropped out of the workforce.”  Ohio’s jobless rate in March was  7.5 percent , below the
national average and down from 10.6 percent in January 2010. It
was 8.6 percent when Obama took office.  The state has been a bellwether in presidential politics
and no Republican has won the White House without a victory
there. Obama won the state four years ago with 51 percent.  Both campaigns are preparing for a close contest. The most
recent Gallup daily  tracking poll , completed May 6, shows the
race essentially tied, with Obama getting support from 45
percent and Romney 46 percent. The margin of error is plus or
minus 3 percentage points.  In Ohio, Obama leads 44 percent to 42 percent, according to
a Quinnipiac University poll released last week. That is within
the 2.9-percentage-point margin of error for the survey, taken
April 25-May 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Euclid, Ohio, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  