-- S. Africa’s Marcus Says Little Room for More Rate Cuts
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-07T19:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/s-africa-s-marcus-says-little-room-for-rate-reduction.html
South Africa ’s central bank has little
or no room to lower  interest rates  further with inflation at the
top end of its 3 percent to 6 target range, Governor Gill Marcus
said.  “The current monetary policy stance is accommodative
because of the persistence of the negative output gap,” Marcus
said in a speech posted on the Pretoria-based bank’s website
today. “However, the expected inflation trajectory suggests
that there is limited, if any, room for further monetary
accommodation at this stage.”  The central bank has to be concerned about the impact of
lower interest rates on inflation, and reducing rates won’t
necessarily help make the rand more competitive or stable, she
said.  The  Reserve Bank  has kept the  benchmark rate  at 5.5
percent, the lowest level in more than three decades, since
November 2010, to support the economy as a slowdown in  Europe , a
key trading partner, threatens demand. Economists say the first
rate increase may come late this year or next year. Inflation
slowed to 6 percent in March and the central bank forecasts it
will slow to be sustainably within the band by the end of the
year. The Monetary Policy Committee is scheduled to announce its
next decision on May 24.  The view on rates is conditional on whether there are are
“significant adverse changes” in other factors, such as
domestic and global growth, that the MPC takes into account when
deciding on the policy stance, Marcus said.  Growth Moderate  While the economic recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy
from recession in 2009 is fairly moderate, it looks to be
sustainable, she said. The economy will probably grow at a
similar rate this year to the 3.1 percent for 2011, Marcus said.
Conditions in advanced economies remain fragile, she said.  Consumer spending  has led growth in South Africa’s economy
and  credit demand  and retail sales growth are accelerating.
Lending by commercial banks to households and businesses rose
9.2 percent in March from a year earlier, the fastest pace in
more than three years, according to the central bank. Retail
sales increased 7.2 percent in February, the statistics agency
said April 18.  Economic growth, though, remains less than half the 7
percent the government estimates is needed to meet its goal to
create 5 million jobs by 2020. Unemployment was 23.9 percent in
the fourth quarter.  The volatility of South Africa’s rand creates problems for
setting monetary policy and isn’t “helpful for the real
economy,” Marcus said. While the central bank has been active
in the foreign-exchange market to build its reserves, it doesn’t
try to set a level for the currency, she said.  The rand may be moderately overvalued at current levels,
Marcus said, without giving an estimate of overvaluation.  “There is an incorrect perception that the Reserve Bank
attempts to keep the  exchange rate  strong in order to help with
inflation,” she said.  The local currency has gained 3.6 percent against the
dollar this year after declining 18 percent in 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It strengthened 0.3 percent to
7.8076 by 8:30 p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  