-- Saints Linebacker Vilma Appeals Season-Long Ban in Bounty Case
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-05-07T17:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/saints-linebacker-vilma-appeals-season-long-ban-in-bounty-case.html
New Orleans Saints linebacker Jonathan Vilma appealed a season-long suspension for helping run a bounty
system that paid cash for big hits on opponents.  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  confirmed the appeal without
giving details. Vilma argues that an arbitrator should hear the
appeal instead of Commissioner  Roger Goodell , while asking for a
delay in the disciplinary process until the resolution of a
grievance filed by the NFL Players Association last week, the
Associated Press reported, without saying where it got its
information.  Vilma’s appeal also says the  National Football League 
hasn’t linked him to paying players to injure opponents and asks
the league for witness statements and other documentation.  The NFL suspended Vilma without pay last week along with
three other players. Defensive lineman Anthony Hargrove, now
with the  Green Bay Packers , was suspended for the first eight
games of next season; Will Smith, the Saints’ defensive end, for
four games; and Scott Fujita, a linebacker now with the
 Cleveland Browns , for three games. All four have now appealed,
Aiello said.  The U.S.’s most-popular sports league in March handed down
the stiffest punishment ever imposed on a team and its
leadership for the 2009-11 bounty program, after saying about
two dozen Saints players were paid cash awards for on-field
accomplishments, including forced turnovers and injured
opponents. All such payments violate NFL rules on non-contract
bonuses.  More Suspensions  Saints coach Sean Payton was suspended for the entire
season, General Manager Mickey Loomis was given a half-season
suspension, assistant coach Joe Vitt received a six-game ban and
the franchise was stripped of two draft picks and fined
$500,000.  Former Saints defensive coordinator Gregg Williams was
suspended indefinitely for administering the program.  Vilma, 30, is an eight-year NFL veteran who’s played the
past four seasons for the Saints after beginning his career with
the  New York  Jets. A defensive team captain in New Orleans, he
was named to the Pro Bowl for the 2005, 2009 and 2010 campaigns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net . 