-- Sallie Mae Competes with Feds for Fixed-Rate Student Loan
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-05-07T16:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/sallie-mae-competes-with-feds-for-fixed-rate-student-loan.html
SLM Corp. (SLM) , the student lender known as
Sallie Mae, plans to offer its first fixed-rate private loans
this month to compete with government-backed loans, which have
more protection for borrowers.  Interest rates  on the loans will range from 5.8 percent to
12.9 percent, depending on credit history and underwriting
standards,  Newark , Delaware-based SLM said today in a statement.
The rate on the government’s  Stafford  unsubsidized student loan,
which is set by Congress, is 6.8 percent.  Outstanding education debt in the U.S. has reached about $1
trillion, according to the federal Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau. Sallie Mae, which had a private student-loan portfolio
of $37 billion in the first quarter, is seeking to boost
originations after federal legislation stopped private companies
from issuing government-guaranteed loans as of July 2010.  “For some families that have concerns about how rates may
change over time, it answers a need,” Charlie Rocha, senior
vice president for student lending at SLM, said in an interview
about the fixed-rate product.  Private loans don’t offer the same kinds of safeguards as
federally backed loans, such as payments that are based on
 income levels  and deferment options. Unlike credit-card and
other types of private-issued debt, private student-loan debt
cannot be discharged in bankruptcy.  The CFPB is looking into the private student-loan market
and has begun accepting  complaints  about providers.  Parent Cosigners  SLM expects to write $3.2 billion in private loans this
year, according to an April 18 statement. Originations in the
first quarter rose to $1.2 billion from $940 million a year
earlier. The company’s new fixed-rate loans cannot be taken out
in a parent’s name.  Eighty-eight percent of students who took out private loans
from  Sallie Mae  in the first quarter had a parent or other adult
as a cosigner, according to the company.  Most private student loans offer variable rates. Sallie
Mae’s range from 2.3 percent to 10.1 percent and are set to the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, the company said.  The government-backed parent loan, called PLUS, offers a
fixed interest rate of 7.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 