-- Greek Government Mandate to Pass to Syriza as Samaras Fails
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-05-08T08:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/samaras-says-fails-to-form-greek-government-hands-back-mandate.html
Greek political leaders are meeting
for a second day to try to form a government after New
Democracy’s Antonis Samaras failed to forge an agreement
following an election that raised questions about the nation’s
euro membership.  Samaras gave up his bid after almost six hours of talks in
Athens yesterday. The attempt to form a government will pass to
Alexis Tsipras, the head of Syriza, the second-biggest party,
which has vowed to renegotiate the terms of international aid
for  Greece . Tsipras will see President Karolos Papoulias today
at 2 p.m.  “I tried to form a coalition government with two goals:
that the country remain in the euro and bailout policies change
to include growth measures,” Samaras said in a statement on
state-run NET TV yesterday. “I did what I could to get a result
but it was not possible. As such, I have informed the president
of the republic and handed back the mandate.”  Samaras had been given three days to put together a
coalition in a Parliament split down the middle on whether to
renege on the terms of the two bailout agreements negotiated
since May 2010.  New Democracy  and the socialist Pasok party,
rivals until the country’s crisis made them partners in a
national government last year, are two seats short of the 151
seats needed for a majority in the chamber.  New Democracy Leads  New Democracy  led in the election, receiving 19 percent of
the vote and 108 seats in the 300-seat Parliament. Syriza got 17
percent to score 52 seats; Pasok came third with 13 percent and
41 seats.  As voters across  Europe  rebel against austerity measures
imposed to stamp out the debt crisis, Citigroup Inc. said
yesterday the risk of Greece leaving the euro by the end of 2013
has risen as high as 75 percent. The election on May 6 propelled
into Parliament a party that wants to put  land mines  on the
border with  Turkey  and another that wants  Germany , the country’s
biggest donor, to pay World War II reparations.  The benchmark ASE Stock index fell 0.5 percent today at
11:00 a.m. in Athens after plunging 6.7 percent yesterday, its
biggest drop in six months. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.2
percent. The euro was down 0.2 percent to $1.3029.  Greece plans to sell 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of 26-
week Treasury bills today, according to a May 4 statement by the
Greek Debt Management Office. Acting Greek Finance Minister
Filippos Sachinidis declined to comment on the country’s cash
reserves when contacted by Bloomberg News yesterday by phone.  First Rebuff  Samaras got his first rebuff from Tsipras, who repeated his
plans to forge a coalition of leftist parties that will overturn
the bailout policies. He said Samaras’s endorsement of the
second rescue package for Greece this year and the austerity
measures are “policy positions opposite to the left’s
alternative plan for cooperation.”  “There cannot be a government of national salvation, as he
calls it, since the signatures and his commitments are not
salvation, but tragedy for the people and the place,” Tsipras
said in a statement after the meeting.  Pasok leader and former Finance Minister  Evangelos Venizelos  repeated his call for a national unity government in
which all pro-European parties would join and which could begin
talks with international lenders on relaxing bailout terms.  Democratic Left, which won 19 seats in Parliament and
rejects austerity measures yet is in favour of remaining in the
euro, said it planned to listen to all approaches before taking
a position.  Quit the Bailout  “Our election pledge is clear: a government of wide
popular legitimacy which must secure Greece’s place in the euro
area and to proceed with disengagement from the bailout,” Fotis
Kouvelis, the Democratic Left leader, said after meeting
Samaras. “Each political party must define its stance on these
two points.”  Independent Greeks leader Panos Kammenos declined to meet
with Samaras, NET TV reported, without saying where it got the
information. Kammenos’s party secured 33 seats in the
parliament. Communist Party of Greece chief Aleka Papariga,
which wants to withdraw from both the European Union and NATO
also refused to meet Samaras. Samaras didn’t approach  Golden
Dawn , the far-right anti-immigrant nationalist party.  The pro-bailout camp of New Democracy and Pasok has neither
the seats nor political legitimacy, since they only got 32
percent of the vote, to form a new government and “the search
for a third partner is very likely to fail,”  Wolfango Piccoli ,
an analyst at Eurasia Group in  London , said in a note.  ‘Political Uncertainty’  “Greece is unlikely to have a strong, stable government
any time soon, raising political uncertainty and potentially
putting its bailout at risk,” Piccoli said.  If Tsipras also fails to get the necessary number of seats,
the onus on forming a government will pass to Pasok. Each
mandate can last for three days.  If the process fails to yield a coalition, President
Papoulias must try to broker a government of national unity, the
constitution says. If that process fails, the Greek constitution
stipulates that new elections are to be held.  Greek elections were held amid unemployment of almost 22
percent and a jobless rate of almost 51 percent for those under
the age of 24.  European taxpayers now hold the bulk of the country’s debt,
meaning governments may have little option but to keep the
country’s finances afloat.  Of Greece’s 266 billion euros of debt, about 194 billion
euros, or 73 percent, is held by the  European Central Bank ,
euro-area governments and the IMF, according to the Greek Debt
Management Office in  Athens . In 2010, before the first bailout,
Greece owed about 310 billion euros, all to the private sector.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson  at   tquinson@bloomberg.net 
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  