-- Sandusky’s Alleged Abuse Took Place Year Earlier, State Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-08T02:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/sandusky-s-alleged-abuse-took-place-year-earlier-state-says-1-.html
Former  Pennsylvania  State University
assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky’s alleged sexual assault
of a 10-year-old boy in a locker room shower took place in
February 2001, a year earlier than previously claimed,
prosecutors said today.  Prosecutors amended the date of the alleged incident to
Feb. 9, 2001, from March 1, 2002, according to papers filed
today in state court in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.  The change is the result of “specific and authenticated
findings as part of the Commonwealth’s ongoing investigation,”
Frank Fina, chief deputy Attorney General, wrote in the filing.  Sandusky, 68, is scheduled to face trial June 5 on more
than 50 criminal counts tied to the alleged abuse of boys he met
through a charity he founded for needy children. The case led to
the firings of Penn State President  Graham Spanier  and head
football coach  Joe Paterno , who died in January.  Sandusky is accused of assaulting the boy, who appeared to
be about 10 years old, in the locker room of the Lasch Football
Building on the University Park campus, according to a grand
jury report. Penn State assistant football coach  Mike McQueary ,
then a graduate assistant, testified to the grand jury that he
saw the former coach having anal sex with a boy in the shower at
the football team’s headquarters.  McQueary’s Testimony  Joseph Amendola, a lawyer for Sandusky, argued in court
papers filed in March that charges over the boy were based
solely on McQueary’s testimony. The identity of the boy,
identified only as Victim 2 in the grand jury report, is still
unknown, Amendola said in the filing.  Amendola declined to comment on the change today, citing a
gag order limiting comments ahead of the trial. A hearing is
scheduled in the case on May 9.  McQueary’s testimony is at the center of a related case
against university officials Timothy Curley and  Gary Schultz 
over charges they lied to a grand jury about the original
allegation and failed to report the incident to police.  Lawyers for Curley, Penn State’s athletic director who’s on
leave from the university, and Schultz, a former vice president
at the school, accused the state today of bringing charges
“before it knew the facts.”  “It is clear that Mike McQueary was wrong in so adamantly
insisting that the incident happened the Friday before Spring
Break in 2002,” lawyers Caroline Roberto and  Tom Farrell  said
in an e-mailed statement. “Whether or not Mr. McQueary’s
insistence was the result of faulty memory, or questionable
credibility, there is no dispute that the statute of limitations
has expired on count two and it will be dismissed.”  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  