-- Seasonal Temperatures Through Mid-May Won’t Boost Energy Demand
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-07T12:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/seasonal-temperatures-through-mid-may-won-t-boost-energy-demand.html
Seasonal weather across much of the
U.S. may mean little increase in demand for energy to cool or
heat homes and businesses.  Most of the U.S. will have normal temperatures during the
next week, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . The only deviations expected
are above-average temperatures in the West from  California  to
 Montana  and a pocket of cooler weather near the Texas-Oklahoma
state line.  “The overall pattern evolution over the next two weeks is
not very supporting of above-normal demand for the Midwest,
South, and East,” Rogers said in a note to clients.  Commodities traders watch temperature outlooks and degree-
day forecasts to gauge energy use and demand. About 51 percent
of U.S. households use gas for heating, according to the Energy
Department, while demand from electricity generators peaks in
the summer months to meet air conditioning needs.  The heating-degree days value for this week is expected to
be 29, or 15 below normal and 2 lower than last year, according
to the  Climate Prediction Center  in  Camp Springs , Maryland.  The cooling-degree days figure will probably be 20, or 4
above normal and 7 below last year, the center said.  Degree Days Calculations  Cooling-degree days are calculated by subtracting a base of
65 degrees from the daily average temperature to show energy
demand. Higher values mean warmer weather and more energy being
used to cool homes and businesses.  The heating-degree days are calculated by subtracting the
average daily temperature from 65. The higher the values, the
colder the weather and the more energy needed for heating.  The U.S. Northeast, as well as the Pacific Northwest to the
Great Lakes, may be 3 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 Celsius) above
normal from May 12 to May 16, Rogers said. It won’t get hot
enough “to develop any significant cooling demand,” he said.  The normal average temperature for May 16 in  New York  is
63, according to  MDA EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg, Maryland.
It’s 58 in Boston, 59 in Chicago, 67 in  St. Louis , 70 in
Atlanta, 74 in Dallas, 77 in Houston, 60 in Seattle and 72 in
Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  