-- SEB’s $8.3 Billion Real-Estate Fund Faces Make-or-Break Day
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-05-07T11:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/seb-s-8-3-billion-german-property-fund-faces-make-or-break-day.html
Investors in Frankfurt-based SEB Asset
Management AG’s 6.4 billion-euro ($8.3 billion) property mutual
fund had until 1 p.m. today to decide whether to pull their
money out of the fund, which will be liquidated if it’s unable
to meet all demands for repayment.  SEB ImmoInvest (SEBIMMO) , the largest of 13 German real-estate funds
that suspended redemptions after the global financial crisis,
was opened for one day to take requests. ImmoInvest has
“considerably” more than 30 percent of its assets in cash or
equivalents, after selling properties, SEB Asset Management
Chief Executive Officer Barbara Knoflach said last month.  Since the global recession that ended in 2009, German real-
estate mutual funds have struggled to meet redemption requests,
causing six funds to be liquidated. Several more, including
funds owned by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , face deadlines
this year to reopen or liquidate, according to  Germany ’s
financial trade group, Bundesverband Investment und Asset
Management, or BVI.  “If these funds liquidate, they will release a flood of
properties into the market,” said Sonja Knorr, a Berlin-based
analyst at Scope Analysis GmbH, a Germany ratings company.  SEB ImmoInvest (S3EA)  is the first German property fund to open
for one day to offer redemptions. The fund would allow
withdrawals once a year, instead of daily, if it continues after
today. More than 90 percent of the fund’s customers are small
private investors, according to Knoflach.  Potsdamer Platz  SEB ImmoInvest has been closed for almost two years. The
fund owns buildings in Paris,  Singapore , Rome as well as 19
properties in Berlin’s  Potsdamer Platz  complex. Credit Suisse’s
CS Euroreal fund owns La Befane shopping center in Rimini,
Italy, and the Europa Galerie mall in Saarbruecken, Germany. CS
Euroreal must tell investors this month whether they plan to
reopen, according to regulatory deadlines.  “If SEB’s investors force it to shut down, it will be
difficult for the next fund in line to stay open,” Knorr said.  SEB Asset Management, a unit of  Skandinaviska Enskilda
Banken AB (SEBA) , is due to announce the level of requests for
redemptions later today.  “The response from investors has been mostly positive,”
Brigitte Schroll, a spokeswoman for SEB Asset Management, said
by telephone. Bjoern Korschinowski, a spokesman for CS Euroreal,
declined to comment.  If SEB ImmoInvest is wound up, its assets will be sold and
the proceeds distributed to investors within a time frame set by
BaFin, Germany’s financial regulator. In the past, BaFin has
given asset managers three to five years to dispose of their
holdings, Knorr said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 