-- SEB to Liquidate $7.8 Billion Fund as Investors Seek Cash
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-05-07T16:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/seb-redemptions-push-7-8-billion-property-fund-into-liquidation.html
SEB Asset Management AG will liquidate
its 6 billion-euro ($7.8 billion)  ImmoInvest (S3EA)  portfolio, the
largest German property mutual fund to be dissolved after
failing to meet investor withdrawals.  SEB ImmoInvest (SEBIMMO)  will be wound up within five years after
investors asked for redemptions that exceeded its liquidity
“considerably,” according to a  statement  today. The fund
increased the cash portion of its assets to more than 30 percent
by selling real estate.  “Despite all efforts, the liquidity required could not be
met without jeopardizing the quality and structure of the SEB
ImmoInvest portfolio,” Frankfurt-based SEB Asset Management
said. The company owns 132 properties including Berlin’s
Potsdamer Platz.  Since the global recession that ended in 2009, German real-
estate mutual funds have struggled to meet redemption requests,
causing six funds to be dissolved. Several more, including funds
owned by Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG, face deadlines this
year to reopen or liquidate, according to  Germany ’s financial
trade group, Bundesverband Investment und Asset Management.  “Today was not about real estate itself, but about the
packaging,” SEB Asset Management Chief Executive Officer
Barbara Knoflach said by telephone today. “The packaging took a
hit due to fear and uncertainty from investors.”  Funds’ Flaw  When the credit crisis started to escalate in 2008, a
scramble to withdraw money exposed a flaw in real estate mutual
funds that own properties directly. While investors are allowed
to withdraw money daily, the funds hold assets that usually take
months to sell.  SEB ImmoInvest has been closed for almost two years. The
fund, a unit of  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA) , owns
properties in Paris,  Singapore  and  Rome  as well as 19 buildings
in Berlin’s  Potsdamer Platz  complex.  The fund will distribute money to investors in semiannual
payments starting in June. SEB ImmoInvest will be dissolved by
April 30, 2017.  Credit Suisse’s CS Euroreal fund must tell investors this
month whether it plans to re-open, according to a regulatory
deadline. CS Euroreal owns La Befane shopping center in Rimini,
 Italy , and the Europa Galerie mall in Saarbruecken, Germany.
Bjoern Korschinowski, a spokesman for CS Euroreal, declined to
comment.  “It’s a crisis of confidence in the product,” Oliver
Weinrich, head of Drescher & Cie. Immo Consult AG, a property-
fund adviser near Bonn. “This doesn’t make the situation any
better for CS Euroreal.”  KanAm Grund KAG, another Frankfurt-based asset manager, in
February announced a plan to liquidate its 3.9 billion-euro
Grundinvest mutual property fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  