-- SEC Hires Investigator to Probe Complaints About Watchdog
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-05-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/sec-hiring-outside-investigator-to-study-claims-against-watchdog.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is planning to hire an outside investigator to probe
complaints about the agency’s  internal watchdog unit  after its
top official stepped down amid complaints about his work.  “An individual has raised allegations of misconduct by
former and current employees in the office of inspector
general,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said yesterday in an
e-mail. “The matter was promptly referred to the Council of
Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency. We are also in
the process of hiring an independent investigator to review the
claims.”  Nester didn’t say whom the agency would hire or specify the
allegations and targets they would pursue.  The SEC hasn’t had a permanent inspector general since
January when H. David Kotz resigned after four years in the
post. Kotz was lauded by lawmakers for his scrutiny of SEC
missteps in overseeing financial firms including Bear Stearns
Cos. and  Bernard Madoff  Investment Securities LLC. while facing
criticism from current and former employees over his pursuit of
investigations that some said lacked evidence of wrongdoing and
unfairly hurt workers’ reputations.  His decision last year to refer former SEC General Counsel
 David Becker  to federal prosecutors for possible criminal ethics
violations stemming from his work on policy related to Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme helped spark the backlash. Becker, who
inherited profits from his parents’ account with Madoff, was
cleared by the  Justice Department  in November.  Cannella Interview  Kotz’s contacts with Phillip Cannella III, a financial
adviser from the Philadelphia area who markets “crash-proof”
 retirement plans , also have come under review. In late July,
Kotz gave Cannella a 75-minute interview at the SEC’s Washington
headquarters.  The SEC has pressed unsuccessfully for Canella to remove
video clips from the interview from his website, saying their
use could imply that Kotz or the agency endorsed his business.  Kotz confirmed to Bloomberg News in December that after the
interview Cannella got him three club-level tickets for a sold-
out football game between the  Philadelphia Eagles  and  New York
Giants . He reimbursed Canella $95 per ticket, though the Eagles
valued them at $240 each.  The former SEC watchdog, who is now a managing director at
Gryphon Strategies in Washington, declined to comment yesterday
on the outside investigation.  Grassley Questions  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who defended
Kotz during his time at the SEC, questioned whether the agency
should pursue an investigation.  “I know from prior experience that outside investigators
can get very expensive for taxpayers,” Grassley said in an e-
mail yesterday. “There are governmental structures in place to
investigate allegations against an inspector general. I intend
to find out more from the SEC about the allegations and the
rationale for hiring an outside investigator.”  A spokesman for the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  didn’t
respond to a telephone call after normal business hours for
comment on behalf of the inspectors general panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  