-- Sept. 11 Trial Defense Defiance Signals Long Game Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-07T17:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/sept-11-trial-defense-aims-at-long-game-in-military-case.html
Lawyers for Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and
four other men accused of planning the Sept. 11 terror
attacks pledged to be as zealous in the defense of their clients
as the defendants were defiant before a military judge.  Adopting what one lawyer called “peaceful resistance to an
unjust system,” they proclaimed their strategy at a press
conference at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, yesterday, one day after a
13-hour arraignment. They said they will “assert every single
right” and elicit a “full airing of the torture years.”
Walter Ruiz, a lawyer for defendant Mustafa al Hawsawi, said the
defense must “hold our government’s feet to the fire.”  At the May 5 hearing, the defendants and their lawyers gave
the government a taste of that strategy. While their clients
refused to answer questions, stood and began praying as the
judge spoke and demanded a 2 1/2 hour reading of the charges,
the lawyers sought to undercut the legitimacy of the court. They
tried to protest the alleged lack of access to clients or
translators, the use of evidence derived from torture, and
questioned the competence of the judge, U.S. Army Colonel James
Pohl.  ‘Long Game’  Such a robust defense effort may be aimed less at achieving
an acquittal in the deaths of almost 3,000 Americans and more at
success on appeal. Defense lawyers are probably playing the
“long game,” one that sets “the stage for a constitutional
attack in the U.S. Supreme Court,” said Eugene Fidell, a former
president of the National Institute of Military Justice who
teaches at  Yale University . They will “make things as painful
as possible” for the government in arguing that classified
information must be discussed at trial and that their clients
were tortured.  “Improperly obtained evidence,” Fidell said, “is going
to be a major issue.”  Mohammed was held by the Central Intelligence Agency until
2006, and then sent to Camp Delta, the detention facility at
Guantanamo Bay that now holds 169 suspected terrorists. The CIA
has acknowledged that he was one of three al-Qaeda operatives
who were “waterboarded.” He underwent the procedure, which
simulates drowning, 183 times, according to government documents.  The U.S. has since banned the practice, which critics such
as  Human Rights Watch  call a form of torture.  Mohammed’s lawyer, David Nevin, said yesterday that the
government is seeking to execute Mohammed in order “to
extinguish the last eyewitness to his torture.”  Military Tribunal  Prosecutors defended the military tribunal, saying they’re
intent on providing the five men a fair trial. Army Brigadier
General Mark Martins, the chief prosecutor, said at a press
conference yesterday that the government is prepared to field
hundreds of legal motions by the defense.  The arraignment of the five men was starkly different from
the last time Mohammed and his codefendants appeared in court.  During their prosecution in 2008 under an earlier round of
charges -- later dropped by the government -- Mohammed said he
wanted to confess and be martyred.  In court two days ago, neither he nor most other defendants
spoke or cooperated with the judge. Through their lawyers, they
deferred entering a plea. In so doing, they retained the right
to file legal motions attacking the government’s case.  Refused Headphones  During the hearing’s morning session, the pace of
proceedings slowed after the defendants refused to follow the
arraignment through headphones. Instead, the judge was forced to
ask the translators to provide translation to the entire court.  While Pohl was going through the formality of asking the
lawyers to detail their qualifications, defendant Ramzi bin al Shibh stood up, pointed to the judge and said, “the right time
is now” to address their concerns, “not tomorrow.”  Bin al Shibh said he wanted to talk about death threats the
defendants allegedly received at the camp. The judge said he
will hear arguments on defense motions at the next hearing in
mid-June.  Pohl asked the defendants if they understood their rights
to have lawyers and that they could seek different attorneys.  “The accused refused to answer,” Pohl said, memorializing
their silence for the record.  At one point during the arraignment, defendant Walid bin
Attash stood and kneeled as if in prayer. Mohammed and defendant
Ali Abdul Aziz Ali then did so as well, with Mohammed later
reading from what appeared to be a prayer book.  Injury Display  Later, Bin Attash tried to show the judge an alleged injury
he suffered while in custody. Pohl rejected his attempt to
display his back.  Responding to the frequent interjections from defense
lawyers asking to discuss treatment of their clients, Pohl said
he would consider “appropriate” issues after dealing with
required preliminary matters. Attorneys for the defendants
protested they aren’t permitted confidential consultations with
their clients.  Much of the arraignment’s afternoon session was spent with
defense lawyers questioning Pohl as to whether he should be
disqualified. Nevin asked Pohl about his beliefs, experience,
background, judicial philosophy and whether he thought a
military judge should be presiding over the case.  The judge said he recently read, “The Black Banners: The
 Inside Story  of 9/11 and the War Against al-Qaeda,” a book by
an ex-Federal Bureau of Investigation agent who questioned the
effectiveness of so-called enhanced interrogation techniques.  ‘Irrelevant’ Opinion  Nevin asked Pohl if he had opinions on the issue, which
will probably come up at trial. Pohl said that was
“irrelevant.”  Attorney Cheryl Borman, who represents Bin Attash, said
yesterday Pohl was unqualified. In court, she asked him whether
he ever presided over a case with more than one defendant or
ever litigated a case with more than 20,000 documents.  “I’m asking about your qualifications to handle complex
litigation,” she told Pohl as part of the standard pre-trial
questioning of judges in military proceedings. He declined to
answer, saying he didn’t consider the question relevant.  Morris Davis, a chief prosecutor for the military
commission at Guantanamo Bay from 2005 to 2007, said the defense
strategy appears to be an attack on the tribunal’s legitimacy.  ‘Second-Rate Process’  “They’re trying to capitalize on how flimsy this second-
rate process is,” said Davis, who now teaches at Howard
University School of Law in Washington. He said he wants the
Sept. 11 cases heard in civilian courts. President  Barack Obama 
withdrew an attempt to try the cases in federal court in the
face of strong congressional opposition.  “They turned an arraignment which normally takes about one
hour in the federal court system into a 13-hour circus. The
federal court or court-martial systems have well-established
rules and decades of precedent where the government develops a
case to fit the confines of the rules,” he said.  “Here, they’re doing it” backward, Davis said. “They
created a set of bad facts by abusing these guys and rather than
trying to adapt the case to the court system, they’re trying to
adapt a court system to fit the case.”  Several of the defense lawyers asked for trial to begin in
May 2013, while military prosecutors said they would be ready by
Aug. 1 of this year. Lawyers later said that date was only a
“control” date and that the trial may be years away.  The government is seeking to convict the five men for their
roles in a conspiracy that used hijacked passenger planes to
destroy the World Trade Center in  Manhattan  and damage the
Pentagon.  Law of War  The five are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the planes. The charges
include terrorism, hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in
violation of the law of war and attacking civilians.  The men may face execution if convicted.  Mohammed has claimed that he organized the attacks and was
the operations chief for the terrorist group al-Qaeda under
 Osama bin Laden , who was killed last year by U.S. troops. Born
in the Baluchistan region of  Pakistan  along the Iran border, he
is accused of proposing what became the Sept. 11 attacks to bin
Laden in 1996 and training hijackers to hide knives in carry-on
bags before boarding the planes. He was captured in a 2003 raid
in Pakistan.  Mohammed, with a long reddish beard and wearing a white
tunic and turban, refused to answer questions during his court
appearance, turning away when the judge asked him questions.  Pohl said at the hearing that he wouldn’t allow Mohammed
“to frustrate the commission going forward.”  Supreme Court  Fidell said Mohammed and the other defendants, if
convicted, have an easier road to the U.S.  Supreme Court  than
U.S. soldiers found guilty in a court-martial. In that system,
non-death sentence cases can generally be appealed to the U.S.
Supreme Court only if the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Armed
Forces allows it.  In this case, the judgment can be appealed to the U.S.
Court of Military Commission Review, then the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Washington, and then the Supreme Court, he said.  “These guys are going to have better access to the Supreme
Court than G.I.’s,” he said.  Charles Dunlap, a retired Air Force Major General and
former deputy judge advocate general, said the defense strategy
may be seeking to push prosecutors into reversible error.  “It may be that the defense thinks a carefully
orchestrated strategy of extended noncompliance with the trial
process will so frustrate and exhaust the commission
participants that the judge or the prosecution will be lured
into some error,” said Dunlap, a visiting professor at the  Duke
University School of Law .  Appeal ‘Problems’  Such an error, “if not leading to acquittal, may cause
problems on the appeal,” said Dunlap.  He said the defense attorneys may be seeking to guarantee a
sentence of life in prison, should the defendants be convicted,
which “is better for their clients than a session in Fort
Leavenworth’s death chamber.”  Dunlap added, however, that “appellate courts are not
usually disposed to this kind of defense.”  Prosecutors said they will fight any defense strategy that
seeks to focus the proceedings on alleged interference with
representation of the defendants, or torture.  If the defendants go free because of their subsequent
treatment, “that’s not justice,” Martins, the chief prosecutor,
said yesterday.  Interpreters Rejected  In response to Ruiz’s claim that he wasn’t provided an
interpreter to speak with his client, al Hawsawi, Martins said
the defense rejected several interpreters offered to them.  The prosecutor dismissed a defense claim that lawyers were
unable to speak with their clients. He defended a military
tribunal system that defense lawyers have said is unfair and
denies their clients fundamental rights, including the ability
to discuss torture allegations with their clients.  Martins said the system ensures justice while protecting
“lawful sources and methods” used to guard against future
attacks.  “Our nation’s secrets are not going to be an open book,”
Martins said. “But we are also committed to justice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin at U.S. Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman at U.S. Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, at   dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
Or  mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net . 