-- Sept. 11 Trial Set to Have More Chaos Than Justice
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-05-07T23:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/sept-11-trial-set-to-have-more-chaos-than-justice.html
U.S. Brigadier General Mark Martins is
an honorable man with an impossible job: Convicting Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and his associates of the Sept. 11 attacks
without making it look like a show trial.  The arraignment on May 5 at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, had all
the hallmarks of a disaster in the making. The defendants
refused to cooperate or even acknowledge the authority of the
court. The prosecution and, for a time, the judge appeared
willing to suppress the defense’s efforts to bring up the
waterboarding and other harsh interrogation techniques used
against some of the defendants. Above all this loomed the
greatest challenge to the legitimacy of the tribunal: No one,
inside the room or outside, thinks there is any chance that
Mohammed will not end up executed.  After nearly a decade of  Supreme Court  decisions affording
rights to Guantanamo detainees and rejecting proposed military
commissions to try them, it would be reasonable to ask: How did
we get here? Why are we on the brink of a trial of the century
that seems unlikely to satisfy the most basic demands of
criminal justice?  There is plenty of blame to go around. Part of it lies with
Congress, which thwarted President  Barack Obama ’s campaign
promise to close Guantanamo within a year. Part of it lies with
the Obama administration, which initially announced its
intention to give Mohammed a civilian trial in New York and then
reversed itself. We also must not forget the George W.  Bush
administration , under which Mohammed was waterboarded 183 times
in a month.  Surrender Unlikely  Taken together, these events left the Obama administration
with very few choices. Mohammed and his colleagues could have
been detained indefinitely on the theory that they are enemy
combatants who can be held until the end of hostilities. Because
al-Qaeda is unlikely ever to surrender (and how would we know if
it had?), the men could have been locked away for the rest of
their lives without trial.  This may seem like a strange way to think about prisoners
of war in a war without end; but it follows from the view of
detention adopted by two administrations and by Congress, and so
far not reversed by the courts. Indeed, in the event that any of
the five men about to go on trial is acquitted of responsibility
for the Sept. 11 attacks, we can fully expect he would remain
locked up forever anyway.  Instead, the administration opted for a military
commission. To be sure, this panel is very different from the
kind designed by the Bush administration and rejected by the
Supreme Court in 2006 for giving insufficient rights to
defendants. It must follow the same rules of evidence that apply
to ordinary courts martial. The defendants get lawyers, and they
will get the opportunity to be heard, if they exercise it.  Still, the commission will be staffed by soldiers. The
prosecutors, led by General Martins, will be in uniform -- and
so will the judge and jury. The whole thing will take place
under the extraordinary security precautions of Guantanamo,
where the defense lawyers say they cannot form relationships
with their clients. Limited news media coverage will be allowed
in the courtroom. Yet to a significant degree, this trial will
take place out of sight.  U.S. military commissions do not have a stellar history of
producing legitimate-looking outcomes. After John Wilkes Booth
assassinated  Abraham Lincoln  and was killed by his pursuers, the
Union tried eight people before a military tribunal and hanged
four of them for participating in the conspiracy. (One of the
others died in prison, and the rest were pardoned a few years
later.)  No Actual Sabotage  During World War II, two ragtag groups of English-speaking
German saboteurs were deposited by submarine at  Ponte Vedra
Beach ,  Florida , and Amagansett,  New York . Caught when one of
their number turned himself in to the FBI, the men were tried by
a military commission held in the  Department of Justice . The
Germans hadn’t engaged in any actual sabotage. But the
commission convicted them of entering the U.S. while out of
uniform with the intent to engage in sabotage. Six of the eight
were electrocuted, including one who was a U.S. citizen.  The fundamental problem for a military commission is that
no one expects the soldiers of a state to acquit enemies of that
state accused with breaking the laws of war. Once the outcome is
no longer in doubt, there is every reason for the defendants to
try to make a mockery of the proceedings. A tribunal is a Catch-
22 situation: It needs to allow a defense in order to make the
trial look credible, but the defense will use the opportunity to
impugn the credibility of the tribunal.  There are exceptions. The most famous -- and most
successful -- military commission was at the Nuremberg trials.
At the time, however, critics in the U.S. and elsewhere fretted
that the defendants were being charged with the crime of
“aggressive war,” which was not contained in any international
treaty but was alleged to be a crime under customary
international law. Genocide was charged only insofar as it was
part of the Nazis’ crime of aggressive war. In a private letter,
the U.S. Chief Justice Harlan Stone referred to the Nuremberg
trials as “a high-grade lynching party.”  Today, however, we remember the Nuremberg tribunal as a
major victory for international law. We tell ourselves, a bit
anachronistically, that it punished the Nazis for genocide.
Arguably, the ends -- creating international justice --justified
the means. We should have a similar goal for the Guantanamo
tribunal. But, given Saturday’s circus, the odds of achieving it
look very long indeed.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  “superbugs,”   France ’s
 new president  and Obama’s failures on  gay marriage ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  getting tough with Syria ;  Mark Buchanan  on the
 causes of the “flash crash” ; Noah Feldman on  justice at
Guantanamo Bay ;  Michael Kinsley  on  rising inequality ; Sally
Satel on improving  organ donation .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 