-- Serb Progressive Party Wins Vote, Electoral Commission Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-05-07T14:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/serb-progressive-party-wins-vote-electoral-commission-says-4-.html
Serbia ’s opposition Progressive Party
won a narrow victory in elections yesterday as leaders battled
over whether the Balkan country’s future lies with the European
Union or further east.  The Progressive Party of  Tomislav Nikolic , who favors
economic and political support from Russia, took 24 percent of
the vote and the Democrats of President  Boris Tadic , who won
Serbia’s candidacy for European Union entry, had 22.09 percent,
the  Electoral Commission  said, citing 97.6 percent of votes
counted. The Socialist Party had 14.54 percent. The decision on
who will build a new Cabinet will be made once Tadic and Nikolic
face off in a May 20 presidential runoff.  As governments from Ireland to Italy fall in a wave of
anger over austerity, the Serb election took place as French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  was ousted and  Greece ’s vote ended in
a gridlock. Serbs are split between Tadic’s bid for the EU and
Nikolic’s nationalist rhetoric about the nation’s claim on
Kosovo two decades after Yugoslavia broke up and his rejection
of cuts needed to keep fiscal policies in line with EU demands.  “The main surprise is the tight lead of the Progressives
because everyone expected that lead to be more convincing,”
said Goran Nikolic, an analyst at the Belgrade-based Institute
for European Studies last night. “And it is surprising to see
the success of the Socialists.”  The dinar traded at 111.9657 to the euro at 4:43 p.m. in
Belgrade, and the BELEX15 index of the 15 most-actively traded
stocks rose 0.2 percent to 495.73, according to data compiled 
by Bloomberg.  Kosovo Count  The results don't include votes from Serbians living in the 
breakaway province of  Kosovo , which will not have any 
significant impact on the parliamentary makeup as only 35,000 
people, or 32 percent of voters there, cast ballots, said Marko Blagojevic, the head of election monitor CeSid.  In a breakdown for seats in the 250-member parliament, the
Progressive Party earned 73 seats, Tadic’s party has 67 seats
and the Socialists have 44.  The past four years have coincided with the global economic
and European debt crises, allowing some politicians to criticize
the EU and reach for Serbia’s historical political ally, Russia,
where  Vladimir Putin  was sworn in for his third term as
president today.  The Progressive Party has promised to bring into a
coalition the  Democratic Party  of Serbia, a nationalist-
conservative party run by former Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, who has called for abandoning EU membership plans and
forge tighter political, economic and investment ties to  Russia ,
Belarus and  Kazakhstan .  Economic, Monetary Weakness  That view gained traction among voters as the dinar lost 30
percent, unemployment rose 10 percentage points, public debt
increased to 14.4 billion euros and the average take-home wage
is now 360 euros ($476) per month during the past
administration.  In a nation where fewer than one in four of the 7.2 million
inhabitants have formal employment, job prospects, higher wages
and the fight against corruption are likely to be a bigger
factor for voters than future EU membership, said analysts
including Milan Nikolic, the director of the Belgrade-based
Center for Policy Studies.  Serbia became a candidate for EU membership on March 1
after fulfilling a series of conditions, including the capture
and transfer of  Radovan Karadzic , Ratko Mladic and  Goran Hadzic ,
the three most-wanted war-crimes suspects from the civil wars
that accompanied the breakup of the former  Yugoslavia , to the
Hague-based International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia.  Presidential Result  In the presidential race, Tadic had 26.7 percent to
Nikolic’s 25.5 percent, casting uncertainty for another two
weeks about who will be the next head of state.  The Democratic Party’s “credibility has been battered by
the economic downturn and undermined by popular perceptions of
increased corruption under its rule,” Joan Hoey, a London-based
analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, said in e-mailed
comments before the vote. At the same time, the Progressives
have “done little to project a positive alternative to the
ruling coalition” with “little distinctive to say on domestic
or foreign policies.”  Socialist Influence  The makeup of the new government may be in the hands of the
Socialists, once led by strongman  Slobodan Milosevic . Its
current leader, Ivica Dacic, also ran for president.  The Socialists “are now in a position to dictate
conditions,” said Belgrade University professor Djorjde
Vukadinovic.  Whoever is able to forge a ruling coalition, there will be
no quick fix to expanding unemployment, the main source of
popular discontent after the jobless rate reached 24.4 percent
at the end of 2011, said analysts including Milan Jovanovic, a
professor at the Faculty of Political Science in Belgrade.  “We may easily end up with a government that doesn’t last
long because of the seriousness of the economic problems that we
are facing,” Jovanovic told reporters last night.  The government will need to mix a leaner budget with more
public investment to jump-start the economy, which contracted by
1.3 percent in the first three months of the year, political
analysts said.  ‘Austerity Is Priority’  “Austerity is a priority and it should be combined with
more public investments now that the private sector is on the
verge of collapse,” said Ivan Nikolic, an analyst at the
Belgrade-based Economics Institute. The government will need to
initially turn to “major public works and big infrastructure
projects” to halt a further rise in unemployment before
creating new jobs.  The Cabinet emerging from yesterday’s polls will need to
revise the budget and reduce the fiscal deficit to 4.25 percent
of economic output to convince the  International Monetary Fund 
of its commitment to maintaining macroeconomic stability.
Measures to curb the gap will help the central bank stop
spending foreign-currency reserves on supporting the dinar,
which has weakened 10 percent on year to the lowest in a decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  