-- Slovenia's Economy Continued to Shrink in First Quarter
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-05-07T10:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/slovenia-s-economy-continued-to-shrink-in-first-quarter.html
Slovenia’s economy continued to shrink
this year as austerity measures in  Europe  cut demand for its
exports, the central bank said.  Monthly indicators suggest that Slovenia’s gross domestic
product was lower in the first quarter,  Banka Slovenije  in the
capital Ljubljana said today in its monthly report. The euro-
region nation’s economy expanded 2.1 percent in the first
quarter a year ago, before entering its second recession in
three years in the last quarter of 2011, when GDP contracted 0.7
percent from the previous three months.  “Weak activity in the euro region is affecting export
demand, as well as manufacturing and we are seeing lower revenue
growth in services, such as transport and storage,” the central
bank said.  GDP is forecast to drop an annual 1.2 percent this year on
weak demand in Europe and in its home market, according to the
central bank.  The shrinking economy may complicate efforts by the
government of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  to cut public spending
and follow the German-inspired austerity program in Europe that
is meant to allay investors’ concern over the euro-area’s debt
load. The government pledged to reduce the spending by about 800
million euros ($1.04 billion) to below 3 percent of GDP by
year’s end.  The government needs to avoid “any extraordinary
expenditures, which last year contributed 1.3 percent of GDP to
the shortfall,” in order to meet this year’s task of narrowing
the gap, the central bank said.  Last year, the government deficit surged to 6.4 percent of
total output from 6 percent a year earlier as the previous
administration of premier  Borut Pahor  boosted the capital of
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and helped other state-owned
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  