-- Socialist Elephants Stampede for Jobs With Hollande
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-05-07T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/socialist-elephants-stampede-from-1980s-for-jobs-with-hollande.html
The French elephants are back.  Socialist Party veterans -- known collectively as the
elephants -- who held Cabinet posts for  Francois Mitterrand  in
the 1980s are lining up for appointments under 57-year-old
President-elect Francois Hollande.  The average age of Hollande’s 10 top aides is 60 1/2 and
the oldest contender for a ministry post, Laurent Fabius, is 65,
above the minimum  retirement age . Fabius was the youngest prime
minister when he was appointed by Mitterrand in 1984. Michel Sapin and  Martine Aubry , potential appointees, also served in
Mitterrand’s Cabinet.  “These Socialist Party leaders are reassuring figures for
voters, mainly left-wing voters, because they have the
experience” said Celine Bracq, co-head of opinion surveys at
BVA polling institute. “It’s true they are trying to get a seat
but Hollande wants them to be present as well.”  A younger generation that worked up the party ladder during
its years in the wilderness is also waiting its turn.  Manuel Valls , 49, who was the campaign’s communications
chief, leads the group known as the “forties.” Valls may be
chosen for the  Interior Ministry . Emmanuel Macron, 35, a banker
at Rothschild & Cie. who advised Hollande throughout the
campaign, may join him as an aide at the Elysee Palace.  A BVA poll for Le Parisien yesterday showed Valls would be
the most popular choice of French voters to be prime minister,
with 26 percent supporting him. Aubry, 61, was second with 16
percent of the 874 respondents surveyed via the Internet after
Hollande defeated  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the May 6 vote.  Hollande will be  France ’s first Socialist president in 17
years when he’s sworn in on May 15.  ‘Forties’  Marisol Touraine, 53, and  Pierre Moscovici , 54, aides who
outgrew the “forties,” may also land government posts.  They’ll be competing with the elephants for the top jobs.  Fabius, a polyglot from a Paris family of antiques dealers,
has held three ministerial posts in addition to that of the
prime minister and may be angling for the Foreign Ministry post.  Sapin, 60, was finance minister in the early 1990s for
Mitterrand and then the public administration minister in the
last Socialist cabinet of former Prime Minister Lionel Jospin
between 2000 and 2002. Sapin, who helped write Hollande’s
economic program, may get the finance portfolio.  Aubry, best known as the author of the 35-hour work-week
law in 1998 when she was Jospin’s minister for social affairs,
may be one of the senior women in Hollande’s government. The
Socialist Party chief, Aubry was defeated by Hollande in the
party’s primary race.  Segolene Royal, 58, a minister under Mitterrand and later
Jospin and the mother of Hollande’s four children, is also
seeking a Cabinet post.  ‘Uniter’  During his campaign, Hollande has said he’ll choose as
prime minister a “uniter, who knows lawmakers well, knows the
Socialist Party well and knows me well.”  That describes Jean-Marc Ayrault, 62, who has headed the
Socialist group in parliament since 1997 and is the mayor of the
western city of Nantes. Ayrault, a German speaker, is also a
member of the defense commission at the National Assembly.  Elisabeth Guigou, 65, a justice minister in 1997 and a
deputy European Affairs minister for Mitterrand in 1990, has
helped Hollande to prepare to re-negotiate European fiscal rules.  Hollande promised to bring to his government a new
generation and as many women as men, declining to say if he
intended to put them at equal levels.  For women, “there are the usual names, Aubry and myself,”
Guigou told Bloomberg yesterday. For a new generation of
politicians she said that “there are some young people who
don’t have the same experience, but who are very talented.”  Spokeswoman  Helping to meet his gender-parity promise on his campaign
were Socialist lawmakers Delphine Batho, 39, a specialist of
homeland affairs, Aurelie Filippetti, 38, a specialist for
cultural affairs and Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, 34. The three were
his campaign spokeswomen. Cecile Duflot, the head of the Green
party may join the Hollande team if her party wins enough seats
at the June legislative ballots.  “There aren’t that many elephants left at the Socialist
Party if you think about it, they’ve been out of power for so
long,” said Gerard Grunberg, a professor at the Institute of
Political Sciences in Paris. “The seats will get free naturally
if I may say so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  