-- Solvay Profit Forecast Tops Most Estimates as Prices Gain
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-05-07T21:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/solvay-profit-forecast-tops-most-estimates-as-prices-gain-1-.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , the chemicals maker that
bought Rhodia SA last year, forecast 2012 profit that surpassed
most analysts’ estimates after reporting a smaller-than-
estimated drop in first-quarter earnings as prices rose.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, excluding one-time items, will be “similar” to
last year’s 2.07 billion euros ($2.7 billion), Brussels-based
Solvay said today in a statement. That compares with analysts’
projections of 1.86 billion euros, the average of  22 estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Last year’s figure is adjusted to assume
a full year of Rhodia ownership, a purchase that was completed
in September.  Incoming Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pierre Clamadieu, who
set a goal last month for annual Ebitda of 3 billion euros by
2016, will rely mostly on better purchasing terms and Solvay’s
pricing power in products such as soda ash, high-performance
polymers and silica to help maintain earnings this year. Volumes
declined 3 percent in the quarter, even as demand for vinyls and
polyamide materials recovered from inventory cutbacks by
customers in the prior quarter. Prices increased 4 percent.  “Better pricing conditions have more than compensated
higher feedstock and energy costs,”  Bernard Hanssens , an
analyst at Banque Degroof SA in Brussels, said in a note before
earnings were released.  Ebitda Declines  First-quarter Ebitda before reorganization costs and other
one-time items declined 8.9 percent to 523 million euros. That
beat the 444.9 million-euro average of 10 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 3 percent to 3.24 billion
euros on price increases.  Reorganization expenses linked to Solvay’s internal
efficiency plan and the integration with Rhodia totaled 20
million euros in the first quarter. Last month, Solvay raised
its target for savings to 400 million euros by 2016 and said it
expects an additional 110 million euros worth of cuts by the end
of this year. It didn’t give an update on incremental savings
achieved in the first quarter.  Solvay released its earnings statement after the close of
regular trading on Euronext Brussels, where the shares retreated
0.3 percent to 88.55 euros today. Solvay has gained 39 percent
this year, the  second-best  performance on the 23-company Stoxx
600 Chemicals Index.  Net debt increased to 1.83 billion euros at the end of
March from 1.76 billion euros on Dec. 31, mainly stemming from
the payment of a 1.20 euro-a-share interim dividend in January.  First-quarter capital spending of 144 million euros and a
171 million-euro increase in industrial working capital exceeded
cash generation from operations by 45 million euros. The  cash
consumption  was offset by an additional 97 million-euro payment
from Abbott Laboratories, which bought Solvay’s former drug
division in February 2010.  Soda ash is a glass-making ingredient that is also used to
modify the acidity of shampoos and other detergents. Polyamide
materials are a kind of polymer that can be used in car
interiors and synthetic textiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  