-- Sotheby’s Handlers to Confront Board, Pay Plan Backed
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-05-07T18:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/sotheby-s-handlers-to-confront-board-pay-plan-backed.html
Sotheby’s annual shareholder meeting
tomorrow morning in  New York  may stir a scream or two.  Locked-out art handlers who own shares in the publicly
traded auctioneer will confront directors about labor practices,
according to the union representing the workers.  “Management’s decision to lock out the workers during
negotiations was an effort to starve them into submission,”
said Carin Zelenko, director of capital strategies for the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters. The handlers have been
out for nine months.  Sotheby’s has said in filings that the lockout of 43
workers followed union statements to the media threatening a
strike.  Art handlers may also speak out against the company’s
policy of automatic executive payouts should the company ever be
acquired. The Teamsters filed a shareholder proposal against
 Sotheby’s (BID)  “change-in-control” payouts.  The Teamsters’ proposal called the auctioneer’s policy of
immediately vesting some stock-payment plans a “golden
parachute” that disregards executive performance. Had there
been a change of control at the end of 2010, Chief Executive
Officer William Ruprecht -- whose compensation last year was
valued at $7 million -- would have been eligible for $18 million
in severance and benefits, the Teamsters said.  Competing for Talent  In a filing, Sotheby’s board said prohibiting change-of-
control vesting “may put the company in a competitive
disadvantage in the competition for talent.”  Proxy advisers  Institutional Shareholder Services  and  Glass
Lewis  & Co. issued reports supporting the Teamster proposal.
They also recommended voting for Sotheby’s executive-
compensation plans.  Last month,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shareholders rejected the bank’s
executive-compensation plan after ISS issued a report opposing
it.  The two proxy advisers declined to support a union-
sponsored pension-fund campaign against the three members of the
board’s nominating and corporate governance Committee who are up
for re-election. The filing from  CtW Investment Group , which
advises union pension funds, said Board Chairman Michael Sovern
and the two other committee members failed to take decisive
action against  James Murdoch  after  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s phone-hacking
scandal.  ‘Train Wreck’  Although News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer
resigned from the auctioneer’s board in March, “Sotheby’s
directors were passive bystanders to a slow-motion train
wreck,” leaving it to Murdoch to voluntarily step down from the
board shortly before the proxy’s publication, the CtW filing
said.  Glass Lewis countered that Murdoch’s departure “may signal
an appropriate level of responsiveness to shareholder concerns
on the part of the board.”  Glass Lewis nonetheless said shareholders should be
“mindful” of issues that CtW raised. ISS cited a “distressing
level of passivity” by the committee in accepting several of
Ruprecht’s suggestions for new director candidates.  “There is an inherent conflict of interest in senior
management identifying candidates for the job of overseeing
senior management,” the ISS report said.  Diana Phillips , a Sotheby’s spokeswoman, said Sotheby’s
doesn’t agree with ISS’s opinion about the committee.  ‘Carefully Vetted’  “Recommendations for board candidates come from many
quarters and they are all carefully vetted and go through the
same rigorous process,” she said in an e-mail.  The nominating committee “follows the highest standards of
corporate governance,” she said.  Wednesday, Sotheby’s will hold its evening contemporary art
sale.  Last week, it sold a version of Edvard Munch’s “The
Scream” for $119.9 million, the highest price ever paid for an
artwork at auction.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 