-- South Africa Needs to Manage Exchange Rate, Stiglitz Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-05-07T12:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/south-africa-needs-to-manage-exchange-rate-stiglitz-says.html
South Africa  and other developing
nations should make their currencies more competitive to spur
growth and create jobs, said  Joseph Stiglitz , the Columbia
University professor who won the 2001 Nobel Prize for economics.  The rand has gained 3.4 percent against the dollar so far
this year, after slumping 18 percent in 2011. While the National
Treasury wants a stable and competitive exchange rate, it has
said it won’t seek to influence the level at which the currency
trades.  “One of South Africa’s key problems is unemployment,”
Stiglitz told reporters today in Cape Town. “A more competitive
exchange rate is critical” to create jobs for the one in four
people that is unemployed. He advocated using a “portfolio” of
instruments, including stepping up the accumulation of foreign
 reserves , to counteract appreciating currencies.  “It’s not costless, but it’s a lot less costly than
letting your  exchange rate  appreciate,” he said. “Firms can’t
deal with a significant appreciation in the exchange rate. You
are dooming your export sectors and your import-competing
sectors.”  South Africa had $50.7 billion in gross gold and foreign
currency reserves at the end of March. That’s less than several
other emerging economies such as Thailand, which has an economy
of a similar size and $179 billion in reserves.  Emerging markets , including Africa, should continue growing
“robustly” this year, though at a slower pace than last year,
Stiglitz said, while economic prospects for the United States
and  Europe  remain bleak.  Europe is “already falling into double-dip recession,” he
said. “The problems are predictable and predicted. They are the
consequences of the flawed economic-policy framework and
institutions. The European weaknesses are likely to continue and
probably get worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  