-- South African Central Bank Has No Room to Cut Rates
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-08T07:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/south-african-central-bank-has-no-room-to-cut-rates.html
South Africa ’s economic growth appears
to be sustainable, though moderate, and there is little or no
room to lower  interest rates  with inflation at the top end of
the target range, central bank Governor Gill Marcus said.  The Reserve Bank’s current monetary policy stance is
accommodative because of a negative output gap in  Africa ’s
biggest economy, Marcus said in a speech in Zurich and posted on
the Pretoria-based bank’s website yesterday.  “However, the expected inflation trajectory suggests that
there is limited, if any, room for further monetary
accommodation at this stage,” she said. The central bank has to
be concerned about the impact of lower interest rates on
inflation, and reducing rates won’t necessarily help make the
rand more stable or competitive, Marcus said. The rand may be
“moderately overvalued” at current levels, she said.  The  Reserve bank  has kept the  benchmark rate  at 5.5
percent, the lowest level in more than three decades, since
November 2010, to support the economy as a slowdown in  Europe , a
key trading partner, threatens demand. Inflation slowed to 6
percent in March and the central bank forecasts it will ease to
be sustainably within the band by the end of the year. The
Monetary Policy Committee is scheduled to announce its next
decision on May 24.  The first rate increase may come later this year, according
to economists such as  Razia Khan , head of Africa research at
Standard Chartered Bank in  London .  “Although the negative output gap persists, perhaps it is
what Governor Marcus did not say that will resonate more,” Khan
said by e-mail yesterday. “At what stage should the SARB be
signaling the likelihood of interest rate normalization.”  Unemployment Target  Consumer spending  has led the recovery from recession in
2009 and  credit demand  and retail sales growth are accelerating.
Lending by commercial banks to households and businesses rose
9.2 percent in March from a year earlier, the fastest pace in
more than three years, according to the central bank. Retail
sales increased 7.2 percent in February compared with 4.2
percent a month earlier, the statistics agency said April 18.  Economic growth remains less than half the 7 percent the
government estimates is needed to meet its goal to create 5
million jobs by 2020. Unemployment was 23.9 percent in the
fourth quarter.  The economy will probably grow at a similar rate this year
to the 3.1 percent for 2011, Marcus said. Conditions in advanced
economies remain fragile, she said.  Rand Overvalued  The volatility of South Africa’s rand creates problems for
setting monetary policy and isn’t “helpful for the real
economy,” Marcus said. While the central bank has been active
in the foreign-exchange market to build its reserves, it doesn’t
try to set a level for the currency, she said.  The rand may be moderately overvalued at current levels,
according to a study by the bank, Marcus said, without giving an
estimate of overvaluation.  “There is an incorrect perception that the Reserve Bank
attempts to keep the  exchange rate  strong in order to help with
inflation,” she said.  The local currency has gained 3.4 percent against the
dollar this year after declining 18 percent in 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rand traded at 7.8275 per dollar at 9:11 a.m. in
Johannesburg, from 7.7979 late yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  