-- Bankia’s Rato Steps Down as Spain May Offer Banks Rescue
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-08T08:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/spain-said-to-plan-bankia-cleanup-as-banks-may-get-funds.html
Rodrigo Rato’s exit from  Bankia (BKIA) 
signals Spain is heeding part of the International Monetary
Fund’s advice for the banking industry as the government weighs
a second bailout of the lender.  Rato, a former IMF managing director, said yesterday he’d
quit the banking group with the biggest Spanish asset base and
proposed Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, former chief operating
officer of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , as executive
chairman.  The change in management is part of a government plan for
Bankia that may include injecting funds into the lender via
contingent-capital securities, an Economy Ministry official said
yesterday. Bankia fell as much as 9.2 percent in Madrid trading
today after El Confidencial reported that Spain will nationalize
Bankia and its parent BFA on May 11. A ministry spokeswoman
declined to comment on the report.  Spain  has struggled to douse speculation it will need an
international rescue to shore up lenders  such as Bankia , the
banking group with the most Spanish real estate on its books,
after the economy fell into a recession linked to its property
crash. The IMF last month singled out Bankia in a report on
Spanish lenders, saying that the largest of the country’s
vulnerable banks should “especially” take swift steps to
improve management and strengthen its balance sheet.  Technical Guy  “In some way this is really all to the good because it
means progress is being made,” said Javier Diaz-Gimenez, an
economics professor at IESE business school in Madrid.
“Whatever way they choose to take the Bankia situation forward,
there’s now going to be a technical guy in charge and not a
politician.”  With about 300 billion euros ($392 billion) in assets, the
Bankia group is key to Rajoy’s efforts to overhaul the industry,
said Diaz-Gimenez. Its assets are equivalent to almost a third
of the Spanish economy and it held 38 billion euros of real
estate at the end of 2011.  Spanish Defense Minister Pedro Morenes, in an interview
with TVE today, referred to a government “intervention” in
Bankia. “I haven’t come to this interview to explain the
intervention of Bankia but seeing as you ask, I have no problem
saying that the decisions taken by the government are taken in
good faith and with full loyalty to its mission,” he said.  Shares in Bankia were down 14.5 cents, or 6.1 percent, to
2.23 euros by 9:53 a.m. in  Madrid , bringing to 40 percent the
loss since the company’s listing on the stock market in July.
Spain’s 10-year bonds fell, increasing the yield to 5.75 percent.  Banking Experience  “Goirigolzarri was a very good leader and administrator at
BBVA and he is very well regarded,” said Inigo Lecubarri, who
helps manage about $300 million at London-based Abaco Financials
Fund. “You couldn’t ask for someone better qualified to lead a
Spanish bank that’s in trouble.”  Goirigolzarri, 58, served as president and chief operating
officer for eight years at BBVA, Spain’s second-largest bank. He
spent 16 years on the board and stood down in 2009.  Rato, 63, who was economy minister when the ruling  People’s
Party  was last in power from 1996 to 2004, didn’t say what he’ll
do next. Luis de Guindos, the current economy minister, served
under Rato as deputy economy minister in the former People’s
Party-led government of Jose Maria Aznar.  Rato became chairman of Caja Madrid, the savings bank in
the People’s Party-controlled region dominated by Spain’s
capital city, in 2010 and led its merger with six other lenders
to form Bankia. The group took 4.5 billion euros of public
support in 2010 in the first phase of Spain’s efforts to shore
up lenders reeling from the property-market collapse.  Share Sale  It split off the most problematic real-estate assets into
BFA, the unlisted parent, where the government’s preference
shares were also parked. Freed from the worst assets, Bankia
sold shares to the public, including local retail investors, in
July, in a move the Bank of Spain hailed as “very positive.”  “If the Bankia situation is not resolved properly, it is
going to put in question the entire financial reform in Spain,”
said Lorenzo Bernaldo de Quiros, an economist who served on a
panel that advised Rato when he was minister.  In its report on the Spanish banking system on April 25,
the IMF said it was “critical” that vulnerable lenders,
“especially the largest one,” take swift measures to
strengthen their balance sheets and also called for improvements
to “management and governance practices.” It also said more
public funds may be needed to shore up banks.  Rescue Report  The government may inject 7 billion euros into BFA-Bankia
as part of the nationalization, El Confidencial reported, citing
people in the banking industry it didn’t name.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , battling to restore
confidence in banks, yesterday opened the door to using public
funds to shore up the industry.  “The last thing I want to do is lend public money, as has
been done in the past, but if it were necessary to get the
credit to save the Spanish banking system, I wouldn’t renounce
that,” he said in an interview with radio station Onda Cero.  Rajoy also said that the Cabinet will pass a decree on May
11 aimed at bolstering confidence in the industry. He didn’t
give details, saying only it was connected to the government’s
plan to allow lenders to put assets they have already
provisioned for into separate asset-management vehicles.  The decree will be the second for the industry since
February, when the government gave banks a year to set aside
53.8 billion euros in real-estate provisions and buffers. That
Feb. 3 decree also allows for the state’s bailout fund to buy
contingent capital securities, known as CoCos, in struggling
lenders, funded by the Treasury.  Rajoy said any use of public funds wouldn’t affect the
 deficit , which is the third largest in the euro region. Rajoy,
who said in the election campaign he would avoid using taxpayer
funds to bail out lenders, is suffering from a slump in
popularity amid budget cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net  