-- Squash ‘Superbugs’ With Fast-Track Antibiotics Approval
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-07T23:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/squash-superbugs-with-fast-track-antibiotics-approval.html
In the battle between humans and
infectious bacteria, humans have had the advantage, at least
since antibiotics were introduced into our arsenal 70 or so
years ago.  Now, however, our weapons appear to be turning against us
as germs have found ways to  outfox antibiotics .  Consider a germ-altering gene known as NDM-1. As reporters
Jason Gale and Adi Narayan  explain  in an article in the June
issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine, this bit of DNA is showing
up in dozens of bacteria strains, from E. coli to cholera --
even outside hospitals. The gene carries as many as nine
mechanisms for resisting even the world’s most potent
antibiotics.  The renegade gene, which has been known to scientists for
only a couple of years, seems to have  arisen in India  (NDM-1
stands for New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase-1), but traces of it
have been found in at least 40 countries. It has been causing
stubborn, sometimes deadly, infections.  What can be done? One challenge is to eradicate the
conditions that foster NDM-1’s spread. These are especially
prevalent in  India , where poverty, crowding and poor sanitation
allow germs to travel widely, and where antibiotics are cheap
and widely available without a prescription. When people use
these drugs too often or take inadequate regimens, germs get
exposure to the medicine without being killed by it -- allowing
them a good  opportunity  to develop a resistance.  So India, though it isn’t the only country where
antibiotics need to be more tightly managed, has more than the
average amount of work to do. A government task force last year
recommended that pharmacists be required to keep records of
antibiotics sales, to make it harder for them to flout the
requirement that customers have a prescription. The  task force 
also called for the most powerful antibiotics to be restricted
to hospitals only.  The international medical community should do its best to
assist with these efforts and, especially, help Indian doctors
keep a clear, public count of the number and kinds of bacteria
developing a drug resistance via the NDM-1 gene.  A second challenge is to keep a steady stream of new
antibiotics in the pipeline, and this is where the big
pharmaceutical companies based in  Europe  and the U.S. come in.
Sadly, the marketplace gives drugmakers little encouragement to
do this work. Antibiotics, used irregularly and for a week or
two at a time, aren’t as profitable as medicines to treat
chronic ailments, such as high  blood pressure . And the
sophisticated new antibiotics the world most urgently needs
would be used only rarely, to kill bacteria that are resistant
to existing drugs.  Not surprisingly, the pipeline is now almost empty; the
 Food and Drug Administration  has approved only two new
antibiotics  since 2008 .  As the Infectious Diseases Society of America, an
organization of doctors,  recommends  (and as Bloomberg View has
argued before), the development of new antibiotics should be
supported with research grants and rewarded with tax credits.  We are glad to see that Congress has included the
bipartisan  Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now  (GAIN) Act in
the FDA user-fee reauthorization bill that is due to be passed
by October. GAIN would extend by five years a company’s ability
to exclusively market a new antibiotic, and it would direct the
FDA to streamline its process for approving such drugs.  The FDA is considering a high-speed  pathway  for some new
antibiotics, which would allow for limited approval based on
only a small clinical trial, rather than the two large ones
usually required. Drugs sanctioned in this manner would be
restricted for use in a narrow population -- presumably, people
with a specific drug-resistant infection. But the tradeoff would
be worth it: According to Robert Guidos, vice president of
public policy and government relations for the IDSA, this
approach would help at least seven companies bring new
antibiotics to market, including one that has an antibiotic in
the works to fight NDM-1.  Here’s something to keep in mind: Without effective
antibiotics, low-risk, routine medical procedures could suddenly
become high-risk -- all because of the threat of deadly
infection. Better to fight NDM-1 and its ilk now than to give
them a better chance to penetrate our defenses.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  France ’s  new president 
and Obama’s failures on  gay marriage ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
 getting tough with Syria ;  Mark Buchanan  on the  causes of the
“flash crash” ;  Noah Feldman  on  justice at Guantanamo Bay ;
 Michael Kinsley  on  rising inequality ; Sally Satel on improving
 organ donation .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 