-- Stanford Credit-Swap Revamp Seeks to Fix Flaw in Payouts
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-05-07T18:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/stanford-credit-swap-revamp-seeks-to-correct-flaw-in-payouts-2-.html
A Stanford University professor and
student are seeking to fix a flaw in credit-default swap
contracts that threatens to leave buyers with only part of their
losses covered from a sovereign debt restructuring.  Credit swaps payouts after a government debt exchange would
be tied to the ratio of the new bonds’ face value to that of the
old bonds, Stanford professor  Darrell Duffie  and student Mohit Thukral wrote in a May 3 report. Using the so-called exchange
ratio would prevent scenarios where the new bonds are trading
close to par, limiting payments to swaps buyers.  “That exchange ratio matters a lot and it’s simply ignored
in the credit-default contracts” as they exist today, Duffie
said in a telephone interview. “The more severe the exchange
swap ratio, the better off the sovereign is and the worse off
the CDS-protection buyer is.”  The report follows Greece’s debt restructuring in March,
when bondholders agreed to cut 206 billion euros in Greek debt
by 53.5 percent by accepting new debt. Because credit-default
swaps were settled by establishing a market value for  Greece ’s
outstanding debt after most of the securities had been
exchanged, it was “by luck alone” that the new securities were
trading at a low enough price to compensate protection buyers at
a level close to bondholders’ losses, Duffie and Thukral wrote
in the  proposal .  Biggest Test  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association , which
sets standard definitions that govern credit swaps, has been
discussing the change proposed by Duffie and Thukral,
Athanassios Diplas, co-chair of ISDA’s Industry Governance
Committee, said last week during a panel discussion at the
group’s annual conference in  Chicago .  An “asset package” of new bonds to be delivered after a
sovereign restructuring is among potential changes to swaps
definitions, said Diplas, who is also the global head of
systemic risk management at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  “The proposal makes sense, and these very issues have, in
fact, been under consideration by ISDA for some time,” Steve Kennedy, an ISDA spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “It
was initially raised as a formal question during the
determinations committee deliberations on the Greek  credit
event .”  ISDA is considering the changes after the Greek debt
restructuring, the largest in history, posed the biggest test
for the contracts since banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co.
created the market more than a decade ago.  Credit-default swaps need to be a reliable and correlated
hedge to national debt to be effective in the $2.9 trillion
sovereign and municipal credit-swap market, Duffie said. Because
investors don’t know how a restructuring may unfold when they
buy protection, the exchange ratio must be a part of the payment
calculation, he said.  Credit traders are accumulating protection on  Germany ’s
debt at a  record pace , with yields on the nation’s bonds at all-
time lows and speculation rising that it will bear a greater
burden toward resolving  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  German Swaps Surge  The net amount of credit-default swaps outstanding on
German bunds surged by $671 million in the week ended April 27
to $19.8 billion, just shy of the $19.9 billion peak on Nov. 18,
and poised to surpass swaps on Italy for the first time,
according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Under Duffie and Thukral’s proposal, if one old bond is
exchanged for two new bonds, a ratio of 0.5 would be applied to
the value of the new debt that is determined through auctions
that decide how much credit protection is paid to swap holders.
If the new debt is valued at 50 cents on the dollar, the
settlement value would be 25 cents, meaning credit swap holders
would be paid 75 cents on their contracts.  Under the existing contracts, swaps buyers would be paid 50
cents on the dollar, potentially leaving bondholders who had
bought swaps as hedges with uncovered losses.  Exchange Scenarios  “Suppose that a Eurozone sovereign has exchanged
essentially all of its old bonds for a smaller quantity of new
bonds worth 80 cents per euro. Such an exchange might be
implemented under a collective action clause, as with the recent
restructuring of Greek sovereign debt,” they said. A credit
swap holder would be paid about 20 cents in this case.  “But suppose the sovereign had given bondholders only one
tenth of a new bond for each old bond, implying an actual
recovery to bondholders of only one tenth of the price of the
new bond, or 8 cents per Euro of original bond principal,” they
said. “This restructuring implies an actual loss of 92 cents
per euro of original bond principal, far greater than the CDS
protection payment of 20 cents.”  Hedge-fund manager  John Paulson , who became a billionaire
in 2007 by betting against the U.S. subprime mortgage market, is
among investors said to be buying credit protection on European
sovereign bonds.  Paulson, of New York-based firm Paulson & Co., which
manages about $24 billion, told investors on a call last month
that he’s buying swaps on European debt, said a person familiar
with the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Pressure on Europe is mounting as  Spain  and the U.K. slide
into double-dip recessions, while elections in France and Greece
may undermine support for austerity.  Duffie and Thukral began discussing the contract flaw and
how swaps could be redesigned as part of Thukral’s undergraduate
thesis, which became “collaborative research” that ended in
their proposal, according to Duffie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 