-- Swiss Stocks Fall After Elections; Roche, Swiss Re Drop
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-07T15:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/swiss-stocks-fall-after-elections-roche-swiss-re-drop.html
Stocks in Switzerland  declined to
their lowest level in more than three months amid concern the
European debt crisis may worsen after Greek voters flocked to
anti-bailout parties.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s largest maker of cancer
drugs, slumped the most since November after the company halted
a phase III trial of its dalcetrapib drug.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the
world’s biggest supplier of temporary workers, dropped to its
lowest price this year as peer Michael Page International Plc
said markets in Spain, Italy and the U.K. are “difficult.”
Geberit Holding AG and  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  gained at least 1.8 percent,
following a gauge of European construction companies higher.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  slipped 0.3 percent to 6,040.18 at
the close in Zurich. The measure fell 1 percent last week as
Spain entered a recession and investors awaited the outcome of
elections in  France  and  Greece . The Swiss Performance Index
retreated 0.1 percent today.  “Greece is probably going to be ungovernable,” said
Christian Zogg, who manages about $540 million at LLB Asset
Management in Vaduz, Liechtenstein. “If the budget cuts are
withdrawn, with neither the left or right side feeling bound to
the agreements of the previous government, Greece would be
without financial support and would go bankrupt quite quickly.
In France, a shift from consolidation to higher debt would have
negative consequences for the euro.”  Voters in Greece and France challenged austerity as
 Europe ’s only prescription for the financial crisis, adding
pressure on German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to broaden her focus
from debt reduction to save the 17-nation bloc.  Anti-Bailout Parties  Greece’s political leaders struggled to find the support
needed to form a coalition government after voters flocked to
anti-bailout parties, calling into question the country’s
ability to impose the measures needed to guarantee its future in
the euro.  New Democracy  led in the election, receiving 19 percent of
the vote and 108 seats in the 300-seat Parliament. Syriza, a
coalition of left parties which has vowed to cancel the bailout
terms, got 17 percent to score 52 seats. Socialist Pasok, which
partnered with New Democracy in securing a second rescue package
for the country, trailed in third place with 41 seats.  Greece’s election results increases the risk of the country
leaving the euro within the next year to 18 months to as high as
75 percent, Citigroup Inc. economists Guillaume Menuet and
 Juergen Michels  wrote in a report today.  Under the terms of the 130 billion-euro ($169 billion)
bailout from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund ,
international lenders expect to hear in June how Greece will
achieve 11.6 billion euros of savings for 2013 and 2014.  Hollande Victory  In France, 57-year-old  Francois Hollande  defeated President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  to become the first Socialist in 17 years to
control Europe’s second-biggest economy. He pledged to push for
less austerity and more growth in the region.  “Austerity is not inevitable,” Hollande told supporters
in Tulle, France, last night after he got about 52 percent
against about 48 percent for Sarkozy.  Austerity measures aimed at stemming Europe’s turmoil have
driven economies from the Netherlands to Spain back into
recession, emboldening politicians campaigning for growth. The
elections took place as 386 billion euros of emergency loan
packages for Greece, Ireland and Portugal and a focus on deficit
reduction failed to stem Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  European Tensions  Sarkozy’s departure may sharpen tensions with key allies as
Hollande has advocated a more aggressive European Central Bank
role in spurring growth, a measure opposed by  Germany .  “Investors have been made aware again that there is no
simple solution to the debt crisis,” Zogg said. “The two major
European states could be governed by the left in the next couple
of years, as we could see the same happening in Germany. That’s
not exactly a rosy outlook for investors.”  Roche declined 3.5 percent to 159.40 Swiss francs, the
biggest drop since Nov. 21, as the company stopped tests on its
experimental dalcetrapib cholesterol treatment after an
independent group of experts said the studies didn’t show
clinically meaningful efficacy.  A gauge of health-care companies was the  worst performer  of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, with  Nobel
Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  falling 1.5 percent to 10.61 francs and  Lonza
Group AG (LONN) , the world’s biggest maker of drug ingredients,
slipping 1.1 percent to 41.96 francs.  Adecco Retreats  Adecco dropped 1.8 percent to 39.25 francs, its lowest
price this year, after peer Michael Page International Plc said
it doesn’t expect a “fantastic” year, Finanz und Wirtschaft
reported, citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer Steve Ingham. Markets in Spain, Italy and the U.K. are “difficult”
and business with financial companies is “sluggish,” Ingham
was quoted as saying.  Geberit, Europe’s biggest maker of toilet flushing systems,
added 1.8 percent to 195 francs as a European construction
companies were the best-performing group in the Stoxx 600.
Holcim, the world’s second-largest cement maker, climbed 2.2
percent to 55.90 francs.  Sika AG (SIK) , Europe’s biggest maker of
chemicals used in construction, rose 1.4 percent to 1,916
francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  