-- U.K. RICS House-Price Gauge Declines to Six-Month Low
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-05-08T10:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/u-k-rics-house-price-gauge-drops-to-six-month-low.html
A U.K.  house-price index  fell to a
six-month low in April as demand weakened after a stamp-duty
exemption for first-time buyers ended, the  Royal Institution  of
Chartered Surveyors said.  The gauge dropped to minus 19 from minus 11 in March, which
was the highest since June 2010, according to a report today by
London-based RICS, which conducts a monthly poll of property
surveyors nationwide. A reading below zero means more surveyors
saw price drops than gains last month. An index of sales fell
below zero for the first time since September.  The  property market  is struggling to recover as tight
lending conditions and weak consumer confidence undermine
demand. With Britain suffering its first double-dip recession
since 1975,  Bank of England  policy makers must decide this week
whether the economy needs more stimulus to add to their existing
325 billion pounds ($525 billion) of bond purchases.  “The health of the housing market is a reverberation of
consumer confidence and credit availability,” said  Simon Hayes 
and Chris Crowe, economists at Barclays Plc in  London . “Unlike
some other countries, the U.K. market continues to be
fundamentally supported by a lack of supply, which is acting to
stave off sharper price declines; but it is hard at present to
see what might spur an improvement.”  Eleven of 12 U.K. regions tracked by RICS showed price
declines in April, with only London showing an increase.
Mortgage lender Halifax said last week that U.K.  house prices 
dropped 2.4 percent in April, the most in 1 1/2 years, while
 Nationwide Building Society  reported a 0.2 percent decline.  ‘Unhappy Outlook’  Barclays said the weak economy and pressure on banks to
“strengthen balance sheets against a prospective euro crisis
point to an unhappy outlook in the near term” for U.K. housing.  In the euro area, Greek political leaders are meeting for a
second day to try to form a government after New Democracy’s
Antonis Samaras, who won the most seats in Parliament, said he
couldn’t forge a coalition. The stalemate is fueling investor
concerns about the country’s ability to stick to the terms of
its bailout and remain in the single currency.  Greek borrowing costs rose at an auction of 26-week bills
today. The average yield of 4.69 percent compared with 4.55
percent at an auction on April 10.  The  European Central Bank  kept its benchmark  interest rate 
at a record-low 1 percent last week. The Bank of England will
probably maintain the size of its bond-purchase program
unchanged on May 10, according to 43 of 51 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . The remainder see an increase of at least
25 billion pounds.  German Surge  Elsewhere today, data showed that German  industrial
production  rose more than three times as much as economists
forecast in March, adding to signs Europe’s largest economy may
have avoided recession. Production jumped 2.8 percent from
February, when it dropped 0.3 percent. Economists forecast a
March gain of 0.8 percent. The February output was revised up
from a 1.3 percent decline.  Australia ’s  trade deficit  widened to A$1.59 billion ($1.6
billion), from a revised A$754 million shortfall in February,
the Bureau of Statistics said in a report in Sydney. The
government will unveil its budget today.  New Zealand ’s budget
deficit was NZ$787 million ($621 million) wider than forecast in
the nine months through March as  tax revenue  slowed.  In the U.S., confidence among  small businesses  probably
climbed in April, a Bloomberg survey showed ahead of a report by
the National Federation of  Independent Business  today.  U.K. Consumer  U.K. reports today presented a mixed picture of  consumers’
situation . Household spending fell 1.9 percent in April from the
previous month, Visa  Europe  said, citing an analysis of use of
its cards which it says account for 1 in 3 pounds of all
spending in Britain.  A measure of Britons’ assessment of  employment prospects  by
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets weakened 1 point to minus 59 in
April from March, when it jumped 11 points. An index of
consumers’ job security rose 3 points to minus 18.  Separately, Incomes Data Services said U.K. private-sector
pay settlements averaged 3 percent in the first quarter,
unchanged from the three months through February. That’s less
than the inflation rate, which was 3.5 percent in March.  A report from the  British Retail Consortium  showed
consumer-price growth cooling. It said its measure of  shop-price
inflation  slowed to 1.3 percent in April from 1.5 percent in
March, while annual gains in food prices cooled to 4.3 percent
from 5.4 percent. Non-food prices fell 0.5 percent from a year
earlier.  U.K. demand for homes was boosted earlier this year as
first-time buyers took advantage of a  tax exemption  on purchases
of some homes before it ended March 24. RICS said its property-
demand gauge fell to 5 in April from 10. While the end of the
tax holiday affected demand, it wasn’t the only negative factor,
according to RICS spokesman Peter Bolton King.  “Talk of a double-dip recession dominating the headlines
in recent weeks may well have served to undermine  consumer
confidence ,” he said. Also, “the continuing lack of affordable
mortgage finance is still hindering many first-time buyers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  