-- U.S. Treasury Sells $5.8 Billion of AIG Stock
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-07T22:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/u-s-treasury-sells-5-billion-of-aig-stock.html
The U.S. Treasury Department agreed to
 sell  about $5.8 billion of shares in  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  in a stock offering, with the bailed-out insurer
buying $2 billion of the total.  The Treasury is selling 188.5 million shares at $30.50
each, compared with the May 4 closing price of $32.83, the
department said today in an e-mailed statement. The transaction,
the government’s third  offering  of AIG’s shares since last May,
reduces the Treasury’s stake in the insurer to  61 percent  from
70 percent, according to the statement.  Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche, 67, has sold
assets to help raise funds to buy back shares from the U.S. The
company said in March that dividends from insurance subsidiaries
along with proceeds from divesting a plane-leasing unit, a stake
in Hong Kong-based AIA Group Ltd. and other holdings will allow
it to generate as much as $30 billion that could be returned to
shareholders by the end of 2015.  “The company has been able to monetize sales of non-core
assets and we expect this to continue for the longer term,”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Arun Kumar said in a note
to clients May 4, before the sale was announced.  AIG dropped 99 cents, or 3 percent, to $31.84 at 4 p.m. in
 New York . The insurer has advanced 37 percent since Dec. 31.  Access to Capital  The Treasury raised $5.8 billion in the first offering in
2011. At the same time, New York-based AIG sold 100 million
shares for $2.9 billion to demonstrate access to the  capital
markets  and satisfy a condition of its bailout. The insurer
bought half of the $6 billion in shares the department divested
in March. The day before that offering was announced, AIG raised
about $6 billion by selling part of its AIA holding.  Treasury divested its first two chunks of AIG stock at $29
a share. The government needs to average $28.72 to break even on
its investment. The insurer is responsible for paying the
Treasury’s underwriting fees to banks.  The U.S. rescued AIG in 2008 as the New York-based firm was
overwhelmed by losses on bets tied to mortgages. Its bailout
swelled to $182.3 billion as the government extended more credit
and reduced the interest charged.  The insurer paid back the balance on a Federal Reserve
credit line and the Treasury converted its preferred stake into
92 percent of the common stock in January 2011. The government’s
remaining investments in AIG total $39 billion after the share
offering announced yesterday, according to the Treasury.  Barclays, Citigroup  “We’re continuing to make significant progress exiting our
investment in AIG,” Tim Massad, the assistant secretary for
financial stability, said in the statement.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Credit
Suisse Group AG,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , UBS
AG and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  were the government’s banks on the
offering, according to the statement.  Underwriters exercised their option to purchase about
24.6 million shares of AIG common stock as part of the latest
transaction, the Treasury said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  