-- U.S. Says Bomb Plot Disrupted Before Public Threatened
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-05-07T23:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/u-s-says-bomb-plot-disrupted-before-public-threatened-1-.html
The U.S. disrupted a Yemen-based plot
to build a potentially undetectable bomb to blow up an airliner
in the month before the anniversary of Osama bin Laden’s death,
federal and congressional officials said.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  has the device and is
analyzing it, the agency said in a statement. The bomb is “very
similar” to devices used by al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
in previous attempted terror strikes, the FBI said.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , chairman of the Intelligence
Committee, said her staff was briefed by intelligence officials
who said the bomb was based on “the same device” used in a
failed attempt by the terror group to blow up a Detroit-bound
jetliner on Christmas 2009.  “This would have been an undetectable bomb coming in on an
American airliner into the  United States ,” Feinstein said.  Officials with the White House, CIA, FBI and Department of
Homeland Security declined to release details about the bomb’s
composition, when and where the device was seized and whether
the would-be bomber or others related to the plot are in
custody. The Department of  Homeland Security  said the device
targeted “the aviation sector.”  President  Barack Obama  was told of the plot in April, said
Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the National Security Council.  Not a Threat  “While the president was assured that the device did not
pose a threat to the public, he directed the Department of
Homeland Security and  law enforcement  and intelligence agencies
to take whatever steps necessary to guard against this type of
attack,” Hayden said in an e-mailed statement.  The  Associated Press , citing unnamed U.S. officials,
reported that the CIA seized the device before a would-be bomber
based in Yemen chose a target or bought airplane tickets, and
that the device was a more sophisticated version of the
explosive that was smuggled in the underwear of an al-Qaeda
operative on a U.S.-bound flight.  The device did not contain metal and that the FBI was
studying whether it could have passed airport body scanners
undetected, said the AP, which first reported the story.  Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, an offshoot of bin
Laden’s terror organization, also attempted to evade airline
security with bombs concealed in toner cartridges in 2010.  Failed Plots  Intelligence helped uncover the printer equipment smuggled
aboard two cargo flights from  Yemen , and a failed detonation
alerted fellow passengers who subdued the would-be bomber aboard
a Detroit-bound jet originating in Amsterdam.  The administration previously said there were no
indications that militants would use the May 2 anniversary of
bin Laden’s killing by a U.S. Navy SEAL team in  Pakistan  to
stage an attack.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters on
April 26 that “we have no credible information that terrorist
organizations, including al Qaeda, are plotting attacks in the
U.S. to coincide with the anniversary of bin Laden’s death.”  He said al-Qaeda affiliates “remain intent on conducting
attacks in the homeland, possibly to avenge the death of bin
Laden, but not necessarily tied to the anniversary.”  Obama’s counter terrorism adviser  John Brennan  said in an
April 30 speech in Washington that al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula is the terrorist group’s “most active affiliate, and
it continues to seek the opportunity to strike our homeland.”
He did not mention any bomb plot around the anniversary.  Maine Senator  Susan Collins , the top Republican on the
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, said
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano didn’t draw a
connection between the anniversary of bin Laden’s death and the
plot when she briefed members of Congress.  “It’s a credit to the intelligence-based approach that we
are taking to airplane security that the plot was thwarted
before it could be carried out,” Collins said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  