-- UBS Bets on Toxic Debt Demand After Fed’s Record Sale: Mortgages
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-05-07T17:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/ubs-bets-on-toxic-debt-demand-after-fed-s-record-sale-mortgages.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , which had more than $57
billion of losses and writedowns after the U.S. real-estate
crash, is betting there’s enough demand for toxic commercial
property assets to sell debt created at the height of the boom.  The bank is seeking buyers this week for collateralized
debt obligations assembled in 2007 with a face value of $1.5
billion that contain securities tied to skyscrapers, malls and
hotel loans. UBS is trying to follow the Federal  Reserve Bank  of
New York’s record $7.5 billion sale of similar bonds last month
acquired in the 2008 rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   The Fed unlocked a corner of the $600 billion commercial-
mortgage backed  securities market  that’s been dormant for more
than four years.  Hedge funds , insurers and money managers bought
the bonds to gain higher returns as the U.S. central bank
pledges to hold  interest rates  near zero through at least 2014,
with AIG buying $600 million of the debt, according to the New
York-based insurer’s Chief Executive OfficerRobert Benmosche.  “CMBS is very compelling in an environment where interest
rates may remain low for some time,” said  Richard Hill , an
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “There has been a lot of cash on the sidelines
that is now being put to work as investors search for higher
yielding assets.”  One benchmark gauge of commercial-mortgage debt has risen
2.4 cents to 59 cents on the dollar this year, up from 46.6 in
October, according to Markit Group Ltd. data.  Bids for the securities are due May 9, Torie Von Alt, a
spokeswoman for Zurich-based UBS said last week. She declined to
comment further.  Inflate Values  The CDOs, dubbed Wave when they were arranged by Wachovia
Corp. in 2007, pull together 64 bonds from commercial-mortgage
securities deals, according to RBS. Moody’s Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor’s  gave pieces of the deals their top
ratings.  These type of transactions helped inflate values by
channeling cheap financing to landlords until sales dried up in
2007. Commercial property prices fell more than 38 percent from
August 2007 and are still 7 percent below that level, according
to a Green Street Advisors index.  About $107 billion of CDOs linked to commercial property
loans are currently outstanding, according to RBS data. CDOs are
pools of assets, such as securities or loans, sliced into new
debt of varying risk and return.  Loans Deteriorate  Moody’s cut the ratings on one of the Wave deals in
February to Caa1, the seventh-lowest level of junk, as property
loans deteriorated.  Late payments on commercial mortgages packaged into bonds
jumped 35 basis points in April, exceeding 10 percent for the
first time, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. The recent rise
was in part because of loans originated during the peak coming
due, according to analysts led by Roger Lehman. The rate of
increase had shown signs of slowing prior to that jump, he said.  “We are at or close to the bottom” in the commercial real
estate market, said Nick Levidy, an analyst at Moody’s. That
doesn’t mean the riskiest bonds are out of the woods.  Lower-rated bonds, which absorb losses first as defaults
climb, can be damaged if a single building loses a tenant and
can’t cover the rent, said Levidy.  “There is always a degree of idiosyncratic risk associated
with commercial real estate,” he said.  Replicate Fed’s Success  UBS is attempting to replicate the Fed’s success, which
held the bonds in its Maiden Lane III vehicle.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  last month beat out two
other teams of Wall Street banks to win the auction, paying an
estimated price of about 67 cents on the dollar,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  analysts said in an April 27 report. That translates into
about $5 billion compared with the $4.2 billion valuation the
Fed assigned to the portfolio in December, according to the
district bank’s website.  The so-called Max CDOs, created by Deutsche Bank in 2007
and 2008, bundled securities from 103 commercial-mortgage bond
deals. The banks broke apart the transactions and sold
underlying bonds to investors.  The deals had a face value of about $7.5 billion, of which
$3.4 billion have been cut to junk after being granted top
grades at issuance, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)  data.  Dealers are looking to break apart the Wave deals, similar
to the strategy used by Barclays and Deutsche Bank, and have
been taking bids on securities held within the CDOs, JPMorgan
analysts led by Edward Reardon wrote in a May 4 report. The
bonds are “generally weaker credits,” with more than two
thirds of the debt ranked below investment-grade, the analysts
said.  AIG Buying  Commercial-mortgage debt values initially slid when the Fed
said April 4 that it was considering selling the assets, on
concern there wouldn’t be enough buyers. Demand proved to be
“robust”, Citigroup analysts led by Jeffrey Berenbaum said in
an April 27 report.  AIG bought $600 million of the debt as part of its
investment portfolio, Benmosche said on a May 4 conference call
discussing first quarter results.  “AIG’s appetite for this risk should mean that the asset
sales will continue,” Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analysts led
byJosh Stirling said in a May 4 note to clients.  The  New York  Fed said last week it’s also seeking bids for
parts of two CDOs tied to home-loan debt, also acquired from the
AIG rescue, after receiving “several strong” unsolicited bids.
In January and February, the bank sold $19.2 billion of home-
loan bonds that helped to unwind its separate Maiden Lane II
vehicle at a profit of $2.8 billion for taxpayers.  ‘Dry Powder’  “Low interest rates create certain incentives by design,”
said Bill Stasiulatis, a managing director at Torchlight
Investors, a New York-based commercial real-estate investment
firm. “People need to take on risk. These are opportunities for
them to put large amounts of capital to work.”  While the Fed’s MAX trade shows demand for CMBS has
improved considerably since a sell-off last fall, the level of
potential supply creates challenges, the JPMorgan analysts
wrote.  “A great deal of ‘dry powder’ that was allocated to the
sector has now been deployed in these trades,” the analysts
wrote. With many investors already overweight the debt, or
holding more than in benchmark indexes, CMBS spreads have
limited potential to narrow in the near-term, they said.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries has dropped 20
basis points to 184 basis points since April 11 and is down from
261 basis points in December. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Reservoir of Demand  “There appears to a sizeable reservoir of pent-up demand
awaiting such opportunities as there are relatively few
comparable alternatives in credit currently,” saidChris Sullivan, who oversees $1.9 billion as chief investment officer
at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New York.  Still, with  Europe ’s debt crisis unresolved, and U.S.
 employers  adding fewer workers than forecast in April, prices
may be unlikely to rise in the near term, he said.  “There are sufficient macro risks on the horizon that also
argue for further concession in the prices of these assets to
make them a compelling trade from here,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 