-- Uchumi Supermarkets Rises to Highest Since 2006 on Valuation
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-05-07T16:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/uchumi-supermarkets-rises-to-highest-since-2006-on-valuation-1-.html
Uchumi Supermarkets Ltd. (UCSP) ,  Kenya ’s only
publicly traded retail chain, climbed to the highest since 2006
on speculation the shares are cheap relative to regional peers
even after almost doubling this year.  The stock climbed 2.1 percent higher at 14.90 shillings,
the highest since May 2006, by the 3 p.m. close of trading in
the capital, Nairobi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The benchmark All Share Index fell 0.4 percent.  The retailer has climbed 94 percent this year, the biggest
advance among shares in the benchmark gauge, to trade at 10
times reported earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , a South African retailer
controlled by Wal-Mart Stores Inc., has a price-to-earnings
ratio of 34, and  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. , a Cape Town-based
supermarket chain, is valued at 32 time profit, the data show.  “There is a sense that the company has turned around and
if you compare it with its peers, other supermarkets are trading
at much higher multiples,” Aly Khan Satchu, chief executive
officer of Nairobi-based investment company  Rich Management ,
said in a phone interview today.  The company’s pretax profit for the six months through
December climbed 26 percent to 204.3 million shillings ($2.5
million), Uchumi said in January. Nairobi-based Kestrel Capital
( East Africa ) Ltd. recommended investors buy the stock in March
initiating coverage with a price estimate of 15 shilling, saying
the board of directors was likely to deliberate on the company’s
dividend policy at the end of the financial year in June.  Uchumi resumed trading in Nairobi in May 2011, following a
five-year suspension, after most of its debts were cleared and
others were converted into shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  