-- Lufthansa Appoints Menne to Become Sole Female DAX CFO
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-05-07T22:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/lufthansa-appoints-bmi-s-menne-as-cfo-to-replace-gemkow.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  appointed Simone
Menne, who has worked for the carrier since 1989, to succeed
Stephan Gemkow, making her the sole female chief financial
officer in the DAX index of the 30 largest German companies.  Menne, currently CFO at the company’s former BMI unit, will
assume her new role on July 1, Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. She will also be
Lufthansa’s first female board member, spokesman Christoph Meier
said yesterday by telephone.  “In Simone Menne we are appointing to the board an
experienced Lufthansa manager who knows the company and the
industry very well,” said Chairman Juergen Weber.  German Labor Minister Ursula von Leyen has repeatedly
called for gender quotas in DAX companies’ management and
supervisory boards. She told Bild-Zeitung in April that they
remain behind medium-sized companies, who have increased the
share of women in leading positions to 30 percent.  In succeeding Gemkow, who will leave June 30 to become
chief executive officer at Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH, 51-year-old
Menne will help supervise a profit improvement plan that aims to
save 1.5 billion euros by 2014 and will lead to the loss of
3,500 administrative jobs worldwide.  The job cuts, 2,500 of them in  Germany , will help deliver
one third of the savings Lufthansa is seeking through 2014. A
global purchasing project will also shave 200 million euros from
expenses this year, and “traffic optimization” should recoup
at least 10 million euros.  Europe ’s second-biggest airline, which has about 117,000
employees, 16,800 of them in clerical posts, said last week its
first-quarter operating loss widened to 381 million euros. That
was bigger than analysts had estimated, as economies slowed and
fuel costs weighed on earnings.  Prior to assuming the role in June 2010 of CFO at BMI,
which Lufthansa sold to  International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG)  in April, Menne led finance and accounting at the
Lufthansa Technik support unit. She was also a project manager
reorganizing revenue management at the passenger airline in the
late 1990s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  