-- Underage Drinkers Buy Alcohol Online With Few Barriers
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-07T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/underage-drinkers-buy-alcohol-online-with-few-barriers.html
Underage  drinkers  successfully bought
alcohol online in about half their attempts, according to a
study that found the illegal purchases went through even when
little attempt was made to disguise the buyer’s true age.  Researchers at the University of  North Carolina  at  Chapel
Hill  recruited eight young adults, ages 18 to 20, to buy wine,
alcohol, beer or other adult beverages from 100 popular websites
in the $2.4 billion industry. All were given a letter of
immunity from the local  district attorney . Their efforts are
detailed in the  Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine .  Of the orders, 45 were received, 28 were rejected after the
delivery company tried to verify the buyer’s age and 11 were
sent back when no one was home to receive them. Another 16 went
awry for reasons like technical glitches unrelated to age. While
the researchers allowed buyers to fabricate a birth date on an
online purchase form, they had to show their real identification
if they were asked for it. In many cases, the official document
didn’t prevent the purchase, the study found.  “The fact that there are literally thousands of online
outlets selling alcohol and that purchase attempts by underage
persons are successful almost half of the time tells us how
insufficient the protections are for our youth,” said David
Jernigan, director of the  Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth 
at Johns Hopkins School of  Public Health  in Baltimore. “The
bottom line is that alcohol regulation and enforcement are
simply not keeping up with new technologies.”  Wine Shipments  The wine industry’s efforts to ship products across the
country contributed to a loosening of commerce restrictions that
aided underage internet alcohol sales, said researchers led by
Rebecca Williams from UNC’s Center for Health Promotion and
Disease Prevention. The U.S. Supreme Court in 2005 ruled that
laws banning out-of-state wineries from shipping to consumers in
Michigan and  New York  were unconstitutional because they
interfered with free trade.  Most of the deliveries in the study were made by  FedEx
Corp. (FDX)  or  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , which have rules for age
verification at delivery for wine shipments. Neither ships any
other type of alcohol. It’s illegal to mail alcohol through the
U.S. Postal Service.  A second set of studies found that one in eight high school
seniors said they have used prescription pain medicines to get
high or for other non-medical purposes. Sixteen-year-olds are
most likely to start abusing prescription pain pills, according
to a survey of 138,729 youths ages 12 to 21.  The findings show prevention efforts that start at the end
of high school are missing the window, said researchers led by
Elizabeth Meier, from  Michigan  State University in East Lansing.  “With the peak risk at age 16 years and a notable
acceleration in risk between ages 13 and 14 years, any strict
focus on college students or 12th graders might be an example of
too little, too late,” they concluded. “There is reason to
strengthen earlier school-based prevention programs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  