-- UN Sees Risk of Unrest From Food Costs Above 10-Year Average
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-05-07T08:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/united-nations-cites-risk-of-social-unrest-from-high-food-prices.html
Food  prices  may stabilize at high
levels and keep government import bills near a record,
increasing the risk of social unrest in the world’s least
developed countries, the  United Nations  said.  The UN Food & Agriculture Organization is asking
international lenders to accelerate the release of funds to help
poor countries cope with high food costs through subsidies and
avert riots,  Hiroyuki Konuma , assistant director general at the
FAO, said in an interview.  Global food costs are about 40 percent above the  average  in
the past 10 years, according to a UN gauge, which tracks 55
commodities. Drought in  South America , the biggest soybean-
growing region, has wilted harvests, helping the organization’s
measure of  cooking-oil  prices advance to the highest level in
nine months in April, even as bigger supplies of corn, rice and
wheat pushed  cereal  prices lower.  “This is the danger that we’re looking at,” Konuma said
on May 3. When governments are unable to subsidize food and are
forced to pass on higher costs, “then you see the youth riot
and you have social unrest,” he said.  High food prices contributed to riots across northern
 Africa  and the  Middle East  that toppled leaders from  Tunisia  to
 Egypt  in 2011. They also triggered more than 60 riots worldwide
from 2007 to 2009, according to the U.S. State Department.  Soybean Shortage  Soybean futures surged to $15.125 a bushel on May 2, the
highest level since July 2008, on concern global stockpiles of
the oilseed crushed to make cooking oil and animal feed, will
drop as production trails behind demand. July-delivery soybeans
traded at $14.665 at 4:14 p.m. Singapore time today.  “This trend may continue the rest of this year and early
next year,” Konuma said in Manila where he attended the Asian
Development Bank annual meeting. “With the level of subsidies
remaining high along with world prices, these countries would be
facing greater deficits and hence would need to raise revenues,
which in effect would put more distress on the poor.”  Government food import bills may total $1.24 trillion this
year, 5 percent below the record last year, even as farmers
boost planting of grains and dairy prices decline, Konuma said.
The cost was $1.04 trillion in 2010, the FAO said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Manila  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  