-- Turkish Lira Weakens to Two-Week Low on European Election Result
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-07T15:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/turkish-lira-weakens-to-two-week-low-on-european-election-result.html
The lira headed for the weakest close
in almost two weeks after French and Greek election results
raised concern the  European debt crisis  may worsen, reducing
risk appetite for emerging-market currencies.  The lira depreciated 0.3 percent to 1.7634 per dollar at
5:07 p.m. in Istanbul, the lowest level since April 25 on a
closing basis. The  yield  on two-year benchmark debt rose two
basis points, or 0.02 of a percentage point, to 9.46 percent,
the highest in three weeks.  The euro retreated to a three-month low against the dollar
after French Socialist Francois Hollande was elected president
and Greek voters backed anti-bailout parties. Hollande pledged
to push for less austerity. He called for policies German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opposes, including increased spending
and delayed deficit-reduction. The European Union buys about
half of Turkish exports.  “We are generally seeing markets in a risk-off mode which
is due to the election outcomes in France and  Greece ,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ,
said in e-mailed comments. “The crisis is likely to linger and
decision making with the European Monetary Union is going to be
harder too,” she added.  The Turkish central bank refrained from lending at the
lowest policy rate of 5.75 percent for a second day in its repo
auctions. A government report showed last week  inflation 
accelerated to 11.1 percent in April from 10.4 percent in the
previous month, the highest yearly advance in 3 1/2 years, as
food and energy costs rose. The bank instead provided 3.3
billion liras in overnight  repurchase agreements  at 11 percent
and 3 billion liras in one-week repo auction at 10.76 percent
average rate.  “The lira is holding up quite well in this environment
though, which is due to the central bank’s monetary policy,”
Nguyen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  