-- Murray Says Canada Rate Can Be Off Neutral When Price Target Met
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-05-07T21:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/murray-says-canada-rate-can-be-off-neutral-when-price-target-met.html
Bank of Canada Deputy Governor  John Murray  said it’s a misconception that policy makers must
maintain interest rates at a “neutral” level when inflation is
near the central bank’s target and the economy is close to full
output.  Murray, one of six people who set the central bank’s key
interest rate, including Governor  Mark Carney , said the group
must look ahead to pressures that may take  inflation  away from
their 2 percent goal even when the economy is balanced.  “Headwinds and tailwinds are often present, threatening to
push economic activity and inflation higher or lower,” Murray,
63, said in the text of a speech he’s giving today in Vancouver.
“ Monetary policy  needs to lean against these forces with
opposing pressure from higher or lower  interest rates  in order
to stabilize the economy and to keep inflation on target.”  The bank’s April 17 policy decision said that a rate
increase “may become appropriate” because of a faster-than-
expected recovery. Murray’s speech didn’t update the bank’s
current economic outlook. The  benchmark  overnight lending cost
has been at 1 percent since September 2010, the longest pause
since the 1950s.  Today’s speech echoes earlier comments by Carney, who said
in September he has “considerable flexibility” in how fast
inflation returns to the bank’s target, and said that investors
shouldn’t expect him to rely on “mechanical rules” in setting
interest rates.  Murray also reiterated that monetary policy can be used to
guard against financial-market excesses in “exceptional
circumstances” where regulation and other tools fail.  Most of Murray’s speech dealt with the process by which the
central bank comes to an interest-rate decision. He spoke to a
mortgage broker group in Vancouver, where officials have said
they are worried about a surge in the city’s condominium market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at   gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 