-- Hutchison Sees Regulatory Approval for Orange by ‘Mid-Year’
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-05-07T16:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/hutchison-counts-on-regulatory-approval-in-austria-by-mid-year-.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  is counting on
regulatory approval for its takeover of Austrian mobile operator
Orange by the middle of this year, the company said today in a
statement.  Hutchison, the telecommunications company owned by Hong
Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , today submitted the deal to
European Union regulatory authorities, the company said in an
 OTS statement .  Hutchison agreed to acquire Orange Austria in February in a
deal valued at 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion). Hutchison plans
to merge its Austrian 3 unit with Orange, making it the
country’s third-biggest mobile provider after  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) 
and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile Austria.  A side-deal, in which Telekom Austria is acquiring some of
Orange’s assets and customers, requires regulatory approval in
 Austria  and will be submitted later to allow both transactions
to be signed off at about the same time, Hutchison said.  While Austria’s Federal Competition Authority has said the
deal may have to be amended, Telekom Austria Chief Financial
Officer Hans Tschuden said in February that he is confident that
the company won’t have to make any divestitures.  Austria last month decided to postpone an auction for
wireless spectrum scheduled for September citing the
transaction.  “This takeover can’t be approved without restrictions,”
T-Mobile Austria said in a separate statement following today’s
announcement. An approval in the current form would grant
Hutchison and Telekom Austria “unacceptable competitive
advantages in building” a fourth generation long-term
evolution, or LTE, network, the company said, calling for a
“comprehensive reorganization of frequencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Tirone at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net  