-- Vanke, Gemdale Fall After Mortgage Discount Ends: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-07T09:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/vanke-poly-slide-after-mortgage-discount-ends-shanghai-mover.html
China   Vanke (000002)  Co. and  Gemdale Corp. (600383) 
 paced losses  among shares of Chinese developers on concern a
suspension of discounts for first-time mortgages will weigh on
property sales.  Vanke, China’s largest developer by market value, sank 1.6
percent to 9.07  yuan  at the close of Shenzhen trading. Gemdale
slumped 2.5 percent in Shanghai, pacing a 0.7 percent retreat on
the Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index. The measure was the
biggest decliner among the five industry groups making up the
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)   Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
largest lender by market value, suspended a 15 percent discount
on mortgages for first-time home buyers nationwide, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported May 5. The decision, made primarily
to address liquidity tightness and deposit instability, may be
followed by the other large Chinese lenders including  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and Bank of China Ltd., according to
Religare Capital Markets.  The change “is likely to cause some short-term dampening
in sentiment towards China property stocks and some potential
buyers,” Karen Kwan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Religare,
said in a note today. Still, the brokerage remains positive on
Chinese property as the move isn’t a change in government
policy, she wrote.  The Shanghai property index has rallied 23 percent this
year, outpacing the 11 percent gain in the Shanghai Composite
Index, even as  home prices  declined. March home prices fell in a
record 37 of 70 cities tracked by the government, as officials
pledged to keep restrictions on property purchases that have
sapped buyer demand.  Shares of developers with the largest land banks in
Chongqing and Shanghai are the “most vulnerable,” Religare
said. These include Hong Kong-traded  Shui On Land Ltd. (272)  and  C C
Land Holdings Ltd. (1224) , according to the brokerage.  Shui On Land dropped 1.8 percent to HK$3.27. C C Land
dipped 5.9 percent to HK$1.60, the largest loss since March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  