-- Vertex Cystic Fibrosis Combo Aids Breathing in Patients
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-05-07T20:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/vertex-cystic-fibrosis-combo-aids-breathing-in-patients.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , maker of
the first medicine to target the underlying cause of cystic
fibrosis, gained the most ever after a combination of that drug
and a second therapy improved patients’ breathing ability.  Vertex climbed 55 percent to $58.12 at the close of New
York trading, its biggest increase since the company’s shares
began trading publicly in 1991. The combination of Kalydeco,
approved in January, and the experimental VX-809 improved lung
function by at least five percentage points in 46 percent of
patients in a mid-stage study, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based company said today in a statement.  The results are from an interim review of 48 patients after
56 days. Vertex said it plans to start the third and final stage
of clinical trials required for marketing approval, pending
final data and talks with regulators. The patients in the
treatment arm had two copies of the most-common cystic fibrosis-
related gene mutation, called F508del.  “The company had been advising analysts to not expect a
lung-function benefit in this trial; well, they were wrong,”
said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in  New York , in
a note to investors today.  “This is a major upside surprise,” he said. “This
opportunity could increase the eligible patient pool by up to 10
times.”  Two Copies of Gene  About 70,000 people worldwide have CF, and almost half
carry two copies of that mutation. About 30 percent of patients
in the treatment portion of the study saw improvement of 10
percent or more. No patients on placebo improved that much.  “People with two copies of the F508del mutation have one
of the most-severe forms of cystic fibrosis,” said  Chris
Wright , Vertex’s senior vice president of global medicines
development and medical affairs, in the statement. “In these
patients, the combination of VX-809 and Kalydeco led to
significant improvements in lung function that exceeded our
expectations.”  Improvements in breathing were measured by how much air a
patient can exhale in one second, called forced expiratory
volume, or FEV-1. Kalydeco, the first medicine to target the
underlying cause of CF, was approved for a mutation affecting
about 4 percent of CF patients after a three-month review at the
 Food and Drug Administration  based on studies that showed
improvements on that gauge.  ‘Most-Important Marker’  The company had indicated it would decide whether to
progress to the next phase of studies based on a different
metric, sweat chloride levels,  Jason Kantor , an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets , wrote in an April 26 note. Vertex said those
results weren’t statistically significant for the combination
therapy at this stage in the trial.  “Lung function is the single most-important marker of
disease progression for people with cystic fibrosis,” said
 Michael P. Boyle , lead investigator of the study and director of
the Johns Hopkins Adult Cystic Fibrosis Center. “Improvement in
lung function is the goal of every new CF therapy.”  Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease caused by
malfunctions in the proteins that help ferry salt and water in
and out of cells. The body produces a thick mucus that clogs the
lungs and causes infections and damage, and most patients die
before age 40. Sweat chloride is a measure of how well the
proteins are functioning.  Vertex reported data from the first stage of the study in
June, missing analysts’ expectations for reductions in sweat
chloride after 21 days. The shares sank the most in 20 months.  “The key question is whether such a change in sweat
chloride will translate into an improvement in lung function,”
 Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen & Co., wrote in a research
report at the time.  The results reported today were from about half of the
patients in this portion of the study. Safety was similar in
those receiving the treatment and placebo, and the trial is
still going, Vertex said. Complete data, including from patients
with just one copy of the F508del mutation, are expected mid-
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  