-- Village Evaluating 1 Billion-Rand Offer for Tau Mine
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-05-07T15:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/village-evaluating-1-billion-rand-offer-for-tau-mine.html
Village Main Reef Ltd. (VIL)  rose the most
in two weeks after the South African gold miner said it’s
evaluating an unsolicited binding offer of 1 billion rand ($127
million) for its Tau mine from Tannous Investment Group.  The offer amount for the Tau Lekoa mine near Orkney,
southwest of Johannesburg, is “well short of the company’s own
valuation” and an independent financial adviser will be
appointed to evaluate it, Village said today in a statement.  The company expects to complete a business optimization
process at Tau later in June though Village won’t sell the gold
mine for that amount, Chief Executive Officer Bernard Swanepoel
said.  We’re “not sellers” at that level, Swanepoel said today
on a conference call. “It’s worth a lot more,” saying the mine
will contribute about 600 million rand at a “cash operating
level” this year.  Village, which acquired Tau in June 2011 as part of its its
purchase of  Simmer & Jack Mines Ltd. (SIM) , reduced cash costs at Tau
by 5.4 percent a kilogram in the quarter ended March when
compared with the previous quarter, the company said.  The shares jumped 7.1 percent, the most since April 24, to
1.67 rand at the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, paring their
decline this year to 19 percent.  Village also received a non-binding offer of 85 million
rand, subject to the completion of a due-diligence study, for
its Weltevreden assets that are contiguous to the Tau mine. The
board supports the disposal of these assets, the company said.  Marius Saaiman, who was chief executive officer of Simmer &
Jack until it was bought by Village, was named joint CEO of
Village with Swanepoel. Saaiman was chief financial officer at
Village until May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  