-- VIX Lowest to CDS Since ’09 as Stock Hedges Trail Bonds
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-05-07T20:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/vix-lowest-to-cds-since-09-as-stock-hedges-trail-bonds.html
Risk perceptions among U.S. equity and
credit investors are diverging the most since 2009 as signs of
an economic slowdown spur bigger increases in prices to protect
against losses in bonds than stocks.  The  VIX (VIX) , the benchmark gauge of U.S. equity derivatives
that usually rises when shares fall, closed last week at 0.032
times the level of the Markit CDX North America High Yield
Index, which increases when confidence in debt issuers
deteriorates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
near the 2 1/2-year low of 0.027 times reached in March.  While the VIX is 21 percent below its one-year average
after sinking 58 percent since October, the gauge of credit-
default swaps is only 2.4 percent less than the mean. Worsening
economic data and concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is intensifying
may make stockholders more inclined to hedge their gains,
according to Belmont Capital Group’s Stephen Solaka.  “This could signal we have seen lows in the VIX,” Solaka,
who oversees about $50 million including options as co-founder
of Belmont Capital in  Los Angeles , wrote in a May 4 e-mail.
“After the  rally  we have had, I would also expect investors are
looking to hedge gains in indexes, which would keep volatility
bid.”  The ratio between the VIX and the Markit index, which
tracks swaps on junk-rated issuers in  North America , narrowed
last week as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted a 2.4
percent drop, the biggest weekly slump since December. The gap
increased from 0.029 on May 1, jumping on May 4 after U.S.
employers added fewer jobs than economists forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  VIX Surges  The VIX fell 1.2 percent to 18.94 today after gaining 17
percent last week, the most since February. It reached the
lowest level since June 2007 on March 26 at 14.26. The Markit
gauge rose 3.1 percent to 595.27 basis points last week. The
VStoxx Index, which measures the cost of Euro Stoxx 50 Index
options, fell 1.6 percent to 28.92 today.  The  S&P 500  has slipped 3.5 percent from its April 2 high
after economic data weakened. The Citigroup U.S. Economic
Surprise Index, a gauge of how much reports differ from
economists’ estimates, turned  negative  on April 25 following six
months of positive readings. The Labor Department said last week
that non-farm payrolls increased by 115,000 in April, the
smallest gain in six months and less than the median economist
projection of 160,000.  The benchmark measure for U.S. stocks surged 13 percent in
2012 through April 2 and posted the biggest  first-quarter 
advance since 1998. U.S. high-yield debt returned 5.2 percent
during the first three months of the year, while investment-
grade securities gained 2.4 percent, according to data compiled
by Bank of America Corp.  Divergence  “The S&P 500 has outperformed in the first part of 2012,
and this has created a divergence between it and other risk
assets,” Andrew Greeley, a senior managing director at
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Acorn Derivatives Management Corp.,
which manages more than $500 million in volatility assets, said
in a May 4 interview. “Either other assets stabilize, driving
premiums on credit lower, or the S&P 500 should correct, pushing
the VIX higher.”  The euro fell today after  Nicolas Sarkozy , the French
president who partnered with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to
promote European austerity, was defeated by Socialist  Francois Hollande  yesterday. At the same time, Merkel’s party had its
worst result in more than half a century in the northern German
state of Schleswig-Holstein.  In  Greece , an exit poll showed voters flocked to anti-
bailout parties, throwing doubt on whether the two main parties,
New Democracy and Pasok, can form a coalition to implement
spending cuts.  Too Pessimistic  Investors are too pessimistic about the outlook for
equities, making it likely that sellers have already dumped
shares and leaving stocks poised to rally,  Northern Trust
Corp. (NTRS) ’s  James McDonald  said. The last time the VIX was this low
in relation to high-yield CDS spreads, the S&P 500 was in the
fourth month of a  bull market  that’s now lasted more than three
years.  Equity mutual funds tracked by the  Investment Company
Institute  recorded $16 billion of outflows with less than a week
to go last month, on pace for the worst April since at least
1984. More than 34 percent of forecasters surveyed by Investors
Intelligence said stocks will fall 10 percent, the highest
proportion at this time of year since Bloomberg began tracking
the data in 1989.  ‘Already Positioned’  “Sentiment around the world now is fairly negative,”
McDonald, chief investment strategist at Northern Trust in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview on May 2. His firm
manages $716.5 billion. “The negative sentiment is a positive
for the markets because it means that people have already
positioned for bad news.”  When stock volatility is low relative to high-yield
spreads, investors may want to protect their holdings by buying
equity market volatility using options, according to Peter Cecchini, global head of institutional equity derivatives at New
York-based Cantor Fitzgerald LP.  “Credit tends to lead equities through the cycle,”
Cecchini said in a May 3 telephone interview. “The failure of
high-yield spreads to pull back to recent lows, while equity
volatility has pulled back to recent lows, may be indicative of
the fact we’re going to see more equity volatility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  