-- Volatility Drop Means Treasuries Steady Into Election
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-05-07T12:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/volatility-drop-means-treasuries-steady-into-election.html
The collapse in price swings of  U.S.
government debt  to a four-year low shows increasing investor
confidence that yields will stay at about record lows amid
growing competition for a dwindling supply of the safest assets.  Rates may stay steady beyond June, when the  Federal Reserve 
finishes swapping $400 billion of short-term debt for longer-
term securities in a program known as Operation Twist, based on
a measure of volatility in three-month options for U.S. 10-year
 interest-rate swaps . The so-called  3m10y swaption  rate is about
the lowest since June 2007, when the housing bubble burst.  While yields on Treasury due in 10 years or less are below
the pace of inflation, demand is at record highs as reports on
jobs signal that the recovery may not be as robust as forecast
and as  Europe ’s debt crisis flares again. The  International
Monetary Fund  now says the amount of global assets that
investors consider “safe” will shrink by $9 trillion by 2016.  “We have no sellers,”  Charles Comiskey , head of trading
at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in New York, one of the 21 primary
dealers of U.S. government securities that trade with the Fed,
said in a phone interview on April 30.  Investors remain wary of Europe, where Greece, Portugal and
Ireland have sought bailouts, and the potential for weaker
growth in the U.S., according to Comiskey, who began his career
in the debt markets at Morgan Stanley in 1985.  ‘Next Shoe’  “It’s almost as though the Treasury market’s waiting for
the next shoe to drop,” he said.  Declining volatility in Treasuries,  stocks  and currencies
this year come as central banks inject trillions of dollars into
the global financial system.  Bank of America Corp.’s Market Risk index, which measures
future price swings implied by options on equities, fixed-
income, currencies and commodities, fell to minus 0.69 on May 1,
the lowest since October 2007 and down from positive 0.28 at the
beginning of the year. A negative number means lower-than-normal
volatility expectations based on data going back to 2000.  Ten-year Treasury notes rose in each of the past seven
weeks, the longest rally since the period ended Dec. 19, 2008.
Its yield fell six basis points last week, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 1.88 percent in  New York , Bloomberg Bond Trader prices
show. The benchmark 2 percent security due in February 2022
gained 16/32, or $5 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 2/32.  No ‘Traction’  Yields fell as low as 1.87 percent on May 4 after the Labor
Department said payrolls climbed 115,000 in April, the smallest
increase in six months. The median estimate of 85 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 160,000 advance.  Ten-year yields slid as low as 1.82 percent today, the
least since Feb. 3 after elections in France and Greece raised
concern governments in the region will slow or abandon deficit-
cutting plans used to combat Europe’s debt crisis.  The record low yield was 1.67 percent in September 2011,
compared with the average over the past 20 years of 4.93
percent.  “You’ve got this economy that can’t get any sustained
period of traction,” Mitchell Stapley, the  Grand Rapids ,
Michigan-based chief fixed-income officer for Fifth Third Asset
Management, said in a telephone interview. Fifth Third oversees
$22 billion in assets.  Investors are hesitant to abandon the safety of Treasuries
without further signs of strength in the global economy,
especially Europe. The economy of the 17 nations that share the
euro will shrink 0.3 percent in 2012 after expanding 1.4 percent
in 2011, the IMF said April 17. The Washington-based lender said
world growth would slow to 3.5 percent from 3.9 percent.  Volatility Outlook  Economic concerns and tame inflation outweigh a  U.S. budget
deficit  exceeding $1 trillion and an increase in marketable
Treasury  securities  outstanding to $10.4 trillion from $4.34
trillion in mid-2007.  Options on swaps, whose rates historically have mirrored
the trend in Treasury yields, also signal that traders see
little risk for big swings through the next 12 months, past the
November U.S. election between President  Barack Obama  and likely
challenger  Mitt Romney .  Normalized volatility  on one-year options for 10-year U.S.
interest rate swaps, or 1y10y swaptions, reached as low as 85.5
basis points on May 4, the lowest since November 2007. Swap
rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types of debt,
including securities backed by mortgages and auto loans.  ‘No Longer Useful’  Hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  joined investors including
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , the manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, in saying the Fed’s monetary
policy is adding to the risk of future inflation and economic
disruptions.  The central bank has kept its target rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since 2008, and has purchased $2.3 trillion
of bonds. The current program, Operation Twist, ends next month.  Our enthusiasm is tempered by “general inflation connected
to the Fed’s continued insistence on maintaining an emergency
zero percent interest-rate policy, which we believe is no longer
useful or effective,” Einhorn, who runs  Greenlight Capital Re
Ltd. (GLRE) , said on a conference call with investors May 1.  Futures traders are hedging against a slump in bonds. The
number of contracts hedge funds and other large speculators hold
betting on a drop in 10-year note futures prices exceeded wagers
on a rise last month by the most since May 2010, data from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The so-called  net short  position reached 212,127 contracts
in the week ended April 3, before retreating to a 144,756 in the
period ended May 1.  Craving Safety  “While we don’t think Treasury rates are going to spike
any time soon, we think with the 10-year yield under 2 percent
is definitely at an area of relative unattractiveness,”  Michael Materasso , co-chairman of the fixed-income policy committee at
Franklin Templeton Investments in New York, said in a telephone
interview May 2. The firm oversees $320 billion of bonds.  Yields on bonds in  Germany  are even lower than Treasuries,
with 10-year bunds ending last week at 1.58 percent. In  Japan ,
the equivalent note’s yield was 0.89 percent. Demand is also
being fed by  banks  needing to meet reserve rules under the Dodd-
Frank financial-overhaul law in the U.S. and Basel III
regulations set by the Bank for International Settlements in
Basel, Switzerland, the  IMF wrote  in an April 18 report.  “People are craving safe assets,” said Yiu Chung Cheung,
who sells derivatives at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, in a
telephone interview on April 27. “It’s more about the
protection of wealth as opposed to getting a large interest rate
return. There will be continued lower yields.”  Net Supply  Investors have bid $3.18 for each dollar of the $719
billion in Treasury notes and bonds auctioned this year, the
most since the government began releasing the data in 1992 and
on pace to beat the record of $3.04 in 2011.  “There’s actually a shortage of securities,”  Chris Ahrens , head interest-rate strategist at primary dealer UBS AG
in  Stamford , Connecticut, said in an interview April 30.
“Higher yields are not in anyone’s base-case scenario.”  The net supply of Treasuries, or gross issuance minus the
amount of maturing debt, will fall by an average of about $32.5
billion a month this year, or 30 percent, to $77.3 billion,
according to CRT Capital Group LLC In Stamford, Connecticut.
Investors will receive an average $99.4 billion of cash monthly
from maturing debt, up from $68.1 billion in 2011, CRT said.  Borrowing Forecast  Treasury officials lowered their net borrowing forecast for
the current quarter last week, reflecting reduced spending and
higher issuance of state and local government securities. The
department trimmed its estimate for April through June to $182
billion, $19 billion less than anticipated in January. Officials
see borrowing of $265 billion in the quarter starting July 1.  “There is absolutely a shrinking supply of safe assets in
the world largely because what has happened with European
sovereign debt,” said  Ajay Rajadhyaksha , head of rates and
securitized products research in New York at Barclays Plc, in an
interview on May 2. “The safe asset argument will prevent a big
rise in Treasury yields, even if the economy improves more than
our models are pricing in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  