-- Vornado FFO Declines 31% as Investment Income Decreases
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-05-07T22:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/vornado-ffo-declines-31-as-investment-income-decreases.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , owner of more
than 100 million square feet (9.3 million square meters) of U.S.
commercial properties, said first-quarter funds from operations
declined 31 percent as investment income fell.  FFO, which gauges a property company’s ability to generate
cash, was $348.5 million, or $1.82 a share, compared with $505.9
million, or $2.64, a year earlier, the New York-based real
estate investment trust said today in a regulatory filing. The
average of 12 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg  survey  was for
FFO of $1.77 a share.  Vornado, whose shares have fallen almost 8 percent in the
past year, is seeking ways to respond to lackluster stock
performance and shareholder complaints that its structure is too
complex, Chairman  Steven Roth  said in a letter to investors last
month. The REIT is considering options ranging from buying back
shares to splitting into smaller companies focused on specific
real estate types, he said.  “Investor impatience with the company has grown over the
last few years,”  David Harris , an analyst with Imperial Capital
LLC in New York, wrote in an April 24 report. “As some property
markets have recovered, others have pulled off deals which would
have once been considered a ‘natural’ for the Vornado of old.”  Toys R Us  Investors have questioned the rationale for Vornado’s stake
in  Toys R Us Inc. (TOYS) , the children’s toy and apparel merchant, and
the Merchandise Mart showroom unit, which are outside its main
businesses of Manhattan and Washington offices and New York
street retail, Harris wrote. He has an in-line rating on the
company, the equivalent of a hold.  The company’s adjusted FFO, which excludes some one-time
items, rose to $1.81 a share from $1.73 a year earlier, the
company said today in a statement.  Net interest and investment income fell to $15.7 million
from $117 million a year earlier. The company had $82.7 million
of gains related to mezzanine loans and dispositions in the
year-earlier period that weren’t repeated in the first quarter.
First-quarter results include a $1 million recorded gain from
Vornado’s stake in retailer  J.C. Penney & Co. (JCP) , down from $17.2
million a year earlier.  The company also reported a 2.1 percent decline in revenue
from property rentals to $521.8 million. In the Washington area,
where Vornado faces departures by the U.S. Department of Defense
from its Crystal City complex in northern  Virginia , rental
revenue fell 6.7 percent to $129.6 million. In New York, it was
little changed at $233.9 million.  First-quarter results were announced after the close of
regular U.S. trading. Vornado rose 1.5 percent to $87.54 today.
Its shares have declined 6.9 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with an 8.9 percent gain for  Bloomberg’s REIT index.   To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  