-- Vulcan Rises After Court Delays Martin Marietta Bid
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-07T21:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/vulcan-rises-after-court-delays-martin-marietta-bid.html
Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC) ’s shares reversed
an earlier decline after a court delayed a hostile bid by
competitor  Martin Marietta  Materials Inc. for four months.  Vulcan, the U.S.’s largest producer of gravel and sand,
rose 0.2 percent to $41.47 at the close in New York after
earlier dropping as much as 4.3 percent. It’s the first increase
in the stock since May 1. Martin Marietta’s shares rose 0.5
percent to $79.80.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. ruled on May 4
after markets closed that Martin Marietta breached a
confidentiality agreement in its Dec. 12 offer. The decision,
which the company said today it will appeal, keeps Martin
Marietta from proposing four board candidates at Birmingham,
Alabama-based Vulcan’s June 1 shareholder meeting as part of a
strategy to gain support for the bid.  “There are some people who think the deal is going to go
through and they view it as an opportunity,” said Kathryn
Thompson, an analyst at Thompson Research Group in Nashville,
 Tennessee . Thompson has a hold recommendation on Vulcan.  Vulcan had jumped 15 percent on Dec. 12 when Martin
Marietta, the second-largest producer of gravel and sand in the
U.S., offered to swap 0.5 share of its stock for each Vulcan
share in a transaction valued at $4.7 billion at that time.
Vulcan’s board rejected the offer as too low.  The court ruling will help Vulcan’s management fend off the
bid, said Robert Wetenhall, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets
LLC in  New York , in a telephone interview.  “The probability of a successful transaction is becoming
increasingly remote because of the forcefully worded opinion
from Judge Strine,” said Wetenhall, who has a sector perform
rating on Vulcan, the equivalent of a hold recommendation. “The
takeover premium embedded in Vulcan’s stock will tend to
dissipate.”  Merger Talks  Martin Marietta Chief Executive Officer Ward Nye and Don James, Vulcan’s CEO, began friendly merger talks in 2010. James
called off the talks last year as the two disagreed over cost
savings, the potential amount of assets the U.S. Justice
Department would require to be sold, and who would be chief at
the combined company.  Martin Marietta sued on Dec. 12, the same day it made the
hostile bid, in a preemptive move to get the court to rule that
the offer wasn’t prohibited by a May 2010 confidentiality
agreement between the companies when they were in merger talks.
Vulcan countersued.  The four-month delay will negate Martin Marietta’s strategy
of proving shareholder support for its offer by getting four
nominees elected to Vulcan’s  10-member board . The ruling’s
language, following a four-day trial that began on Feb. 28,
makes it unlikely Martin Marietta will win the appeal, Wetenhall
said.  ‘Bad Light’  In his opinion, Judge Strine noted the “pervasiveness” of
Martin Marietta’s breaches of the confidentiality agreement and
said an argument could be made to apply an injunction longer
than four months. Martin Marietta disclosed information beyond
what was legally required in its  S-4 filing  to the Securities
and Exchange Commission in December, to promote the transaction
by casting Vulcan’s management and board “in a bad light,” the
judge said.  Strine agreed with Vulcan that Martin Marietta used
confidential information in the formulation of its hostile bid
and said Martin Marietta “cloaked much of its decision-making
process in secrecy” because Nye invoked attorney-client
privilege to decline to answer some questions during trial.  “Rewarding a breaching party like Martin Marietta would
encourage other parties to end-run contractual pre-disclosure
procedures,” Strine wrote.  Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , said in
a statement today that it will continue with its bid, which it
said has “undeniable strategic merits.” Vulcan, in a May 4
statement, applauded the ruling and said it will continue with a
program to cut costs and sell assets.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v.  Vulcan Materials ,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ; 