-- Wall Street Banks Depressed in Shift Defying Blankfein
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/wall-street-banks-depressed-in-shift-defying-blankfein.html
To Kevin Conn, who has been analyzing
bank stocks for 15 years, the investment climate for Wall
Street’s biggest firms has entered the realm of science fiction.  “It’s like that Ray Bradbury short story where it rains
for months in a row,” said Conn, who works for  Massachusetts
Financial Services Co. , referring to “The Long Rain,”
published in 1950. “It’s one of these terrifically depressing
short stories where the weather just never changes.”  For banks such as Citigroup Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the downpour shows few signs of stopping.
Almost four years after the financial crisis, their stocks are
trading below liquidation values as investors like Boston-based
MFS, which manages $285 billion, forecast no rebound in revenue
or profitability soon. Last month’s shareholder rejection of
executive pay at Citigroup is the most public symptom of the
frustration with large lenders and their managements.  “For whatever you’ve seen publicly that’s happened in the
last six months on pay, multiply that times 10 and that’s what’s
actually going on in private” between investors and bank
executives, said Benjamin Hesse, who manages five financial-
stock funds and leads a team of 15 analysts at Boston-based
Fidelity Investments. “Breakups are likely, but I’m not sure
they happen in the next six to 12 months.”  Dimon Cycle  Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein,
who runs the fifth-largest U.S. bank by assets, and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon, who heads the biggest, have sought
to reassure investors that investment-banking and trading
revenue will bounce back. Even though markets rose in the first
quarter, Blankfein said his firm’s 12.2 percent return on
equity, a measure of how well a company reinvests shareholder
capital, was weaker than what Goldman Sachs expects to earn when
the business cycle improves.  “I tend to be a little more optimistic than what I’m
hearing from other people,” Blankfein, 57, told Bloomberg
Television’s  Erik Schatzker  on April 25. “One of the big risks
that people have to contemplate is that things go right.”  Dimon, 56, expressed a similar view at a Feb. 28
presentation about revenue at his investment bank.  “Is the downturn you saw in the fourth quarter cyclical or
secular?” Dimon said. “We’re telling you it is cyclical. I’m
not hedging that. It is cyclical.”  Spokesmen for JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs, both based in  New
York , declined to comment.  Wall Street analysts are signaling agreement: 85 percent of
those who  cover  JPMorgan have buy ratings on its shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of those who  follow 
 Citigroup (C) , the third-largest lender, 69 percent say buy.  ‘World Has Changed’  The depressed stock prices of the biggest banks indicate
that investors aren’t convinced. Instead of anticipating a
revival of trading and investment-banking profits, shareholders
are waiting for the firms to reduce headcount and pay across the
board, even for CEOs. They see the banking boom before the 2008
financial crisis as unlikely to return amid stricter regulation
and efforts to reduce sovereign debt.  “The world has changed now,” Fidelity’s Hesse said.  Analysts including Charles Peabody at Portales Partners LLC
and  Meredith Whitney  at Meredith Whitney Advisory Group LLC
anticipate a deterioration this year after revenue from fixed-
income trading and mortgage lending improved in the first
quarter compared with the previous three months.  “By the end of this year, we are going to have another
round of headcount reductions because the revenue I just do not
see as sustainable,” Peabody said in an April 19 “Bloomberg
Surveillance” radio interview with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“We are going to see a severe economic slowdown in the second
half of this year, and maybe a recession in 2013.”  Tangible Book Value  The pessimism runs counter to the 26 percent gain in the
24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  in the first quarter. Even after a 43
percent jump in its stock this year,  Bank of America Corp. ’s
closing  share price  yesterday of $7.96 was less than two-thirds
of the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender’s $12.87 in
tangible book value per share at the end of March. Tangible book
value is a bank’s estimate of how much money would remain if all
its assets were liquidated and liabilities paid off. Morgan
Stanley is trading at about 60 percent of liquidation value.  Of the five largest Wall Street banks in the U.S., only
JPMorgan is trading above its tangible book value per share,
Bloomberg data show. Before the 2008 financial crisis, the
stocks occasionally exceeded three times tangible book.  Moody’s Downgrades  One reason: Investors don’t trust the numbers.  “How do you determine book?” said  Matthew McCormick , who
helps oversee $6.2 billion at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor
Inc. and doesn’t hold stocks of big Wall Street banks. “That’s
the $64,000 question, because the true liabilities can’t be
ascertained. You have to make more macro calls. There’s still a
lot of risk.”  Investors also are waiting to hear from Moody’s Investors
Service, which said in February that it’s reviewing the
creditworthiness of 17 banks and securities firms with global
capital-market operations. The firm said it may cut ratings on
Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG and  UBS (UBSN)  AG by as many as
three levels. Downgrades would force the banks to post more
collateral on derivatives trades and pay more to borrow.  U.S.-focused lenders such as San Francisco-based  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and U.S. Bancorp have higher valuations than the
financial conglomerates that own global investment banks. Wells
Fargo, the fourth-largest U.S. lender, is trading at 1.75 times
its tangible book value, while Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp’s
stock price is almost three times its liquidation value.  Buffett on Banks  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , led by billionaire  Warren Buffett ,
is the biggest shareholder in Wells Fargo and also owns stakes
in U.S. Bancorp and Buffalo, New York-based  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) 
Berkshire holds warrants in Goldman Sachs and preferred stock
and warrants in Bank of America, and Buffett has said he owns
JPMorgan stock in his personal account.  “The American banking system is in fine shape,” Buffett
said at a May 5 meeting of Berkshire investors in Omaha,
Nebraska. “I would put European banks and American banks in two
very different categories.”  The U.S. lenders with the highest valuations are those
without global investment-banking and trading businesses,
because they have the least counterparty risk to European
companies and governments, said Hesse of Fidelity, whose firm
manages $1.6 trillion.  ‘A Lot Worse’  Conn, who started covering bank stocks at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in 1997 and joined MFS in 2001, said he has
become more negative on the big banks amid signs that low
 interest rates  and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, which are
weighing on profits and share prices, aren’t going away.  “It’s actually a lot worse than I would have guessed three
or four years ago,” he said. “The persistence and the duration
of these problems feel like there aren’t short-term fixes.”  Conn and Hesse declined to comment on specific stocks or
their funds’ investments, citing company policies.  New capital requirements and regulation are making bank
stocks more like utilities, with “lower and more stable”
returns, Conn said. Still, most pay dividends below the 3
percent yield that income-oriented investors demand, he said.  Investors can no longer analyze banks using a traditional
one- or two-year horizon and instead are making short-term
trading bets or taking views of five years or more, said Hesse,
the primary analyst at Fidelity responsible for large U.S.
lenders such as Bank of America, JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
global investment banks including Deutsche Bank, based in
Frankfurt, and Credit Suisse and UBS, both in Zurich.  Euro’s Future  The future of the euro may be determined in the next six
months -- an outcome that could lead Wall Street bank stocks
either to drop 50 percent or rise 25 percent, Hesse said. After
that, he said, he expects investors to focus on the potential
impact of  U.S. government fiscal policy  on the country’s growth
and borrowing costs.  “If you model out a euro breakup for these things, U.S.
banks all lose 20 percent of tangible book” value, Hesse said.
In the U.S., “the austerity we could potentially attempt makes
Spain look like nothing.”  At the same time, banks are grappling with a reduction in
return on equity because regulators have demanded they hold more
capital, Hesse said. Excluding provisions, revenue fell last
year at each of the six biggest U.S. banks except for Morgan
Stanley. Bank of America, Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs had returns on equity below 10 percent.  Repricing Talent  With so many factors outside their control eroding
profitability, banks have to try to boost returns using the only
tools they have, Hesse said.  “They’re getting rid of investment bankers, they’re
getting rid of traders, they’re getting rid of higher-priced
guys and moving juniors into covering their biggest accounts,”
Hesse said. “You’re seeing a big repricing of financial-
services talent at the big banks.”  Shareholders such as Hesse are part of the reason. He said
he spoke last year to the top 300 people at one of the world’s
10 biggest investment banks and presented statistics on how much
the industry paid employees over the past decade compared with
how much it generated in profit before taxes and provisions.  “The statistics were not attractive,” Hesse said.
“Employees took home multiples of what investors did.”  ‘Contracting Mode’  Bank of America plans to eliminate more than 300 jobs from
its investment-banking and trading units, a person briefed on
the matter said this month. That’s in addition to a companywide
cost-saving program initiated last year to cut 30,000 positions.  “You’re going to see a drastically reduced workforce, you
just have to,” Whitney of Meredith Whitney Advisory said in a
May 3 “Bloomberg Surveillance” interview. “Eighty percent of
revenues on Wall Street over the last 10 years came from Europe
and the U.S. That’s a staggering number considering that the
U.S. and Europe are in contracting mode.”  Investors also are pushing back on executive pay. In
Europe,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and UBS faced mounting opposition to their
compensation plans this year. At London-based Barclays, 27
percent of shareholders opposed the $19.5 million pay award to
CEO Robert Diamond, up from 10 percent a year earlier. UBS,
Switzerland’s biggest bank, won approval from 60 percent of
shareholders on its 2011 compensation report in a consultative
vote, down from 64 percent the prior year.  Citigroup’s board said in a statement it would “carefully
consider” the shareholder vote, which isn’t binding.  More Distrustful  Hesse said most of the stocks he follows are trading below
tangible book value per share because investors aren’t sure
reducing expenses is the solution.  “What the market’s telling you is either they won’t be
able to achieve the cost cuts, or if they are able to achieve
the cost cuts they’ll do it at the expense of revenue,” Hesse
said. “Or the macro uncertainty is just too big.”  Investors, who already traded financial stocks at a
discount to the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  because of the
difficulty analyzing their balance sheets, have become even more
distrustful since the 2008 crisis, MFS’s Conn said.  “Historically, investors have been wary of the balance
sheets,” he said. “But now ‘they’re just un-investable at any
cost’ is this overarching theme. It will just take a lot of time
before people start to trust again -- trust the managements and
trust the numbers.”  Bankers can only hope Conn is as wrong about his forecast
as Bradbury was about Venus, where “The Long Rain” was set. In
1962, a dozen years after the story was published, the Mariner 2
spacecraft determined that the planet’s surface temperature was
at least 800 degrees Fahrenheit -- too hot for rain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  