-- West Ham Beats Cardiff to Reach Playoff Final for Premier League
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-05-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/west-ham-beats-cardiff-to-reach-playoff-final-for-premier-league.html
West Ham United defeated  Cardiff City 
to reach the Championship playoff final, where it will seek an
immediate return to English soccer’s Premier League.  West Ham won 3-0 yesterday after securing a 2-0 victory at
Cardiff in the opening game of the two-match semifinal. The
Hammers will play Birmingham or Blackpool at Wembley on May 19
for a spot in the top flight. It will be West Ham’s first visit
to the national stadium since the 1981 League Cup final.  The playoff final is the richest soccer match in the world.
Winning it is worth at least 90 million pounds ($143 million),
accountant Deloitte LLP estimates. Promoted teams benefit from
at least 40 million pounds in additional revenue and minimum
guaranteed payments of 48 million pounds in the following four
seasons if they drop straight back down.  “We’ve got a massive opportunity over 90 minutes to get
back into the golden league, where it all happens,” West Ham
manager  Sam Allardyce  told reporters. “Hopefully we can hold it
together.”  Kevin Nolan  opened the scoring for West Ham with a header
after 15 minutes at Upton Park in east  London . Ricardo Vaz Te’s
shot five minutes before halftime made it 2-0 and Nicky Maynard
completed the scoring in the final minute of the game with a
shot into the top corner of the net.  West Ham was relegated from the Premier League last season
after finishing last in the 20-team standings. This year it
missed out on the two automatic promotion spots from the second-
tier Championship, finishing third behind Southampton and
Reading.  Fifty-four percent of all promoted teams retained their
Premier League status the next season, according to Infostrada
Sports. The percentage rises to 63 percent for teams who finish
first in the Championship.  Birmingham hosts Blackpool in the second leg of their
semifinal tomorrow. Blackpool won the first game 1-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 