-- Wigan Seals Premier League Survival, Blackburn Relegated
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-08T00:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/wigan-seals-premier-league-survival-as-blackburn-is-relegated.html
Blackburn Rovers  was relegated from
English soccer’s Premier League after losing 1-0 at home to
Wigan Athletic, which secured its top-flight status.  Antolin Alcaraz’s 87th-minute header at  Ewood Park  last
night gave Wigan the victory that lifted it to 15th place with
40 points, five clear of the three-team drop zone with one round
of matches remaining.  Blackburn had needed to win to have any chance of extending
its 11-season stay in the Premier League. Rovers join last-place
 Wolverhampton Wanderers  in being demoted to the second-tier
Championship.  “I’m numb, along with the players, along with the fans,”
Blackburn manager  Steve Kean  told his club’s website. “It is a
massive setback for us, but we have to regroup and we need to
build a squad to get us back into this division and move the
club forward again.”  The third relegation spot, currently occupied by  Bolton
Wanderers  in 18th place with 35 points, will be decided on the
final day of the season on May 13. Reading and Southampton
secured the two automatic promotion spots from the Championship,
while West Ham will playoff against Birmingham or Blackpool on
May 19 for the other berth.  Bolton visits Stoke in the final round of Premier League
games, when 17th-place Queens Park Rangers travels to leader
 Manchester City  and 16th-place  Aston Villa  is at Norwich. QPR
has 37 points, while Villa has 38 and a superior goal difference
than its closest rivals.  Founding Member  Blackburn was one of the 12 founding members of the English
football league in the late 19th century and more recently was
the 1995 Premier League champion after being taken over by local
businessman  Jack Walker . Venky’s (India) Ltd., which runs
poultry farms, bought the club for 46 million pounds ($74
million) in November 2010.  Rovers are the only former Premier League champions to be
relegated. They were also demoted in 1999 before winning back
promotion for the 2001-02 season.  “We need to make a real fist of it from the first game of
next season to get us back where we belong,” Kean added.  Blackburn striker  Ayegbeni Yakubu  had a 55th-minute volley
blocked on the goal-line last night and Rovers had appeals for a
penalty rejected when Junior Hoilett appeared to be caught by
Emmerson Boyce’s swinging boot in the area.  Alcaraz headed in from Jean Beausejour’s corner kick late
on to seal Wigan’s sixth victory in eight games, a run that
included wins against top-five teams Manchester United, Arsenal
and Newcastle.  It was also Wigan’s first Premier League triumph at
Blackburn, and extended its run in the elite division to eight
seasons.  “It’s been such a difficult season with the ups and
downs,” Wigan manager  Roberto Martinez  told the British
Broadcasting Corp. “It’s finished with a fantastic moment of
form with great results, historic results for us. Now’s the time
to look back at them and start enjoying them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  