-- Yahoo Investor Third Point Demands Records Over CEO Hiring
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-07T18:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/yahoo-investor-third-point-demands-records-over-ceo-hiring-1-.html
Yahoo (YHOO) ! Inc. investor  Third Point  LLC,
the fund seeking board representation and management changes at
the Web portal, has asked to inspect records related to the
hiring of Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson .  Third Point in a letter today urged the board to consider
firing Thompson over misrepresented academic credentials and
challenged the company to document its contention that the error
was inadvertent. Third Point also requested records related to
the appointment of director Patti Hart and the selection of five
new board members.  “Yahoo shareholders and employees will be best served if
the board accepts responsibility quickly for this latest
debacle,” Third Point said in the letter. “If the directors
are truly interested in ‘working in a constructive manner with
Third Point,’ they should provide answers promptly.”  Third Point, one of Yahoo’s largest investors with a 5.8
percent stake, said on May 3 that Thompson didn’t have the
computer science degree from Stonehill College cited on his
resume -- the school didn’t offer such a degree until four years
after he graduated. The dispute comes as Yahoo grapples with
rising competition from rivals such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Google
Inc. Thompson, who joined as CEO in January, has cut 2,000 jobs
and overhauled management to spur a turnaround.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment today.  ‘Inadvertent Error’  Yahoo’s board plans to review the matter, and will later
“make an appropriate disclosure to shareholders,” the company
said last week. Yahoo, in an initial public statement on the
issue, had called the discrepancy an “inadvertent error” and
said it “in no way alters that fact that Mr. Thompson is a
highly qualified executive with a successful track record
leading large consumer technology companies.”  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , rose 2.2 percent to
$15.49 at 2 p.m.  New York  time. The shares had fallen 6.1
percent this year before today.  “The failure to detect the easily-discoverable
inaccuracies in Mr. Thompson’s resume creates significant doubt
as to the thoroughness of the entire board nomination process,”
according to Third Point’s letter today, which was signed by
Josh Targoff, chief operating officer and general counsel.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 