-- Yahoo Board Said to Meet Over CEO Record Amid Firing Call
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-08T15:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/yahoo-board-is-said-to-meet-today-discussing-ceo-scott-thompson.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  board members met
yesterday to review the academic record of Chief Executive
Officer  Scott Thompson , a person briefed on the plans said, as
investor  Third Point  LLC stepped up pressure for his ouster.  The company formed a committee of three recently appointed
board members to explore discrepancies in Thompson’s resume,
said the person, who asked to remain anonymous because the
meetings are private. An outside  law firm  is working with the
committee, this person said.  Third Point, which is trying to win seats on Yahoo’s board
and has said the company is mismanaged, last week highlighted
errors in Thompson’s resume and demanded that he be fired. The
fallout marks a setback for Thompson, who had just embarked on
efforts to revive growth and help the company do a better job
coping with challenges in online advertising and social media
from Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. Yahoo’s board fired former
CEO  Carol Bartz  in September amid falling sales.  The biography for Thompson, who joined Yahoo from  EBay Inc. (EBAY) 
in January, listed a bachelor’s degree in computer science from
Stonehill College, a credential that wasn’t offered until four
years after he graduated, Third Point CEO  Daniel Loeb  said.  Yahoo’s board said last week that it would review the
matter and “make an appropriate disclosure to shareholders.”
The company had earlier called the discrepancy an “inadvertent
error” and said it “in no way alters that fact that Mr.
Thompson is a highly qualified executive with a successful track
record leading large consumer technology companies.”  Thompson’s Apology  Thompson, in a memo to staff yesterday, apologized for the
fallout from the disclosures and said he takes “full
responsibility.” He said he’s cooperating with the review.  “I want you to know how deeply I regret how this issue has
affected the company and all of you,” Thompson said. “We have
all been working very hard to move the company forward, and this
has had the opposite effect.”  Dana Lengkeek, spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo, declined to comment.  Yahoo shares slid 1.5 percent to $15.11 as of 10:57 a.m. in
 New York . They had lost 4.8 percent this year before today.  New York-based Third Point demanded yesterday that it be
able to inspect records related to Thompson’s hiring, as well as
the appointment of director Patti Hart, whose credentials it
also questions.  “Yahoo shareholders and employees will be best served if
the board accepts responsibility quickly for this latest
debacle,” Third Point said in a letter. “If the directors are
truly interested in ‘working in a constructive manner with Third
Point,’ they should provide answers promptly.”  Thompson has cut 2,000 jobs and overhauled management. The
company’s shares had their biggest rally in almost four months
on April 18 after Yahoo reported first-quarter sales that topped
estimates, fueling optimism that turnaround efforts may take
hold. A day earlier, Yahoo reported its first revenue gain in
more than three years.  The appointment of the special committee and work with a
legal firm was reported yesterday by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 