-- Myanmar Junta’s Penguins Obscure 64 Million in Blackout
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-05-08T07:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/myanmar-junta-s-penguins-obscure-64-million-in-blackout.html
Former Thai General Lertrat
Ratanavanich remembers his regular meetings with Myanmar junta
leader Than Shwe, who ran the country for 19 years. Like the
time the dictator asked for some penguins.  “Than Shwe is very fond of animals, so I was requested by
His Excellency to bring penguins,” said Lertrat, who retired
from the army in 2007 and is now a director of PTT Exploration &
Production Pcl,  Thailand ’s biggest oil explorer. “We also sent
two giraffes.”  Putting penguins in climate-controlled pens while 64
million people suffer regular power blackouts shows the task
facing Myanmar’s year-old government to undo half a century of
military rule that kept  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest country
out of the region’s economic boom. Efforts by the generals to
escape sanctions by slackening their grip on power may take
years to translate into the development achieved by regional
neighbors Thailand and Malaysia, said Hugh Young, managing
director of Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd. in  Singapore .  “It’s more speculation than anything else at this stage,”
said Young, who helps manage $70 billion in Asian equities.
“The economic growth could be great but translating that into a
good return on any equity investment, private equity or public,
is another matter.”  The country had its most inclusive elections in two decades
on April 1, lawmakers are revamping the financial system and
President  Thein Sein , who took over from Than Shwe in March 2011,
signed a preliminary cease-fire with the country’s largest armed
rebel force in a move to end the world’s longest civil war.  Sanctions Rollback  As a result, the U.S. agreed to lift some sanctions on
investment, remove certain travel bans and name an ambassador to
the country for the first time since 1990. The European Union
and  Canada  suspended non-military sanctions and  Australia  eased
travel restrictions for some Myanmar officials.  That may help boost economic growth to 7.7 percent a year
in 2016-2020, from 4.8 percent last year, should the generals
remain in control and continue with limited reforms, the
Economist Intelligence Unit said in an April report.  “It’s the same people, but with a different mindset, and
they are still in power and people start to like them,” said
Luc de Waegh, who has been doing business in Myanmar since he
helped set up  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ’s operations there in
1993. “The generals were smart enough to realize that the old
way of running the country was not the way of the future; that
if they wanted to stay in power they have to change.”  Mobius Cautious  Myanmar needs to develop its currency and banking system
for the country to catch up with its neighbors, said  Mark Mobius ,
who oversees about $50 billion as Singapore-based executive
chairman of Franklin Templeton’s  Emerging Markets  Group. Better
infrastructure and a proper legal structure are also needed,
according to Franklin Templeton.  “It’s still too early,” Mobius told reporters in Bangkok
in April. “We are talking about a few years from now. Myanmar
will eventually do as well as Thailand.”  In 2011, Myanmar’s  gross domestic product  was $54.8 billion,
while Thailand’s was $219 billion and Singapore, with a
population of 5.2 million, had an output of $180 billion. In
1969 Myanmar’s GDP was about $6 billion, compared with $8.8
billion for Singapore and $19.3 billion for Thailand, according
to  World Bank  and International Monetary Fund data.  About 75 percent of the population lacks access to
electricity, the  Asian Development Bank  said in a  report  last
month. One in 30 people have a mobile phone and less than one
percent of the population has an Internet connection, Nomura
Holdings Inc. said in a March 14 report.  ‘Extravagant Projects’  “The previous military government had a penchant for
extravagant, wasteful projects,”  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said in
an April 20 report, noting that construction of Naypyidaw, the
new capital unveiled in 2005, may have cost 10 percent of gross
domestic product. “Under a democratic government, taxpayers
would probably prevent such wastage.”  Myanmar lawmakers debated the fiscal 2012-2013 budget that
took effect April 1, shedding light on a process cloaked in
secrecy during military rule. Authorities plan to reduce
military spending to 14.5 percent of total expenditures, from
23.5 percent, with social spending increasing to 7.5 percent
from 5.4 percent, the IMF said in a  report  today.  “It is certainly a very positive step forward but at the
same time we see significantly more room for fiscal
transparency,” Meral Karasulu, the IMF’s mission chief in
Myanmar, told reporters on a conference call.  Prisoners Released  In the past year the Myanmar government  released  more than
20,000 prisoners including political adversaries, eased
censorship and allowed public protests subject to permission.
Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, who spent 15 of the
past 23 years under house arrest, entered parliament last week
after her opposition party swept 43 of 44 seats it contested in
the April by-elections.  Still, a transfer to full democracy is still a long way
away. Thein Sein retains the backing of about 75 percent of the
664 members in the two houses of parliament, either through his
Union Solidarity and Development Party or from the military,
which holds 25 percent of both houses under the  constitution .  A general election isn’t due until 2015, at which time
Thein Sein, 67, may step down, according to Ko Ko Hlaing, his
top political advisor. Even then, Oxford-educated Suu Kyi can’t
become president because her children are British, and amending
that article requires support from 75 percent of lawmakers
followed by a referendum.  Currency Float  Meanwhile the government is encouraging a flood of
investment from  China ,  South Korea ,  Japan  and its neighbors in
Southeast Asia. The country has moved toward scrapping a
multiple exchange-rate system by implementing a managed float of
its currency and is revising laws to attract foreign capital.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak led a 100-member
delegation in March, a month after executives from 74 Singapore-
based companies made the trip.  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , Malaysia’s
biggest lender, on March 20 agreed with four Myanmar banks to
facilitate remittances. Petroliam Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s
state oil company, operates oil and gas fields in Myanmar
including Yetagun, which supplies natural gas to Thailand.  Orchid Diplomacy  Singapore, which named  orchids  after Thein Sein and his
wife, agreed in January to train Myanmar officials in economic
planning, central banking, trade facilitation and legal reform.  Razali Ismail, a former UN special envoy who resigned in
2005 after Myanmar repeatedly refused him entry to the country,
is back again, this time as executive chairman of Malaysia’s
 Cypark Resources Bhd. (CYP)  On March 29, Razali was in Naypyidaw to
sign a preliminary agreement for a waste management and
renewable energy project, according to Cypark. Razali didn’t
reply to an interview request.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  on April 13 became the
first Western leader since the by-elections to visit the country,
where the British fought three wars and ruled for more than a
century. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon arrived on April 29
and lauded the country’s transition to democracy.  “I have no doubt that Myanmar will quickly catch up with
its Asian neighbors and our fast-changing world,” Ban said in
the first address to the new parliament by a global leader.
“Myanmar has within it a vast potential to become a 21st
century model for peace, democracy and prosperity.”  False Dawn  This isn’t the first time Myanmar’s leadership has taken
steps toward restoring a democracy only to backtrack. The junta
released Suu Kyi from house arrest in May 2002, prompting the UN
to call it a “major development” toward national
reconciliation. By June 2003, Suu Kyi was back in detention.  “The building blocks to all the changes that have taken
place over the past year really have been in place for a
while,” said Thant Myint-U, an author of two books on Myanmar
whose grandfather, U Thant, was the first Asian head of the UN.
“It’s surprising only to people who had an incredibly narrow
view of the way things were before -- fixated on the
relationship between Aung San Suu Kyi and the junta.”  Military leaders in Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, drew
up a seven-point “ road map ” in 2003 to restore democracy,
unveiled by then-Prime Minister Khin Nyunt. Steps included a new
constitution, which was announced in late 2007 after street
protests led by Buddhist monks called the Saffron Revolution. To
ease dissent, the military government promised a referendum on
the new constitution the following year.  Saffron Revolution  “The process speeded up after the Saffron Revolution --
that’s what scared the hell out of them,” said David Steinberg,
distinguished professor of Asian Studies at  Georgetown
University , Washington D.C.  To survive sanctions, Southeast Asia’s second-largest
country by land area depended on its neighbors, including the
members of the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , which
Myanmar joined in 1997.  “Myanmar had three windows to the world -- China, India
and Asean,” said Ong Keng Yong, former secretary-general of
Asean and Singapore’s High Commissioner to Malaysia. “They were
instrumental in helping Myanmar survive its isolation.”  Part of the reason for increasing Asean partnerships may be
concern about the influence of China, said Derek Tonkin, former
British ambassador to Thailand, Vietnam and Laos and chairman of
 Network Myanmar , which promotes engagement with the country.  China accounts for about half the $26 billion in total
foreign investment Myanmar has attracted since 2008, according
to the Naypyidaw-based Central Statistical Organization. China
National Petroleum Corp., China’s biggest energy producer, is
building pipelines in Myanmar, and China Nonferrous Metals Co.
is developing a nickel mine.  China Sentiment  “The Burmese have had enough of China,” said Tonkin.
“There is a strong nationalistic feeling that it’s time that
they move away from the Chinese and encourage other investors.”  In September, Thein Sein halted work on the $3.6 billion
Myitsone hydropower dam across the Irrawaddy being built with
China Power Investment Corp., saying the project was against the
“will of the people.” China Power called the decision
“bewildering” and President Lu Qizhou said on March 10 it’s in
talks with the government to resume the project.  Japan, Myanmar’s biggest creditor, is also stepping up
efforts to engage a country it occupied from 1942 to 1945. After
Thein Sein visited  Tokyo  last month, Japan forgave 303.5 billion
yen ($3.7 billion) of debt and pledged aid and financing for
ports, bridges and roads.  In a  speech  in March marking a year since he took office,
Thein Sein said the country needed to “root out the evil
legacies” in society. He urged reconciliation and said he
wanted to see youths from ethnic groups using laptops instead of
brandishing guns. Lertrat, the procurer of penguins, said the
influence of the junta will remain.  “Myanmar is opening up and I don’t think they will go
back,” he said. “Full democracy is still far away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  