-- Myanmar Generals Must Respect Elections, President’s Aide Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-05-07T00:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/myanmar-generals-must-respect-elections-president-s-aide-says.html
Myanmar’s military contains smart
people who have no intention of seizing back power as the former
dictatorship transitions to democracy, according to President
Thein Sein’s top political adviser.  “The military has to accept the election result,” Ko Ko
Hlaing said in an e-mail. “Our military is a very obedient one,
senior officials are well educated and I hope there will be no
more coups.”  Thein Sein has won praise from world leaders after freeing
political prisoners, easing media restrictions and convincing
opposition chief  Aung San Suu Kyi  to stand for parliament since
taking power 14 months ago. His party’s election win in 2010,
while criticized by Western nations at the time, ended about
five decades of direct military control.  Investors are watching to see whether Myanmar’s political
opening will proceed quickly or face opposition from entrenched
interests as the country looks ahead to national elections in
2015. Thein Sein remains undecided on whether he will stand for
a second term, Ko Ko Hlaing said.  “Our president hasn’t revealed any desire on the next
term,” he said in the e-mail. “So I couldn’t say whether he
will run or not in the next election.” Hlaing said in a May 2
interview in Yangon that Thein Sein had “laid the foundation”
for political reform and if his tenure is “quite successful, he
may be content with his works.”  Presidential Contender  Another contender for the presidency in 2015 is Shwe Mann,
the former No. 3 in the junta and now the speaker of
parliament’s lower house, according to the  International Crisis
Group .  “There is a broad consensus among the political elite on
the need for fundamental reform,” the Brussels-based policy
research group said in an April 11 report. “This makes the risk
of a reversal relatively low.”  Suu Kyi took office last week after her National League for
Democracy party won 43 of 44 seats it contested in by-elections
last month, giving it control of less than 10 percent of the
664-member parliament. The NLD boycotted the 2010 national
elections, during which the Nobel Peace Prize winner was
detained at her lakeside home in Yangon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  