-- Tyco Sued for $60 Million by Convicted Executive Swartz
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-08T00:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/tyco-sued-by-former-cfo-swartz-in-new-york-court-correct-.html
Tyco International Ltd.’s former Chief
Financial Officer Mark Swartz sued to recover $60 million he
said is owed under agreements he made with the company when he
stepped down in 2002.  Swartz, who served as Tyco’s finance chief from February
1995 to September 2002, and former Chief Executive Officer
 Dennis Kozlowski  were convicted by a Manhattan jury in 2005 of
defrauding shareholders of more than $400 million. They are both
serving 8 1/3- to 25-year prison sentences for stealing from the
company and deceiving shareholders.  In a complaint filed May 4 in  New York  State Supreme Court,
Swartz accused the company of breach of contract and unjust
enrichment, seeking to enforce commitments made in the summer of
2002, when he agreed to step down as CFO and resign his board
position.  “Mr. Swartz has timely made court-ordered restitution to
Tyco of all amounts he was determined to have improperly
received,” lawyers for Swartz said in the complaint. “He has
made demand on the company for it to comply with its own binding
commitments, but Tyco has refused.”  Swartz, 51, and Kozlowski, 65, are currently serving their
sentences in the Lincoln Correctional Facility, a minimum-
security facility on  Manhattan ’s 110th Street near Fifth Avenue,
and participating in a work-release program, said Peter Cutler,
a spokesman for the state Department of Corrections and
Community Supervision.  ‘No Basis’  “Tyco has not yet been served with the complaint but we
know of no basis on which Swartz could recover from the
company,” Tyco said in an e-mailed statement. “The court
previously ruled against Swartz with liability resolved in
Tyco’s favor. The trial to fix the amount Swartz must pay Tyco
is scheduled for September.”  Kozlowski was ousted as Tyco’s CEO in June 2002 after he
revealed that he was under investigation by the Manhattan
District Attorney’s Office over allegations that he avoided
paying  sales tax  in connection with purchases of fine art.  By the time Swartz agreed to resign from the company’s
board in July 2002, Tyco knew that he, too, was under criminal
investigation, according to Swartz’s complaint. Swartz said he
fully cooperated with the district attorney’s probe. When Swartz
was told the same month that an internal investigation by the
company revealed that he owed a debt to Tyco, he “promptly”
repaid it with interest, according to the complaint.  Under the separation agreement with Tyco that Swartz signed
in August 2002, the company agreed to pay him about $10 million
in deferred compensation; $24.6 million owed under an executive
life insurance plan; the $274,317 value of his 401(k) plan; and
$656,286 in payments due under a senior executive  retirement
plan , according to the complaint. Swartz says he is also owed
money under a January 2001 retention agreement.  Separation Agreement  The separation agreement was approved by Tyco’s board on
Aug. 14, 2002, and Swartz was paid about $45 million, according
to the complaint.  Swartz in June 2010 wrote to Tyco and demanded it pay him
about $54 million under the agreement, including about $44.9
million in retirement pay and $9 million paid against New York
state and city taxes for periods he worked at the company,
according to the complaint. Tyco has refused to honor the
demands, Swartz alleged.  “That was an investigation in which Mr. Swartz’s
cooperation was active and unstinting,” lawyers for Swartz said
in the complaint. “The company knew at the time of their
bargain both of the fact that Mr. Swartz would be charged and of
the subject matter of the charges. No party was misled.”  The Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based company is the world’s
biggest maker of security systems.  The case is Swartz v.  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) , 651533/2012,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  