-- Zuckerberg Grip Becomes New Normal in Silicon Valley
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-05-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-07/zuckerberg-stock-grip-becomes-new-normal-in-silicon-valley-tech.html
Mark Zuckerberg ’s majority control
over  Facebook Inc. (FB) , a model adopted by founders of Zynga Inc.
and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , has become the new normal in Silicon Valley as
entrepreneurs’ desire to hold sway trumps shareholder power.  At least 10 of last year’s technology initial public
offerings included a special class of shares that give the
founders more votes than new shareholders, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Only five such IPOs were filed in 2010,
with four in 2009 and three apiece in 2005 and 2007. In addition
to Groupon and Zynga, companies such as  Zillow Inc. (Z)  and  LinkedIn
Corp. (LNKD)  have embraced the approach.  The trend gained steam in 2004, when Google Inc. created a
dual-class structure for its IPO, granting its co-founders and
chief executive officer two-thirds of voting power. While  Google (GOOG) 
had to overcome banker opposition at the time, Zuckerberg faces
less resistance now. Founders of newer startups, such as Dropbox
Inc. and Square Inc., may follow suit, said Charley Moore,
chairman of legal-services  site  Rocket Lawyer.  “This is the current flavor,” said Bruce Alan Mann, a
senior partner at Morrison Foerster in San Francisco who has
been involved in more than 100 IPOs. “Prior to 1987, the  New
York  Stock Exchange wouldn’t even list dual-stock companies.
Five years ago, people weren’t asking about them. Now everyone
is asking about it right away.”  Technology companies favor the structure because it gives
them the ability to set the course for the business even as they
raise money to execute those plans, Moore said. The approach can
backfire when founders lose their “mojo” and investors have
less power to intervene, he said.  Twitter, Pinterest, Dropbox  While it’s impossible to know the stock structure of still-
private companies, Twitter Inc., Pinterest Inc., Dropbox, Square
and other startups appear to be organizing themselves the same
way Google did before its IPO, Moore said.  The dual-class strategy isn’t new. Traditional media
companies and other old-line businesses have used the approach
for decades, often to preserve a family’s influence.  News Corp .,
Viacom Inc. and  New York Times Co. (NYT) , for example, give a
disproportionate amount of voting power to founding members. The
New York Times and other media companies have said that
insulation from the vagaries of the public market can help
protect a news outlet’s  editorial independence .  In the case of News Corp., CEO  Rupert Murdoch  controls 40
percent of voting shares while owning less than a percent of
nonvoting shares, which are more widely traded. That power has
allowed him to overrule the will of other shareholders.  ‘Good for Mark’  James Murdoch , the deputy chief operating officer, would
have lost his seat on the board last October at the company’s
annual meeting without his father’s votes.  Seeing the trend take off in the startup world isn’t a boon
to shareholders, said Anne Sheehan, director of corporate
governance at the  California State Teachers’ Retirement System ,
which manages about $156 billion in assets. Funds like Calstrs
often invest passively in the indexes, and when companies like
Facebook or Google are added, investors must accept the
structure, she said.  “They’re good for Mark Zuckerberg or the founders of
Google, but are they good in the long run?” Sheehan said. “If
they want to get public money and play in the big leagues, why
is tech any different?”  An estimated 65 U.S. venture-backed companies will sell
shares to the public this year, possibly more, up from 53 in
2010, according to  Dixon Doll , co-founder of the venture-capital
firm DCM Inc. His firm is an investor in social-media company
 Renren Inc. (RENN) , which went public with a dual structure last year.  ‘Extraordinarily Hot Companies’  Not every company can pull off a split-stock structure, he
said.  “It’s done only when you have really extraordinarily hot
companies, where they know they’re hot and they know they are
going to be worth multiple billions in the market someday,” he
said. “There are times like this when people can get away with
it, and do.”  Only 38 members of the S&P 500 and 271 members of the
Russell 3000 Index have dual shares, according to  GMI Ratings , a
governance consulting firm in New York. Since Google’s debut,
about 27 technology and Internet companies went public with dual
shares among more than 1,266 IPOs, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yelp Inc. (YELP) , the consumer-generated reviews company, was the
first dual-stock tech IPO this year, according to the data.  Many of best-known startups maintain small boards, fitting
the profile of companies that pursue dual shares, Moore said.  ‘Looking at Facebook’  Companies that have three or fewer outside board members
include Pinterest, an online bulletin board; Dropbox, a provider
of Web-based storage; question-and-answer site Quora Inc.;
Flipboard Inc., the maker of a magazine-like application for the
iPad; and Nest Labs, the creator of a technology-powered
thermostat.  Zuckerberg adopted a dual-class structure in 2009. He has
10 votes for every other shareholder’s single ballot. Facebook
plans to raise as much as $11.8 billion in the IPO, the biggest
offering on record for an Internet company. The Menlo Park,
California-based company would be valued at as much as $96
billion in the deal.  “People look at Facebook and see what they have done,”
said Stephen Venuto, a partner at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe
LLP in Menlo Park, who helped Facebook set up its initial
corporate-governance structure. “It’s become a much more common
thing to implement dual-class capital structures in Silicon
Valley companies.”  He declined to comment on the capital structures of any of
the technology startups he has worked with.  Risky Deals  “The reality of it as well is the investors have realized
that a company will usually succeed or fail based on the success
of the initial founding team,” Venuto said.  Google founders  Larry Page  and Sergey Brin doubled down on
their effort to maintain control last month, when the Internet-
search giant said it would issue a third class of stocks to
existing shareholders. The new shares have no voting power.  The original structure was designed to insulate them from
shareholder pressure, allowing them to make risky purchases such
as the 2006 acquisition of YouTube, Page and Brin said last
month. The third class of shares will help them make more stock-
based acquisitions and pay employee stock compensation without
diluting voting power.  Bankers no longer object to these arrangements, unlike when
Google first went public, said  Lise Buyer , principal at Class V
Group in Portola Valley,  California .  Blame Apple  “When Google did it, there was tremendous pushback from
the banks,” said Buyer, who advised Google on its IPO. “Today
the bankers are often the ones suggesting it. It may be
everybody tries it, because the market seems to be giving
everyone a pass.”  Zynga (ZNGA) , one of Facebook’s biggest partners, revamped its
stock structure last year to give founder Mark Pincus 70 times
more voting power of shareholders who buy stock publicly.  Venture capitalists are willing to put more faith in the
vision of startup leaders than in the past, Moore said. Apple’s
late CEO  Steve Jobs , who lacked that support early on in his
career, can take some credit for that change.  “Steve Jobs was forced out of Apple as a young leader, in
favor of the more experienced John Scully,” Moore said. “That
was part of the basic venture capitalist handbook of the past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  