-- ‘Contraband’ Opens as Top Film for Four-Day Holiday Weekend
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-01-16T23:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/-contraband-opens-as-top-film-for-four-day-holiday-weekend-1-.html
The Mark Wahlberg action film
“Contraband” opened as the top film at U.S. and Canadian
theaters, taking in $28.8 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal
Pictures  for the four-day holiday weekend.  The  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  animated classic “Beauty and the
Beast,” converted to 3-D, was second with $23.5 million,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  With $24.5 million in its first three days, “Contraband”
exceeded the $18.5 million estimate of the movie website Box
Office Mojo. The film stars Wahlberg as a former smuggler who is
forced to return to the trade after his brother-in-law runs
afoul of drug dealers. Kate Beckinsale co-stars. The film was
made for an estimated $25 million, according Box Office Mojo.  “I think we’ve had a couple of weeks in a row now that
were a little better than expected here in the first couple of
January,” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries
in Skillman,  New Jersey . He called it “welcome news” for
Hollywood after a disappointing 2011.  The 3-D “Beauty and the Beast” generated $17.8 million
over three days, compared with the $17.5 million estimate of
researcher BoxOffice.com.  The film, based on fairy tale, tells the story of Belle, a
young girl who becomes a hostage in the castle of a frightening
animal-like creature. The film features the voices of  Angela
Lansbury , Robby Benson and Paige O’Hara.  ‘Mission: Impossible’  “What we’re finding is some of those Disney titles were
blockbuster titles to begin with, and they lend themselves to
some 3-D adaptations,” Sweeney said. “The expectation is that
Hollywood’s going to bring out some of those animation films
that did well in years past.”  Banks, schools and government offices are closed today for
the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday in the U.S., adding a fourth
day to the typical Friday-Sunday moviegoing weekend.  “Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol,” was third with
$14.2 million over four days. The movie, also from Paramount,
has taken in $189.5 million since it was released on Dec. 16.  Tom Cruise  returns as  Ethan Hunt , leader of an elite
special-operations squad that takes on the government’s most
difficult assignments. This time, team members go underground to
clear their names after being falsely implicated in a bombing at
the Kremlin. The movie also features  Jeremy Renner  and  Simon
Pegg .  The holiday weekend’s other new film, “Joyful Noise,” was
fourth with $13.8 million in receipts. The movie, from  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros ., stars Dolly Parton and Queen Latifah
as the leading ladies in a small-town gospel choir. They clash
during preparations for a national competition.  Revenue, Attendance Up  “ Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows,” fell to fifth from
third with $10.5 million over four days. The Warner Bros. film
features Robert Downey Jr. as the cerebral sleuth created by
novelist Arthur Conan Doyle.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films gained 1 percent to
$141.6 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Revenue and attendance in 2012 have each risen 15 percent. The
amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Jan. 13-15
and estimates for today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  