-- Weinstein Co.’s ‘The Artist’ Leads Golden Globes With Three Wins
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-16T05:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/-the-artist-leads-golden-globe-winners.html
“The Artist” won three Golden
Globes, boosting the financial prospects for Weinstein Co.’s
silent, black-and-white movie and its chances to win at next
month’s Academy Awards.  “The Descendants,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Searchlight,
received two trophies during the 69th Annual Golden Globe
Awards, telecast by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC. Comedian  Ricky Gervais 
hosted the show for a third time last night from  Beverly Hills ,
 California .  “The Artist,” a winner in the best musical or comedy
category, highlighted a night in which Weinstein won six awards,
triple the runner-up studios. Co-founder Harvey Weinstein has
perfected turning critical acclaim into box-office rewards with
movies such as “The King’s Speech,” last year’s Oscar winner,
and earlier Miramax titles.  “Limiting the distribution puts in the mindset of people
that this is a prestigious film,” said  Brad Adgate , research
director at the New York-based advertising company Horizon Media
Inc. The studio can then capitalize at the box office and with
home-video sales, he said.  “The Artist,” made for about $15 million and released in
November, has earned $27.3 million worldwide, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo. “The King’s Speech,” with a
similar budget, won last year’s best-picture Oscar and ended up
with $414 million in worldwide sales, according to researcher
Box Office Mojo.  “Your expectations change when the Weinsteins enter the
game,” said Michel Hazanavicius, who directed “The Artist.”
“We never expected anything like this; we thought it would be a
small movie that critics might enjoy. We never expected it would
be this accepted by mainstream.”  Clooney, Spielberg  The 2008 release “Slumdog Millionaire” similarly
generated $378 million after winning the Golden Globe and the
best-picture Oscar. Like that movie, “The Descendants,” which
won for best drama and best actor for  George Clooney , was
released by Fox Searchlight.  Winners also included Steven Spielberg’s “The Adventures
of Tintin,” for best animated feature, Woody Allen’s “Midnight
in Paris” screenplay, and a best-director honor for  Martin Scorsese  for “Hugo.”  Meryl Streep  won best actress in a drama
for her portrayal of former U.K. Prime Minister Margaret 
Thatcher in ``The Iron Lady.''   Octavia Spencer drew some of the night’s biggest applause,
winning the supporting-actress award for “The Help,” the
Dreamworks Studios movie, distributed by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , about
African-American domestic workers enduring racial discrimination
in the 1960s South.  “It’s a very important part of our history,” Spencer told
reporters backstage. “Even though these characters are
fictitious, the narrative is part of our fabric. We need to keep
the younger generation abreast of how far we have come.”  Gervais Barbs  Gervais built on last year’s caustic performance, when the
comedian induced audience gasps by insulting A-list actors
including Johnny Depp, Angelina Jolie and Jim Carrey, and
suggested that the Foreign Press Association took bribes.  This year he took jabs at TV personality  Kim Kardashian ,
actor Mel Gibson and  Eddie Murphy , who pulled out as host of the
Academy Awards next month. Gervais again poked fun at the Press
Association.  “They’re good sports for inviting me back,” Gervais said.  Irish oddsmaker Paddy Power took bets on which celebrities
would feel Gervais’s barbs this year, according to his
PaddyPower.com website. Some of those on his list, including
Madonna, ended up as his targets.  “Ricky Gervais is a big draw to U.K. and Irish punters and
they found it quite comical when he caused such a stir,” Paddy
Power said in an e-mail. “Betting on who he would insult seemed
only natural.”  Academy Awards  Nominations for the Oscars, Hollywood’s highest honor, will
be revealed on Jan. 24. The Feb. 26 awards show will air by
Disney’s ABC, hosted by Billy Crystal.  Fox Searchlight,  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount Pictures and Sony
Pictures Classics each earned two Golden Globes.  In television,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO and  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
Showtime tied with three awards each.  Showtime’s “Homeland” TV series won for best drama and
best actress for Claire Danes.  Morgan Freeman  was honored with the Cecil B. DeMille Award
for career achievement. His film roles have included Civil War
soldier, a man on death row, Nelson Mandela and God.  “I would like to think because of the trajectory of my
career I might have had a little input into some of America’s
understanding of its history,” Freeman told reporters
backstage. “And some of the changes that have taken place in
our industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  