-- Abu Dhabi Shares Drop to Three-Year Low on Dana Gas Debt Concern, Europe
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-01-16T12:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/abu-dhabi-shares-drop-to-three-year-low-on-dana-gas-debt-concern-europe.html
Abu Dhabi  shares retreated to the
lowest in almost three years on speculation  Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  may
struggle to refinance debt and as investors trimmed holdings of
riskier assets on concern Europe’s debt crisis may worsen.  Dana Gas, which has a $1 billion Islamic bond maturing in
October, tumbled to the lowest on record. Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. declined for a third day. The  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  lost 0.8 percent to 2,324.73, the lowest level
since March 2009, at the 2 p.m. close in Abu Dhabi. Dubai’s  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  fell 1 percent, extending its drop after closing
at the lowest since June 2004 yesterday.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.5 percent at 12:38
p.m. in  London  and before a debt sale by France, which was
stripped of its top  credit rating  by  Standard & Poor’s . S&P also
cut eight other European nations on concern the region hasn’t
done enough to contain its debt crisis.  “Outside of what’s happening with global equity markets,
because those developments still carry weight locally, we are
left with no catalysts for our markets,” said Haissam Arabi,
chief executive officer of Gulfmena Investments Ltd. “Some
investors are repositioning in the absence of announcements from
companies on recommended distribution, and there are question
marks that have raised concern that there are funding gap issues
for companies such as Dana Gas.”  Dana’s Slump  Dana Gas tumbled 8.1 percent to 34 fils, bringing the slump
this year to 24 percent. The company said earlier this month its
board considered updates on financing projects in Egypt and the
U.A.E. without providing details. Dana Gas, which generates most
of its output from Egypt and the Kurdish region of northern
Iraq, said in November it is in talks with banks for advice on
refinancing the sukuk.  Dana Gas’s corporate communications department wasn’t
immediately able to comment.  Emirates Telecommunications, the biggest phone company in
the U.A.E. known as Etisalat, dropped 0.6 percent to 9.03
dirhams.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  slipped 0.6 percent and Saudi
Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index lost 1.1 percent. Oman’s  MSM30
Index (MSM30)  retreated 0.2 percent and Bahrain’s  gauge  rose 0.7
percent. Kuwait’s  measure  and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  were little
changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  