-- Hackers Assault Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, El Al Websites, Causing Slowdown
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-01-16T12:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/hackers-assault-tel-aviv-stock-exchange-el-al-airlines-websites.html
Hackers attacked the websites of the
 Tel Aviv Stock Exchange  and  El Al Israel Airlines Ltd. (ELAL) , slowing
down access after a pro-Palestinian computer group calling
itself “Nightmare” warned of an imminent assault.  Both the stock exchange and El Al, Israel’s biggest
carrier, said today their websites had been affected by the
attack, though not immobilized.  Stock trading  was unaffected.  “What was hacked was our main website, which provides
information,” Idit Yaaron, a Tel Aviv Stock Exchange
spokeswoman, said by telephone. “The trading computer was not
hacked and trading is going on as usual.”  Nightmare signaled its plan to attack the two corporate
websites in an e-mail last night to the  Ynet  news service, which
reported on its own site that the message was sent by a person
identifying himself as a Saudi Arabian hacker. The same person
has been exposing the numbers of thousands of Israeli credit
cards in recent weeks.  El Al issued a statement saying it was taking measures to
protect its website and warned there may be more disruptions.
The company’s  stock  was unchanged at 61.3 shekels at 12:22 p.m.  Israel , home to the largest number of technology startups
per capita in the world, has given special grants to nurture
companies dealing with computer security and is recognized
internationally for its expertise.  Imperfect  “No system is perfect,” Ron Porat, chief executive
officer of Hacktics Ltd., said on Israeli  Army Radio . “My
entire life has been spent finding holes in systems” and fixing
them, said Porat, whose Israeli company was bought last year by
the international accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP.  The Palestinian Hamas movement called yesterday for an
escalation of Internet hacking against Israel, declaring an
electronic war against the Jewish state. A group referring to
itself as the Gaza Hacker team attacked websites last week
belonging to the Israel Fire and Rescue Services, and Deputy
Israeli Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon.  Hackers attacked  First International Bank Ltd. (FTIN) ’s marketing
site, though no damage was caused to its online banking site,
Dafna Zucker, a spokeswoman, said by telephone. The marketing
site was fixed within minutes, she said.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  established a
National Cyber Directorate in August to guard against
infiltration of the country’s government and business computer
systems.  “This battlefield is not limited by borders, it is fought
behind the scenes,” Dan Meridor, Israel’s minister of
intelligence and atomic energy, said on Army Radio. “You can’t
see it and blood isn’t spilled, but there is a battle in new and
developing worlds.”  Hamas, which controls Gaza, is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  