-- Lafarge Workers Brace for More Cutbacks as Crisis Takes Toll
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-16T23:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/lafarge-workers-brace-for-more-cutbacks-as-crisis-takes-toll.html
Lafarge SA (LG) ’s plan to close a cement
plant in France and  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) ’s asset writedowns in  Spain ,
 Hungary  and the Czech Republic are spawning concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will lead to more factory shutdowns.  Lafarge is closing the site in Frangey amid a building
slowdown. Workers are worried the Paris-based company will close
others to focus on large, lower-cost plants, said CFDT union
official Laurent Carrilero. Holcim has closed two U.S. plants.
The Swiss company has shuttered others, though doesn’t plan to
make the moves permanent, spokesman Peter Gysel said.  The world’s top two cement makers and  HeidelbergCement AG
of Germany (HEI)  may target assets in Spain and other nations worst
hit by the crisis, according to ING analyst Ian Osburn. European
cement makers face contracting  construction markets  and Holcim
yesterday said it will book about $380 million in writedowns in
the  Czech Republic , Spain, Hungary and the U.S.  “The big one where closures will happen is Spain, then
Italy, continuing a war of attrition,” said Osburn by phone.
“Everybody’s bleeding and it’s just being who blinks first.”  Both Lafarge, the world’s No. 1, and HeidelbergCement, had
their credit ratings lowered to non-investment grade last year.
Shares of the French company are  down  24 percent in six months.
HeidelbergCement, the No. 3 maker, has  fallen  15 percent and
Jona, Switzerland-based Holcim is 6.7 percent  lower .  Christel des Royeries, a spokeswoman at Lafarge, declined
to comment on the cost cuts.  Feeling the Pinch  Cement makers are feeling the pinch from $213 billion in
acquisitions over the past decade, having expanded in times of
economic growth before the debt crisis prompted government
austerity packages and reduced spending on infrastructure. The
region’s slowdown has curbed retail and property development.  The euro area’s economy may contract by 1.2 percent in
2012, and another 0.2 percent in 2013, according to Citigroup.
 Italy  and Spain may shrink 1.9 percent in 2012, it estimated.  Cement consumption in Spain has plummeted by 65 percent
since 2008, Holcim said yesterday. The company booked about 229
million francs in writedowns as it revalued property, plant and
equipment in the country, with little prospect for a speedy
recovery in demand, Gysel said.  “After this election year, we may start seeing some cuts”
in France, said Amsterdam-based Osburn. “It depends how bad the
sovereign debt crisis gets. In Italy, the sector is caught
between a series of rocks and hard places, and it keeps coming
back round to low capacity utilization.”  Record Cuts  At Lafarge, Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont’s strategy
may entail shutting smaller plants to focus on the most
efficient sites, said union official Carrilero.  Lafont has already pledged record cost cuts this year as
rising energy prices dent earnings. All areas of the  business 
have been asked to make savings, and an additional concern is
that cement will be imported into  France , Carrilero said.  HeidelbergCement (HEI)  is currently “well positioned” with its
current list of factories and the main priority is to improve
efficiency and lower costs of production, CEO Bernd Scheifele
said in an e-mail.  “The capacities are built for the 2005, ‘06, ‘07 type of
demand in Europe,”  Tim Cahill , a Dublin-based analyst at J&E
Davy Holdings, said by phone. “Are we going to return to those
levels of demand over the next three, four or even five years?
We clearly won’t.”  Compounding the situation of European cement makers is a
looming need to pay for carbon credits under EU legislation
coming into force next year. Free quotas for cement makers will
be reduced for all but the most energy-efficient plants.  Carbon Credits  Lafarge probably earned 162 million euros by selling CO2-
emission permits in 2011, equal to 26 percent of its European
earnings before interest and taxes, Citigroup estimated in a
Jan. 9 report. CO2 revenue represented 65 percent of  Italcementi
SpA’s (IT)  European profit last year, and 55 percent of Athens-based
 Titan Cement Co. (TITK) , the bank said.  “The combination of lower excess CO2 volumes, lower CO2
prices and low medium-term demand/utilisation rates might be a
strong incentive to accelerate the restructuring of European
cement assets,” Credit Suisse analysts Arnaud Lehmann and Harry Goad wrote in a Jan. 5 report. “Waiting for a cyclical recovery
of volumes and profits might no longer be a credible strategy,
especially for companies with a highly leveraged balance
sheet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 