-- Africans May Die From Sovereign Debt Crisis as Global Medical Aid Withers
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/africans-may-die-from-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
Europe ’s debt crisis has brought
down governments, roiled markets and triggered austerity
measures affecting millions. Now it may kill.  In the  Democratic Republic  of the Congo, 28,000 people with
HIV who were meant to start life-saving treatment by 2014 may
not because of shortfalls in the foreign aid that pays for the
nation’s AIDS drugs, according to  Doctors Without Borders . Some
of those people will get sick and die, said Thierry Dethier, an
HIV analyst with the charity that runs AIDS clinics in Congo.  “Because of the lack of drugs people don’t test
themselves,” Dethier said in an interview from the capital,
Kinshasa. “And because of that, people with AIDS are dying.”  Governments struggling to curb deficits from Spain to the
U.S. have cut or slowed the growth of their contributions to the
 World Health Organization  and disease-fighting funds that prop
up  health services  in the world’s poorest countries, according
to a  report  by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation,
a research unit at the University of  Washington  in  Seattle .  “The financing is only going to get worse,” said Lawrence Gostin, a professor of global health law at Georgetown
University in Washington, and a member of a committee advising
the WHO on an overhaul of the Geneva-based organization.
“You’ve got donor states in financial crisis and there is
increased competition for funds.”  Growth Slowing  Medical aid has increased less than 4 percent a year since
2009, after an average annual gain of 13 percent between 2002
and 2008, and reached $27.7 billion last year, the  Institute for
Health Metrics and Evaluation  said in its report last month.  “That was about the same amount that Americans spent on
Black Friday,” said Katherine Leach-Kemon, the report’s lead
author, referring to the day after Thanksgiving that marks the
start of the  Christmas shopping season .  The U.S. increased its health aid by 1.6 percent to $7.6
billion last year, after increasing its contributions by an
average of 18 percent over the previous decade, according to the
institute’s estimates. Spain cut its donations by 19 percent
last year to $246 million, while the Netherlands reduced its
contribution by 15 percent to $211 million.  Now those cuts are starting to bite. The Global Fund to
Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which has spent or
committed to spending $22 billion since 2002 combating the
world’s three deadliest infectious diseases, said in November it
won’t make any new grants for the next two years because of a
decline in contributions.  Contributions Frozen  Italy, which contributed more than $1 billion between 2001
and 2008, hasn’t paid the $168 million it pledged in 2009,
according to  data  on the fund’s website.  Spain  owes $116 million
of the $250 million it promised in 2010. The two countries made
no commitment for last year, nor did other nations roiled by the
financial crisis such as  Greece , Iceland and  Portugal .  Spain has frozen its contributions to the Global Fund and
and doesn’t know when it will resume them, said a foreign
ministry spokesman who declined to be identified, citing
government policy.  The Dutch government decided to reduce development
assistance to 0.7 percent of gross domestic product by 2012 from
0.8 percent in 2010, said a spokeswoman for the foreign affairs
department in  The Hague  who declined to be identified.  Iceland reduced all foreign aid after its economic collapse
in 2008 and has no immediate plans to resume payments to the
Global Fund, said Hermann Ingolfsson, a director in the foreign
ministry.  Honoring Pledge  Ireland lowered its contributions to the Global Fund in
2010 and 2011 “due to the constraints on the Irish economy as a
result of the current financial crisis,” said Fionnuala
Quinlan, a spokeswoman for  Irish Aid . “Ireland is committed to
honoring our pledge to the Global Fund, albeit over a longer
timeframe than originally projected.”  Italy  is behind on its payments to the Global Fund but
remains committed to providing foreign aid, said Renato Balduzzi, the nation’s health minister, in an e-mail. Portugal
and Greece didn’t respond to requests for comment.  The Global Fund scrapped its funding round after the
decline of the euro, in which it receives more than half its
donations, wiped $400 million off the value of its donors’
contributions, Stefan Emblad, the organization’s head of
resource mobilization, said in an interview.  “Governments in donor countries across the board are
struggling, and we’re seeing some severe public expenditure
cuts,” Emblad said. “Some of that has to impact development
assistance.”  Cutting Jobs  The fund will still disburse about $10 billion of
previously approved grants between 2011 and 2013, Emblad said.  The Global Fund isn’t alone. The WHO, which was formed in
1948 and helped rid the world of smallpox 30 years later, has
cut more than 1,000 jobs worldwide, or 12 percent of its
workforce, since July 2010 as a surge in the Swiss franc swells
its costs and member nations tighten donations.  The cuts include the elimination of about 450 permanent
jobs, and the rest were short-term contracts that weren’t
renewed as the WHO sought to reduce costs, said Andrew Cassels,
the organization’s director of strategy.  While the organization’s staff has increased 6 percent in
the past decade, the cost of paying them has jumped 40 percent,
Cassels said. The strength of the franc, in which the WHO has a
third of its costs, and a decline in the value of the dollar, in
which it gets  76 percent  of income, have cut its purchasing
power to 64 percent of what it was a decade ago.  Turning Point   “It is a turning point,” Cassels said. “In planning
forward we recognize that income is not likely to go up. We
recognize that costs are likely to continue to rise.”  Salaries for Geneva-based staff will cost about 17 percent
more this year than in 2010, according to a  document  prepared
for the weeklong meeting of the WHO’s executive board that
started yesterday. The board is considering charging some or all
of its membership fees in francs instead of dollars.  The WHO has also reduced its budget for 2012 and 2013 by 13
percent to $3.96 billion from $4.54 billion for the previous two
years. The revised budget is “more realistic” because it’s
more closely matched to actual income and expenditure, said  Ian
Smith , an adviser to WHO Director-General Margaret Chan. Budgets
for the last four years were too ambitious, he said.  “The funds just didn’t come,” Smith said in an interview.
“It doesn’t mean we’re going to spend 13 percent less. We never
had that money in the first place.”  WHO Financing  The WHO receives funding from two main sources: fees paid
by its 194 member states, which it’s free to allocate, and
voluntary contributions made by governments, companies and
foundations. These usually come earmarked for specific projects
or disease areas, Cassels said.  While the WHO’s income has almost doubled in the past
decade, almost all of the growth has come from voluntary
contributions, which now account for about 75 percent of
revenue, compared with 58 percent in 2001.  “Because of that, there are parts of our overall global
program that are well financed, and parts that are much less
financed,” Cassels said. “We have feast and famine.”  That leads to imbalances in the organization’s ability to
address global health problems. Illnesses that can’t be spread
from person to person, such as cancer, diabetes and  heart
disease , account for  65 percent  of all deaths worldwide, while
only 6 percent of the WHO’s proposed budget for 2012 and 2013 is
dedicated explicitly to fighting them. Forty-six percent of the
 budget  is aimed at infectious diseases such as AIDS and malaria,
which account for 26 percent of all deaths.  Budget Control  “It’s a complete distortion of what’s important in the
world,”  Georgetown University ’s Gostin said. “There’s no way
that any organization can be effective when it controls only 20
percent of its budget.”  Still, the financial crisis doesn’t necessarily mean poor
nations will suffer, according to David Stuckler, a public
health researcher at  Cambridge University . Health aid hasn’t
decreased during previous recessions, Stuckler and colleagues
wrote in the Bulletin of the WHO last year.  Indeed, while Spain and Italy have reduced their
development budgets, the U.K. and  Germany , the second- and
third-largest contributors globally after the U.S., both
increased their donations by 14 percent in 2011, according to
the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, which is funded
by the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation .  Some recipients are also faring better than others. As the
WHO and Global Fund face tighter financing, funding for the
Geneva-based GAVI Alliance, which buys vaccines for children in
poor nations, rose an estimated 31 percent between 2010 and
2011, according to the institute’s report.  Value for Money  In a review of the aid organizations it supports published
in March, the U.K.’s Department for International Development
rated GAVI as providing “very good” value for money, the
highest of four ratings, because it delivers “tangible
results.” It rated the WHO “adequate,” the second-lowest
level.  At a GAVI fundraising conference in  London  last year, the
U.K. committed $1.3 billion to the organization out of a total
of $4.3 billion, helping it exceed a target of $3.7 billion.  At the Global Fund’s most recent fundraiser, in October
2010, it garnered $11.7 billion, less than the $13 billion
targeted to keep putting patients on treatment at current rates.  In Congo, the Global Fund’s cancellation of its next round
of grants is causing concern that the current crisis may be the
exception.  “We’re really pessimistic for the future,” Doctors
Without Borders’ Dethier said. “Instead of closing the gap, the
restrictions mean that the gap grows every month and we’re
lagging behind more and more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  