-- Thailand Police Charge Terror Suspect After Finding Bomb-Making Materials
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-01-16T05:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/thailand-police-charge-terror-suspect-after-finding-bomb-making-materials.html
Thai police charged a Swedish-
Lebanese man suspected of plotting a terrorist attack in Bangkok
after finding bomb-making materials in a building on the
capital’s outskirts.  Atris Hussein, 47, was charged with possessing illegal
substances after being detained on Jan. 12 in connection with a
plan to attack tourist sites frequented by Americans and
Israelis, said Charamporn Suramanee, the assistant police chief.
Thai police have linked him and a second suspect still on the
run to the Lebanese Shiite Hezbollah movement.  “We are monitoring the situation and have increased forces
to look after public areas,” Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra
told reporters today. “The situation is under control. There is
no problem.”  The arrest followed a Jan. 13 warning from the U.S. Embassy
that “foreign terrorists” aimed to attack tourists areas in
Bangkok. Foreign Minister Surapong Tovichakchaikul said he was
“disappointed” the U.S. released the warning without advising
him first, because it would hurt tourism.  Thailand, a U.S. treaty ally that sent troops to  Iraq  in
2003, depends on tourism for about 7 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the government. Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  fell
0.7 percent as of 11:37 a.m. local time, declining for a second
day. The baht dropped 0.4 percent to 31.91 per dollar, the
weakest level in five months.  Ammonium Nitrate  About 200 policeman surrounded a building in Samut Sakorn
province on Bangkok’s outskirts today and found fertilizer and
ammonium nitrate, a chemical compound used in explosives,
Charamporn said. Police spokesman Piya Uthayo yesterday said a
second suspect was being sought.  The U.S. said in a Jan. 13 “emergency message” to
citizens that “foreign terrorists may be currently looking to
conduct attacks against tourist areas in Bangkok in the near
future.” Embassy spokesman Walter Braunohler today said the
warning remains in effect.  Police Chief Priewphan Damaphong told reporters that he
believed  Thailand  was not the intended target of the attackers.
Two days ago, he named the tourist area of Khao San Road and the
downtown street Sukhumvit 22 as potential targets.  The suspects may have planned to use a car bomb at the
Israeli Embassy, Jewish places of worship, tourist companies or
restaurants, Defense Minister Yuthasak Sasiprapha told reporters
on Jan. 13.  Hezbollah, based in Lebanon, was designated as a foreign
terrorist organization by U.S. President  Bill Clinton  in 1997.
It is among terrorist groups supported by  Iran , according to the
 U.S. State Department .  The threat may stem from U.S. steps aimed at sanctioning
Iran over its nuclear program, according to Anthony Davis, a
Bangkok-based analyst at defense researcher IHS Jane’s.  Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi threatened on
Dec. 27 to block the waterway, a transit point for shipping
about a fifth of the world’s oil, if the European Union imposed
sanctions on the Islamic Republic’s crude exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  