-- Taiwan Exchange Seeks Trading 20 Times Faster
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-01-16T07:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/taiwan-exchange-seeks-to-make-trading-system-20-times-faster.html
Taiwan  Stock Exchange Corp. is
upgrading its trading platform to make it 20 times faster,
Chairman Schive Chi said in an interview in Taipei today.  The new system will reduce the amount of time to complete
a transaction to 5 milliseconds from 100 milliseconds, he said.
A millisecond is one thousandth of a second. The platform will
be able to handle 30,000 orders per second, 10 times more than
it does currently.  “These initiatives aim to attract more investors to the
Taiwan market,” Schive said.  Exchanges globally have been investing in high-speed
infrastructure to attract investors and listings. The fastest
platforms in the world are the London Stock Exchange, which can
process a trade in 120 microseconds and the  Singapore  Exchange
Ltd., which does the same in 90 microseconds. A microsecond is
one millionth of a second.  Officials are trying to bolster interest in Taiwan’s
exchange as  trading volume  has fallen. In the past month, the
Taiwanese bourse had an average daily volume of 2.9 billion
shares. The total is 47 percent less than the same period last
year when there was an average of 5.5 billion shares bought or
sold daily, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taiwan is the Asia-Pacific region’s seventh-largest
exchange by market capitalization, with companies listed there
having a total value of $716 billion. Taiwan falls behind  South
Korea  on the list and ahead of Singapore, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Other exchanges in the region have also been working to
catch up with the faster global exchanges.  Hong Kong  Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd. began using a platform in December that allows it
to process a trade in 2 milliseconds, down from 130
milliseconds. South Korea has also announced plans to revamp its
system and bring trading times down to 60 microseconds from 20
milliseconds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  