-- Aquino Targets Philippines’ Top Judge as Slowing Economy Threatens Support
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-01-16T12:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/aquino-targets-philippines-top-judge-as-slowing-economy-threatens-support.html
The Philippine Senate ruled that an
impeachment trial against Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato
Corona can proceed, bolstering President  Benigno Aquino ’s
campaign to oust the country’s top judge.  Corona, an ally of jailed former president  Gloria Arroyo 
who was appointed by her two days after Aquino’s 2010 election
win, faces eight charges that include favoring Arroyo in court
decisions. The 23-member Senate rejected Corona’s petition today
for a preliminary hearing on the validity of the charges.  Aquino’s push against his predecessor builds on campaign
promises to crack down on corruption that have underpinned
approval ratings of more than 70 percent. With the economy
slowing, Aquino risks losing political support if Corona’s trial
becomes a drawn out affair, said Ramon Casiple, executive
director of the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform.  The opposition “hopes when the economic crisis is getting
worse, people will turn their attention to the economy and
Aquino would lose the political battle,” Casiple said. “Aquino
wants the trial to end as soon as possible.”  The government last week said exports fell more than
estimated in November, declining for a seventh month as global
demand weakened. The country’s $200 billion economy grew 3.2
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, after
expanding 3.1 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace
since 2009. Gross domestic product grew 7.3 percent in 2010.  ‘Negative Factors’  “There are a few negative factors that are likely to put a
lid on growth in the near term,” Santitarn Sathirathai, a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
Jan. 12 report. “We fear that the weakness in the  Philippines ’
electronic exports may not just reflect cyclical developments
but also structural deterioration relating to loss of
competitiveness.”  Speculation that the central bank will cut  interest rates 
on Jan. 19 has helped push the nation’s benchmark stock index to
a record, supporting gains in the currency.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index advanced 2.9 percent
last week, the steepest weekly gain since October, and the peso
strengthened 0.9 percent, outperforming currencies in  Malaysia ,
 Thailand ,  Indonesia  and  Singapore . The  gauge  fell 0.8 percent
today and the peso declined 0.4 percent to 43.878 per dollar,
the biggest drop since Jan. 6, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  The evidence against Corona is “very solid,” Aquino said
today. Corona, who accused Aquino of “planting the seeds of a
dictatorship” in a Dec. 14 speech, has denied any wrongdoing.  Corona spoke to supporters who dressed in black and held a
mass in his honor before entering today’s Senate meeting with
his wife. Corona told his supporters he had become “hindrance
to a dictatorship” and said politicians and rivals had
conspired to unseat him.  ‘Loyal Servant’  “We are not here to indict the  Supreme Court  as an
institution or do battle with the judicial branch,” Congressman
Neil Tupas, one of the prosecutors, said during the hearing,
describing Corona as a “loyal servant” of Arroyo.  Police arrested Arroyo on Nov. 18 in a Manila hospital on
charges of election fraud, preventing her from leaving the
country after Corona’s court granted her permission to do so.
Arroyo sought to shift public attention to the poor economic
outlook in a paper released by her spokeswoman on Jan. 12 that
criticized Aquino’s policies.  “The gains achieved by previous administrations -- mine
included -- are being squandered in an obsessive pursuit of
political warfare,” wrote Arroyo, who appointed 12 of the
Supreme Court’s 15 members. “The leadership’s palpable
deficiencies in vision and execution are hurting our economy.”  ‘Truth Commission’  Philippine lawmakers on Dec. 12 impeached Corona, Arroyo’s
former chief of staff who she first named as an associate
justice in 2002.  Aquino criticized the high court on Dec. 5 for blocking the
formation of a “truth commission” to investigate Arroyo,
saying the decision raised doubts about its impartiality. He
also faulted the court for allowing the former leader on Nov. 15
to seek medical care overseas, a decision superseded by her
arrest.  Aquino’s approval rating dropped to 72 percent in November
from 77 percent in August, polling agency Pulse Asia Inc. said
on Dec. 6. He had the “trust” of 74 percent of 1,200 adults
surveyed from Nov. 10 to Nov. 23, compared with 75 percent in
August, the survey showed. The survey had a margin of error of
three percent.  “We have become convinced that when it comes to Mrs.
Arroyo, Mr. Corona has lost the ability to distinguish between
right and wrong,” Aquino said in a Dec. 13 speech. “We refuse
to bequeath to the coming generations a Supreme Court that would
be a den of corruption.”  ‘Chilling Threat’  The Senate proceedings will be held during the afternoon so
legislative matters can be dealt with in the mornings. Corona
must step down if two-thirds of the Senate finds him guilty on
any of the charges, according to  impeachment rules .  “This impeachment sends a chilling threat to the Supreme
Court to withhold the exercise of its judicial power and just
let the president have his way,” Eduardo De Los Angeles, a
lawyer for Corona, told the Senate today. “It has also brought
the branches of government into collision, and now it divides
the nation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  