-- Argentina Investigating Companies on Fuel Price-Fixing
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-01-16T19:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/argentina-investigating-companies-on-fuel-price-distortion-1-.html
Argentine energy companies including
YPF SA and  Petrobras Argentina SA (PESA)  are being investigated by the
country’s antitrust agency for fuel price-fixing, Planning
Minister Julio De Vido said.  Argentina’s transport association filed a complaint about
fuel prices last week, De Vido said today in a press conference
in  Buenos Aires . The government will establish a committee to
investigate the complaints and potential solutions in addition
to the work of the national antitrust commission.  Local units of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
were included in the complaint, which said the companies were
acting as a cartel, De Vido said. Some refining companies are
artificially increasing wholesale fuel prices, the
transportation ministry said today in a separate presentation.  In the report, entitled dominant “Position Abuse and
Cartelization of the Fuel Market,” the ministry said that some
refining companies are charging as much as 30 percent more for
wholesale fuel than what they charge in gas stations, affecting
transport companies in particular.  “The government is filing this complaint to defend the
purchasing power of the Argentines and the competitiveness of
the economy as a whole,”  Amado Boudou , the country’s Vice
President, told reporters today in Buenos Aires.  Local spokesmen for Repsol YPF, Shell, Petrobras and Exxon
didn’t immediately comment about the investigation.  Shares of  YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s largest refiner,  fell  2.9
percent to 166 pesos in Buenos Aires trading. Petrobras
Argentina fell 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in Buenos Aires at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net 
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  