-- Sharapova Rises in Tennis Rankings as Shoe Design Helps Nike Unit’s Sales
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-01-17T03:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/maria-sharapova-rises-in-tennis-rankings-as-her-shoes-boost-nike-unit.html
Maria Sharapova  finished last season
inside the top 5 in women’s tennis for the first time since
2007. At Nike Inc.’s  Cole Haan  unit, she’s No. 1.  The fourth-seeded Russian, who beat  Argentina ’s Gisela Dulko today in her opening match at the Australian Open,
suffered a serious shoulder injury in 2008 after winning in
 Melbourne , the third of her major titles. The time off gave the
24-year-old a chance to pursue another interest: fashion.  The $148 flat ballet shoe she designed is one of the best
sellers for the Nike wholly-owned subsidiary. She was forced
into a nine-month break from the game in mid-2008 because of
shoulder surgery, giving her a chance to focus on something
other than tennis, Sharapova said. Her first Cole Haan
collection was introduced in the spring of 2009.  “It was really an experiment for me,” said Sharapova, who
gets a percentage of sales from both her Cole Haan line and a
collection of  Nike (NKE)  tennis dresses, which she also designs. “I
certainly did not think I would be making any money from this
because I had zero experience.”  Sharapova won her first major at  Wimbledon  age 17 in 2004.
Grand slam titles followed at the 2006  U.S. Open  and the 2008
Australian Open, making her the highest-paid female athlete in
the world. The Russian, who moved to the U.S. at age seven,
earns $25 million a year from prize money and endorsements with
companies including Nike and Swiss luxury watch brand Tag Heuer,
according to Forbes. In tennis, only 16-time major winner  Roger Federer  and second-ranked  Rafael Nadal  earn more.  No. 126   Having dropped to No. 126 three years ago following
surgery, Sharapova last year climbed back up the rankings thanks
to a semifinals spot at  Roland Garros  and a runner-up place at
Wimbledon. She also won in Rome and Cincinnati.  Sharapova gives Nike and Cole Haan, a clothing, shoes,
handbag and accessory brand based in Yarmouth,  Maine , access to
a global audience, Nigel Currie, director of London-based sports
marketing agency brandRapport said in an interview.  “There are very few sports stars, in particular in women’s
sports, that are instantly recognizable around the world, and
Sharapova is one of them,” Currie said.  Cole Haan generates less than 3 percent of total sales at
Nike, the world’s largest sporting-goods company. The company
declined to release sales figures for Sharapova’s shoe line.  Getting Sharapova on board gave the brand the chance to
connect with a “younger” audience, said Ivan Wicksteed, Cole
Haan’s chief marketing officer.  Chasing Slam Success  Sharapova comes into 2012 with more confidence after
getting further into majors last season, which allowed her to
finish inside the top 10 for the first time since 2008. She was
No. 1 in May 2008.  “It was really important to have that type of year, with
better results,” Sharapova said. “As with any sport, you gain
confidence on where your game is and belief.”  An ankle injury sustained in  Tokyo  in September derailed a
shot at taking over the No. 1 ranking from  Denmark ’s  Caroline Wozniacki  at the end of last year.  To finish the season that way was “disappointing,” said
Sharapova, who pulled out of a lead-up event in Brisbane two
weeks ago because of her left ankle. “Injuries are always the
toughest part.”  Entering the Australian Open having last played on the WTA
Tour in October is going to be “a bit different,” said the
Siberian-born right-hander, who has been training in Melbourne
for the past two weeks.  She had little trouble against the 68th-ranked Dulko today,
winning 6-0, 6-1 in 58 minutes.  Coming up with a new design that will rival the success of
the ballet shoe may not be as easy.  “When you start with -- let’s call it a ‘luck shoe’ --
it’s pretty tough,” Sharapova said. “The great thing is that
now you have customers that are coming back to get another pair
in a different color when the one that they bought wears out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  