-- Stocks Rally With French Bonds After Debt Sale; Euro Weakens, Gas Declines
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2012-01-16T21:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/asia-stocks-euro-drop-on-s-p-rating-cuts.html
Stocks rallied and French bonds rose
after borrowing costs fell at the first bills sale since
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the country and as Europe’s central
bank bought Italian and Spanish debt. The euro weakened,
Portuguese notes slid and natural gas tumbled.  Two-year French yields fell four basis points to 0.67
percent. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  added 0.8 percent and S&P
500 futures climbed 0.2 percent. U.S. equity and bond markets
are closed today for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. The
euro slipped 0.3 percent against the yen at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, after touching an 11-year low earlier. Portugal’s 10-year
yield jumped 195 basis points to 14.41 percent. Natural gas sank
4.5 percent, reaching a two-year low. The Bovespa stock index
jumped 1.4 percent as  Brazil ’s economy showed strength.  “The bill auctions have been carried out without a
problem, which is helpful for  market sentiment  toward the euro
area,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “The reaction
to the S&P downgrade has been somewhat muted. The move wasn’t a
surprise and was well-flagged for a number of the issuers.”  France sold 1.895 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of one-year
notes at a yield of 0.406 percent, versus 0.454 percent at an
auction of similar-maturity securities on Jan. 9. It also sold
8.59 billion euros in bills. S&P warned on Jan. 13 that Europe’s
efforts to fight its crisis are falling short as it lowered
ratings on nine euro-area countries, cutting  Portugal ,  Spain  and
 Italy  by two steps and France and Austria by one level.  After European markets closed today, S&P cut the rating of
the European Financial Stability Facility, the euro-region
bailout fund, to AA+ from AAA. S&P said on Dec. 6 that the loss
of an AAA rating by any one of the EFSF’s guarantor nations may
lead to the facility being downgraded.  Carnival Tumbles  Fiat SpA and Daimler AG led European automakers higher,
rising more than 3.6 percent. Carnival Corp. tumbled 16 percent
in London, the biggest drop since October 2000, after saying the
grounding of the Costa Concordia off Italy’s Tuscan Coast that
killed at least five people will cost the company as much as $95
million, or between 11 cents and 12 cents a share, in fiscal
2012.  Investors will be watching fourth-quarter earnings this
week.  Wells Fargo & Co ., Citigroup Inc. and Microsoft Corp. are
among the U.S. companies due to report results. S&P 500
companies, which beat estimates in the previous 11 quarters, are
forecast to report a 4.6 percent increase in per-share profit
during the September-December period, according to projections
compiled by Bloomberg.  Euro Falls  The euro fell as much as 0.5 percent to 97.04 yen today,
the least since 2000. The euro slipped 0.1 percent to $1.2666,
after dropping 0.4 percent to $1.2626. The South Korean won and
the Thailand baht weakened before a report that may show  China’s
economy  expanded at the slowest pace in almost two years.  The  European Central Bank  bought Italian and Spanish
government bonds, according to three people with knowledge of
the deals.  The yield on  France ’s 10-year bond dropped four basis
points to 3.03 percent. Spain’s  10-year yield  fell four basis
points to 5.19 percent, after advancing 10 basis points. The
yield on Italy’s 10-year bonds dropped two basis points after
climbing 22 basis points. Ten-year German bund yields were
little changed at 1.77 percent.  Natural gas fell as much as 4.9 percent to $2.54 per
million British thermal units, the lowest price for a most-
active contract since September 2009, amid speculation that
milder-than-average weather in the U.S. will curb heating
demand.  Oil Rallies  Oil in New York rebounded 1 percent to $99.69 a barrel, the
first increase in four days. Iran said a disruption to crude
supplies through the Strait of Hormuz would cause a shock to
markets that “no country” could manage. Iran has threatened to
shut the strait, a transit route for about a fifth of global oil
trade, in response to international sanctions on its exports.  Gold advanced 0.8 percent as S&P’s ratings downgrades in
 Europe  spurred demand for the metal as a protection of wealth.
Copper gained 1.1 percent.  Canadian stocks rose, with the S&P/TSX Composite Index
climbing 0.2 percent, led by raw-materials producers as gold
gained. The Bovespa stock index jumped 1.4 percent, the most
since Jan. 3, as stocks linked to domestic demand rallied after
a report showed Brazil’s economy expanded more than forecast in
November.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 0.1 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.7 percent. Data released
tomorrow may show  China ’s economy grew at the slowest pace in 10
quarters. South Korea’s Kospi Index slipped 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  