-- Australia Home-Loan Approvals Gain in November on Interest Rate Reduction
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-16T01:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/australia-home-loan-approvals-gain-in-november-on-interest-rate-reduction.html
Australian  home-loan approvals  rose
in November for an eighth straight month as the central bank’s
first interest-rate reduction in two years helped attract first-
time buyers.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 1.4 percent, the most since May, after a
revised 0.8 percent advance in October, the statistics bureau
said in Sydney today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 19 economists was for a 1 percent increase in
approvals.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered
the benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point on Nov. 1 and
Dec. 6 as  Europe ’s debt crisis dimmed prospects for global
growth. The first rate cuts since 2009 were aimed at buttressing
the housing market, supporting employment and boosting
confidence among consumers who are saving more.  “This is a decent set of numbers overall and shows the
rebound in lending that we’ve seen since March 2011 continues,”
said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia
Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest interdealer broker. “The
recent cuts made by the RBA should see this recovery
strengthen.”  Currency Reaction  The Australian dollar was little changed after the data,
trading at $1.0262 at 12:06 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0267 before
the report. Traders are betting Stevens is likely to lower
borrowing costs again at the central bank’s next meeting in
February, interbank cash-rate futures showed.  First-home  buyers  accounted for 20 percent of dwellings
financed in November, up from 19.1 percent in October and higher
than 16.7 percent a year earlier, the report showed today.  Stevens lowered the overnight cash rate target to 4.25
percent from 4.5 percent on Dec. 6, citing “considerable
turbulence” in financial markets and an increased chance of a
“further material slowing in global growth.”  The nation’s four largest banks --  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia ,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd .,  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  -- reduced home-
loan rates for customers after both RBA moves.  The data showed the total value of loans rose 2.1 percent
to A$20.3 billion ($20.8 billion) in November.  The value of lending to owner-occupiers gained 2.2 percent,
the report showed. The value of loans to investors who plan to
rent or resell homes advanced 1.8 percent.  The RBA said in a quarterly statement on Nov. 4 laying out
its economic growth and inflation forecasts that Australia’s
housing market “remains weak.”  “The stock of unsold homes has not declined significantly
and housing construction activity continues to be at very low
levels,” the central bank said in the statement on monetary
policy. “ Population growth  is, however, gradually reducing the
underlying surplus of houses and there are some signs that  house
prices  have stabilized, particularly in those areas that were
less affected by overbuilding in the mid-2000s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  