-- Ayala Land Seeks Hotels, Airports After Record 2011
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-01-16T04:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/ayala-land-seeks-hotels-airports-after-record-2011-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of hotel brand in second paragraph of
story published on Jan. 13.)  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , the biggest
Philippine developer, plans to build more hotels and resorts,
and bid for airport management contracts to broaden its revenue
beyond residential and office projects.  The company, which developed the Makati City business
center known as  Manila ’s Wall Street, said it is building its
own hotel brand, called Kukun, starting with four properties. It
also wants to manage and rebuild older airports, said Antonino Aquino, Ayala Land’s president.  “We’re generally interested in the airport business,” he
said in an interview at his Makati City headquarters, adding
that “tourism will be a government priority, so we’d like to be
on that side. You will see us having a heavier foray into that
business.”  Ayala Land  is setting its sights on tourism-linked projects
as the Philippine government offers as many as 16 infrastructure
projects worth as much as 142 billion pesos ($3.2 billion) to
boost growth with the aim of attracting 10 million visitors a
year starting 2016.  The company plans to rebuild a resort under its  El Nido
Resorts  brand that burnt down, and is looking for “further
additions” through new developments or acquisitions, he said.
It also plans to build more resorts in the central Philippine
island of Visayas, he said.  Among the airports, Ayala plans to bid for projects in Cebu
and Cagayan de Oro City, he said.  ‘Level of Aggressiveness’  Net income and sales at Ayala Land climbed to a record in
2011, fueled by residential sales and rents from its malls and
office buildings, he said.  The company is “well on the way” for annual profit of 10
billion pesos by 2014, Aquino said. Profit in the first nine
months of 2011 increased 33 percent to 5.23 billion pesos, with
half of the revenue from residential sales.  “We would like to continue with that level of
aggressiveness,” Aquino said in the interview yesterday.  Ayala Land shares climbed 13 percent since the start of the
year, twice the advance in the Philippine benchmark  index .  The company may raise 10 billion pesos by selling notes to
help fund record spending this year, Aquino said. It raised a
similar amount from a notes sale in January 2011, offering debt
with maturity of as long as 15 years, the longest issued by any
Philippine company.  Capital spending  this year will be higher
than the 30 billion pesos budgeted last year, he said.  The developer is still expanding its residential projects
because there’s a shortage of 4 million homes in the nation,
providing demand for the company, Aquino said. The backlog is
“so large” and “it’s not something that will go away in a
decade,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Evans at 
 revans6@bloomberg.net ; 