-- Banks Split by European Downgrades Are Jostling for Debt: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-01-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/lazard-gets-five-weeks-to-find-rbs-buyers-before-bankers-depart.html
Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the largest non-bank
merger adviser, has been given five weeks to find a buyer for
all or parts of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s equities and
advisory operations before managers start firing employees,
according to three executives at the bank.  RBS, the U.K.’s largest state-owned lender, last week said
it will sell or close its unprofitable cash equities, mergers
advisory and equity capital markets units. The 3,500 affected
employees won’t be put on redundancy notice until RBS concludes
it can’t find a home for them elsewhere, said two of the
executives, who declined to be identified. The decision needs to
be made before the bank reports full-year  earnings  on Feb. 23
because clients are threatening to pull their business and
employees are becoming increasingly de-motivated, they said.  “The more time goes by, the more commissions slip away to
competitors and the higher the likelihood that the big-name
bankers walk away,” said Arun Melmane, bank analyst at  Investec
Plc (INVP)  in London. “The value of the business will ebb away so they
need a sale to be quick, which obviously suggests a discount.”  RBS plans to cut the units after volatile markets and
increasing regulation rendered it impossible to generate returns
that surpassed their cost of equity. The restructured investment
bank will focus on fixed income, foreign exchange, debt
financing, transaction services and risk management, the
Edinburgh-based company said in a statement on Jan. 12.  Telephoning Clients  On the day the sale was announced, executives were told to
telephone clients to reassure them they would continue to be
serviced until a solution had been reached. RBS is seeking to
make an announcement with details of specific sales between the
end of January and Feb. 23, an executive said.  Lazard has been hired to find buyers for all or parts of
the jettisoned businesses. Stephen Campbell, the London-based
global head of the advisory firm’s financial institutions team,
is overseeing the process. Officials at RBS and Lazard in  London 
declined to comment.  “Any decision to reduce roles is deeply regrettable and we
will do all that we can to support the affected staff as best we
can,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester said in a Jan. 12
memo to employees obtained by Bloomberg News. “Our first
priority is to make sure that those in the affected businesses
have clarity on what these announcements mean for them. This
will be the focus for us in the coming days.”  One London-based recruiter who helps banks hire senior
mergers bankers said he was already working on finding new jobs
for managing directors in the operation. He declined to be
identified.  Preferred Outcome  RBS’s preferred outcome is a sale of the entire business to
one bidder, although all three executives said that looks
unlikely. The advisory business, which employs between 150 and
250 people worldwide, has attracted little interest and is most
likely to be closed, two of the executives said. RBS was ranked
20th in global mergers and acquisitions last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank is still seeking to find an overseas buyer for
large parts of the global cash equities arm, which includes
sales, trading, research and potentially parts of  equity capital
markets , the unit that underwrites stock offerings, the two
executives said.  “These are activities that don’t require a lot of capital,
which is attractive as Basel rules come into force,” said  Neil Smith , a banking analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “RBS is
selling at exactly the wrong time. It’s a good brand and there
should be a number of potential buyers.”  Hoare Govett  Hoare Govett, RBS’s U.K. corporate broking arm, has drawn
interest from  RBC Capital Markets , Oriel Securities Ltd., Numis
Corp. and Jefferies Group Inc., one of the RBS executives said.
Spokesmen for RBS, RBC Capital Markets, Jefferies, Oriel
Securities and Numis declined to comment.  The bank may combine the unit’s 50 employees with some
equity sales and research teams to create a bigger U.K.
stockbroking group of about 100 people that might be more
attractive to a bidder, the executive said.  Investec Plc acquired Evolution Group Plc for 230 million
pounds ($352 million) in September to gain the U.K. broker’s
wealth management arm, William de Broe. Canaccord Financial
Inc.,  Canada ’s largest non-bank brokerage, agreed to acquire
U.K. stockbroker  Collins Stewart (CSHP)  Hawkpoint Plc in December for
253.5 million pounds.  “Investec was attracted by Evolution’s wealth business and
 Collins Stewart  has Hawkpoint and wealth management for
Canaccord, implying scale,” Melmane said. “RBS buyers will
also want a teaser beyond just equities. That may include parts
of fixed income.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  