-- TD, BB&T Said to Be Among Lenders in Talks to Buy BankUnited
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-01-17T14:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/bb-t-td-said-to-be-discussing-bankunited.html
BB&T Corp. (BBT)  and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) 
are among companies in talks to buy BankUnited Inc., Florida’s
second-biggest lender, people with knowledge of the matter said.  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  also has signaled it may
bid, according to one of the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. BankUnited has asked
for offers by today and told potential buyers it’s seeking to
finish the sale effort within about two weeks, the people said.  BB&T, TD Bank and Pittsburgh-based PNC have been vying for
territory in the U.S. Southeast since the  decline  of the
nation’s housing market caused rivals to collapse or exit the
business. PNC outbid BB&T for Royal Bank of Canada’s retail-
branch network in the Southeast last year, people with knowledge
of that transaction said at the time. Toronto-Dominion and BB&T
have struck deals to buy troubled lenders in the region.  BankUnited had a market capitalization of $2.38 billion,
based on the close of New York trading on Jan. 13.  Maria Leung, a spokeswoman for Toronto-based TD Bank,  Fred Solomon  at PNC and Cynthia Williams at BB&T, based in Winston-
Salem,  North Carolina , declined to comment yesterday. Donna Butler at  Miami Lakes , Florida-based BankUnited declined to
comment today.  Carlyle, Blackstone  TD Bank bid for BankUnited the last time it was for sale in
2009, when regulators were preparing to seize the failing
lender. Instead, a group of private-equity investors including
Carlyle Group LP and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  prevailed and bought
the bank’s operations from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The investor group, which included Chief Executive Officer
John Kanas, 65, pumped about $900 million into the company and
got the FDIC to agree to absorb most losses on some of the
bank’s mortgage assets. The investors took BankUnited public
last year at $27 a share, almost triple the initial investment.
BankUnited surged 5.8 percent to $24.48 on Jan. 13. The shares
have dropped 9.3 percent since the  initial public offering .  Toronto-Dominion turned to smaller acquisitions to bolster
its market share in the Southeast, buying Greenville, South
Carolina-based South Financial Group Inc. for about $192 million
and absorbing three  Florida  lenders from the FDIC.  BB&T took over the operations of Montgomery, Alabama-based
Colonial BancGroup Inc. after its 2009 collapse, and agreed to
buy  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc.’s
Florida retail-lending unit in November.  BB&T rose 30 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $27.53 at 9:31 a.m.
in New York trading. PNC gained 66 cents to $62.39 and
BankUnited increased 62 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $25.10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  