-- Billionaire Syed Mokhtar’s DRB-Hicom to Buy Control of Lotus-Owner Proton
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-01-16T07:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/billionaire-syed-mokhtar-s-drb-hicom-to-buy-control-of-lotus-owner-proton.html
Billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al- Bukhary’s  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)  agreed to buy Lotus sportscar-owner
 Proton Holdings Bhd. (PROH)  for 1.29 billion ringgit ($410 million), in
 Malaysia ’s biggest automotive takeover since 2000.  The automobile assembler will buy 234.7 million Proton
shares, a 43 percent stake, for 5.50 ringgit apiece from state-
owned  Khazanah Nasional Bhd (KNBZ) ., DRB-Hicom said in a  statement 
today. The offer, which is 6.2 percent higher than the Malaysian
carmaker’s last closing price, will be extended to all remaining
stockholders, according to the statement.  Proton, headed for its second year of profit declines,
paves the way for Syed Mokhtar to widen his share of the
Southeast Asian country’s car industry and expand a business
empire that already includes ports, airports and power plants.
The agreement comes a month after former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, who founded Proton in 1983, said he endorsed DRB-
Hicom’s bid.  “There are lots of synergies that could be gained between
DRB and Proton,” said Ahmad Maghfur Usman, an analyst at  OSK
Holdings Bhd. (OSK)  in  Kuala Lumpur . “Proton still needs a massive
overhaul from DRB.”  Proton, up 93 percent since November, last closed at 5.18
ringgit before it was suspended from trading today pending the
announcement. DRB-Hicom, which distributes and assembles
vehicles for Volkswagen AG and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, last
traded at 2.17 ringgit before the stock was halted.  Bigger Than  Switzerland   The offer values Proton at 24 times estimated earnings for
next fiscal year, compared with the  average multiple  of 13 for
the Bloomberg Asia Pacific Auto Manufacturer index.  Proton gives DRB control of two Malaysian car plants with
the capacity to make a combined 350,000 vehicles per year --more
than the total number of cars sold in Switzerland annually.  DRB-Hicom, which hired  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) ’s investment
banking arm for the deal, beat Proton Chairman Mohd Nadzmi Mohd Salleh, who had also sought to purchase the controlling stake in
Malaysia’s first automaker from Khazanah. DRB, which may use
internal funds or borrow externally to fund the purchase, said
it expects to complete the deal by the second quarter.  Mahathir, who was Malaysia’s prime minister for two decades,
said in a joint interview Dec. 12 that Proton should be sold to
DRB-Hicom -- a company he described as being well-run and having
the capacity to turn around Proton without undermining its
vendors. Mahathir is a Proton adviser.  Malaysian Billionaire  Syed Mokhtar, 60, is the Southeast Asian nation’s second-
youngest billionaire after Berjaya Corp. Chairman Vincent Tan,
according to Forbes magazine’s latest rankings. His ties to
Mahathir, who describes the Malaysian tycoon as a friend,
stretch back more than a decade. About a year before Mahathir
stepped down in 2003 as prime minister, he awarded a $3.8
billion rail project -- then the nation’s biggest infrastructure
undertaking -- to contractors including Syed Mokhtar’s MMC Corp.  Selangor-based DRB manufactures, distributes and assembles
a range of vehicles from motorcycles to garbage trucks for
global carmakers from  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  to  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  and
Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz. It has eight assembly plants, of
which four are for cars.  Proton, whose vehicles are driven by taxi drivers across
Malaysia, are among the cheapest cars sold in the country.
Profit at the company, which had two annual  net losses  over the
past five years, is poised to fall 60 percent in the year ending
March, according to the average of 11 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Biggest in 12 Years  The deal is the biggest purchase of a Malaysian automobile-
industry asset in 12 years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The purchase builds on Prime Minister Najib Razak’s call
for state entities to sell non-core assets to help boost stock
market liquidity and attract investors. Khazanah has disposed of
minority stakes in companies including DRB-Hicom, CIMB,  Malaysia
Airports Holdings Bhd. (MAHB)  and  Telekom Malaysia Bhd. (T)   “This is another significant milestone in our strategic
divestment program as it represents the largest size to date,”
Azman Mokhtar, managing director of Khazanah, said in a
statement today. “The divestment is a further example of
public-private partnerships.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho in Tokyo at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  