-- BlackRock’s Mytrah Says Able to Produce Wind Power Cheap as Coal
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-01-16T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/blackrock-s-mytrah-says-able-to-produce-wind-power-cheap-as-coal.html
Mytrah Energy Ltd (MYT) ., an Indian wind-
farm builder held by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , says it’s able to produce
power as cheap as developers of coal-fired plants because rising
demand for the  fossil fuel  has increased import prices.  “With increased reliance on imported coal in India, we
believe that our cost of production of electricity is reaching
parity, or better than, new thermal capacity being developed,”
Executive Director Alastair Cade said in a London interview.  A forecast 8 percent gain in the price of coal in Asia this
year may boost competitiveness of clean energy producers such as
Mytrah, which is also backed by Henderson Global Investors Ltd.,
Capital Research Global Investors and Eton Park International
LLP. About half the thermal power stations in  India , the third-
largest coal user, have stocks of fewer than seven days against
normal levels of 15 to 30 days, the regulator said this month.  “Wind power prices have either remained stable or seen a
much lower increase,” said Ashish Sethia, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance’s India country manager, said by e-mail from  New Delhi .
“Rates of new build coal power projects have risen steadily in
the last two years due to an increased non-availability of
domestic coal, pushing developers to opt for imports.”  Developers’ bids in auctions for coal-fired power stations
have ranged from $49 to $78 a megawatt-hour, against tariffs for
wind farms of $66 to $105 a megawatt-hour, Sethia said.  “We’re producing electricity at around 3.5 rupees per
kilowatt-hour at our capital cost, which is either equal to or
better than some of the bids that are coming in from new thermal
players,” said Cade at Hyderabad-based Mytrah.  Enough Land  The company, listed on the London Alternative Investment
Market in October 2010, has $132 million of so-called mezzanine
finance and $270 million of senior debt for its projects.  It has also curbed the cost of finding future sites by
securing enough land to install as much as 3,000 megawatts of
wind power, Cade said. Mytrah contracted  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,
India’s biggest turbine maker, to build projects that are ready
to operate. In addition, it signed a turbine deal with  Gamesa
Corporacion Tecnologica SA (GAM)  for 2,000 megawatts through 2017.  Power demand in India means “whatever is produced is used
and wind can be erected a lot quicker than other forms,” Cade
said, with a first 500 megawatts set to be installed by March.  “Those who have land banks are likely to see faster
project execution and better returns as the number of good
quality sites depletes and land acquisition becomes increasingly
expensive,” Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s Sethia said.  Thermal coal at the Australian port of Newcastle, the
benchmark price for  Asia , may average $120 a metric ton this
year, according to the median of five analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Prices slipped 12 percent in 2011 after
surging by 46 percent in 2010, IHS McCloskey figures show.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  