-- Bloomberg Announces Global Asset Management Summit in Qatar
-- B y
-- 2012-01-16T15:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/bloomberg-announces-global-asset-management-summit-in-qatar.html

Press Release  Keynote Speaker, H.E. Yousef Hussain Kamal, the Minister of
Economy & Finance, State of  Qatar   Investors From Across the U.S.,  Europe , and  Asia , to Headline
the Conference, Including  Sam Zell , Equity Group Investments
Chairman  Doha -- Bloomberg LINK, in partnership with the Qatar Financial
Centre Authority, today announced that it will host a global
asset management conference on Monday, April 16th and Tuesday,
April 17th, 2012 at the Ritz Carlton Hotel in Doha, Qatar, one
of the world’s fastest growing economies. This event will be
officially inaugurated by H.E. Yousef Hussain Kamal, the
Minister of Economy & Finance, State of Qatar.  The Bloomberg Doha Conference will bring together global
financial influencers, including asset managers, bankers,
government officials and economists from Europe, Asia, the U.S.
and the  Middle East  to examine portfolio strategies for 2012.
Among other topics, speakers will discuss operating strategies
for global asset management firms; investment opportunities in
the MENA region; readiness for black swan events; and global
market trends.  “We selected Doha as the home for this event, due to its
strategic importance to the financial community and the Qatar
Financial Centre’s unique ability to convene Qatar’s most
influential financial players,” said  Robert Bierman , head of
Bloomberg LINK. “We believe that the global presence of
Bloomberg coupled with the growing stature of Qatar in the
Middle East is a powerful combination and represents an
important in-country collaboration for Bloomberg LINK.”  Yousuf Al Jaida, Director of Asset Management at QFC Authority,
commented: “We are pleased to welcome Bloomberg and its
international community of asset management professionals to
Doha. The presence in Doha of so many distinguished experts at
this prestigious conference, which is the first of a new series
of conferences on Asset Management to be held in Qatar,  is
testimony to Qatar’s development as an asset management hub in
the region. We believe that in addition to enjoying two
compelling days of discussions, participants will discover the
best of Doha’s business and cultural features.”  For updates on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/doha .  Follow us on Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter (@BBGLINK). The
hashtag for this event is #BBdoha.
For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com  and for further information about the
QFC Authority  http://www.qfc.com.qa .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 310,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government, BNA
and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data,
news and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond
finance. And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg
Professional service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet
and two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets,
covers the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia
professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. Headquartered in
 New York , Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185
locations around the world.  About QFC  The Qatar Financial Centre (QFC) is a financial and business
centre established by the Government of Qatar and located in
Doha. It has been designed to attract international financial
services institutions and major multi-national corporations in
particular those operating in the reinsurance, captive insurance
and asset management sectors and to encourage participation in
the growing market for financial services in Qatar and elsewhere
in the region. The QFC operates to international standards and
provides a first class legal and business infrastructure for
those operating within the QFC. The QFC was created by Qatar Law
No. (7) and has been open for business since 1 May 2005.  QFC Authority  The QFC Authority is the commercial, administrative and
legislative body responsible for leading the expansion of
Qatar’s financial services sector, providing a uniquely
sustainable platform for regional growth in reinsurance, captive
insurance and asset management.  For more information on the QFC Authority please visit
www.qfc.com.qa  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, +1 212-617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net   Contact for Qatar Financial Centre Authority:  Stephen Carriere, +974-4496-7784,  S.Carriere@qfc.com.qa 
