-- South America Boom Backfires on Commodity Complacency
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-01-17T20:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/booming-south-america-backfires-as-chile-shows-complacency-on-commodities.html
(Corrects to remove reference in sixth paragraph of Jan.
16 story that Deutsche Bank was the No. 1 industrial-metals
forecaster in the eight consecutive quarters ended on Dec. 31,
2011, according to Bloomberg Rankings.)  Venture capitalist Arnon Kohavi
arrived in  Chile  last year aiming to raise $40 million for
technology startup investments. Six months later, the Israeli
decamped to  Singapore , saying the world’s largest copper
producer was too addicted to its commodity wealth.  Kohavi’s tale may serve as a warning to the rest of South
America, which has done little to reduce its dependence on raw
materials during the past decade’s  boom , said Colombia’s Mining
Minister  Mauricio Cardenas . The failure to boost productivity,
and tackle longstanding gaps in education and infrastructure,
make the region more vulnerable to a global slowdown should
demand for its soy, copper and iron-ore exports decline.  “There’s no doubt that with the growth of China, we’ve
seen a re-commoditization of  Latin America ,” said Cardenas, an
economist who previously headed the Latin America program at the
Brookings Institution in  Washington . “Given the region’s track
record managing past booms, it’s clear the pessimists have the
upper hand in presuming the current one will be misspent.”  As raw-material prices nearly tripled from 2000 to 2010,
Latin America’s share of global merchandise trade barely budged
at 5.7 percent, and service exports -- a bellwether of economic
development -- fell to 3.4 percent from 3.9 percent. It’s easier
to do business in Pakistan or Albania than in Brazil, according
to the World Bank’s 2012  competitiveness study , which ranked the
region’s biggest economy No. 126 out of 183 countries. Across
the region, productivity has advanced more slowly than in  Asia .  Slipping Forecasts  Now forecasts for raw-material prices are slipping, which
means the region’s economies aren’t likely to sustain the high
growth seen during the past five years, said Guillermo Calvo, an
economist at Columbia University in  New York .  Deutsche Bank AG estimates copper prices will average
$6,900 a metric ton in the first quarter, down 8.4 percent from
the last three months of 2011, as gold declines 4.9 percent to
$1,600 an ounce, silver dips 5.8 percent to $30 an ounce and
aluminum drops 10 percent to $1,900 a ton. Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank was the No. 2 precious-metals forecaster in the
eight consecutive quarters ended on Dec. 31, 2011, according to
Bloomberg Rankings.  ‘Sell Into Strength’  To protect themselves, investors should “sell into
strength” and aggressively cut their exposure to the region’s
bonds and currencies, said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of New York-
based Marketfield Asset Management, which manages $1.3 billion.  Since 2003,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s Latin American bond
 index  has risen 175 percent, outperforming its Asian  equivalent ,
which returned 124 percent. Brazil’s real was the world’s best-
performing currency during the same period, surging 97 percent,
while  Colombia ’s peso jumped 56 percent.  “All of Latin America is tied into similar capital flows
and enjoyed massive booms in fixed-income issuance over the last
couple of years,” Shaoul said. “If the shutter comes down in
one market, the same forces are likely to take down the others
as well.”  One exception is  Mexico , the region’s second-biggest
economy, which is less dependent on raw materials and stands to
benefit from a continued U.S. recovery, he said.  Reduce Deficits  Latin America has made progress since emerging from the so-
called ‘Lost Decade’ of the 1980s, after  oil prices  spiked and
the  Federal Reserve   raised interest rates , leading many of the
region’s then military dictatorships to default on their debts.
Across the region, policy makers have taken advantage of record
investment during the past decade to reduce deficits and
accumulate foreign-currency reserves.  Foreign direct investment to Brazil has more than
quadrupled since 2003 to $75 billion in the 12 months through
November, while FDI to Colombia rose more than nine-fold.  Inflation also has been tamed in most countries. Price
increases in Brazil, which peaked at more than 6,800 percent in
1990, have remained  below 10 percent  since 2003.  Such policies, and a jump in social spending, helped lift
21 million Brazilians out of poverty during Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s 2003-2010 presidency. Five countries -- Brazil, Chile,
Colombia, Mexico and Peru -- now enjoy an investment-grade
credit rating.  Rising Stocks  Brazil’s stock markets rose to  2.7 percent  of total world
capitalization on Jan. 13, from 0.7 percent eight years ago, as
commodities producers such as  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s biggest iron-
ore miner, and BRF Brazil Foods SA, the world’s biggest poultry
farmer, cashed in on higher raw-materials prices.  Shares in Rio de Janeiro-based Vale, have climbed 378
percent since 2003 and Brazil Foods is up 1,622 percent, while
 Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) , Peru’s largest copper producer, rose 13-
fold.  Even with the progress, the region hasn’t stayed
competitive with emerging-market rivals such as China and South
Korea. Of 76 countries in a 2010  study  by the Inter-American
Development Bank, half of the 20 with the smallest productivity
gains were in Latin America.  Only Chile had faster increases than the U.S. during the
past five decades, with a rise of 19 percent, while  China ’s
productivity went up 219 percent, according to the report by the
Washington-based lender.  Reduce Red Tape  Improving education, reducing red tape and modernizing
roads and ports are keys to closing the gap, the IDB said.  Investment in Brazil was 20 percent of gross domestic
product in 2011, about the same as in 1980, compared with 38
percent for  India  and 49 percent for China, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Eight Latin American countries -- including Brazil,
Argentina and Chile -- ranked in the bottom third in reading in
a 2009 survey of 65 educational systems worldwide by the
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.  The region spent 2 percent of GDP on infrastructure from
2007 to 2008, short of the 5.2 percent the United Nations’
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean  says  it
needs to spend annually through 2020 to meet growing demand.  “There hasn’t been any serious plan to improve
productivity,” said Calvo, who was chief economist at the IDB
from 2001 to 2006. “The bonanza just redirected funds to the
agriculture sector and mining.”  No Airport Changes  Kohavi, 47, says Rio de Janeiro’s international airport
hasn’t changed since he first visited the host city of the 2016
Summer Olympics 25 years ago.  Tired of the inadequate infrastructure, and what he said
was the hidebound mentality of Chilean investors accustomed to
high returns selling copper and timber, Kohavi took his Yarden
Venture Capital fund to Singapore. From the new hub, he invests
in technology companies in Indonesia, Vietnam, the Philippines
and other southeast Asia countries.  “Santiago looks very new and beautiful with tall glass
buildings,” said Kohavi, who was vice president of DSP
Communications Inc. in Cupertino,  California , when it was
acquired by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in 1999 for $1.6 billion. “But the
mindset is old.”  South America’s GDP grew 4.9 percent from 2005 to 2010 --
more than three times faster than advanced economies, according
to the IMF. Much of the growth came from commodities, Calvo
said. Raw materials made up 54 percent of Latin America’s
exports in 2010 compared with 44 percent in 2003, according to
the UN.  Dutch Disease  That trend already is leading to so-called Dutch Disease,
said Simon Nocera, a former IMF economist who founded San
Francisco-based hedge fund Lumen Advisors LLC. The term was
coined in the 1970s when the Netherlands’ discovery of large
natural-gas deposits led its currency to soar and manufacturing
to decline.  The IMF  warned  in October that Latin America remains as
vulnerable to sharp declines in commodity prices as it did four
decades ago. Metal exporters Peru and Chile may be most at risk,
while Asian imports of the region’s soy, beef and sugar, so-
called soft commodities, will hold up better during a global
slowdown, said Richard Frank, chief executive officer of Darby
Overseas Investments Ltd., a Washington-based private-equity
company with $650 million invested in 50 Latin America
companies.  “Which type of commodity a country is dependent on will
determine whether they are going to get hurt,” Frank, former
head of the World Bank’s operations in Latin America, said in a
telephone interview.  Argentina, Venezuela  Brazil, Argentina and especially Venezuela also may face
bigger risks, as they used the tax windfall from commodity
exports to fuel a consumer spending boom, said Andressa Tezine,
managing director of emerging-market fixed income at PineBridge
Investments.  In Argentina, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has
relied on a 35 percent tax on soybean exports to fund subsidies
for services including public transport and electricity that
swelled to 72 billion pesos ($16.7 billion) last year, or 4
percent of GDP, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  In contrast, Colombia and Peru are following in the
footsteps of Chile -- the region’s sole net creditor -- and are
taking steps to boost savings. Colombia´s Congress in June
approved legislation to create a fund similar to one that has
long existed in Chile to salt away excess mining and energy
revenue that can be tapped during an economic slump.  “Right now our ability to raise revenue is running faster
than our capacity to spend it wisely,” Colombia’s Cardenas
said. “That’s why it makes better sense to save the windfall.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  