-- Interest-Rate Futures Decline After Euro Fund Rating Cut; Real Unchanged
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-01-16T20:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/brazilian-interest-rate-futures-rise-on-economic-expansion-real-gains.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts declined after Standard & Poor’s cut
 Europe ’s stability fund, adding to speculation the region’s debt
crisis will weaken global growth and damp inflation.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2015 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 10.83 percent.
The contract due in January 2013 rose one basis point to 10.02
percent, after earlier rising as much as six basis points. The
real was little changed at 1.7861 per  U.S. dollar , from 1.7863
on Jan. 13.  Traders stepped up bets on deeper interest-rate cuts after
the European Financial Stability Facility lost its top  credit
rating , following S&P’s downgrades of  France  and  Austria  last
week. With a holiday in the U.S., traders are positioning
themselves on how the market will react to the downgrade when
U.S. markets reopen tomorrow, said Arthur Totti, a portfolio
manager with Grau Gestao de Ativos in  Sao Paulo .  “The DI gave back all of its earlier gains mostly because
of the downgrade,” Totti said in telephone interview.  The rating was lowered to AA+ from AAA, S&P said in a
statement today. It had said on Dec. 6 that the loss of an AAA
rating by any one of the EFSF’s guarantor nations may lead to
the facility being downgraded.  Futures yields rose earlier after the economy grew more
than forecast in November, damping speculation the central bank
may accelerate the pace of interest-rate cuts.  Economic Activity  Seasonally adjusted economic activity, a proxy for gross
domestic product, rose 1.15 percent in November from October,
the fastest pace in 19 months, the central bank said in a report
published on its website today. The median forecast of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.9 percent gain. The
increase follows three straight months of falling economic
activity, its longest contraction since the one that followed
the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Policy makers have cut the benchmark lending rate 150 basis
points since August to 11 percent to shore up the economy.
Traders are wagering central bank President Alexandre Tombini
will reduce the Selic rate by 50 basis points this week during
its two-day policy meeting and to as low as 10 percent by May,
according to interest-rate futures yields.  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPC-S report, rose 0.97
percent in the period through Jan. 15, according to the Rio de
Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas Foundation. That compares with a
median estimate of 0.96 percent among 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Surplus Target  President  Dilma Rousseff  may abandon the full fiscal
surplus target of 139.8 billion reais ($78 billion) this year to
increase public investment and boost economic growth,  Valor
Economico  reported, without saying where it got the information.  Deputy Finance Minister Nelson Barbosa supports more
investments, while Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  opposes the
suggestion and recommends that  Brazil  complies with its full
fiscal surplus goal, the Sao Paulo-based newspaper said.  Reducing the fiscal surplus could result in an end to the
central bank’s interest-rate cuts, which would be undesirable,
Valor said.  U.S. markets are closed today for the  Martin Luther King Jr . holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  