-- Thirty-Year Gilt Yields Reach Record Low on Recession Concern; Pound Falls
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-01-16T16:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/britain-s-pound-falls-versus-yen-as-euro-rating-cuts-spurs-risk-aversion.html
Thirty-year  gilt  yields fell to a
record low as  France  lost its top  credit rating  and a survey
showed the U.K. housing market remains weak, boosting demand for
haven assets.  The  yield spread  between two- and 10-year gilts was the
narrowest in almost three years amid concern growth is slowing.
A survey by Rightmove Plc showed U.K. home sellers cut asking
prices for a third month in January. Sterling was 0.5 percent
from its lowest level versus the dollar in almost 18 months as
Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club said the U.K. economy has slipped
back into a recession. Standard & Poor’s cut France’s credit
rating by one step to AA+ and lowered grades for eight other
euro-area nations.  “Gilt yields are reflecting a flight to quality and
expectations that economic growth in the U.K. will remain
subdued for a while,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London. “There
is no reason to believe these downgrades in the euro area are
the end of the line in terms of things getting worse over
there.”  Thirty-year yields fell three basis points to 2.976
percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began collecting gilt data
in 1996, and were at 2.99 percent at 4:04 p.m. London time. The
4.25 percent securities maturing in December 2040 rose 0.38, or
3.8 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,531) face amount, to 124.33.  Ten-year gilts were little changed, leaving yields at 1.97
percent. The rate was 158 basis points more than two-year notes,
the narrowest  spread  since March 2009. The so-called flattening
of the yield curve suggests investors favor longer-dated
maturities as slower growth reduces inflation.  S&P Cuts  U.S. equity and bond markets are closed today for the
Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.  S&P said on Jan. 13 that  Europe ’s efforts to fight its
crisis are falling short as it lowered ratings for Spain and
 Italy  by two steps and France and  Austria  one level. France sold
8.6 billion euros ($11 billion) in bills today. The company
affirmed Britain’s AAA rating on Oct. 3, saying it expects the
coalition government led by Prime Minister  David Cameron  to
enact “the bulk” of its plan to reduce the  budget deficit .  “To be sure, the U.K. suffers from some of the adverse
factors cited by S&P to justify the euro-area downgrades,”
London-based Citigroup Inc. analysts  Michael Saunders  and Mark Schofield said in a note to clients today. “Nevertheless, in
other respects, we think the U.K.’s ability to return to fiscal
sustainability is significantly better than most” euro-region
governments.  Sterling Falls  The pound dropped 0.4 percent to 117.48 yen, extending
three weeks of declines. It was little changed at $1.5306 after
falling to $1.5235 on Jan. 13, the weakest level since July
2010. Sterling was also little changed at 82.736 pence per euro.  Futures (.BPLRG)  traders increased their bets that the British pound
will decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the pound compared with those
on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 35,853 on Jan. 10,
compared with 31,899 a week earlier.  “We’ve seen some flight to quality that benefits the
dollar and the yen against most currencies including the
pound,” said  Jeremy Stretch , the head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London . “The pound is
likely to fall further against the dollar given its economic
outlook. But we still prefer sterling to the euro.”  U.K. Recession  Ernst & Young’s ITEM Club cut its forecast for economic
expansion in 2012 to 0.2 percent from 1.5 percent today. It
predicted the  Bank of England  will increase its bond-purchase
target in February to counter the impact of Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis.  The report by Rightmove showed average asking prices for
homes in England and Wales fell 0.8 percent from December, the
operator of Britain’s biggest property website said. In London,
values gained 0.8 percent.  Gilts handed investors a 0.4 percent return so far this
year, compared with a 0.4 percent gain from German bonds and a
0.1 percent increase from Treasuries, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  Sterling declined 0.8 percent against nine developed-nation
currencies since the start of the year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  New Zealand dollar , which
gained 3.1 percent during the same period, was the best
performer while the euro was the worst currency, dropping 1.7
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  