-- Canadian Dollar Appreciates Versus Euro on U.S. Economic Expansion Outlook
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-16T23:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/canadian-dollar-appreciates-versus-euro-on-u-s-economic-expansion-outlook.html
Canada ’s dollar rose against all its
16 major peers on speculation the nation’s exports will benefit
from accelerating U.S. economic growth.  The Canadian currency extended an eight-week advance
against the euro amid concern  Europe ’s fiscal turmoil will
worsen after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the credit ratings of nine
nations last week, including Italy, France and Spain. The
currency, nicknamed the loonie, also advanced as the Bank of
Canada prepares to set  interest rates  tomorrow.  “The Canadian dollar is performing well but so is the
Mexican peso and to a slightly lesser extent the Brazilian
real,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London . “ North America  is
moving ahead and looking to short the euro.” A short position
is a bet a currency will drop.  Canada’s currency rose 0.5 percent to C$1.0179 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto from C$1.0232 on Jan. 13. One
Canadian dollar bought 98.24 U.S. cents. The U.S. market is
closed for the Martin Luther King Day holiday.  The Bank of Canada will hold  rates  at 1 percent, where
they’ve been since September 2010, according to all 26 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank said last month that
Europe’s fiscal crisis is a key risk to the domestic recovery,
and policy makers may reiterate that view in tomorrow’s
statement, due at 9 a.m. Ottawa time.  Regional reports from the New York Federal Reserve tomorrow
and the Philadelphia Fed on Jan. 19 may show manufacturing
continued to improve in January, according to economist surveys.  Euro Weakens  Canada’s dollar touched C$1.2883 versus the euro, the
strongest level in a year, on demand for the assets of countries
with the highest credit ratings. After European markets closed
today, S&P cut the rating of the European Financial Stability
Facility, the euro-region bailout fund, to AA+ from AAA.  Canada, Germany, the U.K. and Sweden are the only Group of
10 countries with stable AAA ratings from the three main credit
assessment companies. S&P cut  France  to AA+ from AAA on Jan. 13,
the same day it assigned the Netherlands a “negative” outlook.
It lowered the U.S. to AA+ in August. Italy is rated A2 by
Moody’s Investors Service, which rates Japan and Belgium Aa3.
 Australia , not in the G-10, also has a stable AAA rating from
all three agencies.  “With the Canadian dollar you get the shrinking pool of
AAA assets,” said David Watt, senior currency strategist in
Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, in a
telephone interview. Watt recommends selling the euro against
the Canadian dollar.  “You still have concerns about  Asia  and the credit crunch
out of Europe and the global trade backdrop,” he said. “If
those flare up even a little bit, you start thinking about the
outlook for the global economy and you bias yourself towards the
North American block.”  Canada’s government bonds fell today, with the benchmark
two-year yielding 0.96 percent, up one basis point. The
country’s federal bonds have gained 0.01 percent this year,
after returning 9.6 percent last year, the most since 2008,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  