-- Canada December Existing Home Sales (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-01-16T14:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/canada-december-existing-home-sales-text-.html
According to statistics released
today by The  Canadian Real Estate Association  (CREA),
national resale housing activity posted an increase from
November to December 2011.  Highlights:
• Sales activity rose 1.8 per cent from November to December.
• Annual activity totalled 456,749 sales in 2011, up 2.2 per
cent from 2010.
• The number of newly listed homes increased 3 per cent from
November to December.
• A simultaneous increase in sales and new listings kept the
national resale housing in balanced territory.
• The national average home price was up just 0.9 per cent on a
year-over-year basis in December, marking the smallest
increase since October 2010.  Sales activity recorded through the MLS® Systems of Canadian
real estate Boards and Associations rose 1.8 per cent from
November to December 2011, marking the fourth consecutive
monthly increase.  Activity rose in more than half of all local markets, including
some of  Canada ’s most active, with monthly declines posted in
most of the remaining markets.  Actual (not seasonally adjusted) national sales activity came in
4.6 per cent above year-ago levels in December. It also stood
above the five- and ten-year average for December sales.  A total of 456,749 homes traded hands via Canadian MLS® Systems
in 2011. This stands broadly in line with the average over the
past ten years, and represents an increase of 2.2 per cent from
annual levels reported in 2010.  “The momentum in sales activity provides clear evidence that low
interest rates continue to draw homebuyers to the housing
market,” said Gary Morse, CREA President. “While buyers have
become increasingly cautious, the hand off for sales activity
going into the New Year suggests that Canada’s housing market
will continue to benefit from low  interest rates  in 2012, and
continue making a significant contribution to Canadian economic
activity. Even so, prospects among housing markets and
neighbourhoods differ, so buyers and sellers should talk to a
local REALTOR® to understand how trends are shaping up where
they live.”  The number of newly listed homes rose three per cent on a month-
over-month basis, reversing an equivalent monthly decline in
November. New listings rose in almost 70 per cent of local
markets, including some of Canada’s most active.  With sales and new listings having climbed in tandem, the
national housing market remained in balanced territory in
December. The national sales-to-new listings ratio, a measure
of market balance, stood at 54.8 per cent in December, down
slightly from 55.5 per cent in November.  Based on a sales-to-new listings ratio of between 40 to 60
percent, just over half of local markets in Canada were balanced
in December. This result is little changed from November.  The number of months of inventory represents the number of
months it would take to sell current inventories at the current
rate of sales activity, and is a further measure of the balance
between housing supply and demand. Nationally, it stood at 5.8
months at the end of December, down from 5.9 months at the end
of November. While it has held fairly steady near six months
since April 2011 onward, it peaked in August, with December
marking the fourth monthly decline and a return to where it
stood at the end of the first quarter.  The actual (not seasonally adjusted) national average price for
homes sold in December 2011 was $347,801. This stood just 0.9
per cent above the average selling price in December 2010,
marking smallest increase since October 2010.  “Momentum for national sales activity and average price remains
positive but is slowing, which suggests that the continuation
of low interest rates is not causing the Canadian housing market
to overheat,” said Gregory Klump, CREA’s Chief Economist.
“High end home sales seem unlikely to spike again in the first
quarter like they did at the beginning of 2011, so national
average price momentum may wane further over the next few
months. With interest rates widely expected to remain low
throughout 2012, homeownership will remain affordable, and
continue to support home sales activity.”  PLEASE NOTE: The information contained in this news release
combines both major market and national MLS® sales
information from the previous month.  CREA cautions that average price information can be useful in
establishing trends over time, but does not indicate actual
prices in centres comprised of widely divergent neighborhoods or
account for price differential between geographic areas.
Statistical information contained in this report includes all
housing types.  MLS® is a co-operative marketing system used only by Canada’s
real estate Boards to ensure maximum exposure of properties
listed for sale.  The Canadian Real Estate Association (CREA) is one of Canada’s
largest single-industry trade associations, representing more
than 100,000 REALTORS® working through more than 100 real estate
Boards and Associations.  Further information can be found at
 http://www.crea.ca/public/news_stats/media.htm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  