-- Costa Rushes to Remove Fuel, Avoid Spill From Stricken Ship
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-01-17T12:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/carnival-races-to-prevent-fuel-spill-from-stricken-liner-into-marine-park.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s Italian unit is
rushing to prevent its crippled cruise liner from spewing 2,400
tons of fuel into  Europe ’s biggest marine park, as the search
continues for 29 missing passengers and crew members.  Smit Salvage, a unit of Royal Boskalis Westminster NV,
contracted by Costa Crociere SpA, owner of the stricken Costa
Concordia, is ready to begin inspecting the ship as soon as
tomorrow. The company will need two to four weeks to take the
fuel off the ship, executives said on a conference call today.  “The vessel is stable and we feel confident that removal
can be done in a fairly rapid way,” Kees van Essen, Smit’s
manager of operations, said during the call. There have been no
leaks so far and salvage operations don’t increase the chance of
leaks, he said.  Time is critical to removing the more than 500,000 gallons
of fuel as deteriorating weather and shifts in the boat’s
position increase the risk of a spill. Search and rescue
operations had to be suspended for four hours yesterday after
the Costa Concordia moved position in rising seas off the
Italian island of Giglio.  Weather Risk  “Ill weather is the greatest risk to the environment right
now because high waves might move or break the ship causing fuel
to leak,” Alessandro Gianni, campaign director of Greenpeace
Italy operations, said in a phone interview. “Containment
barriers that have been placed around the ship don’t work in
high waves.”  Weather conditions since the accident have been calm,
though a storm front is forecast to move into the area on
Thursday.  Smit managers said they will have to remove 2,400 tons of
fuel from the ship, as well as 200 tons of oil and a small
amount of lubricants and other substances.  The ship struck a reef off the island of Giglio on Jan. 13
after the captain overrode a pre-programmed route to sail close
to the island, hours after the vessel left a port near  Rome  with
4,000 passengers and crew for a Mediterranean cruise. Six people
are confirmed dead and rescue workers are still searching for
survivors in the partially submerged cruise liner. Italy’s
foreign ministry said today that 14 Germans, six Italians, four
French, one Indian, one Peruvian, one Hungarian and two U.S.
States citizens are among the missing.  Evacuation Order  The captain, who was arrested for abandoning the ship,
didn’t give the evacuation order until just before the Costa
Concordia began listing, making it impossible to lower many of
the lifeboats. Video released last night of the rescue operation
showed hundreds of passengers clamoring along the side of the
ship to reach ladders that led down to water where they were
loaded onto boats that had been sent out to the ship.  The ship is lying on its side off Giglio, an island of
1,500 inhabitants in winter who survive on fishing and tourism,
located about 14 miles from the Tuscan coast. Giglio lies within
the “Santuario dei Cetacei,” an area of roughly 87,500 square
kilometers that in 1999 was declared by the governments of
France, Italy and Monaco a sanctuary for marine mammals such as
dolphins and whales.  ‘Sensitive Area’  “This is a particularly sensitive area of great
environmental value and it just makes you wonder why on earth
such large ships are allowed to go through there,” said
Giuseppe Notarbartolo, regional coordinator for the
Mediterranean for the International Union for Conservation of
Nature. “Fuel spills can cause decade-long damage on local
animal and plant populations and must be avoided.”  The ship’s 17 fuel tanks are double hulled for added
protection, Pier Luigi Foschi, chairman of Costa Crociere said
during a press conference yesterday in Genoa. Environmental
damage “is our main concern after human lives,” Foschi said.
“I hope the fuel can be taken off the ship soon.”  The heavy fuel used to power the ship becomes semi-solid
when cooled, making it harder to pump unless it is re-heated or
diluted. Smit will use special equipment to heat and then pump
out the fuel from tanks that are both above and below water at
this time.  “We have removed fuel in much more challenging conditions
than this case where the waters are shallow,” van Essen said.  Korean Ship  Smit used a similar technique in June of last year to
remove fuel from a tanker that has been sitting off the coast of
 South Korea  for more than 30 years. The company employed a tank
heating system to remove about 500 tons of oil from the tanker
Kyung Shin, which was at a depth of about 100 meters, according
to the Smit website.  The Costa Concordia tanks were full, having refueled at
Civitavecchia near Rome hours before hitting the reef. While the
ship is lying in about 60 feet of water, rescue workers are
concerned that currents and waves could push it off an undersea
ledge and in into deeper water.  The environmental risk for Giglio “is extremely high,”
Italy’s environment Minister Corrado Clini said yesterday. The
“the entire archipelago” may be at threat “depending on how
the sea moves.”  Prime Minister Mario Monti’s government plans to declare a
state of emergency for the area, news agency Ansa quoted Clini
as saying yesterday  “We are very nervous right now and concerned about the
future,” said Luca Milani, 38, who owns a building company on
the island. “I was born here, I live here, I work here, this
place is my life and all I have. Now there is a risk of an
environmental catastrophe and that would be the end for us.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net 
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  