-- Carnival Questions Captain’s Judgment as Death Toll Rises
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-16T21:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/carnival-cruise-liner-captain-arrested-in-italy-as-death-toll-reaches-five.html
The captain of a  Carnival Corp. (CCL) 
cruise liner ordered the ship off its programmed route, an
“error” that caused it to hit rocks off Italy’s coast in an
accident that killed at least six people, the chairman of the
cruise ship’s operator said.  The Costa Concordia’s route was set electronically before
it left Civitavecchia near  Rome , carrying more than 4,000
passengers and crew, on Jan. 13 and the ship shouldn’t have been
so close to the Giglio island where it struck rocks, ripping a
hole through its hull, Costa Crociere Chairman Pier Luigi Foschi
said at a press conference in Genoa. The Italian company is
controlled by Carnival.  “We can’t deny that there was a human error,” he said.
“The route had been properly programmed in Civitavecchia. The
fact that the ship strayed from that course can only be due to a
maneuver that was not approved, not authorized nor communicated
to Costa Crociere by the captain of the ship.” Captain
Francesco Schettino, who is in custody amid a criminal probe,
may have steered the boat closer to Giglio to give passengers a
better view of the Tuscan island, Foschi said.  Foschi, whose voice cracked with emotion and eyes welled
with tears in the first of two press conferences, defended the
performance of the crew during the two-hour emergency evacuation
of passengers. The company’s priorities are completing the
rescue operation and removing more than 500,000 gallons of fuel
before trying to salvage the ship, he said.  Rescue Operations  The rescue operation was halted for about four hours today
because of the ship’s movement in shallow waters near Giglio,
 Italy ’s Civil Protection Agency said. Search efforts resumed
about 4 p.m. local time. About 29 people are still missing, the
 Associated Press  reported, citing Italian coast guard officials.
The ship’s insurers may face total costs of about 405 million
euros ($512 million), said one person with knowledge of the
policies.  The Costa is resting on its starboard side, a portion of
the ship underwater and its orange smokestack close to the
waterline. The ship was built in 2006 and has 1,500 cabins,
according to Costa Crociere’s  website .  The Italian government plans to declare a state of
emergency in the region, news wire Ansa reported, citing
Environment Minister Corrado Clini. Small fuel leaks have been
reported in the area around the ship, though the material
probably will evaporate, Ansa said, without citing anyone.  Sixth Victim  Carnival shares fell as much as 23 percent in  London 
trading today, the biggest decline in 10 years. The U.S. stock
market is closed for a holiday.  “In terms of physical damage, this will be one of the
biggest claims around,” said  Eamonn Flanagan , an insurance
analyst at Shore Capital Group Ltd. in Liverpool,  England .  A sixth body was found on the ship today, said Stefano Giannelli, a fire department spokesman. Rescue teams found two
South Korean passengers alive in a ship cabin at 3 a.m. local
time yesterday and saved a crewmember on the third deck,
Giannelli said.  ‘Titanic’  Several survivors described scenes of panic when the ship
began listing, with some likening the events to the film
“Titanic.”  Schettino, who was on the ship’s bridge at the time of the
incident, was arrested for allegedly abandoning the ship “since
we know he was in the harbor about midnight,” Francesco
Verusio, the chief prosecutor in the city of Grosseto, said in
an interview yesterday. The ship’s first officer is also being
probed, he said. Dozens of people have been questioned so far in
the investigation, the prosecutor said.  Costa’s Foschi said the rocks which caused the vessel to
run aground, were correctly marked on navigation maps, though
the captain may have been using a less detailed version. The
ship may have been only about 150 meters (492 feet) from the
coast when the accident occurred, Foschi said.  Cruise Ships  Some witnesses reported that the captain remained onboard
for a long time, and it was difficult to determine if Schettino
abandoned the vessel, he said. The only time Foschi was aware
that one of his company’s cruise ships was authorized to sail
close to the island was Aug. 9-10, 2011. In that case, the
distance from the island wasn’t less than 500 meters.  “Ships have never come this close to the island,” said
Michele Cavero, a 67-year-old retired head of operations for  oil
tankers . “They have always kept themselves further away.”  Gianni Onorato, general manager of the Costa Crociere line,
said the ship had embarked about 7 p.m. from Civitavecchia near
Rome on a trip that was scheduled to include stops at ports in
France and  Spain . When the vessel hit the rocks, Schettino,
after assessing the damage, decided to secure the ship and gave
the evacuation order, Onorato said.  ‘Terrible Tragedy’  The U.S. Embassy in Italy said two of the 120 U.S.
passengers are still unaccounted for, according to a statement
posted on Twitter.  Carnival, based in Miami, is the world’s largest cruise
line owner, with brands such as Cunard, Princess Cruises and
Costa. Its shares trade in London and  New York .  The so-called black box that carries crucial information
about the ship’s movements has been retrieved, Verusio said.
Captain Schettino said he was the last one to leave the ship,
according to an interview broadcast by  TGCOM24  before his
arrest. The rocks weren’t identified on the navigation maps,
Schettino said. The ship was at least 300 meters from the island
when it hit the rocks, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  