-- Carnival Slumps After Saying Cruise Ship Grounding May Cost It $95 Million
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2012-01-16T17:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/carnival-sees-costs-of-up-to-95-million-after-its-ship-grounded-off-italy.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL)  fell the most in more
than 11 years in  London  trading after saying the grounding of
the Costa Concordia off Italy’s Tuscan Coast that killed at
least six people will cost the company as much as $95 million.  Carnival, the world’s biggest cruise operator with brands
including Cunard and Princess Cruises, dropped 16 percent to
1,878 pence, the biggest decline since 2000.  The vessel will be out of service for at least the current
financial year ending Nov. 30, the Miami- and London-based
company said in a statement today. The reduction in fiscal 2012
earnings will amount to 11 cents to 12 cents a share, it said.
Carnival said it anticipates additional costs to the business
that aren’t possible to determine at this time.  “There will be negative short-term implications for
bookings across the cruise sector as pictures of the stricken
ship are flashed around the world,” said  Wyn Ellis , an analyst
at Numis Securities in London who reduced his  recommendation  on
the stock to “hold” from “add.”  The insurance loss could be $500 million to $1 billion,
depending on liability claims, exceeding the loss from the Exxon
Valdez disaster including pollution, said Joy Ferneyhough, an
insurance analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  Insurers  The Costa Concordia was insured by companies including
Assicurazioni Generali SpA, RSA Insurance Group Plc and XL Group
Plc, said three people with knowledge of the policies. They are
among several insurers facing total costs of about 405 million
euros ($513 million), said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the terms of the policies are confidential.  Carnival is self-insured for the loss of the use of the
Costa Concordia, which is insured for damage with a deductible
of approximately $30 million, the company said. Third-party
personal injury liability insurance carries a deductible of
approximately $10 million for this incident.  Cash costs, excluding the capital cost of the ship,
probably won’t exceed $1 billion, which Carnival should be able
to accommodate, Numis’s Ellis said.  “Consumer sentiment soon recovers following such tragic
events, and we do not expect there to be long-term negative
consequences for demand,” Ellis said. “Tragic accidents happen
with greater frequency and, sadly, often greater loss of life,
in the aviation and rail industry and this does not prevent
people using these modes of transport.”  Dual Listing  Carnival, which has dual U.S. and U.K. listings, had risen
5.7 percent in London this year before today and about 5 percent
in  New York . That compares with a 16 percent gain for  Royal
Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL)  U.S. markets are closed today for the
Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.  Genting Hong Kong Ltd. (GENHK)  fell 3.2
percent today.  Some investors may switch holdings into Royal Caribbean
after the Concordia incident, according to Tim Ramskill, an
analyst at Credit Suisse in London. “If the industry already
didn’t face enough challenges -- fuel price volatility, capacity
absorption, and weakness in the European economy -- this
unfortunate event will reverberate on the group,” he said.  Costa Crociere Chief Executive Officer Pier Luigi Foschi
told a press conference in Genoa that he doesn’t foresee a long-
term impact on the industry.  Human Error  The cruise liner’s captain ordered the ship off its
programmed route, an “error” that caused it to hit rocks off
 Italy ’s coast on Jan. 13, Foschi said.  The rescue operation was halted for about four hours
because of the ship’s movement in shallow waters near Giglio,
Italy’s Civil Protection Agency said. Search efforts resumed
about 4 p.m. local time. About 16 people are still missing from
more than 4,000 passengers and crew.  TUI Cruises isn’t getting cancellations and can’t determine
the effects on bookings, said Alexa Huener, a spokeswoman.
 Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) , Europe’s second-largest tour operator
after  Tui Travel Plc (TT/) , said its passengers on the Concordia were
safe and it was making alternative arrangements for customers
who hadn’t already joined the vessel, according to a spokeswoman
for the London-based company. Hapag-Lloyd Cruises spokeswoman
Negar Etminan said it’s too early to forecast the likely effect.  “We would highlight the potential impact on booking yields
in an environment where booking patterns remain subdued,”  Greg Johnson , a Shore Capital analyst, said in a note, adding tighter
operational procedures could add to annual running costs.  Europe  generated about 38 percent of Carnival’s revenue in
fiscal 2010, the last full year for which geographic results are
available. Its Genoa-based Costa Crociere unit is the
continent’s largest cruise line based on passengers and ship
capacity, according to Carnival.  Carnival bought P&O Princess Cruises Plc in 2003, three
years after it was spun off from Peninsular &
Oriental Steam Navigation Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  