-- Cate Blanchett, Damien Hirst Star in Olympic-Year Arts Bonanza
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-01-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/cate-blanchett-damien-hirst-to-star-in-london-s-olympic-year-arts-bonanza.html
Travelers converging on  London  this
year will have more to look forward to than runner Usain Bolt
acing the 100-meter sprint and swimmer Michael Phelps topping up
his gold-medal collection.  The capital is rolling out many arts events around the
 Olympic Games  (July 27-Aug. 12). Some have been long planned and
some commissioned as part of a four-year, 97 million pound ($148
million) cultural program. Big U.K. names such as Shakespeare,
 David Hockney , and  Damien Hirst  will be the toast of 2012.  On the quirky side,  Martin Creed  (the artist who in 2008
had runners sprint through Tate Britain) will set athletics
aside and have people in the U.K.  ring a bell  -- a bicycle bell,
cowbell, church bell, or ringtone -- at 8 a.m. on July 27. And
“ Jerusalem ” actor  Mark Rylance  will approach London’s
pedestrians using Shakespearean verse. He’ll ask the time, then
lapse into “Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?”  “It would be mad for London to have an event as big as the
 Olympic Games  without it having a really strong cultural
component,” says Nicholas Kenyon, managing director of the
Barbican Centre, a major participant. “What London is about so
much these days is culture.”  Topping the  Barbican  bill is actress  Cate Blanchett , who
will play a rejected wife, stranded and lonely, in Botho
Strauss’s eerie “Big and Small” (April 13-29).  Also at the Barbican, writer Toni Morrison teams up with
Malian singer-songwriter Rokia Traore to imagine a dialogue from
beyond the grave between Shakespeare’s Desdemona and her African
nurse Barbary. The show, which was performed in  New York , Paris,
and Berlin late last year, has words by Morrison and music by
Traore with Peter Sellars directing (July 19-20.)  Marsalis Rattle  In the two days before the Games, the London Symphony
Orchestra conducted by  Simon Rattle  and the Jazz at Lincoln
Center Orchestra play Wynton Marsalis’s “Swing Symphony,” a
tribute to jazz legends (July 25-26).  The visual-arts slate for 2012 is particularly rich. This
month sees the opening of a  Royal Academy of Arts  show of mostly
new works by 74-year-old David Hockney (Jan. 21-April 9). The
tech-savvy artist, who loves to draw on his iPad, will premiere
a giant grid beaming images taken by nine cameras of the same
scene at slightly different angles.  Lucian Freud , who died last July, is the focus of a
portrait show in what would have been the year of his 90th
birthday (at the  National Portrait Gallery , Feb. 9-May 27). It’s
the first major U.K. exhibition since 2002 of a man who ranked
just before his death as the world’s priciest living artist.  Skull, Shark  Hirst gets his first-ever U.K. retrospective with some 70
works at  Tate Modern  (April 4-Sept. 9). They include his shark
in formaldehyde (“The Physical Impossibility of Death in the
Mind of Someone Living”) and his 50 million-pound diamond
skull, which will be securely displayed in a special viewing
room in the lobby-level Turbine Hall.  “We were keen to show British artists” during the Olympic
year, Tate Director Nicholas Serota said at a briefing about the
Hirst show. “It seemed simply, to us, to be the right moment.”  The  Serpentine  Gallery is exhibiting an artist who, though
not British, played a role in U.K. cultural history:  Yoko Ono 
(June 19 - Sept. 9). Ono will show film and performance work and
create an installation called ‘Smile’ that will invite all to
upload a smiling photograph of themselves or have one taken in a
purpose-built booth outside the gallery.  A  World Shakespeare Festival  will be the most extensive
event of its kind ever held. More than 50 arts organizations
worldwide -- including the Iraqi Theatre Company and  Brazil ’s
Companhia BufoMecanica, which fuses Shakespeare with circus acts
and multimedia -- will give their interpretation of the plays.  Dance Cities  Dance lovers will get a monthlong season of Pina Bausch: 10
works performed back to back by her Tanztheater Wuppertal that
were created for the Olympics and inspired by the cities she
traveled to (“World Cities 2012,” June 6-July 9).  And in “Metamorphosis,” seven choreographers including
Wayne McGregor and Christopher Wheeldon will produce works
inspired by Titian for the Royal Ballet to perform. Sets will be
designed by artists including Chris Ofili and  Mark Wallinger .  Classical-music aficionados will be in  Scotland  for an
outdoor concert: On June 21, Gustavo Dudamel and his 200-strong
Simon Bolivar Symphony Orchestra of  Venezuela  will play outside
Stirling Castle and will be joined by a group of young Scottish
players from deprived areas.  Daniel Barenboim will perform a complete Beethoven cycle
with the West Eastern Divan Orchestra (made up of Arab and
Israeli players) at the BBC Proms, culminating in the Ninth
Symphony on July 27, opening day of the Games.  The pop and comedy lineup will be announced closer to the
Games by Cultural Olympiad Director Ruth Mackenzie and by Tony Hall, who chairs the Cultural Olympiad board and runs the Royal
Opera House.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 