-- Chavez Gives 9 Hour Speech Ahead of Campaign
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-01-16T17:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/chavez-gives-9-hour-speech-ahead-of-campaign.html
Venezuela ’s President  Hugo Chavez ,
who is running for re-election after battling cancer, signed off
his longest-ever speech with a message to his opponents: “I’m back.”  Chavez, who  spoke  for more than 9 1/2 hours during his
annual address to the National Assembly on Jan. 13, said yesterday that
he’ll begin campaigning for a third consecutive term once his
opponents choose a single candidate from six aspirants in a
primary on Feb. 12.  The former tank commander last year reduced his almost-
daily TV appearances after having surgery in June to remove a
malignant tumor from his pelvic area. The speech on Friday was
intended as a message that he’s regained his former energy and
will be fit enough to campaign for the Oct. 7 election, said
Marcelino Bisbal, director of media studies at the Universidad
Catolica Andres Bello in Caracas.  “He wanted to demonstrate to the opposition and the
country that he’s cured and is capable of enduring 9 1/2 hours
there talking and without going to the bathroom,” Bisbal said
in a telephone interview.  Chavez said yesterday he lost track of time during his
address even though his medical team had advised him to talk for
no longer than three hours. The speech is the longest Chavez has
ever given, surpassing a previous record of about eight hours,
said Bisbal.  Quasi-Religious Fervor  Chavez has exploited popular religion by visiting churches
and sanctuaries to thank God for his recovery in recent months,
said Bisbal. Long speeches are also a way of cultivating a
super-human image with his followers, he said.  In a speech in which he defended his record on tackling
 inflation  and crime, Chavez adopted a conciliatory tone, saying
he would accept an opposition victory and even take part in the
ceremony to hand over the presidential sash to an incoming
candidate.  In a rare example of interchange between the self-declared
socialist and his opponents, he fielded questions from
opposition lawmakers. In one exchange, Maria Corina Machado, one
of  six presidential candidates , said his speech didn’t reflect
the reality of many Venezuelan women who struggle with shortages
of staple products such as milk and the highest homicide rate in
the continent. She also condemned his hostility to private
industry, exemplified by the nationalization of more than a
thousand businesses since he took power 13 years ago.  When Machado said expropriation is theft, Chavez said that
unless she wins next month’s primary she’s “out of my league”
to debate with him and that “eagles don’t hunt flies.”  Support Revived  Chavez’s support fell after he won a second term in 2006
with 63 percent of the vote, dropping to 42 percent in April
2010, according to Caracas-based polling firm Datanalisis.  His approval rating has risen back above 50 percent as he
increases his public appearances since finishing a course of
chemotherapy,Luis Vicente Leon, president of Datanalisis, wrote
in a column in El Universal yesterday. Still, the opposition may
claw back some of those intended votes once it chooses a single
candidate to rally behind, Leon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 