-- China Money Rate Jumps to July High; PBOC to Add Funds Tomorrow
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-01-16T09:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/china-money-rate-jumps-to-july-high-pboc-to-add-funds-tomorrow.html
China ’s money-market rate jumped to
a six-month high on speculation a cash shortage is worsening as
banks hoard money ahead of the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for cash from
domestic banks today and will add funds through 14-day reverse
repurchase operations tomorrow and on Jan. 19, according to two
traders at finance companies that participate in government debt
auctions, who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public. Financial markets are closed for a week starting
on Jan. 23 for the Chinese New Year holiday.  “We continue to believe reserve-ratio cuts are needed in
the first quarter to solve the structural tightness in banking
system liquidity, as foreign-exchange inflows and fiscal
spending patterns are unfavorable,”  Ju Wang , a strategist at
 Barclays Capital  in  Singapore , wrote in a research report today.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, increased 1.27 percentage
points, to 6.16 percent in Shanghai, the highest level since
July 22, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  The central bank cut the amount of cash that banks must set
aside as reserves for the first time since 2008 last month as
 Europe ’s debt crisis dimmed the outlook for exports and growth.
The 50 basis-point decrease in reserve-requirement ratios took
effect on Dec. 5.  GDP Report  Official data due tomorrow will show China’s gross domestic
product rose 8.7 percent from a year earlier in the three months
ended December, compared with 9.1 percent in the prior quarter,
according to the median forecast of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Foreign-exchange reserves dropped in December,
central bank data released on Jan. 13 showed.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell four basis
points to 3.04 percent in  Shanghai , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield on the 3.93 percent government bonds due
August 2021 rose one basis point to 3.41 percent.  The PBOC published a list of 50 primary dealers allowed to
participate in open-market operations in February, including
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp.,
China Citic Bank Corp., Industrial Bank Co. and Postal Savings
Bank of China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  