-- Christopher Plummer Wins Supporting-Actor Golden Globe
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-16T01:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/christopher-plummer-wins-supporting-actor-golden-globe-correct-.html
Christopher Plummer  won the Golden
Globe for best supporting actor for his role in Focus Features’
“Beginners,” as the annual awards show began with comedian
Ricky Gervais as host.  Gervais returned to host the show for a third time,
following a caustic performance last year. He picked up where he
left off with jabs at TV personality  Kim Kardashian , actor Mel Gibson and the sponsors of 69th Annual Golden Globe Awards, the
Hollywood Foreign Press Association.  The Globes, telecast tonight by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC from
Beverly Hills, California, can boost a movie’s financial
performance and foreshadow Oscar success. Sales for “Slumdog
Millionaire” jumped after it won for best drama in 2009. The
film, made for an estimated $15 million, later won the Oscar for
best picture and generated $378 million in worldwide sales,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  Top awards including best drama and best comedy will be
announced later. “The Artist,” Weinstein Co.’s mostly silent,
black-and-white film about an actor making the transition to
talkies, was nominated for six Golden Globes, the most of any
film.  “The Descendants,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Searchlight, and
 DreamWorks (DWA)  Pictures’ “The Help,” each received five
nominations including best drama.  At last year’s show, Gervais induced gasps in the audience
by insulting A-list actors including  Johnny Depp , Angelina Jolie
and Jim Carrey. He suggested that the Foreign Press Association
was bribed into nominating the Depp and Jolie’s critically
panned “The Tourist.”  Irish oddsmaker Paddy Power took bets on which celebrities
would feel Gervais’s barbs this year, according to his
PaddyPower.com website. He offered 5-1 odds Russell Brand and
Katy Perry, who split after being married for just over a year,
would be the first targets. Others on his list included  Tom Cruise , Ashton Kutcher and Madonna.  “Ricky Gervais is a big draw to U.K. and Irish punters and
they found it quite comical when he caused such a stir,” Power
said in an e-mail. “Betting on who he would insult seemed only
natural.”  Early targets for Gervais included Kardashian, who ended an
even shorter marriage, Gibson and Eddie Murphy, who pulled out
as host of the Academy Awards on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC next
month. He was replaced by comedian Billy Crystal.  Gervais again poked fun at the Press Association.  “They’re good sports for inviting me back,” Gervais said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  