-- Citigroup Hires Four Ex-BNP Energy Brokers for London Team
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-01-16T10:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/citigroup-hires-four-ex-bnp-energy-brokers-in-london-expansion.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  hired four brokers in
London to expand its energy business in crude, refined products,
power and natural gas, the company said.  Jon Oakes, Richard Harvey, Jason Gladysz and
James Hunt joined the bank from  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA in late November
to broker exchange-listed futures, options and cleared swaps,
Citigroup said in a Jan. 13 e-mailed response to questions.  “Energy will be a key ingredient to the success of this
firm,” Stephen Piasio, Citigroup’s global head of energy
futures, said in a Jan. 12 phone interview from  New York .
“Energy is a global product. We want to have more of a global
business” to complement the team in New York, he said, without
providing the number of people in that group.  Moves toward stricter financial market regulations in the
U.S. and European Union will probably increase the volume of
over-the-counter derivative energy trades that are cleared on
regulated exchanges, Piasio said.  “There definitely should be a migration of over-the-
counter positions to the regulated exchanges,” said Piasio, who
has been at the company for 15 years. “In fact, we’ve already
seen that. It may accelerate.”  The hires follow the appointments of  Edward Morse , global
head of commodities research in New York, and Seth Kleinman,
European head of energy research, in London last year. Citigroup
in March also hired Martin Lovegrove, an adviser to BP Plc, as
its chairman of global energy in London.  “Citi is dedicated to building a top-tier commodities
group,” Michel Planquart, head of sales for exchange traded
derivatives and clearing in Europe,  Middle East  and Africa said
in the same phone interview. “We believe that we have a lot of
growth potential.”  Florian Thaler also joined the bank’s oil trading desk as
an analyst in London four months ago from Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
Citigroup said. He reports to Andrew Bissell, head of the
European oil desk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  