-- Covidien Says Tissue Device Linked to Three Deaths in Chest-Cavity Surgery
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-01-17T06:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/covidien-says-tissue-device-linked-to-three-deaths-in-chest-cavity-surgery.html
Covidien Plc (COV)  said a tissue
reinforcement product used in medical staplers has been
connected with three patient deaths after use in thoracic
surgery.  The  Duet TRS  single-use cartridges, which contain a
material that is applied along with staples, should no longer be
used in surgeries in patients’ chest cavities, the company said
in a statement yesterday. Besides the deaths, Covidien received
reports of 13 serious injuries, the company said.  “The company has concluded that Duet TRS has the potential
to injure adjacent anatomical structures within the thorax,
which may result in life-threatening, post-operative
complications,” according to the statement.  Covidien has sold 500,000 of the single-use devices
worldwide since January 2009, Marta Newhart, a spokeswoman for
the company in Boulder,  Colorado , said in a phone interview. The
company is recalling those planned for use in thoracic surgery.
Covidien doesn’t expect the recall to have a material financial
impact, she said.  The Duet TRS cartridge is used with Covidien’s  Endo GIA
Universal  range of laproscopic staplers. The thoracic, or chest,
cavity is enclosed by the ribs, the vertebral column and the
sternum. It contains the lungs and the heart.  Covidien, which is based in Dublin and run from Mansfield,
 Massachusetts , received reports of injuries and fatalities
“very recently” and “wanted to react very quickly” with the
voluntary recall, Newhart said. Only those devices used in
thoracic surgeries are being recalled because all of the
reported incidents related to this type of surgery, she said.  Products in the company’s inventory will be relabeled with
new instructions for use, Covidien said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 