-- Daily Mirror Editor Says Hacking May Have Happened at Paper
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-16T16:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/daily-mirror-editor-says-hacking-may-have-happened-at-paper.html
The editor of the  Daily Mirror 
tabloid told a judge-led inquiry into U.K. press ethics that
phone hacking by reporters may have taken place under his watch,
although he wasn’t aware of any instances.  Richard Wallace, who has edited the  Trinity Mirror Group
Plc (TNI)  paper since 2004, also told the inquiry in  London  that the
tabloid on occasion paid staff at prisons and hospitals for
information about inmates and patients if it was “in the public
interest.” He said he wasn’t aware of payments to police
officers -- a practice under investigation by the Metropolitan
Police, which is also probing phone hacking and computer hacking
at News Corp.’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid.  James Hipwell, the former “City Slicker” columnist who went
to jail for using stock tips to manipulate the market, told the
same inquiry last month that phone hacking took place at the
Daily Mirror’s show-business desk on a nearly daily basis when
 Piers Morgan , edited the newspaper. Morgan, who edited the
tabloid from 1995 to 2004 and is now a CNN broadcaster, denied
the claim in his own testimony.  The British government set up the inquiry after revelations
that journalists at the News of the World hacked into voice-mail
messages of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler in 2002. Rupert Murdoch’s company shut the Sunday tabloid in July after the
practice was shown to be widespread.  The inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, has previously
heard testimony that phone hacking may have extended to other
tabloids, including News Corp.’s Sun, the Daily Mirror and the
 Daily Mail & General Trust Plc (DMGO) ’s Mail on Sunday.  News Corp. (NWSA)  has
admitted liability in some cases, while the other publishers
deny the claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  