-- Dart Energy to Expand European Shale-Gas Business, Target Asia
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-01-16T03:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/dart-energy-to-expand-european-shale-gas-business-target-asia.html
Dart Energy Ltd. (DTE) , exploring for
unconventional gas in countries including Australia, China and
 Poland , said it plans to expand its European shale business and
acquire licenses in  Asia .  The coal-bed methane explorer has created a shale-gas unit
to manage its “substantial European portfolio of unconventional
assets,” the Singapore-based company said in a statement today.
Dart agreed last month to acquire Greenpark Energy Ltd.’s
unconventional-gas exploration assets in the U.K., including
seven licenses in potential shale regions.  The explorer, whose  shares  have rallied 29 percent in
Sydney trading this year, aims to increase investment in shale
gas on optimism that Europe and Asia may hold similar potential
to the U.S. Dart may bid for shale exploration licenses in
nations such as  China , India and  Indonesia  during the next 18
months and look for partners to help fund projects “at the
appropriate time,” the company said.  Dart considers its “European shale portfolio as being an
ideal stepping stone into the rapidly emerging Asian shale gas
industry, where multiple governments are planning shale gas
bidding rounds over the next several years,” Executive Chairman
Nick Davies said in the statement.  China held its first auction of shale-gas exploration
rights in June and has scheduled a second round this month.
Foreign companies, while banned from bidding, are allowed to
participate as project partners. China’s “technically
recoverable” reserves are almost 50 percent more than those in
the U.S., according to the Energy Information Administration.  India  plans to hold its first shale-gas exploration rights
auction by 2013 after surveying the country’s reserves and
drawing up policies, Oil Secretary G.C. Chaturvedi said Dec. 21.  Dart, which holds 14 shale-gas exploration licenses in the
U.K. and one in Poland, rose as much as 10 percent today to 48
Australian cents, compared with a 1.2 percent decline in the
S&P/ASX 200 Index. The stock dropped 68 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 