-- Dealer Treasury Holdings Top Corporate Debt for First Time on Growth Risk
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-01-17T15:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/dealer-treasury-holdings-top-corporate-debt-for-first-time-on-growth-risk.html
For the first time,  Wall Street ’s
biggest bond-trading firms  hold more  U.S. Treasuries than
corporate securities, signaling concern the economy’s rebound
will be too slow to sustain record demand for riskier assets.  The 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the  Federal
Reserve   held  a total of $74.7 billion of Treasuries as of Dec.
28, compared with $61.1 billion of  company debt , according to
Fed data. The aggregate position in U.S. government bonds has
increased from a $38.6 billion bet against the securities in
May, while corporate holdings have tumbled 50 percent from
$121.8 billion.  While the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 15 percent since
the start of the fourth quarter, corporate bond sales worldwide
are off to a record start and the U.S. jobless rate is the
lowest since February 2009, Fed policy makers say more monetary
easing may be needed to ensure growth sticks. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. economists said Jan. 13 that they see gross domestic growth
slowing to 2 percent this quarter from 3.5 percent in the final
three months of 2011.  “Dealers, at least, don’t think the economy’s going to
pick up speed in a hurry,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York , a primary
dealer, said in a Jan. 10 telephone interview. The economy isn’t
heading “into recession, but more of the same, meandering
growth instead of a significant pickup in growth and
inflation,” he said.  Economic Headwinds  The tilt to Treasuries reflects sentiment that the U.S.
economic recovery will be held back by sovereign-debt turmoil in
 Europe , weakness in domestic housing prices and only a partial
recovery of jobs lost since 2008. That the economy still needs a
boost is underscored by the Fed’s pledge to keep its target
interest rates for overnight loans between banks at historic
lows of zero to 0.25 percent through mid-2013.  Treasuries outpaced company securities last year, returning
9.8 percent including reinvested interest, compared with 6.8
percent for the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate &
High Yield Master Index. Since the start of the credit crisis in
mid-2007, Treasuries have returned 38 percent, just more than
the 37 percent for companies.  Yields on company debt average 2.43 percentage points more
than Treasuries, compared with a range of about 2.35 percentage
points to 3.25 percentage points last year.  Bets Limited  The shift is also being influenced by new rules following
the financial crisis that limit bets dealers can place while
they enjoy government guarantees and access to the Fed’s
discount window. The regulations limit banks’ investments in
corporate bonds, while allowing them to hold and trade
 government securities .  Primary dealers  held  $28 billion more Treasuries than
corporate securities due in more than one year on Dec. 28, the
biggest gap in favor of government debt since the Fed began
releasing the data in 2001. Wall Street held an average $159.1
billion more in longer-term company holdings than Treasuries
during that period.  “A lot of it is stocking up on Treasuries in anticipation
of selling them at hopefully reasonable, if not richer,
levels,”  William O’Donnell , head U.S. government bond
strategist at primary dealer Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said by phone Jan. 12. “Institutional
investors are underinvested. Dealers know that on any dip they
expect to see buyers, both domestically and overseas.”  Falling Yields  Treasuries rallied last week, with 10-year note  yields 
falling nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 1.87
percent. The benchmark 2 percent security due November 2021
gained 27/32, or $8.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 6/32. The
week ended with  Standard & Poor’s  cutting  France ’s AAA credit
rating to AA+ with a negative outlook.  The yield was 1.86 percent at 10:23 a.m. in New York.  Yields reached a 2011 high of 3.77 percent in February amid
signs of the economy was accelerating before plunging to a
record low of 1.67 percent in September as GDP growth slowed to
annual rates of 1.3 percent in the second quarter and 1.8
percent in the third quarter.  Traders expect 10-year yields to remain contained, rising
to 2.25 percent by year-end, based on forward contracts that use
current trading levels to predict future rates. Economists are
more bearish, forecasting a climb to 2.59 percent, according to
the median of 65 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Stocks, Corporates  Bond investors contrast with equity traders, who pushed the
 S&P 500  to its biggest gain last quarter since it rose 15
percent in the three months ended June 2009.  Company executives are also showing confidence, issuing
$186.3 billion of bonds worldwide this year, up from $182.8
billion in the same period of 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. London-based brewer SABMiller Plc sold $7 billion
of debt securities on Jan. 10, and U.S. department-store chain
Macy’s Inc. offered $550 million of 10-year notes the same day.  America’s labor market is showing signs of firming, with
200,000 jobs added in December as the  unemployment rate  dropped
to 8.5 percent, according to U.S. government reports. The Labor
Department may say this week that the cost of living remains in
check, with consumer prices rising 0.1 percent in December,
according to the median forecast of 65 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  “ All the forward-looking economic data is showing
improvement,” said Mark MacQueen, a partner and money manager
in Austin,  Texas , at Sage Advisory Services Ltd., which oversees
$10 billion. “Corporate bonds are going to outperform
Treasuries. That’s the way I’m placing my bets.”  Housing Concern  While the central bank has helped push 30-year fixed
 mortgage rates  to record lows of less than 4 percent, the Fed
forecasts that home-loan borrowing in 2012 will decline to the
least in 15 years. Americans who might refinance and buy
properties are getting shut out by stricter lending standards or
avoiding transactions as values tumble amid mounting
foreclosures, a Jan. 4 report to Congress by the Fed showed.  The latest S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities shows a decline of 3.4 percent in October from a year
earlier, the New York-based group said Dec. 27.  “Continued weakness in the housing market poses a
significant barrier to a more vigorous economic recovery,” the
Fed said in the report. Fed Bank of New York President  William Dudley  said in a Jan. 6 speech that it’s “appropriate” for the
central bank to consider steps to ease monetary policy.  Jobs Picture  While the economy created 1.6 million jobs in 2011, the
most since 2006, there have still been 6.6 million of net job
losses since the start of 2008, Labor Department data show.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said the global economy and
financial markets are at risk in 2012.  The $244 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  run by Gross increased
its holdings of  U.S. government debt  in December to 30 percent,
the highest level in 13 months and up from 23 percent in
November, Pimco said Jan. 11 in a statement on its website.  “Banks should be eight-to-one or nine-to-one in terms of
leverage,” Gross said in a Jan. 12 Bloomberg Television
interview with Trish Regan. “Right now, the system is an 18-
times to 20-times overleveraged system, and that’s producing the
risk in terms of tipping one way or the other.”  The U.S. government will finance about a $1.1 trillion
federal deficit this year, adding to the $9.94 trillion of
 marketable securities outstanding . U.S. corporate bonds, which
are priced based on Treasuries, total $7.3 trillion.  Interest Expense  Low yields mean that U.S. interest expense accounted for 3
percent of the economy in fiscal 2011 ended Sept. 30, down from
4 percent in 1999, when the U.S. ran budget surpluses.  Banks in the U.S. have boosted their  holdings  of Treasuries
and agency securities to $1.7 trillion, from $1.13 trillion in
August 2008. Banks will be required to comply with the Volcker
Rule, named after former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , which
prohibits the companies from most proprietary trading and
investing in  hedge funds .  Treasuries reached a record 29 percent of debt assets on
the balance sheets of the primary dealers Dec. 28, more than any
other category of fixed-income. That compares with an average
short position equal to 33 percent of their other holdings,
according to data the central bank began releasing in 2001.  ‘Serious’ Implications  “The potential implications for how we make markets are
serious and would likely result in the shift in inventories
being a more permanent feature of the market,” Jeffrey Meli,
head of credit strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, a primary
dealer, said in a Jan. 9 telephone interview. “The relentless
decline in dealer inventories even in months where markets felt
better would indicate the regulatory component of this is
real.”  Mutual funds managers, seeking to match index weightings,
may boost demand for Treasuries, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Morningstar Inc. data show taxable bond funds maintain an
average 14 percent allocation to Treasuries. The Barclays U.S.
Aggregate index, which many funds use as a benchmark, has a 35
percent weighting to Treasuries, up from 22 percent in 2007.  “The knock-on effects from all this should be a stronger
Treasury market,” Eric Pellicciaro, head of global rates
investment at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which manages $1.14
trillion in fixed-income assets, said in a Jan. 10 telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  