-- Deaths of Headphone-Wearing Pedestrians Increase, Study Finds
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-01-16T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/deaths-of-headphone-wearing-pedestrians-increase-study-finds.html
The number of headphone-wearing
pedestrians seriously injured or killed near roadways and
railways has tripled in six years, according to a U.S. study.  The number of cases rose from 16 in 2004-2005 to 47 in
2010-2011, according to the research published today in the
online journal  Injury Prevention . Thirty-four of the 116 total
cases in the study specifically mention horns or sirens being
sounded before the victims were struck, wrote researchers
including Richard Lichenstein at the University of Maryland
Hospital for Children.  The study illustrates the dangers of using devices such as
music players with headphones, they wrote. While the risk of
using mobile phones and other devices while driving is well
documented, little is known about distraction associated with
wearing headphones while walking, the authors wrote.  “Sensory deprivation that results from using headphones
with electronic devices may be a unique problem in pedestrian
incidents, where auditory cues can be more important than visual
ones,” they wrote.  Researchers pored over reports from the National Electronic
Injury Surveillance System, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission, Google news archives and the Westlaw Campus Research
database from Jan. 1, 2004 to June 1, 2011.  Limitations of the study included relying on media
reporting, “which likely over-publishes tragic events but
vastly under-publishes non-fatal cases,” according to the
study. Suicidal intentions, substance abuse, mental illness and
driver error may also have had a role in some of the pedestrian
injuries and fatalities, the researchers said.  Of the 116 cases studied, more than a third of the people
were younger than age 18 and two-thirds were younger than 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  