-- Dollar Parity May Be Euro’s Last Chance: Caballero and Giavazzi
-- B y   R i c a r d o   C a b a l l e r o   a n d   F r a n c e s c o   G i a v a z z i
-- 2012-01-16T00:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/dollar-parity-may-be-euro-salvation-commentary-by-caballero-and-giavazzi.html
The euro has dropped about 13
percent against the dollar since the sovereign-debt crisis hit
 Italy  seven months ago. To a large extent, the decline reflects
the increased likelihood of an Italian default, which would
destroy the single currency.  Yet depreciation may be the only remaining hope for the
euro’s survival, as long as it is carried out through swift and
coherent policy support.  Since last summer, Italy has implemented the largest fiscal
consolidation of the past 15 years, entailing an increase in the
primary budget surplus of more than 6 percent of gross domestic
product over three years. But because such a large fiscal
contraction will happen mostly through higher taxes, investors
rightly worry that the country is about to enter a deep
recession. If that were to happen, the consolidation would fail.  A weaker euro could help avoid that outcome and make fiscal
consolidation a success. For the euro area as a whole, a
 currency depreciation  wouldn’t have a large direct impact, since
most trade is within the area. However, that isn’t the case with
Italy: 55 percent of Italian exports are to countries outside
the euro area, particularly  Switzerland , the U.S.,  Russia  and
emerging economies.  A 15 percent depreciation of the euro -- bringing it close
to parity with the dollar -- would give a big boost to Italian
exports, which would compensate for the contraction of domestic
demand.  Restoring Growth  In 1992, when Italy suspended its participation in the
European Exchange Rate Mechanism, the country implemented a
similar fiscal contraction. This was accompanied by a 20 percent
devaluation of the lira, limiting the damage to the economy. In
the following three years, growth averaged 1.4 percent per year.  Of course, Italy has much more to do to make its economy
competitive and to reduce its debt burden. But any reforms --
labor-and-product market liberalizations, a working judiciary, a
better bureaucracy -- would take a long time to show their
effects, even if adopted immediately. That would be too late to
avoid a recession that has already started and that in all
likelihood will be much more severe than official predictions.  This isn’t the first time that concerns about a possible
sovereign insolvency inside the euro area have weakened the
single currency. A similar event occurred at the peak of the
Greek crisis: In just a few months (November 2009 to May 2010),
the euro fell about 22 percent against the dollar. As we noted
at the time, a weaker euro was needed to complement  Greece ’s
fiscal consolidation to avoid a deep recession. This would have
been beneficial because, as is the case with Italy, more than 50
percent of Greece’s exports are sold outside the euro area.  Yet the pressure on the euro eased because markets rapidly
concluded that Greece wasn’t big enough to bring down the
monetary union. They understood that if the euro were to regain
lost value, Greece might collapse, but the euro would survive.
In less than a year, the euro regained all it had lost.  The same calculus doesn’t apply to Italy. Markets
understand that a failure of fiscal consolidation by the
government in  Rome  is likely to mean the end of the euro. It’s
less clear that they understand that a weak currency will make
the consolidation a success, and save the euro.  A swift depreciation would have the added benefit for
investors of increasing the expected return of euro debt, making
it easier to roll over the large stock of borrowing that will
soon come due: about 200 billion euros ($253 billion) of
European bank bonds in the first quarter of the year, in
addition to the large rollovers of sovereign obligations.  Market Push  Markets have ways to push policy makers, though they don’t
always do so in the least disruptive manner. They are even less
effective when they panic, as they are doing now.  It is up to policy makers to help markets understand that
an orderly decline in the euro’s value would be in everyone’s
interest. That means European leaders should encourage the
depreciation of the euro instead of trying to prevent it. During
the second half of 2010 and though July 2011, the euro
appreciated 25 percent against the dollar. The increase was
largely due to the  European Central Bank ’s decision to raise
 interest rates  twice.  The ECB today should make clear that a weak euro is the
condition for its survival. It should cut interest rates to zero
and pledge to keep them there for quite a while. This must be
done, not as a replacement for the drastic fiscal adjustments
that must occur in Italy and other countries, but to make sure
those measures are effective.  (Ricardo Caballero is professor of economics at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and an adviser to QFR
Capital Management LP in  New York . Francesco Giavazzi is a
professor of economics at  Bocconi University  in Milan and a
visiting professor at MIT. The opinions expressed are their
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Francesco Giavazzi at  francesco.giavazzi@unibocconi.it ;
Ricardo Caballero at  caball@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  