-- ECB’s Draghi Questions Role of Ratings Companies After S&P Downgrades
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-17T04:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/draghi-says-europe-should-rely-less-on-assessments-of-ratings-companies.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said investors largely priced in the euro-area
sovereign downgrades from  Standard & Poor’s  and questioned the
importance of ratings companies.  “I will never comment on ratings as such, but certainly
one needs to ask how important are these ratings for the
marketplace overall, for investors?” Draghi said late yesterday
at the European Parliament in Strasbourg. “It seems to a great
extent markets have anticipated these ratings changes and priced
them in. We should learn to do without ratings, or at least we
should learn to assess creditworthiness” with less reliance on
the ratings companies, he said.  S&P stripped France and  Austria  of their top ratings on
Jan. 13 and cut seven other euro countries in a move that left
 Germany  with the bloc’s only stable AAA grade. In an echo of the
rally in Treasuries following S&P’s lowering of the U.S.
sovereign rating in August, investors shrugged off the judgment
on  Europe , with France’s borrowing costs dropping at its latest
debt sale.  France sold 1.895 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of one-year
notes yesterday at a yield of 0.406 percent, down from 0.454
percent on Jan. 9. The Treasury sold a total of 8.59 billion
euros in bills, including three and six-month paper. Yields fell
on both.  Record-Low Yields  While ratings are intended as an assessment of
creditworthiness, instead of eroding the value of American
government debt, the U.S.’s loss of its AAA grade from S&P on
Aug. 5 sparked financial market turmoil that made Treasuries
favorites among investors, with 10-year note yields dropping to
a record low 1.97 percent on Aug. 18.  The following month the yields reached 1.67 percent; they
were 1.88 percent as ofS 12:51 p.m. in  Tokyo . The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility  Index (VIX) , or VIX, surged the most after
the downgrade on Aug. 8 since February 2007. Crude oil fell 6.4
percent on the U.S. rating cut.  Efforts to combat the Europe’s debt crisis are falling
short, S&P said. The company last night also removed the AAA
grade of the European Financial Stability Facility, which is
designed to fund rescue packages for  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal .  Stocks Rebound  The decline in French borrowing costs helped European
stocks gain yesterday, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  adding
0.8 percent. The euro snapped two days of losses, rising 0.5
percent to $1.2731 as of 12:52 p.m. today in Tokyo.  Draghi nevertheless said growth prospects in the euro
region are “dismal” and that the situation is “very grave.”
The ECB, which last week kept its  benchmark rate  at a record low
of 1 percent, in December cut its 2012 growth forecast for the
euro area to just 0.3 percent from 1.3 percent.  The ECB’s three-year loans to banks last month helped to
avoid “a major credit crunch,” Draghi said.  “We see that the key refinancing markets for banks are
clogged; the  interbank market  is basically not functioning,” he
said. “The unsecured  bond market  was not functioning --
completely not functioning -- until we launched this facility.
We have avoided a major credit crunch, even though in some parts
of the area this credit crunch” is “already on its way.”  Liquidity Measures  Draghi indicated the ECB will continue to intervene in bond
markets to limit yields without ramping up its purchases for
fear of breaching the prohibition on monetary financing.  “The ECB, within the primary remit of  price stability  and
within the remits of the Treaty, will do whatever it takes to
assure financial stability,” he said.  Draghi urged politicians to implement budget reforms to win
back investor confidence and overcome a debt crisis that has now
entered its third year. The “fiscal compact” agreed to by
European Union leaders on Dec. 9 was an important signal of
willingness to relinquish some sovereignty and take “admittedly
tame steps” toward a fiscal union, he said.  “Decisions without matching actions are not enough and due
care should be taken to implement measures in the correct
sequence,” Draghi said. “We need to restore confidence in
sovereigns and ensure that EU firewalls are operational and well
equipped with an effective and flexible mandate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  