-- Duke Says Fed Aims to Improve its Communications on Policy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-17T00:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/duke-says-fed-aims-to-improve-monetary-policy-communications.html
Federal Reserve Governor Elizabeth Duke said the central bank aims to improve how it communicates
policy to the public, adding she believes setting an inflation
target wouldn’t impede its effort to ensure full employment.  “Recognizing the importance of communications as a policy
tool,” the Fed “has been engaged in a conversation about how
we might better explain our framework for decision making,”
Duke said today in a speech at the  University of Richmond  in
Richmond, Virginia.  Duke said she does “not believe that establishing an
inflation target is inconsistent with a commitment to both parts
of the dual mandate” set by Congress, which includes promoting
 price stability  and full employment. Maintaining long term
expectations for price increases would give the  central bank 
more “flexibility” to address short-term unemployment, she
said.  At the next Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Jan.
24-25, the Fed’s 12 presidents and five governors will, for the
first time, publish their own expectations for the future course
of monetary policy.  Inflation doesn’t appear to pose an immediate threat, Duke
said in response to an audience question.  “It looks like inflation is pretty well contained,” she
said. “It’s hard to see where the inflationary pressure is
going to come from,” she said.  Duke, a former president of a community bank, said she sees
a need for the Fed “to make monetary policy decisions that are
free of short-term political influence.” Political pressure
might lead the central bank to make decisions that lead to
higher inflation in the long term, which diminishes confidence
and credibility, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Richmond at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  