-- Ecclestone Hid $5 Million Payment to Gribkowsky, Adviser Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-01-16T12:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/ecclestone-hid-5-million-payment-to-gribkowsky-adviser-says.html
Formula One Chief Executive Officer
 Bernie Ecclestone  ordered a secret $5 million payment to former
 Bayerische Landesbank (BLGZ)  Chief Risk Officer Gerhard Gribkowsky, his
adviser on the transfer said.  “Ecclestone told me to transfer $5 million of his money to
Mr. Gribkowsky by using a special company so his name wouldn’t
appear,” Andre Favre, who worked as an adviser to Ecclestone,
told a Munich court at Gribkowsky’s bribery trial. “All
Ecclestone told me was that he owed Gribkowsky the money.”  Favre said he made the payment to the banker through a
Panama-based company named Lewington Invest, which was bought
for $2,000 or $3,000 by a  law firm  in Geneva in 2007 on behalf
of Ecclestone.  Prosecutors charged Gribkowsky, who managed Munich-based
BayernLB’s interest in the Formula One racing series, with
accepting bribes, breach of trust and  tax evasion . They claim he
received $44 million in bribes to facilitate the sale of the
bank’s 47 percent stake in the Formula One to CVC Capital
Partners Ltd.  Gribkowsky demanded $50 million from Ecclestone as a reward
for approving the deal and threatened to disclose possible tax
violations by the Bambino family trust run by Ecclestone’s then
wife, prosecutors said. Gribkowsky denies the charges.  BayernLB acquired the Formula One stake after the 2002
bankruptcy of  Leo Kirch ’s media group. Gribkowsky clashed with
Ecclestone and sued him in a London court over corporate-
governance rules the Formula One chief had changed to limit the
lender’s influence. Ecclestone wanted to push BayernLB out and
saw a chance when CVC showed interest, prosecutors said in the
indictment.  Ecclestone testified in November that he saw no
“alternative” to making payments to Gribkowsky as he feared
that Gribkowsky might disclose information to U.K. tax
authorities about the family trust that might be “very
expensive” for him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  