-- Ecopetrol Says No ‘Significant’ Oil Output Cut From Protest
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-01-16T21:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/ecopetrol-says-no-significant-oil-output-cut-from-protest-1-.html
     Jan. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) ,  Colombia ’s largest oil
company, said there were no “significant” production cuts
because of a labor protest.  Most wells are operating normally at the Cira Infantas
field in northeastern Colombia, said an official at Ecopetrol in
Bogota who can’t be identified because of company policy.
Protesters earlier hampered employees from entering the complex.  Latin American workers are seeking improved labor
conditions amid sustained demand for commodities including oil,
which has rallied 15 percent in three months. Protests in
Colombia last year cut output at fields owned by Ecopetrol and
 Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , preventing the nation from
meeting a 2011 production target of 1 million barrels a day.  “They want to take advantage of the industry’s bonanza,”
Nicolas Bernal, an analyst at brokerage Ultrabursatiles SA, said
in a telephone interview from Bogota. “There has been a notable
push in foreign investment, and locals see that.”  The brokerage rates Ecopetrol shares a “hold.” Bernal
doesn’t own shares of the company.  Contract driller Estrella International Energy Services
Ltd. halted part of its operations because of protests,
according to a company statement today.  Colombian oil production will rise 18 percent to an average
of 1.1 million barrels a day this December from 930,000 barrels
a day last month, Mines and Energy Minister  Mauricio Cardenas 
said in an interview last week. The country is  South America ’s
third-largest oil producer after Venezuela and  Brazil .  Shares  Occidental Petroleum Corp. also has a stake in Cira
Infantas, which supplies Ecopetrol’s Barrancabermeja refinery.  Shares of Ecopetrol slid 65 pesos, or 1.5 percent, to 4,415
pesos at 4:00 p.m. in Bogota.  The Colombian peso weakened against the dollar on concern
reduced oil production will limit dollar inflows. The peso
erased earlier gains, declining 0.2 percent to 1,846 per  U.S.
dollar  in the next-day market, according to the stock exchange’s
foreign-exchange electronic transactions system, known as SET-
FX.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  