-- Ecopetrol Says Protests Reduce Colombian Oil Field Output
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-01-16T17:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/ecopetrol-says-protests-reduce-colombian-oil-field-output-1-.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) ,  Colombia ’s largest oil
producer, said protests are reducing supplies from a field in
northern Colombia.  Protesters have blockaded roadways and prevented workers
from entering the Ciras Infantas field since this weekend,
reducing output, a company official who can’t be identified
because of corporate policy, said today by telephone.  Latin American workers are seeking improved labor
conditions amid sustained demand for commodities including oil,
which has rallied 15 percent in three months. Protests in
Colombia last year cut output at fields owned by Ecopetrol and
 Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , preventing the nation from
meeting a 2011 production target of 1 million barrels a day,
said analyst Nicolas Bernal at brokerage Ultrabursatiles SA.  “They want to take advantage of the industry’s bonanza,”
he said in a telephone interview from Bogota. “There has been a
notable push in foreign investment and locals see that.”  The brokerage rates Ecopetrol shares a “hold.” Bernal
doesn’t own shares of the company.  Colombian oil production will rise 18 percent to an
average of 1.1 million barrels a day this December from 930,000
barrels a day last month, Mines and Energy Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in an interview last week. The country is South
America’s third-largest oil producer after Venezuela and  Brazil .  The Ciras Infantas field operated by Ecopetrol was
producing 28,000-to-30,000 barrels a day of crude prior to the
protests, according to the official.  Shares of Ecopetrol slid 85 pesos, or 1.9 percent, to 4,395
pesos at 12:42 p.m. in Bogota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  