-- Leighton Gains in Sydney After Beating Interim Profit Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-01-16T03:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/leighton-gains-in-sydney-after-beating-interim-profit-forecast.html
Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) ,  Australia ’s
largest construction company, rose the most in more than two
months in Sydney after the company said preliminary first-half
earnings beat its forecast, led by profit in  Asia  and Australia.  The builder  climbed as much as 4.5 percent, its largest
intraday increase since Oct. 24., to A$21.45 before trading at
A$21.43 as of 12:56 p.m. Sydney time. Underlying net income was
A$270 million in the six months to the end of December, compared
with the A$250 million  forecast , the company said in a
regulatory release citing preliminary earnings figures. Net
income was A$340 million, in line with the company’s estimate.  “Today’s update should provide more comfort to the market
that risks are being managed,” Simon Thackray,  executive
director  at Nomura Australia Ltd. wrote in a note to clients.
Full-year net income may exceed A$700 million, Thackray wrote.  Leighton reaffirmed a previous forecast of A$600 million to
A$650 million in underlying profits for the period.  Leighton, majority-owned by Essen, Germany-based  Hochtief
AG (HOT) , which is in turn controlled by  Madrid ’s Actividades de
Construccion y Servicios SA, has fallen 30 percent over the past
12 months amid a series of cost overruns on major projects, the
removal of its chairman and the appointment of a new chief
executive officer in August. The company, which previously used
a Dec. 31 year-end, is moving to a June 30 year-end this year.  Leighton also announced post-tax impairments of A$49
million and A$50 million related to its investments in the
BrisConnections road project and its middle eastern Habtoor
Leighton Group joint venture.  BrisConnections and a Victorian desalination plant will be
operating by the end of June, according to the filing.  The three investments have weighed on the group’s
performance, with A$1.3 billion of losses and impairments
attributed to them in the company’s annual report in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  