-- Emerging Stocks Drop on Euro, China; Shanghai Falls Fourth Day
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-01-16T12:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/emerging-stocks-drop-on-euro-china-shanghai-falls-fourth-day.html
Emerging-market stocks fell on
concern ratings cuts for some European nations will worsen the
region’s debt crisis and before the release of economic data
that may show a decline in  China ’s growth rate.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined 0.5 percent to
948.38 as of 12:41 p.m. in London.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI) 
slid 0.9 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.7
percent, its fourth consecutive decline, before tomorrow’s
release of data that may show  China’s economy  grew at the
slowest pace in 10 quarters. The  ISE National 100 Index  rose 1.1
percent in Istanbul.  Standard & Poor’s  stripped  France  of its top  credit rating 
and cut eight other European nations on concern the region
hasn’t done enough to contain its debt crisis. China’s economy
may have grown 8.7 percent in the last quarter of 2011, the
slowest pace since the second quarter of 2009, according to the
median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “Risk sentiment took a dive after Standard and Poors’
ratings downgraded various Eurozone sovereigns on Friday,”
analysts at BNP Paribas SA including Bartosz Pawlowski in  London 
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients, “Meanwhile, Greek PSI
negotiations remain in deadlock.”  The Greek government and its creditors return to the
negotiating table this week to revive stalled talks on a debt
swap. The government intends to announce the details of the
private-sector involvement, or PSI, between Feb. 6 and Feb. 10,
according to an e-mailed transcript of a speech sent by the
ministry.  Russian Outlook  The ruble strengthened 0.3 percent after  Fitch Ratings 
revised  Russia ’s ratings outlook to stable from positive while
affirming the country’s credit score at BBB, according to a
statement released today. The agency said it based its decision
on increased “political uncertainty” and a deteriorating
outlook for the world economy.  The Korean won weakened 0.6 percent against the dollar. The
Indonesian rupiah and the Turkish lira strengthened 0.5 percent.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) ,  Turkey ’s biggest listed bank by
market value, gained 1.4 percent in Istanbul.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  advanced 0.4 percent in
Johannesburg as gold and copper prices rose. The  BUX Index (BUX)  fell
0.5 percent in Budapest and the Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , rose
0.2 percent in Mumbai.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 440 basis points,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s EMBI Global Index.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index  of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps rose two basis
points to 352, according to data provider CMA.  -- Editors: Peter Branton, Alex Nicholson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  