-- Ethiopian Banks May Be Less Profitable as Deposit Growth Slows
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-01-16T09:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/ethiopian-banks-may-be-less-profitable-as-deposit-growth-slows.html
Ethiopian banks may become less
profitable this year as deposit growth slows and because of a
law that requires lenders to buy  government securities , Access
Capital SC said.  Returns on equity are expected to be about 20 percent in
coming years, compared with more than 30 percent previously, the
Addis Ababa-based group said in an e-mailed research note on
Jan. 11. Total income may also drop because of slower growth in
lending and as a “growing share of banks’ assets are placed in
low-yielding National Bank of Ethiopia paper,” Access said.  Deposit growth is expected to slow “toward 20 to 25
percent” this year, from 30 percent last year, due to slower
money-supply growth and competition from state banks, Access
said. Non-government lenders’ share of total deposits fell for
the first time in the 12 months to July after rising annually
for the past 14 years, it said.  In April,  Ethiopia ’s central bank introduced a requirement
that banks buy government securities equivalent to 27 percent of
their total loans to help fund infrastructure projects. The law
was applied retroactively to all advances made since July 2010.
As of June, banks had bought central bank bills, which carry a
coupon of 3 percent, worth 6.4 billion birr ($366 million), or
25 percent of their total loans, according to Access.  “Perhaps the only consolation for banks and their
shareholders is that if inflation falls toward single-digits
levels, as we expect to occur by, at the latest, June 2012, then
the real returns on bank shares will not necessarily decline
from recent norms,” said Access.  Inflation in Ethiopia surged to a high of 40.6 percent in
August following a rise in global commodity prices and after the
government printed money to help finance  government spending .
Consumer-price growth slowed to 35.9 percent in December, the
Central Statistical Agency said last week.  Profit at Ethiopia’s 14 commercial lenders rose 45 percent
last year, Access said. The growth was the same as the previous
year, it said. Private banking was introduced to Ethiopia in
1993, though foreign lenders are still barred.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 