-- Euro Advances as Yields Fall at Auctions, German Investor Confidence Rises
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-01-17T22:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/euro-is-within-0-3-of-17-month-low-against-dollar-before-bond-auctions.html
The euro rose for the first time in
three days against the dollar and the yen as Spanish and Greek
borrowing costs fell at auctions, damping concern the region’s
most-indebted nations will struggle to fund their deficits.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars gained versus most
major peers as data showed  China’s economy  grew faster than
forecast. Europe’s 17-nation currency rose from an 11-year low
versus the yen as German economic sentiment rose to a record and
the European rescue fund sold more than its target at a bill
sale even after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded it,  France  and
Austria. A regional U.S. factory gauge climbed.  “We’re in a positive mood after Chinese data, and some of
the bond auctions in Spain and Greece helped,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New
York . “The S&P ratings downgrades we saw late last week were
certainly not good news for the euro, but as we’ve seen, the
market is already very short the currency, so positioning
certainly explains some of today’s move toward a stronger
euro.” A short position is a bet a currency will weaken.  The euro gained 0.5 percent to $1.2736 at 5 p.m. New York
time. It rose as much as 1.1 percent, the most on an intraday
basis since Nov. 30. The euro advanced 0.6 percent to 97.86 yen
after falling yesterday to 97.04 yen, its lowest level since
December 2000. The dollar rose 0.1 percent to 76.83 yen.  Aussie Advances  The Australian and  New Zealand  dollars rose to 11-week
highs on prospects  China  will grow enough to support demand for
the two nations’ exports. China is  Australia ’s biggest trading
partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export destination.  The Aussie appreciated 0.6 percent to $1.0376 and reached
$1.0450, the strongest since Nov. 1. The  New Zealand dollar  rose
as much as 1.2 percent to 80.31 U.S. cents, also the highest
since Nov. 1, before trading at 80.03 cents. South Africa’s rand
climbed 1 percent to 8.0301 to the greenback.  China’s economy  expanded 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, the nation’s statistics bureau said. A
Bloomberg News survey forecast an 8.7 percent gain. The growth
rate was still the nation’s slowest since 2009, fueling
speculation China may move to stimulate its economy.  The MSCI World Index climbed 0.8 percent, and the  S&P 500
Index  rose as much as 1.1 percent before trimming gains to 0.4
percent.  Spain  auctioned 12-month debt at an average yield of 2.049
percent, compared with 4.05 percent at a sale on Dec. 13. Greece
sold 1.625 billion euros ($2.1 billion) of 13-week bills with a
yield of 4.64 percent, down from 4.68 percent on Dec. 20.  Rescue Fund  Europe’s rescue fund, the European Financial Stability
Facility, which had its rating cut to AA+ from AAA yesterday by
Standard & Poor’s, got bids for 4.66 billion euros of 182-day
bills. That was more than triple its sales target of 1.5 billion
euros. S&P cut the top AAA ratings of France and Austria on Jan.
13 to AA+ and also downgraded seven other euro countries.  “We’ve had decent auction results in the last couple of
weeks,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “There’s a
lot of funding needs in  Europe , so it does give a little boost
of confidence.”  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research’s  index  of
German investor sentiment advanced to negative 21.6 from
negative 53.8 in December. It was the biggest since ZEW started
the measure in 1991.  Banks’ Borrowing Cost  The cost for European banks to borrow in dollars matched
the lowest level in four months, according to a money-markets
indicator. The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate
banks pay to convert euro interest payments into dollars, shrank
to as narrow as 0.8 percentage point below the euro interbank
offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It first
reached that level, the least expensive since Sept. 15 on an
intraday basis, on Jan. 13.  The euro weakened 4.2 percent over the past six months,
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show. The yen
strengthened 8.6 percent, the best performance among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by the gauges. The dollar
advanced 7 percent.  Greece  is nearing a deal with private creditors that would
give them cash and securities with a market value of about 32
cents per euro of government debt, according to Bruce Richards,
a hedge-fund manager on the creditors’ committee. Richards,
chief executive officer of Marathon Asset Management LP, spoke
in a phone interview with Bloomberg Businessweek.  Marathon, which has $10 billion under management, is on the
committee of 32 private creditors that formed in November to
negotiate with Greece, the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union. It’s not a member of the smaller steering
committee directly involved in negotiations.  Greek Talks Tomorrow  The talks, under the auspices of the Institute for
International Finance, broke off Jan. 13 and are scheduled to
resume tomorrow in  Athens  with Greek Prime Minister Lucas
Papademos and Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos.  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in January at
the fastest pace in nine months. The Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s  general economic  index rose to 13.5, the highest level
since April, from a revised 8.2 in December. A Bloomberg survey
projected the gauge would rise to 11. Readings higher than zero
signal expansion.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was down 0.4 percent to 81.127 after sliding
as much as 0.9 percent, its biggest intraday drop in two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  