-- Leaders Race to Salvage Euro Rescue Plans Rebuked by S&P Rating Downgrades
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-01-16T16:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/euro-leaders-race-to-salvage-rescue-plans-rebuked-by-s-p-rating-downgrades.html
European leaders will this week try
to rescue under-fire efforts to deliver new fiscal rules and cut
Greece’s debt burden as investors ignore  Standard & Poor’s  euro-
region downgrades.  Greek officials will reconvene with creditors on Jan. 18
after discussions stalled last week and governments elsewhere
are preparing for a Jan. 30 summit as the  European Central Bank 
warns against “watering down” a revamp of budget laws. French
borrowing costs fell today as the government in Paris sold 8.59
billion euros ($10.9 billion) in debt.  The talks on Greece and budgets may serve as tougher tests
of the tentative recovery in investor sentiment than S&P’s
decision to cut the ratings of nine euro-region nations,
including  France . History suggests fallout from the downgrades
may be limited.  JPMorgan Chase & Co  research shows that 10-year
yields for the nine sovereigns that lost their AAA status
between 1998 and last year’s U.S. downgrade rose an average of
two basis points the next week.  Efforts to toughen budget laws and make Greek debt more
sustainable “deserve far more attention than these rating
changes, which as usual are lagging fundamental developments,”
 Joachim Fels , chief global economist at Morgan Stanley in
 London , said in a note to clients yesterday.  French Yields  Investors shrugged off the S&P downgrade as France sold
1.895 billion euros of one-year notes at a yield of 0.406
percent, down from 0.454 percent on Jan. 9.  The euro pared declines against the dollar after the ECB
was said to buy Italian and Spanish debt, trading at $1.2671.  Policy makers fanned out over the weekend to seize back the
initiative. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said S&P’s decision
and criticism of “insufficient” policy steps reinforced her
view that leaders must redouble efforts to resolve the two-year
crisis. Germany is now alone in the euro area with a stable AAA.  Reacting to Spain’s downgrade to A from AA-, Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  pledged spending cuts and a banking-system
cleanup, as well as a “clear, firm and forceful” commitment to
the euro’s future. French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said
the reduction of France’s rating was “disappointing,” yet
expected, and markets were “muted” in response.  S&P Ignored  Investors ignored S&P last August when it cut the U.S. to
AA+, pushing the yield on the benchmark U.S. government bond to
a record of 1.6714 percent seven weeks later. One difference is
that the U.S., unlike France, is prepared and able to print
money, making it easier for the world’s largest economy to pay
its debts.  “The U.S. is still rightly seen as a safe haven,” Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Centre for International
Political Economy in Brussels, said. “The U.S. is a big liquid
economy with a strong tradition of honoring its debts in modern
times and a central bank pledged to taking action if needed.
It’s different with France in the sense that they cannot rely on
strong central bank policies.”  Speaking over the weekend at a meeting of her party, Merkel
played down the risk that weaker French creditworthiness saps
potency from Europe’s 440 billion-euro bailout fund. The
European Financial Stability Facility, which is designed to fund
rescue packages for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal partially with
bond sales, owes its AAA rating to guarantees from its
sponsoring nations.  Don’t Need AAA  “I was never of the opinion that the EFSF necessarily has
to be AAA,” Merkel told reporters in the northern German city
of Kiel.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said the
EFSF’s shareholders will explore ways to maintain the top rating
of the fund, which is scheduled to sell up to 1.5 billion euros
in 6-month bills this week. In the meantime, Merkel and other
European leaders have pledged to move quickly toward setting up
its permanent successor, the European Stability Mechanism, this
year -- one year ahead of the original plan.  In an interview with Bloomberg Television today in  Hong
Kong , U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said he
sees some reason for optimism in  Europe , while acknowledging
that 2012 is set to be a challenging year.  ‘Optimism’  “Obviously people are anxious about the year ahead, and I
understand that, but I would say there are some grounds for
optimism,” Osborne said, citing recent liquidity measures by
the ECB.  Merkel had been scheduled to meet with French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in Rome
on Jan. 20 to flesh out details of crisis-rescue efforts before
a European summit 10 days later. The leaders will likely delay
those talks until after the summit, an Italian government
official said.  Dealing with Europe and whether to boost the resources of
the  International Monetary Fund  to do so will also top the
agenda when deputy finance chiefs from the Group of 20 meet in
 Mexico  this week.  The leaders are in discussions as the ECB warns governments
against diluting a December pact to toughen budget rules
designed to avoid a repeat of the crisis.  Recent changes in a text aimed at translating the agreement
into an international treaty “imply a substantial watering
down” and “run against the spirit” of the original plan, ECB
Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said in a letter last
week. Leaders have said they may complete the rulebook by Jan.
30, a month earlier than scheduled.  Greek Threat  A more immediate threat may come from Greece, where
investors have warned of a collapse of the financial system.
Failure to strike a deal with creditors could imperil the
ability of the government in Athens to pay back 14.5 billion
euros maturing March 20 and force it to seek even more aid from
governments.  “A Greek default would have a major impact on the euro as
it would spread contagion to other bond markets in the euro
zone,” Mansoor Mohi-uddin, Singapore-based head of foreign
exchange strategy at UBS AG, said in a Jan. 14 note.  Greece’s creditor banks broke off talks three days ago
after failing to agree with the government on how much money
investors will lose by swapping their bonds. Proposals by a
committee representing financial firms haven’t produced a
“constructive consolidated response by all parties,” the
Washington-based  Institute of International Finance  said in a
statement yesterday. Talks between Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos and  Charles Dallara , the managing director of the IIF, will resume Jan. 18.  Debt Cut  Greek officials and the nation’s creditors agreed in
October to implement a 50 percent cut in the face value of Greek
debt, with a goal of reducing Greece’s borrowings to 120 percent
of gross domestic product by 2020.  2012 began with speculation the worst may be over as
borrowing costs fell, evidence of economic resilience emerged
and the ECB said it had quelled a credit crunch at banks. Now
the crisis threatens to reignite.  “While the market impact of the downgrades is unlikely to
be very significant in the short-term, they serve as a stark
reminder that the euro area sovereign debt crisis is here to
stay,” said Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc economists led by
 Jacques Cailloux . “We continue to expect the crisis to
deepen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  