-- European Retailers Rise on Glimmers of Economic Stabilization
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   S i m o n a   F e r r a r i
-- 2012-01-16T00:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/european-retailers-rise-on-glimmers-of-economic-stabilization.html
European consumer-discretionary
companies such as  Marks & Spencer Group Plc  are outperforming
consumer-staple businesses including  Nestle (NESN)  SA, indicating
investors’ forecasts for the region’s economy were too
pessimistic.  Investors have pushed shares of the discretionary group
higher in recent weeks as concerns about another prolonged
recession have moderated, according to Robert Griffiths, a
London-based pan-European equity strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. These stocks historically are “early
movers” -- meaning they start to outperform as shareholders
improve their economic assessments, he said.  “When investors spot signs of stabilization, this is an
area of the market that’s early to rally,” Griffiths said,
adding that these shares are benefiting from company sales
reports and surveys that are beating forecasts.  The Bloomberg European Consumer Cyclical  Index (BECNCY) , comprised
of retailers and automakers, outperformed the Bloomberg European
Consumer Non-Cyclical  Index (BECCYC)  by 35 percent from Feb. 24, 2010,
until July 5, 2011. It then underperformed by 24 percent through
Dec. 19, 2011. Since mid-December, the index of discretionary
companies has risen 11 percent, while the consumer-staple index
-- which includes Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, and
pharmaceutical maker  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  -- has increased 3
percent.  Investor sentiment toward the cyclical stocks “seems to
have flipped” recently, from negative to “a more balanced
outlook,” said Jim Stellakis, founder and director of technical
research at New York-based research company Technical Alpha.  Shift ‘Worth Watching’  “Investors don’t want to sell these cyclical stocks as
aggressively as they did over the prior 10 months,” Stellakis
said. “This is a shift that’s worth watching.”  Shares of the consumer-staple companies still are trading
at a “very significant premium,” Griffiths said. This group is
more than three standard deviations above its 30-year average on
a price-to-earnings ratio relative to the FTSE 350 Index --“an
infrequent occurrence,” he said. Standard deviations measure
how far the current ratio is from its historic average.  “The relative valuation of consumer staples reflects fear
among investors that 2012 would see a repeat of 2008,”
Griffiths said.  The recent surge in discretionary stocks has been boosted
largely by better-than-forecast retail sales last month and a
less-than-estimated contraction in euro-area services and
manufacturing output, Griffiths said.  SuperGroup Plc (SGP)  reported
that December sales rose 9.3 percent at stores open at least 12
months, while  N Brown Group Plc (BWNG)  said sales increased 2 percent
in the 19 weeks ended Jan. 7.  ‘Rising and Improving Trend’  So-called like-for-like sales at SuperGroup, owner of the
Superdry fashion chain, are showing a “rising and improving
trend,” Charles Howes, finance director, said on a Jan. 11
conference call. “I think we’ve had a pretty solid Christmas,”
Howes said of the Cheltenham, England-based retailer’s
performance.  A  euro-zone  composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in manufacturing and services  rose  to 48.3 in December
from 47 in November,  Markit Economics  said Jan. 4. While still
contracting -- as indicated by a reading below 50 -- output was
above the estimate of 47.9 in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
U.K. service industries  grew  at the fastest pace since July, to
54 from 52.1 in November, Markit said.  The surveys show “some modest improvement” in the U.K.
and mainland European economies, said  Howard Archer , chief
European economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “At the
very least, this has diluted some of the worst fears about how
bad 2012 could be for the euro zone.”  ‘Signs of Stabilization’  Early “signs of stabilization” still may be countered by
mixed indicators of progress, Archer said. While retailers
reported strong sales in December, they did so by enticing
holiday shoppers with deep discounts and promotions, he said.
Consumers may “hunker down and put away their purses and
wallets away for the next few months,” which would impair
expansion, he added.  The region’s sovereign-debt crisis remains the “key
factor” determining expansion this year, said Archer, who is
“more pessimistic” about a potential recession in Europe than
in the U.K.  “The economic outlook remains subject to high uncertainty
and substantial downside risks,” European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said at a Jan. 12 press conference. The
same day, the ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent
following two consecutive reductions of 25 basis points each.  Still, investors may not need solid signs of a recovery to
consider pro-growth industries, Griffiths said. As they reassess
their forecasts for expansion, this has made the discretionary
stocks more attractive, he said.  “We came into 2012 with a bearish consensus about the
outlook for European growth, but some early indications suggest
we came out of 2011 with more momentum than we thought.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Simona Ferrari in  London  at 
 sferrari10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  