-- Euro Declines For Second Day as S&P Cuts Ratings, Greek Debt Talks Resume
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-16T22:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/euro-pares-decline-against-yen-after-ecb-said-to-buy-italian-spanish-debt.html
The euro weakened for a second day,
falling to an 11-year low against the yen after  Standard &
Poor’s  stripped France of its top credit rating and cut eight
other euro-region countries.  Japan’s currency gained against 14 of 16 major peers as
concern that Europe’s fiscal turmoil will intensify boosted
demand for a haven. Portuguese 10-year yields rose to a record
versus bunds. Greek officials will reconvene with creditors on
Jan. 18 after discussions stalled last week over the size of
investor losses in a proposed debt swap. Asian currencies
weakened before a report tomorrow that may show  China’s economy 
expanded at the slowest pace in almost two years.  “The ratings downgrade provides more evidence that the
euro-zone sovereign debt crisis has a lot further to run,” said
 Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in  London . “The fundamentals still argue in favor of a
continued adjustment lower in the euro.”  Europe ’s shared currency was 0.3 percent weaker at 97.28
yen at 4:45 p.m. New York time, after falling to 97.04, the
least since December 2000. The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.2666,
after dropping to $1.2626. The dollar dipped 0.25 percent to
76.78 yen. U.S. markets are closed today for a holiday.  The euro stayed lower after French borrowing costs fell at
a sale of treasury bills. France sold 1.895 billion euros of
one-year notes at a yield of 0.406 percent, down from 0.454
percent on Jan. 9. The Treasury sold a total of 8.59 billion
euros in bills, including three and six-month paper. Yields fell
on all.  ‘Grinding Lower’  The euro dropped on Jan. 13 amid reports of imminent
ratings cuts before S&P lowered the top grades of  France  and
Austria one level to AA+, with “negative” outlooks. The
company affirmed the ratings of countries including  Germany ,
Belgium and the Netherlands and downgraded Italy, Portugal,
Spain and Cyprus by two steps and Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia
by one level.  The ECB bought Italian and Spanish government bonds today,
according to four people with knowledge of the transactions, who
declined to be identified because the deals are confidential.  “There are a lot of risks to the euro, including the Greek
debt talks,” said  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS AG
in London. “The ECB has come in earlier than they usually do,
and that’s stabilizing things a bit. We still see euro-dollar
grinding lower.”  EFSF Downgrade  The European Financial Stability Facility, the euro-region
bailout fund, is scheduled to sell 1.5 billion euros of bills
tomorrow, while Greece and Spain also offer bills. The fund lost
its top  credit rating  at S&P after the rating company downgraded
sponsoring nations France and Austria.  The EFSF’s rating was lowered to AA+ from AAA, S&P said in
a statement today.  “Markets are going to remain pretty nervous” until we see
the results of European debt auctions this week, said  Michael Turner , a fixed-income strategist in Sydney at Royal Bank of
Canada. “The yen and the dollar should outperform.”  Italy’s government must refinance about 341 billion euros
of securities coming due this year, with another 54 billion
euros in interest payments, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
France has 266 billion euros in debt coming due, plus 39 billion
euros in interest, while Germany needs to find 193 billion euros
for principal repayments and 22 billion euros for interest.  Euro Shorts  Talks between Greece’s Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ,
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, and  Charles Dallara , the
managing director of the Institute of International Finance,
which represents private creditors, will resume Jan. 18,
according to a Greek Finance Ministry official who declined to
be identified. Greece’s creditor banks last week broke off talks
after failing to agree with the government about how much money
investors will lose by swapping their bonds.  Futures traders  increased bets to a record that the euro
will weaken against the dollar. The difference between wagers
that the shared currency will fall versus those that it will
rise surged to 155,195 in the week ended Jan. 10, data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed on Jan. 13.  “We’ve got that large overhang of shorts in the euro, but
there’s still no reason to go the other way yet,” said  David Watt , senior currency strategist in Toronto at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit. “We’re probably going to
continue to have this slow bleed. We’ve got nothing really that
suggests the euro zone is coming to grips with the problem. We
still have a number of concerns about the growth backdrop there,
the sovereign backdrop.”  Yen Range  The euro has depreciated 1.82 percent this month, the worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar advanced 0.73
percent over the same period, while the yen gained 0.92 percent.  The yen will trade in a range from 72 to 79 per dollar for
the next six months, former Japanese Finance Ministry official
Eisuke Sakakibara said. Intervention in the  currency market  will
only work with U.S. cooperation, he said today at the Foreign
Correspondents’ Club of  Japan  in  Tokyo . Japan’s government
intervened in the foreign-exchange market at least three times
last year to keep the yen’s gains from hobbling the country’s
recovery.  The yen rose 5.2 percent against the dollar last year,
after a 13 percent gain in 2010.  Canada’s dollar rose against all of its 16 major peers on
speculation its exports will benefit from accelerating U.S.
economic growth. Regional reports from the New York Fed on Jan.
17 and the Philadelphia Federal Reserve on Jan. 19 may show
manufacturing continued to pick up in January, according to
economist surveys.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, strengthened 0.53
percent to C$1.0178 per  U.S. dollar . One Canadian dollar buys
98.25 U.S. cents.  Chinese Growth  The South Korean won fell by the most in more than a week
while Thailand’s baht retreated to a 17-month low as Europe’s
debt crisis clouded the prospects for a global economic
recovery.  The won slumped 0.6 percent to 1,154.85 per dollar in
 Seoul . In Bangkok, the baht fell 0.3 percent to 31.9 and earlier
reached 31.96, the weakest level since August 2010.  China ’s  economy  probably expanded at an annual rate of 8.7
percent last quarter, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey, compared with 9.1 percent in the
preceding three months. That would be a fourth straight quarter
of deceleration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia  at 
 Cfournier3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 