-- European Bank Dividends Poised to Tumble
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-01-16T09:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/euro-area-bank-dividends-poised-to-tumble-below-post-lehman-low.html
Euro-area  bank dividends  are poised
to sink below the low set after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. as regulators force lenders to bolster capital.  French, Italian and Spanish banks will have the most cuts
after  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  scrapped payments
for 2011, according to dividend forecasts by Bloomberg that are
based on earnings estimates and options prices. Banks in the
U.K. and  Sweden , outside the  euro zone , may keep or increase
their payouts after regulators found they didn’t need to raise
more capital, the data show.  Lenders are under pressure to raise an additional 115
billion euros ($146 billion) of capital by June to meet European
rules. They’re finding it harder to generate that money from
earnings, which are forecast to  shrink  20 percent from 2010
levels, or raise it from investors in rights offerings. Bank
 stocks  in the region have declined 36 percent in the past year.  “Shareholders and regulators do not currently see eye to
eye as regulators are asking the banks to do recapitalizations
at the worst time possible,” said Christophe Nijdam, an analyst
at Alphavalue in Paris. “The big question mark will be the
economic slowdown. The more severe it is, the higher the cost of
risk and the more constrained the dividend-payment capability.”  All four publicly listed French  lenders , five of  Spain ’s
nine banks and nine out of 14 in  Italy  will cut or omit their
dividends when they announce annual earnings, the Bloomberg
estimates show. In all, 53 lenders in 11 euro nations will pay a
combined 9.24 euros a share in dividends, 41 percent less than
the previous year and 28 percent less than distributed for 2009,
the year after Lehman’s bankruptcy, the data show.  ‘Cold Wind’  “The cold wind of change is set to continue for some
time,” said Kieron Launder, the London-based chief investment
officer at Schroders Private Banking, which oversees $284
billion. “European banks are likely to suffer roughly the same
environment in 2012 as they did in 2011, from the markets as
well as the heightened regulatory oversight.”  The  European Banking Authority , which co-ordinates the work
of national regulators, said last month that banks in  Greece ,
Spain, Italy,  Germany  and  France  had the biggest capital
shortfalls. The fresh capital should come from investors,
retained earnings and lower employee bonuses, the EBA has said.  A Bloomberg gauge of  European bank shares  declined 32
percent in 2011, with 14 lenders, including  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , tumbling more than 50 percent.
Excluding the 64 percent plunge in 2008, last year’s drop was
the biggest for the industry measure since at least 1997.  The industry benchmark lost 0.4 percent as of 8:30 a.m. in
 London  today after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the ratings of nine
euro-area nations after the close of trading on Jan. 13.  Santander,  BBVA (BBVA)   The declines pushed the  dividend yield  for European banks
to the highest level since 2003, excluding the period between
November 2007 and April 2009. Investors in November got 4.2
percent of money put into bank shares back as dividends, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Spain’s largest banks, Banco  Santander (SAN)  SA in  Madrid 
and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, based in Bilbao, may
match the previous year’s payments, five smaller lenders in the
country are likely to cut theirs, according to the Bloomberg
estimates. They include  Banco de Sabadell SA ,  Banco Popular
Espanol SA (POP)  and  Banco Espanol de Credito SA. (BTO)   Santander said in a Jan. 9 statement it would maintain 2011
shareholder remuneration at 60 cents per share. BBVA Chief
Financial Officer Manuel Gonzalez Cid said in an Oct. 27
presentation the bank would maintain its dividend policy. A
spokesman for the lender declined to comment last week.  Italian Banks  Banco Popular  aims to keep its dividend payout at about
half of 2011 earnings, a spokesman said by telephone. Banesto
Chief Executive Officer Jose Antonio Garcia Cantera said on a
Jan. 12 webcast for analysts that he couldn’t comment on
dividends. Officials at Sabadell weren’t immediately available.  In Italy, UniCredit omitted its 2011 payment altogether on
Nov. 14.  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl  and  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA  may cut their cash returns to investors, the
Bloomberg projections show.  Annalisa Presicce, a spokeswoman for Popolare, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment. Monte Paschi Chairman  Giuseppe Mussari  declined to comment on the bank’s dividend policy this
year when asked on Jan. 13.  UniCredit plunged 45 percent in the four days though Jan. 9
after Italy’s biggest bank priced a 7.5 billion-euro rights
offer at a 43 percent discount to the Jan. 3 close, excluding
the value of rights.  French Bond Holdings  French lenders hold $681 billion in debt issued to Greek,
Irish, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese private and public
borrowers, more than banks in any other country, according to
data from the  Bank for International Settlements .  Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank, and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , the third-biggest, said last quarter they won’t pay
cash to shareholders.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Natixis (KN)  may reduce
their dividends by 29 percent and 26 percent respectively, the
Bloomberg estimates show. A spokeswoman at Natixis declined to
comment on the bank’s dividend policy. BNP Chairman  Baudouin Prot  said the payout for 2011 will fall in line with earnings.  Societe Generale surged 7.3 percent on Nov. 8 after
announcing its dividend cut, as investors bet the move will help
the lender meet the EBA’s capital requirements.  “Banks could cut dividends and still perform if investors
deem that is the right thing to do,” said Chris Wyllie, partner
at Iveagh Ltd., a wealth-management firm in London. Still, even
if dividend yields make bank stocks look cheap, investors may be
more interested in their valuations relative to their assets, or
book value, he said.  Price-to-Book  The  Bloomberg European Banks and Financial Services Index 
traded in November at 0.6 times the reported value of its
members’ assets, a measure known as  price-to-book valuation .
That compares with an average ratio of 1.52 since 2001 and is
the second-lowest monthly ratio in the period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Only one of seven Greek lenders tracked by Bloomberg still
pays a dividend as banks in state bail-out plans are prohibited
from doing so. The  Bank of Greece , the nation’s publicly traded
central bank, is forecast to cut its payout to 70 cents a share
from 1.56 euros a year earlier. Irene Basia, a spokeswoman, said
the lender won’t make an announcement on its dividend until
April.  In Germany,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  may keep its dividend at 75
euro cents a share, the Bloomberg projections show. Commerzbank
and  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB)  haven’t made payments since 2007.  British Lenders  British lenders will fare relatively better, with HSBC
Holdings Inc.,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Standard Chartered Plc expected
to raise dividends for a second year.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the biggest Swiss
bank, announced in November its first cash dividend in five
years as Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  shrinks the
investment-banking unit.  Among the four Swedish lenders tracked by Bloomberg,
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  may more than double its 2011 dividend while Svenska
Handelsbanken AB and  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  may raise
their payment by 5.6 percent and 33 percent respectively.  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  will keep its payment unchanged at 0.29 euro cents.  U.S. bank shareholders may also receive a higher payment.
Dividends at lenders in the world’s biggest equity market may
grow this year by 23 percent, their second annual increase, the
Bloomberg estimates show.  Lenders aren’t alone in reducing payments to shareholders
as an economic slowdown eats into profits. Madrid-based
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s largest telecommunications company, cut
its dividend for the first time in a decade last month. Vienna-
based  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  followed by trimming the minimum payout
for 2011 and 2012 by half.  Earnings Risk  Even if the dividend reductions help European banks meet
higher capital stipulations, the risk of a recession will
remain, and its severity will determine future returns from bank
shares, according to Didier Saint-Georges, who helps oversee $58
billion at Carmignac Gestion in Paris.  “The question is whether valuations have become
attractive,” said Saint-Georges, “Our answer is not positive
at this stage. Given returns are still falling, and earnings
expectations are still too optimistic in our opinion, we do not
think valuations to be particularly compelling, given the
balance sheet risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at   axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  