-- Fastest-Aging Society Greets Ma in Taiwan Asset-Price Risk
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2012-01-17T07:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/fastest-aging-society-greets-ma-second-term-in-taiwan-asset-deflation-risk.html
Ma Ying-jeou’s second term as
president of  Taiwan , secured in an election win three days ago,
may be one of the island’s last opportunities to address the
consequences of something unmentioned on the campaign trail: the
world’s fastest-aging society.  Ma’s push for closer ties with China won a fresh mandate as
he defeated Tsai Ing-wen, who said the tighter bonds may risk
Taiwan’s autonomy. While Taiwan’s top planning body predicts the
island’s population will start falling in 11 years, coping with
an aging society and low birth rates were absent from the debate
because the challenge is intractable, said Chuang Meng-han, an
industrial economics professor at Tamkang University in Taipei.  Failure to tackle the change, by reducing the cost of
raising families or allowing immigration, will leave Taiwan’s
labor force shrinking, putting pressure on growth and asset
prices. The economy’s trend rate of  expansion  is poised to fall
to about 3.5 percent annually in the next decade, from 5.1
percent in the 20 years through 2010, according to DBS Bank Ltd.  “The impact will be huge,” said Chuang, who has analyzed
the housing market. “Most people aren’t well-prepared for the
aging society. The later the government faces the consequences,
the more difficult they will be to deal with.”  Taiwan’s 2010 total fertility rate was 0.9 babies per woman,
according to baseline estimates compiled by Taiwan’s  Council for
Economic Planning and Development . That’s less than in the 196
other countries and territories tracked by the  United Nations .
Taiwan’s 23 million population will fall to less than 19 million
by 2060, according to the council.  Bear Market   By 2050, Taiwan will have an aging index of almost 413
percent, compared with  Japan ’s 339 percent, the CEPD estimates.
That makes the island the most rapidly aging society, said Lo
Yu-mei, a council researcher. The index is defined as the number
of people aged 65 and over per 100 youths under age 15.  “Taiwan is heading the way of Japan, whose population is
shrinking,” said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Groep
NV in Singapore, who previously worked at the  World Bank .
“Taiwan’s stock market resembles Japan’s Nikkei in that both
have been in a bear market since asset bubbles burst in 1990.”  Japan has struggled to overcome an aging and declining
population, leading to two decades of depressed economic growth.
The Nikkei 225 stock index is down 78 percent, the most in the
world, since a peak in December 1989. Taiwan’s  Taiex (TWSE)  index is
down 25 percent in the period, the third-worst performance.  Ma, 61, has put in place a monthly childcare stipend of
NT$2,500 ($83) for newborns, payable to certain households
earning an annual net income below NT$1.13 million until the
child is two, to try and turn the birth rate around.  Property Risk  During the election, neither he nor Tsai of the  Democratic
Progressive Party  recommended greater immigration to boost the
population. The CEPD has said Taiwan has the world’s second-
densest population among territories with more than 10 million
people, limiting political scope for such a policy.  Aging raises the risk of substantial future home-price
falls, said Laura Ho, an economist at Grand Cathay Services Corp.
in Taipei. Property prices “are disproportionately high” and
“older people are investing in property they won’t be able to
find buyers for in years to come,” she said.  The president has vowed to consider imposing new taxes to
rein in property costs. Housing prices in Taipei have more than
doubled since 2000 and reached a record last year.  “Young people are discouraged from getting married because
they can’t afford to buy a home,” Tamkang’s Chuang said.  Costly real estate and stagnant wages combined with the
risk of recession to stir voter discontent. Gross domestic
product fell 0.15 percent in the third quarter from the previous
three months, as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis damped the export-led
island’s overseas sales.  Stagnating Wages  Household income adjusted for inflation was lower in 2010
than in 2000. Joblessness, at 4.3 percent, compares with less
than 2 percent three decades ago.  Ma says detente with former civil-war foe  China , the
island’s largest trading partner, will help bolster Taiwan’s
$430 billion economy. He has relaxed trade, tourism and
investment restrictions. Tsai argued his policy risks giving
China too much sway over Taiwan.  China’s economy  expanded 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, a report showed today. One consequence of
closer economic ties to the nation has been an exodus of
factories to the lower-cost mainland, crimping job opportunities
at home.  Taipei-based  Foxconn Technology Group (FOXCGZ) , which assembles
Apple Inc. iPhones and iPads, employs more than 1 million
workers at its Chinese factories, compared with 10,000 in Taiwan.  About 800,000 Taiwanese live in China, according to
Taiwan’s Mainland Affairs Council. Some of them may be counted
as part of the island’s population depending on their periods of
continuous residence in Taiwan, the statistics bureau said.  Pace of Detente  In his victory speech, Ma said he will “control” the pace
of rapprochement with  Asia ’s largest economy to ensure the
policy retains public support. He took 51.6 percent of the vote
in last week’s election, compared with Tsai’s 45.6 percent.  “Rapid ageing means declining labor input and, in the long
term, suggests population will fall, which will slow the
economy,” said Ma Tieying, an economist at DBS Bank in
Singapore. “The savings rate will drop too, as older people
usually have to spend their savings. That will be negative for
investment.”  Taiwan’s predicament echoes a trend across Asia, signaling
increased regional pension and healthcare burdens. Asia will
account for 62 percent of the global elderly population by 2050,
up from 44 percent in 1950, the  Asian Development Bank  said in a
2009 report.  While 2012, the year of the dragon, may boost Taiwan’s
birth rate temporarily as it’s considered an auspicious period,
population decline is inevitable, according to the CEPD.  “The economy isn’t in good shape,” Tamkang’s Chuang said.
“But you need to have a stable income and feel secure about
your job to have children.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in  Singapore  at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  