-- Finland’s Liikanen to Lead EU Group on Bank ‘Structural Reforms’
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-01-16T16:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/finland-s-liikanen-to-lead-eu-group-on-bank-structural-reforms-.html
European Central Bank council member
Erkki Liikanen will lead a group of experts examining whether
banks should build firewalls to protect taxpayers and customers
when failure of one part of a lender threatens to cascade
throughout the company.  Liikanen, governor of the Finnish central bank, will take
the helm of the group investigating whether “structural
reforms” of banks bolster financial stability and improve
efficiency and consumer protection, the European Commission,
which set up the body, said today.  “I expect this group to make all the recommendations as
regards the structure of EU banks it deems necessary to
strengthen financial stability,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, said in an e-mailed statement. Barnier
has said there will be “no taboo” topics for the group, which
starts next month.  A U.K. government-sponsored panel chaired by  John Vickers 
recommended in September that banks insulate consumer units from
 investment banking  to increase stability in the financial
system. The proposals may cost the industry as much 7 billion
pounds ($10.7 billion) and should be implemented by the
government in 2019, the panel said.  The EU group will examine ideas such as those put forward
by the Vickers commission as well as a U.S. proposal championed
by former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  to bar
commercial banks from engaging in trading solely for their own
profit, Barnier has said.  Liikanen’s career has included two mandates as a member of
the Brussels-based commission between 1995 and 2004. He’s also a
former finance minister of  Finland .  The group will finish its work in the middle of the year,
the commission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 