-- Former Nortel Executives Face Fraud Charges in Canada Court
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-01-16T20:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/former-nortel-executives-face-4-9-million-fraud-charges-in-canadian-court.html
Three former  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) 
executives are in a Canadian criminal court accused of a C$5
million ($4.9 million) fraud at what was once  North America ’s
largest telephone-equipment maker before its bankruptcy and
dissolution.  Former Chief Executive Officer Frank Dunn, former Chief
Financial Officer Douglas Beatty and former Controller Michael Gollogly allegedly misstated financial results between 2000 and
2004, allowing them to pocket millions in bonuses. All three
pleaded not guilty as the trial began today at Ontario Superior
Court in Toronto.  Prosecutors “will be proceeding on two counts of fraud
against each accused” in a trial that is expected to last six
to nine months, Brendan Crawley, a spokesman for the Ontario
Ministry of the Attorney General, said in an e-mail before the
trial began.  Prosecutors will set out their “case in court on the
record, and won’t be making any comment before then,” Crawley
said in the e-mail.  The accused opted for a trial without a jury and they could
face maximum sentences of 14 years. The judge in the case is
Frank Marrocco, the former prosecuting attorney in  Canada ’s
biggest stock-market scandal, the  Bre-X Minerals Ltd. (BXM)  gold-
discovery hoax. In that case, the only executive brought to
trial was acquitted in 2007.  Charges From 2008  The charges made in 2008 against the Nortel executives
concern earnings statements showing the company returned to
profit in 2003 following losses in 2001 and 2002 amid the global
technology stock crash. Nortel’s board fired the executives in
2004 after an internal investigation of the company’s financial
reporting. It then restated earnings back to 1999.  “The last quarter of 2002 and the first quarter of 2003 is
really the focus” of this case, Brian Greenspan, the former
controller’s lawyer, said in a telephone interview last week.
“We’ve always maintained that Michael Gollogly didn’t engage in
any wrongdoing whatsoever.”  Messages seeking comment last week from Dunn and Beatty at
their law firms, McCarthy Tetrault LLP and Lafontaine &
Associates Inc., respectively, weren’t returned.  Nortel filed for bankruptcy in January 2009 after reporting
$11.6 billion in consolidated assets against $11.8 billion in
debt as of Sept. 30, 2008. The company has since sold its
business units for at least $7.5 billion, including the $4.5
billion sale in July of its patent portfolio to a group that
includes  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Livent Case  Former Livent Inc. theater producers Garth Drabinksy and
Myron Gottlieb ended up with sentences of five and four years,
respectively, after being convicted of falsifying financial
statements from 1989 to 1998 while they sold shares, warrants,
debentures and senior notes valued at C$460 million.  “We’re just being completely ineffective in how we tackle
white-collar crime in Canada,” David Hutton, executive director
of Fair Accountability Initiative for Reform, an Ottawa-based
whistle-blower advocacy group, said in a telephone interview.
“Nortel is a classic example because it’s taken ages.”  The case is between Her Majesty the Queen and Dunn, Beatty
and Gollogly, 1000145, Ontario Superior Court of Justice
(Toronto).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  