-- Former Irish Billionaire Sean Quinn Declared Bankrupt
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-01-16T17:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/former-irish-billionaire-sean-quinn-declared-bankrupt-1-.html
Sean Quinn , once Ireland’s richest
man, was declared bankrupt after losing more than one billion
euros ($1.3 billion) investing in  Anglo Irish Bank  Corp.  Judge Elizabeth Dunne ruled on the bankruptcy in Ireland’s
 High Court  in Dublin today. While Quinn didn’t contest the
bankruptcy petition brought by  Irish Bank Resolution Corp. (ANGL) ,
formerly Anglo Irish Bank, he said the lender had a “vendetta”
against him.  The IBRC estimates that Quinn, whose fortune was valued at
around $6 billion by Forbes magazine in 2008, owes the bank
almost 2.9 billion euros. The lender in April appointed a share
receiver to take over the Quinn family’s equity interest in
Quinn Group, a conglomerate whose businesses included building
materials, insurance and real estate before it was split up.  Today’s ruling comes after a Belfast court on Jan. 10
overturned a voluntary bankruptcy ruling on Quinn in  Northern
Ireland . The Belfast court ruled that Quinn’s main center of
business activities was in the  Republic of Ireland  rather than
in Northern Ireland where the law allows a bankrupt to return to
business after 12 months.  In November, IBRC was awarded judgments in the High Court
in Dublin of 2.16 billion euros against money owed by Quinn.  Anglo Irish was nationalized in 2009 as its real estate
loans soured. The state has injected about 30 billion euros into
the lender to save it from collapse.  “Today Anglo achieved their goal of ensuring that I will
never create another job,” Quinn said in an e-mailed statement.
“The position of the Irish taxpayer could have improved
significantly, by a more reasonable approach to the issues
involved.”  IBRC said it has no vendetta against Quinn. The bank said
it had received personal guarantees for more than 2 billion
euros from the businessman.  “The bank’s singular focus is to recover as much as
possible from the remaining assets over which the bank has legal
security,” it said in a statement today. “It is this singular
focus that is in the best interests of the state.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  