-- France Said to Seek Faster Execution of EU’s Ban on Iranian Oil Imports
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-17T17:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/france-said-to-seek-faster-implementation-of-eu-s-oil-embargo-against-iran.html
France  is pushing for faster
enforcement of the European Union’s proposed ban on oil imports
from  Iran (OPCRIRAN) , two officials with knowledge of the matter said.  France wants the embargo to be delayed by no more than
three months to allow nations including  Greece , Italy and  Spain 
to find alternative supplies, according to a French government
official, who declined to be identified, citing state rules.
While France is seeking a shorter exemption for existing crude
purchase contracts, a six-month delay favored by more EU nations
remains the more likely compromise, said the second person, an
EU diplomat, who also asked not to be identified because the
talks are confidential. Both officials spoke yesterday.  EU foreign ministers are scheduled to decide on the ban,
which will probably also include an exemption for  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
Italy’s biggest oil company, at a Jan. 23 meeting. The embargo
requires unanimity among the bloc’s 27 states. Iranian officials
have threatened to block the Strait of Hormuz, through which
almost 20 percent of the world’s oil flows, if exports are
curbed.  “It is important for Iran to desist from statements on
this subject and to engage instead with the offer of
negotiations,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told
lawmakers in the House of Commons in  London  today. “In the
meantime, we are working ahead of next week’s foreign-affairs
council in Brussels to extend sanctions on Iran, including an
oil embargo on a phased basis, to increase the peaceful pressure
on  Iran  to negotiate.”  ‘Very Damaging’  Any attempt to block the waterway would be “very damaging
to Iran, to their own economy and their own situation,” Hague
said.  Oil rose for the first time in four days today as France
pushed for faster enforcement of the ban and German investor
confidence jumped the most on record. Crude for February
delivery rose $1.20, or 1.2 percent, to $99.90 a barrel at 10:38
a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The EU is moving toward the proposed oil embargo under
pressure from the U.S. and isn’t “prepared to embark on such
actions,”  Ramin Mehmanparast , a spokesman for Iran’s Foreign
Ministry, said at a press conference in Tehran today. He called
the proposed sanctions “illegal and illogical.”  A gradual implementation of the embargo would satisfy the
concern of nations most dependent on Iranian crude, including
 Italy , Greece and Spain. The three countries accounted for about
68 percent of EU imports from Iran in 2010, European Commission
data show.  Six-Month Phase-In  Nations including  Germany  and the U.K. also favored the
shortest delay, while nations most exposed to imports from Iran
pressed for an exemption of as long as 12 months, the EU
diplomat said. The EU will probably adopt a six-month phase-in,
two people with knowledge of the matter said on Jan. 13.  The U.S. and EU say Iran’s nuclear-development plans are
aimed at building atomic weapons. Iran, the second-largest oil
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
after  Saudi Arabia , says its program is for civilian purposes
only.  EU sanctions on Iran already include an embargo on
equipment for and investment in the oil and natural gas
industries. The bloc has also imposed restrictions on transfers
of funds to and from Iran.  A group of U.S. senators called on the EU earlier this
month to impose sanctions on Iran’s central bank in addition to
the planned oil ban.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  