-- French Yields Drop at First Bill Sale Since S&P Downgrade of Nation’s Debt
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-01-16T16:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/french-yields-drop-at-first-bill-sale-since-s-p-downgrade-of-nation-s-debt.html
French borrowing costs fell at the
country’s first bill sale after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the
nation of its top  credit rating  as investors shrugged off the
downgrade.  France sold 1.895 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of one-year
notes at a yield of 0.406 percent, down from 0.454 percent on
Jan. 9. The Treasury sold a total of 8.59 billion euros in
bills, including three and six-month paper. Yields fell on both.  More than two years into  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis,
and a month after S&P warned of a possible downgrade, investors
had priced in the Jan. 13 rating cut to AA+ from AAA. France is
also benefiting from its status as Europe’s second-largest
economy with a liquid 1.3 trillion-euro debt market, as well as
reforms being pushed by President  Nicolas Sarkozy , said analysts
including  Peter Schaffrik , head of European interest-rate
strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in London.  “I’m not too bearish about France,” said Schaffrik.
“Unless you are an investor with very strict rating guidelines,
I don’t see the need to sell French bonds. There are still a lot
of problems in the euro region, but we have seen some positive
moves in the right direction from policy makers.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co  research shows that 10-year yields for
the nine sovereigns that lost their AAA status between 1998 and
last year’s U.S. downgrade rose an average of two basis points
the next week.  French bonds handed investors a 0.1 percent return so far
this year, matching that from  U.S. Treasuries , according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  U.S. Case  Investors ignored S&P last August when it cut the U.S. to
AA+, pushing the yield on the benchmark U.S. government bond to
a record low of 1.6714 percent seven weeks later.  French 10-year yields fell three basis points to 3.03
percent at 4:29 p.m. London time. They climbed to a more than
two-year high of 3.82 percent on Nov. 17 from 2.43 percent in
August 2010, the least since Bloomberg began collecting the data
in 1990.  France, unlike the U.S. or the U.K., cannot print its own
currency to support the government in times of financial stress
because it’s one of 17 nations that shares the euro as a
currency. Ten-year bonds yields in both the U.S. and the U.K.
are more than 1 percentage point below French levels at 1.86
percent and 1.97 percent respectively.  “The U.K. has  currency risk  and inflation risk, but not
credit risk,” said  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income
research at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.  Debt Crisis  S&P said European governments’ failure to end the sovereign
debt crisis that began in Greece in October 2009 was among the
key reasons for its downgrade. Greek officials broke off talks
with creditors on reducing the nation’s debt burden Jan. 14 and
Pimco Chief Investment Officer  Bill Gross  said today that the
country is on track for default.  The French downgrade “reflects our opinion of the impact
of deepening political, financial, and monetary problems within
the euro zone, with which France is closely integrated,” S&P
said Jan. 14.  Still, investors had been anticipating the cut in  France ’s
rating since the New York-based rating company said it was
considering it on Dec. 5. The focus is now shifting to what
Moody’s Investors Service and  Fitch Ratings  may do.  “You can strongly argue that the rating cut had been well-
anticipated,” said Jamie Searle, an interest-rate strategist at
Citigroup. “I would say that if we see a second rating agency
following the S&P, then that could perhaps have a stronger
impact on France.”  Moody’s  Moody’s said today that French government has “less room
for maneuver” on its budget, adding that it’s still assessing
its stable outlook on the country’s top rated debt.  Fitch Ratings analysts said last week that France is the
most vulnerable of the top-rated euro area countries, though its
deficit is lower than that of Britain and the U.S. meaning Fitch
is unlikely to cut its rating this year.  “We’re unlikely to downgrade France in 2012 unless there
is a serious intensification of the euro zone crisis,”  David Riley , head of the sovereign-debt unit at Fitch Ratings, said
Jan. 10 in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  