-- RTS Futures Rise on Oil as French Debt Defies Downgrade: Russia Overnight
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-01-17T04:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/futures-rise-on-oil-as-french-debt-defies-s-p-russia-overnight.html
Russian  stock futures  climbed as
oil, the nation’s biggest export earner, advanced and French
borrowing costs dropped in the first bond sale since  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the nation.  Futures expiring in March on Moscow’s dollar-denominated
 RTS (RTSI$)  index gained 0.3 percent to 145,250 in U.S. trading hours
yesterday. The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected
swings in the contracts, dropped 1.8 percent to 39.98.  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export oil blend, jumped 0.5
percent to $110.24 as Mohammad-Ali Khatibi, Iran’s governor to
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, said that a
disruption to supplies through the Strait of Hormuz would cause
a shock to world markets. Yields on French government one-year
bonds dropped five basis points at a sale of the debt yesterday
after the country was stripped of its top AAA credit rating by
S&P on Jan. 13 because of the European debt crisis.  “Global markets seem to have digested Friday’s news about
the wave of sovereign downgrades in the EU relatively well,”
 Benoit Anne , head of global emerging markets strategy in  London 
at Societe Generale SA, France’s second-largest lender, said by
e-mail yesterday. “The markets backdrop seems to be turning
gradually more supportive of risky assets.”  S&P also downgraded the rankings of Cyprus, Italy, Portugal
and Spain by two steps and cut Austria, Malta, Slovakia and
Slovenia by one.  Crude on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  rebounded from a
four-week low, adding 1 percent to $99.69 before closing at 1:15
p.m. local time because of the  Martin Luther King Jr . holiday.
U.S. stock markets were closed.  Postponed Embargo  Iran’s Vice-President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said last month
that the country may close the  Strait of Hormuz  in response to a
possible embargo from western nations opposed to its nuclear
program. A European Union halt to imports of Iranian oil may be
postponed for six months to allow some nations to find new
supplies, two EU officials said last week.  Russia’s ruble-denominated, 30-stock  Micex index  was little
changed yesterday at 1,464.42, while the  RTS (RTSI$)  gained 0.6 percent
to 1,455.32. The futures trading session in New York hours
started 10 minutes later than usual because front month option
contracts were expiring, according to an e-mailed statement from
the newly merged Micex-RTS Exchange.  Alexei Miller , chief executive officer of OAO Gazprom, the
world’s biggest producer of natural gas, will meet with
neighboring Ukraine’s top energy official,  Yuriy Boyko , in
Moscow today to discuss gas pricing. The former Soviet republic
is proposing reducing gas imports by almost 50 percent, Gazprom
said in a Jan. 12 statement.  OAO Transcontainer, a unit of OAO Russian Railways, will
announce nine-month earnings results today, while Russia’s
biggest steelmaker,  Evraz Plc (EVR) , will report fourth-quarter and
full-year 2011 production results.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
rose 3.4 percent to HK$5.20 in Hong Kong trading as of the noon
trading break. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.3 percent
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma O’Brien in New York on 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien in New York on 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  