-- German Stocks Advance as France Sells Debt; BMW, Daimler, Kontron Increase
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-16T17:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/german-stocks-advance-before-french-debt-sale-bmw-daimler-rise.html
German stocks  advanced, led by
luxury-car makers, as borrowing costs fell at France’s first
debt sale after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the country and
eight other euro-area nations.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  led European
carmakers higher after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended the
industry.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  retreated after competitor Holcim
Ltd. said it will book a 775 million-Swiss franc ($813 million)
charge to writedown investments.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 1.3 percent to 6,220.01 at the
close in Frankfurt. The gauge gained 1.4 percent last week after
the  Federal Reserve  confirmed the  U.S. economy  continues to grow
and euro-area nations sold debt at lower borrowing costs. The
broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  climbed 1.2 percent today.  “The much feared backlash after Friday’s headlines so far
failed to appear,” said Gregor Kuhn, a trader at IG Markets in
Dusseldorf. “The downgrading of nine euro-countries’
creditworthiness seems to already be reflected” in the bund-
futures price. “The successful auction of French government
bonds this afternoon supports this theory,” he said.  France  sold 1.9 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of 51-week
notes at a yield of 0.406 percent, down from 0.454 percent on
Jan. 9. The Treasury also sold 4.5 billion euros of three-month
notes and 2.2 billion euros of six-month bills. Yields fell on
both.  Euro-Area Downgrades  The rating company downgraded France to AA+ from AAA, with
a negative outlook, after the close of European trading on Jan.
13. It cut Cyprus, Italy, Portugal and Spain by two grades,
while also lowering the long-term ratings on Austria, Malta,
Slovakia and Slovenia.  Germany, Belgium, Estonia, Finland, Ireland, Luxembourg and
the Netherlands had their ratings affirmed by S&P.  European leaders will try this week to rescue efforts to
deliver new fiscal rules and cut  Greece ’s debt burden as they
urge investors to ignore the S&P downgrades.  Greek officials will reconvene with creditors on Jan. 18
after discussions stalled last week over the size of investor
losses in a proposed debt swap, raising the threat of default.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy will also meet, as the  European Central Bank  warns
governments against “watering down” a revamp of budget laws.  Carmakers Lead Gains  BMW and Daimler added 2.6 percent to 59.96 euros and 3.6
percent to 39.35 euros, respectively.  Daimler (DAI)  was added to
Goldman’s “conviction buy” list.  The group of carmakers was the  best performer  in the Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index today, gaining 3.1 percent, after Goldman Sachs
reiterated its “attractive” view on the industry.  “The sector is now discounting a substantial decline in
returns in 2012,” Goldman analyst Stefan Burgstaller wrote in a
report to clients dated today. The European Union car industry
“is in better financial and operational shape than in 2007, and
we believe it is well placed to benefit from global economic
realignment.”  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, rose 2.5
percent to 19.60 euros, the highest price in three months. The
company is close to selling its stainless steel arm, Reuters
reported, citing an investment banking source with direct
knowledge of process.  HeidelbergCement,  Europe’s third-largest cement maker ,
slumped 3.4 percent to 33.96 euros. Holcim, the world’s second-
biggest cement maker will write off 415 million francs related
to debt and accrued interest owed by a former unit in  South
Africa . The company will also book 360 million francs in
writedowns tied to plants in Spain, eastern Europe and the U.S.  Kontron AG (KBC)  jumped 7.4 percent to 5.72 euros, its highest
price since Sep. 29. The company said full-year revenue rose
about 14 percent to more than 580 million euros. Kontron
forecasts a “stable sales trend” for 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  