-- Allure of German Bunds Intensifies after France, Austria Lose AAA Ratings
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-01-16T15:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/german-bund-allure-grows-on-s-p-ratings-cuts.html
German  bonds  are more attractive
than ever as a haven from Europe’s debt crisis after  Standard &
Poor’s  stripped France and Austria of their AAA ratings and said
regional leaders aren’t doing enough to end the turmoil.  Two-year German  yields  that have tumbled to as low as 0.134
percent from last year’s high of 1.95 percent will keep drawing
investors seeking safety, according to Credit Agricole Corporate
& Investment Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. S&P’s
warning that financing costs for some nations may remain
elevated could sap investor appetite as  Spain  prepares to sell
as much as 5 billion euros ($6.3 billion) of bills tomorrow and
4.5 billion euros of bonds on Jan. 19. French borrowing costs
fell at a debt sale today.  “ Germany ’s stable outlook means that it remains one of the
strongest issuers available to investors,” said Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-rate strategist at UBS AG in London. “Low
German yields are here to stay. This week’s Spanish auction will
probably be less supported.”  S&P announced after financial markets shut on Jan. 13 that
it cut the credit ratings of France and Austria by one level to
AA+ and warned they may face further reductions.  Italy ,
 Portugal , and Spain were lowered by two steps as a total of nine
nations were downgraded. While the Netherlands,  Finland  and
Luxembourg kept their top ratings, they were given a
“negative” outlook.  Global Slowdown  The lower ratings add to the challenges facing European
leaders as they struggle to tame a sovereign debt crisis now in
its third year. Turmoil in the region’s debt markets and
swelling budget deficits are damping business and consumer
confidence around the world and threatening to stifle the global
economic recovery.  Germany’s  10-year yield  dropped by the most in four weeks
on Jan. 13 amid speculation S&P was poised to downgrade the debt
of several European nations, including  France . The 10-year
German yield fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 1.77 percent, approaching the record low 1.636 percent set on
Sept. 23. It was little changed at 1.77 percent at 3:31 p.m.
London time.  The two-year German note yield was at 0.15 percent, after
sliding to an all-time low 0.134 percent on Jan. 12. Bund
futures were little changed, with the front contract at 139.89,
after rising to a euro-era high 140.23 on Jan. 13.  Wider Spreads  “S&P’s action has reinforced the market’s view that the
only haven in the euro-region bond market is Germany,”  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate
& Investment Bank in  London , said in an interview on Jan. 14.
“There’s still a lot of uncertainty in the euro zone. Bund
yields will stay at these low levels.”  French 10-year  yields  fell five basis points to 3.03
percent, after borrowing costs at a sale of treasury bills fell.
The nation sold 1.895 billion euros of 51-week notes at a yield
of 0.406 percent, down from 0.454 percent on Jan. 9. It also
sold 4.503 billion euros of three-month notes and 2.192 billion
euros six month bills, at lower yields.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold French securities
instead of German bunds was at 126 basis points, compared with
an average of 69 basis points over the past year.  The additional yield on  Austria ’s  10-year bonds  over
similar-maturity bunds narrowed six basis points to 124 basis
points, and the Italian-German spread was tightened four basis
points to 483 basis points, versus a 12-month average of 284
basis points.  Italian Bond Rally  S&P acted at the end of week in which Italian and Spanish
bond rallied amid optimism the worst of the crisis was over and
after the  European Central Bank  said it had quelled a credit
crunch in the region’s banks.  European  government securities  had their best month on
record in December after Italy and Spain appointed new prime
ministers and investors bet the ECB would step up buying the
region’s debt to cap yields. The central bank agreed to provide
banks with 489 billion euros of three-year loans on Dec. 21 in
an unprecedented move to ease the crisis.  “This is a reality check after the recent improvement in
sentiment,”  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist in
Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for banks and
investors, said in a telephone interview on Jan. 14. “It is
certainly going to make things more difficult for the Spanish
auction this week, and investors might be a bit more cautious
before the other supply.”  Spanish Auction  Even after rising four basis points on Jan. 13, Italy’s
two-year yields still dropped 80 basis points last week to 4.30
percent, the lowest weekly close since October. Spain  two-year
rates  declined 53 basis points during the week to 3.06 percent.  Spain plans to auction bills on Jan. 17, and debt maturing
in 2016, 2019 and 2022 on Jan. 19.  Germany is scheduled to auction 4 billion euros of two-year
notes on Jan. 18. The nation sold six-month bills at a negative
yield for the first time on Jan. 9 as investors sought safety
from the debt crisis.  Demand for longer-maturity German debt has been less robust
amid concern the securities are becoming overvalued. Investors
bid for just 64.8 percent of the 6 billion-euro maximum target
at a 10-year sale on Nov. 23.  Bund Returns  German bonds maturing in more than a year have returned 11
percent in the past 12 months, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. While trailing the 19 percent return from U.K. gilts,
they beat the 5 percent gain from French debt and 4.9 percent
loss from Italian bonds.  S&P’s downgrades may be followed by others, said  Laurent Fransolet , head of fixed-income strategy at  Barclays Capital  in
London, in a note to investors on Jan. 14.  Fitch Ratings  on Dec.
16 lowered its outlook on France and put all the euro-region’s
non-AAA rated countries on review for possible downgrade.  Demand for bunds may also be supported as  Europe ’s economic
outlook deteriorates. The euro area’s gross domestic product
will shrink 0.2 percent this year, while the  U.S. economy  will
expand 2.3 percent and the U.K. will grow 0.6 percent, according
to Bloomberg News surveys.  “Germany comes out as a clear winner” from the S&P
announcement, RBS strategists including Harvinder Sian in London
wrote in an investor note on Jan. 13. “We continue to expect
the crisis to deepen eventually leading to further widening in
spreads across countries vis-a-vis Germany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  