-- Giants Stun Packers in Green Bay to Reach NFC Title Game in San Francisco
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/giants-beat-packers-37-20-to-reach-nfc-title-game-ravens-defeat-texans.html
Eli Manning and the  New York  Giants
left Green Bay’s Lambeau Field with another playoff upset, a
37-20 win that sends them to  San Francisco  to play for the
conference title and a spot in the  Super Bowl .  Manning threw three touchdown passes, including two to
Hakeem Nicks, and the Giants’ defense forced four turnovers to
end the Packers’ 13-game winning streak in Green Bay,  Wisconsin .  New York entered yesterday’s game as 7 1/2-point underdogs
against the defending Super Bowl champions, who this season
became the sixth team in National Football League history to go
15-1 or better. While the Packers became the first of those
teams to lose their playoff opener, the Giants advance to face
the 49ers for the National Football Conference championship.  “Our team is playing well,” Manning said after tying an
NFL record with his fourth career road playoff win. “Guys
understand the way to win football games against good teams.”  The Giants won their previous playoff trip to  Green Bay 
following the 2007 season, when as 7 1/2-point underdogs they
beat the Packers in the NFC championship game before upsetting
the undefeated  New England Patriots  in the Super Bowl.  “We were excited to come here and play. We knew what we
were up against and I thought we did an outstanding job,”
Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said at his postgame news conference.
“It was a back and forth game for a while, we were able to push
some late scores in and we had some turnovers.”  The Patriots will host Baltimore in the American Football
Conference title game after the Ravens beat the Houston Texans
20-13 yesterday.  Joe Flacco  threw two touchdown passes for
Baltimore and the Ravens’ defense forced four turnovers,
including two in the final eight minutes.  Both conference championship games will be played Jan. 22,
with the Super Bowl scheduled for Feb. 5 in Indianapolis.  First Road Win  The Giants’ victory at  Lambeau Field  ended a run of seven
straight playoff wins by home teams this postseason. It also
helped New York avenge a 38-35 loss to the Packers on Dec. 4 in
East Rutherford,  New Jersey .  For Green Bay, the defeat came six days after the 21-year-
old son of offensive coordinator Joe Philbin was found dead in
an icy Wisconsin river. The Packers, who had a bye in the first
round of the playoffs, had eight dropped passes and three
fumbles after totaling six in the regular season.  Quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  was sacked four times and also
threw an interception for Green Bay, which had been averaging an
NFL-best 35 points a game.  “We didn’t play to our identity,” Packers coach  Mike McCarthy  said. “No excuses. We practiced well. There was
nothing in the preparation that led me to believe this was going
to occur.”  Manning to Nicks  The Giants never trailed yesterday and opened a 20-10
halftime lead as Manning connected with Nicks for touchdowns of
66 and 37 yards. The second came on the final play of the first
half, when Manning lobbed a pass into the end zone and Nicks
out-jumped Packers defenders for a touchdown.  Green Bay’s defense this season allowed the most yards
passing in NFL history.  The Giants pushed their lead to 30-13 in the fourth quarter
when Manning hooked up with  Mario Manningham  for a 4-yard
touchdown one play after recovering a Green Bay fumble.  While the Packers scored a touchdown with 4:46 remaining on
a 16-yard pass from Rodgers to Donald Driver, their defense
wasn’t able to get a stop. Manning led the Giants on a final
scoring drive capped by a 14-yard  Brandon Jacobs  touchdown run
with 2:44 left.  Peaking for Playoffs  “We’re peaking right when we need to,” said Nicks, who
finished with seven catches for 165 yards. “Everyone is healthy
and we’re stronger than we have been all season. We’ve got a
bunch of guys who believe.”  Up next for the Giants are the 49ers, who are back in the
NFC championship game for the first time since 1998. The 49ers
beat the New Orleans Saints 36-32 two days ago in San Francisco
on Alex Smith’s 14-yard touchdown pass to Vernon Davis with nine
seconds left.  San Francisco, which beat the Giants 27-20 on Nov. 13, is
favored by three points, according to oddsmakers.  The Ravens opened a 17-3 first-quarter lead over the Texans
yesterday at  M&T Bank (MTB)  Stadium en route to their first home
playoff win in 11 years. Flacco threw touchdown passes to Kris Wilson and Anquan Boldin, while the Ravens intercepted Houston
rookie quarterback T.J. Yates three times.  The Patriots are seven-point favorites at home against the
Ravens after routing the Denver Broncos 45-10 on Jan. 14 behind
 Tom Brady ’s playoff record-tying six touchdown passes.  “It’s a big test next week. Tom is playing excellent,”
Ravens linebacker  Ray Lewis  said. “What they did to the
Broncos, I think they sent a message to whoever was coming up
there. So we’ve got our hands full.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  