-- Google, Facebook Seek Halt to Prosecution as India Objects to Some Content
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2012-01-16T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/google-facebook-seek-halt-to-case-as-india-objects-to-content.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc.,
fighting a lawsuit in India against content deemed offensive by
the government, asked a court to quash the case that underscores
a clash over free speech in the world’s biggest democracy.  The two companies argued in the Delhi  High Court  yesterday
that it’s impossible to pre-screen and monitor all blogs and
social-networking sites, said Sidharth Luthra, an advocate
representing Facebook. The court is hearing a challenge filed by
the companies after a lower court last week ordered top
executives to be present at a trial on March 13.  India is stepping up scrutiny of Internet postings and
mobile communications, even as it held at least six meetings
with companies in 2011 to weed out provocative comments and help
prevent discord between religious groups. The Hindu-majority
South Asian country is home to more than 138 million Muslims,
comprising about 13 percent of the world’s most-populous country
after  China .  “The case is probably the first chapter in a long-running
battle between service providers and the government,” said
Pavan Duggal, a Supreme Court lawyer who specializes in Internet
law. “We are likely to see more prosecutions and challenges
until the law is clearly settled.”  Vinay Rai, who edits an Urdu-language newspaper, asked the
lower court to prosecute 21 companies, saying some material on
their websites has the potential to incite religious conflict.
The Delhi High Court will next hear the challenge on Jan. 19.  Stricter Rules  India’s  Information Technology Act  of 2008 gives
Communications and  Information Technology  Minister Kapil Sibal
the authority to order portals to block sites and requires
companies to designate a point of contact for receiving those
government requests.  Sibal told reporters on Dec. 6, waving examples of content
that he said was unacceptable, that the government will come up
with stricter rules. He denied any intention to censor free
speech.  A sectarian divide has fueled decades of violent riots in
 Asia ’s third-largest economy. Muslims in India are the largest
religious minority that also includes Christians and Buddhists
among others. The 2008 Mumbai terror attacks left 166 people
dead, while bombs ripped India’s financial center and capital
New Delhi in 2011.  Points of View  On Dec. 7, Google, the owner of the world’s most popular
search engine, said it will “continue to remove” content in
India that is illegal or breaks the company’s terms of service.
Services such as YouTube and the social-networking site Google+
“help users to express themselves and share different points of
view,” it said in a statement. A day later, the  Mountain View ,
California-based company said it received a tax demand from
Indian authorities.  Google India filed a petition before the court and can’t
comment further, spokeswoman Paroma Chowdhury said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. Kumiko Hidaka, a spokeswoman for
 Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook , didn’t respond to an e-
mail.  Google India isn’t responsible for offensive items posted
by third parties, said Neeraj Kishan Kaul, a lawyer for Google
in court yesterday.  Disputes between the government and websites flared in
April when the department of information technology changed
rules that allowed government officials and citizens to demand
that sites remove offensive content. Failure to comply with the
orders within 36 hours can result in fines and imprisonment for
as long as seven years.  Internet Users  In the preliminary hearing last week the lower court warned
that India may follow China’s example of blocking websites if
they fail to comply with the government’s requests, according to
comments published in the  Indian Express .  The lawsuit illustrates the challenges facing websites as
they seek to expand in  India  where the number of  Internet users 
is expected to triple to 237 million by 2015, Boston Consulting
Group estimates.  India had about 89 million people using the Web at the end
of last year, compared with more than 450 million in  China (NTNTPCHN) , the
world’s largest Internet market, according to the  International
Telecommunication Union in  Geneva.  Facebook’s number of active accounts in India jumped 33
percent to 41.4 million in the last six months, according to
 socialbakers.com , which tracks user data. That’s the third-
highest in the world behind 157 million in the U.S. and 41.8
million in  Indonesia .  The company opened an office in the southern city of
Hyderabad last year.  Facebook is blocked in China, which also bans pornography,
gambling and content critical of the ruling Communist Party.  South Korea  is also stepping up scrutiny of online media.
The Korea Communications Standards Commission set up a team to
monitor and censor social-networking sites, mobile applications
and online ads, according to a Dec. 1 statement from the
regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  