-- Pimco’s Gross Says Greece to Default Following Downgrades
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-16T03:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/gross-greece-to-default-following-downgrades.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
Greece is heading for default.  The downgrade of European ratings by  Standard & Poor’s  last
week shows countries can fail to meet their debt obligations,
Gross said in a Twitter posting. Greece will prove to be the
latest example, Gross wrote.  Greek officials will meet with lenders on Jan. 18 after
discussions stalled last week over the size of investor losses
in a proposed debt swap, raising the threat of default. European
officials and creditors plan a 50 percent cut in the face value
of Greek debt by voluntarily exchanging outstanding bonds for
new securities, though the two sides haven’t been able to agree
on the coupon and maturity of the new debt.  France and  Austria  lost their top rankings in a series of
downgrades Jan. 13 that left Germany with the euro area’s only
stable AAA grade, as S&P warned that efforts to address  Europe ’s
financial problems are falling short. The region’s leaders are
struggling to tame a crisis now in its third year and convince
investors they can restore budget order.  S&P cut Greece’s grade to CC in July, meaning the nation’s
debt is “highly vulnerable” to nonpayment, based on the
company’s rating  definitions .  Pimco’s $244 billion Total Return Fund, run by Gross,
increased its holdings of U.S. government debt to 30 percent of
assets in December, the most in 13 months, according to the
company’s  website .  “The bulk of sovereign-bond holdings should be in the
U.S.,” Gross wrote Jan. 4 on the  Newport Beach ,  California ,
company’s  website . Investors should favor Treasuries, he said,
“as long as European credit implosion is possible.”  The Total Return Fund gained 4.2 percent in 2011,
underperforming 69 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at   greynolds1@bloomberg.net  