-- IMF to Push for Bigger Lending Capacity to Fight Europe Crisis
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-01-16T08:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/imf-to-push-for-bigger-lending-capacity-to-fight-europe-crisis.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
it aims to expand lending capacity to counter the impact of
Europe’s escalating sovereign-debt crisis, which has caused the
global economic outlook to deteriorate “noticeably.”  “In the coming weeks, we will be making the case for a step
up in the Fund’s lending capacity,” IMF First Deputy Managing
Director David Lipton told a forum in Hong Kong today. “The goal
is to be able to augment the resources Europe will be putting
into tackling its problems, but also to be able to meet the
needs of innocent bystanders around the world.”  The Washington-based fund will cut its global growth
estimate for 2012 next week, with Europe’s crisis threatening to
further hurt world economic expansion, Lipton said. European
leaders are trying to rescue efforts to deliver new fiscal rules
and cut  Greece ’s debt burden as they seek to reassure investors
after  Standard & Poor’s  decision to cut the ratings of nine
euro-region nations, including  France , on Jan. 13.  “The European outlook is grim and the risks for Europe and
the world are high,” Lipton said today. “Concerns about fiscal
sustainability and banking sector losses have widened sovereign
spreads to unprecedented levels for many euro area countries.
Bank funding has all but dried up in the euro area, leading
banks to delever by selling assets and restrict lending. Now
deleveraging threatens to push growth below even the reduced
forecast we will publish next week.”  Asia At Risk  The IMF is scheduled to release revised global projections
on Jan. 24.  Olivier Blanchard , the Washington-based fund’s chief
economist, said in a Bloomberg Television interview earlier this
month that with European growth “very close to zero at this
point,” there would be a “substantial” cut to the most recent
2012 global expansion estimate of 4 percent.  “Global economic activity has generally worsened in the
last quarter of 2011, and the near-term outlook has deteriorated
noticeably” since the IMF’s September projections, Lipton said.  While Asia’s economy is currently “strong,” Europe poses
risks to the region’s prosperity, Lipton said.  China  will grow
at a “reasonable rate” and expansion in that country will
probably slow at a “smooth” pace, giving the nation a “soft
landing,” he said.  “Should downside risks materialize in force, policy makers
in  Asia  would need to respond swiftly, as they did in 2008-09,”
he said. “The response would have to include reversing fiscal
consolidation, for those with sufficient space to do so, and
aggressively easing monetary policy. This might require cutting
policy rates but also adopting a range of non-traditional
measures, including the introduction of targeted credit easing
measures, for example, on commercial paper, corporate bonds, and
SME credit.”  Using Reserves  Introducing guarantees for bank liabilities and supporting
trade financing could also be considered, he said. To do so,
Asian economies could use their “ample” foreign-exchange
reserves, and, where necessary, regional reserve pooling
arrangements, Lipton said.  While the  U.S. economy  will expand this year, its growth
may not be strong enough to cut the jobless rate, he said.  In  Europe ,  Italy  is making “serious, important efforts” to
convince markets its fiscal situation is sustainable, Lipton
also said. There is a “good chance” of resolving Europe’s
problem with “political will,” he said, adding that more fiscal
consolidation, growth and financial integration will be needed.  Europe could face a “downward spiral of collapsing
confidence, stagnant growth and fewer jobs” without “bold
action,” he said. The region’s countries need to provide “large
funding” to the IMF to help Europe, Lipton said.  “If we are going to play a larger role in helping Europe,
it would have to be done after stepping up of the fund’s
resources,” Lipton said. “Europe will obviously need to provide
a large amount of funding to help European countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  