-- In Rural India, Crooks With Crocs Get the Votes: Pankaj Mishra
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-01-16T00:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/in-rural-india-crooks-with-crocs-get-votes-commentary-by-pankaj-mishra.html
In college during the late 1980s, in
the north Indian city of Allahabad, I heard many stories about
local toughs and criminals who were keen to get into politics.
They came from Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) and Bihar, two of  India ’s
poorest provinces that together contain nearly as many people as
the U.S.  Students spoke with something like awe of Hari Shankar
Tiwari, one of the first Indian legislators to win his election
while languishing in prison for serious criminal charges.
Another local legend was Raja Bhaiya, the son of a feudal lord
who was rumored to feed his enemies to crocodiles he bred in a
lake on his estate.  This reverence for homicidal brutes had good reason. In
this predominantly rural region, men like Tiwari had realized
the only real opportunities for self-advancement; it mattered
little that their wealth and power derived from smuggling, drug-
trafficking, kidnapping, assassination, prostitution and
extortion.  In the absence of honest policing and an efficient legal
system, the mafia dons provided rough instant justice. They also
showered some Robin Hood-ish largesse on the underprivileged,
and gave irregular jobs to the region’s many educated
unemployables.  Many of their strongmen, nominally registered at the
university I attended, lived in student dorms. Harmless for the
most part, they were nevertheless menacing with their seemingly
easy access to “katta” or “tamancha,” country pistols and bombs.
Activated by their patrons around election time, they indulged
in that pastime known as “booth-capturing,” whereby groups of
armed young men took over election sites, scared away voters and
stuffed ballot boxes at leisure.  Shock of Decay  In 1999, I returned to Allahabad after a long absence to
 report  on a parliamentary election. Accustomed to decay in those
parts, I was still shocked to find how rapidly the city -- once
the center of intellectual and political life in north India and
the ancestral town of the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty -- had been
undermined.  The students at the university looked as unemployable as
ever. Meanwhile, the mafia dons had grown richer with New
India’s  money . They were moving into respectable professions,
building shopping malls and apartment buildings on dubiously
acquired land (and ruthlessly trampling over anyone who came in
their way). The old middle class of lawyers, doctors and
teachers was in retreat, moving away to places like Delhi, and
even farther west to Europe and the U.S.  I spent some time with one of the rising mafia dons, Atique
Ahmed, who in 2005 would be accused of murdering his victorious
opponent in a parliamentary election. Ahmed was then in baby-
kissing mode, and revealed nothing more fierce than his
Dobermans. Late one night I nearly spoke harsh words to the
noisy men in the hotel room adjacent to mine. One of them turned
out to be Bhaiya.  Having narrowly escaped the belly of a crocodile, I have,
over the last decade, obsessively followed the rise and fall
(and rise) of gangsters in the region: Bhaiya’s lake, by the
way, was seized by a hostile local government, and he was thrown
into prison, but he is due for a comeback in the next elections.
Long-suffering friends have kept me supplied with stories of
what it is like to live in towns and cities where regular
payments to the local mafia are the norm.  Wild East Image  Needless to say, this parallel universe of India’s Wild
East is, as Mrinal Pande, a distinguished Indian journalist,
points out in her new book, “The Other Country: Dispatches from
the Mofussil” (Penguin India, 2011), “completely at odds with
the newly branded image of India as a fast-growing modern
economy with a large, upwardly mobile, English-speaking middle
class.”  For many Indian as well as foreign journalists, the
devastated moral landscape of these provinces has remained terra
incognita. And, as Pande points out, the “free” local press is
hardly a reliable guide to them. On the eve of India’s
Independence Day in August 2010, a bestselling Hindi newspaper
carried full-page greetings to the “people” from one of U.P.’s
most notorious fugitives, a man accused of killing two elected
legislators and at least one senior policeman.  Pande first knew places like Allahabad two decades before I
did, in a more civil age; her anguish and despair over their
despoliation is greater than mine. “Atrauli in  Uttar Pradesh ,”
she writes, “was once much adored by classical Hindustani music
lovers.” It is now famous for its “schools that do little or no
teaching but offer special facilities for cheating during the UP
Board exams,” for junior and senior high school.  In another piece titled “ No Future in Eastern UP ,” Pande
meets old friends in Allahabad who reveal that criminals become
their elected representatives because they “can get anyone
killed anywhere in India for a fee or kidnapped by their gangs.”
It barely matters whether they are low or high caste, left- or
right-leaning: “They go to any political party with bags of
money and buy party tickets.”  This is indeed what they have been doing for the elections
due in Uttar Pradesh next month. This week I spoke to Rajeev, an
old friend from my years in Allahabad, who had just returned to
Delhi from a trip to his eastern U.P. hometown of Varanasi.
Long election convoys of unregistered and expensive cars, he
reported, were already clogging the city’s streets: a show of
strength for the dons lodged in prisons across the country,
facing multiple charges of murder but determined to secure seats
in the state legislature. He relayed the latest stories about
Mukhtar Ansari and Brajesh Singh, two of the region’s most
influential gangsters.  Goods Without Jobs  The concentration of “black money” in a few hands, he said,
had created exorbitant apartment buildings and many malls
selling brand names. But the conspicuous consumption was
accompanied by near-zero growth in employment, creating a vast
reservoir of educated, ambitious and frustrated youth.
Rajeev felt safer in the relative anonymity of Delhi and hopeful
for the prospects of his children. It was only after I put the
phone down that I wondered if Rajeev was being too optimistic
about Delhi.  “On the face of it,” Pande writes, “provincial India with
its non-existent roads, frequent power blackouts and perennial
water shortages seems to be turning into a microcosm of
metropolitan India with its millionaires and consumers.”
But in many significant ways metropolitan India is beginning to
resemble the provinces. In recent years, the parts of Uttar
Pradesh and Haryana that are now an extension of Delhi have
witnessed a spate of gang shootouts and unsolved deaths,
together with a steep rise in property prices and hectic mall
construction.  Booth-capturing is still rare in the Indian capital. But
mafia-style capitalism and democracy no longer seem peculiar to
the badlands of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Exporting its malaises,
the “other” India may be finally breaking into the metropolitan
fantasies from which it has been excluded for so long.  (Pankaj Mishra, the author of “Temptations of the West: How
to be Modern in India,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and Beyond,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist based in  London  and Mashobra, India.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 