-- Inflation Slows to Two-Year Low, Reducing Pressure on India Interest Rates
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-01-16T12:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/india-inflation-slows-to-two-year-low-reducing-pressure-on-interest-rates.html
India (INGDPY) ’s inflation slowed to the
lowest level in two years, giving the central bank scope to keep
 interest rates  on hold for a second straight meeting next week.  The benchmark wholesale-price  index  rose 7.47 percent in
December from a year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a
statement in New Delhi today, compared with a 9.11 percent gain
in November. The median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 7.40 percent gain.  Easing prices may strengthen the ruling Congress party’s
bid in state elections starting this month after corruption
allegations undermined Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition
in the past year. Inflation in India is still the fastest among
BRIC nations including  Brazil , Russia and  China , crimping the
Reserve Bank of India’s room to lower borrowing costs and shield
the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “This is positive news for the government before
elections,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, a Mumbai-based economist at
the state-owned Bank of Baroda. “Inflation will need to drop
more before the RBI can cut rates.”  Nitsure expects the central bank to leave the repurchase
rate at 8.5 percent in the Jan. 24 policy decision and start
reducing it from the end of March.  India’s 10-year bonds declined on speculation the
government will exceed its fiscal deficit target, spurring more
borrowings from the market. The yield on the 8.79 percent note
due November 2021 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 8.22 percent at the close in Mumbai.  Stocks, Rupee  The BSE India Sensitive Index, which lost a quarter of its
value last year, gained 0.2 percent. India’s rupee,  Asia ’s
worst-performing currency in 2011, advanced 0.3 percent to 51.39
against the  U.S. dollar .  “The recent headline inflation figures indicate some
improvement in the overall macro-economic parameters in the
second half of 2011-12,” Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said
in a statement in  New Delhi  today.  India’s export growth accelerated in December, climbing 6.7
percent to $25 billion, Rahul Khullar, secretary in the commerce
ministry, told reporters in New Delhi today. Overseas sales rose
3.9 percent in November.  India’s trade deficit narrowed to $12.8 billion last month
compared with a shortfall of $13.6 billion in November, Khullar
said.  Food Costs  Mukherjee said the drop in the inflation reading was
“mainly” because of a decline in food prices and added that
the price-gauge would be 6 percent to 7 percent by the end of
March.  Wheat prices fell 4 percent in December from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Prices of onions declined 60
percent, while potato costs dropped 36 percent.  Inflation is a political issue in India because it curbs
purchasing power in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more
than three-quarters of the people live on less than $2 a day.  The  Reserve Bank  raised its  repurchase rate  by 375 basis
points since the start of 2010 to tame price gains, the quickest
round of increases since the central bank was established in
1935, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank should start reversing its rate increases
as inflation is expected to ease significantly in the coming
months, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing Ashima Goyal, a
member of the Reserve Bank’s Technical Advisory Committee, an
advisory panel on monetary policy.  ‘Important Input’  The recommendations of the committee are an “important
input,” central bank spokeswoman Alpana Killawala said in an e-
mailed response to Bloomberg News. She said views from other
“stakeholders” are also taken into account, besides internal
assessment of growth and inflation risks and that the “ultimate
decision is based on a comprehensive consideration of all these
risks by the RBI.”  India’s central bank must monitor manufacturing inflation
before deciding on rates, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of
the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said in an
interview with Bloomberg UTV today.  Manufacturing inflation slowed to 7.41 percent in December
from 7.7 percent in November, today’s report showed.  India’s inflation rate in January would be a little over 7
percent,  Kaushik Basu , chief economic adviser in the  finance
ministry , said on Jan. 12.  BRIC Inflation  By comparison, consumer prices rose 6.5 percent in  Brazil (BZPIIPCY) ,
6.1 percent in  Russia  and 4.1 percent in China last month.  China has scope to loosen fiscal and monetary policy,
making it better placed than India to weather a global economic
slowdown,  Stephen Roach , non-executive chairman of Morgan
Stanley Asia, said Jan. 12.  China is bringing inflation under control and has a small
 budget deficit , Roach said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. In contrast, India has a currency under pressure, an
“inflation problem” and a large fiscal shortfall, he said.  Singh, halfway through his second term, faces five state
elections starting this month, including one in Uttar Pradesh,
home to a sixth of all Indians. The polls will offer an
indication of the government’s support two years before national
elections are due.  Protests over graft allegations in the award of telephone
licenses triggered mass protests last year and a reversal on the
foreign investment policy in the multibrand retail industry
sapped confidence in his administration.  South Korea  and  Indonesia  kept rates unchanged last week as
a drop in their currencies risks heightening inflationary
pressures even as the faltering global economy undermines growth
prospects.  India ’s central bank can afford to keep borrowing costs on
hold for now after data this month showed industrial  production 
in November rose 5.9 percent from a year earlier, rebounding
from the worst month since March 2009.  Industrial output improved as cement production by
companies including  Ambuja Cements Ltd. (GAMB)  increased 16.6 percent
from a year earlier after stalling the previous month, according
to the commerce ministry. Steel production gained 5.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  