-- Investors Ignore Nordic Housing Bubble Risks as Hunt for Havens Picks Up
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-01-17T14:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/investors-ignore-nordic-housing-bubble-risks-as-hunt-for-havens-picks-up.html
Bond and currency investors in
 Europe  have flocked to Scandinavia to escape the euro area’s
debt crisis. They may need to rethink their bets as the risk of
asset bubbles threatens to trigger losses in Norway and Sweden.  The notion that the Nordic region is a haven “is really a
false perception,” said David Deddouche, a foreign-exchange
strategist at  Societe Generale  SA in Paris, in an interview.
“The risk is that at some stage there is a domestic development
which pushes every investor out of the market at the same time
and it is going to squeeze heavily. It’s quite dangerous.”  The risks aren’t reflected in the countries’ bond or
currency markets, which investors are treating as havens from
the euro area thanks to fiscal surpluses in  Sweden  and Norway.
Sweden pays less than Germany to borrow for 10 years and
Norway’s government bond yields slumped to a record-low last
week, approaching parity with the largest euro-area economy.  Yet according to  Robert Shiller , the co-creator of the
S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index, the two Nordic countries are
in the grip of asset bubbles that will damage their economies.
He warns that policy makers should do more to protect their
credit and property markets from imbalances. In  Denmark , where a
real estate bubble burst in 2007,  home prices  may have further
to fall, he said.  Policy makers “should start worrying now because when the
home prices get so high there’s a problem,” Shiller, who is
also an economics professor at  Yale University , said in a Jan.
13 interview in  Stockholm .  Yields Rise  The yield on Norway’s 10-year bond rose six basis points to
1.88 percent as of 2:56 p.m. in Oslo. The difference between
Norway’s 10-year borrowing costs and the yield on similar-
maturity German bunds widened three basis points to eight.
Sweden’s 10-year yield jumped four basis points to 1.64 percent.  Household debt in Norway will surge to 204 percent of
disposable incomes this year, the highest since at least 1988,
the central bank estimates. House prices doubled from 2001 to
2010, and jumped an annual 8.5 percent last month, Norway’s Real
Estate Brokers Association said on Jan. 2.  In Sweden, the  International Monetary Fund  said in June
homes “appear overvalued with enduring price falls likely,”
after values tripled over the past 15 years.  House prices 
dropped 2 percent last quarter from a record, coming off a peak
that had been fueled by tax cuts, historically low central bank
policy rates and as the economy in 2010 rebounded at the fastest
pace in 40 years.  Bernanke, Greenspan  Swedish Housing Minister Stefan Attefall says the boom is
probably driven by supply shortages, after two reports
commissioned by the central bank found that gains can “largely
be explained by what are usually called fundamental factors.”  “That’s what  Ben Bernanke  and  Alan Greenspan  did,” said
Shiller, who predicted the U.S. housing market crash. “If
you’re afraid of being blamed for saying something that alarms
people and makes the markets collapse, then you don’t want to
say anything that could be wrong. You end up going along with
the conventional wisdom.”  U.S. house prices have slumped about 30 percent since a
July 2006 peak after the country’s subprime bubble burst,
according to the S&P Case/Shiller Index, which tracks 20 major
metropolitan areas.  Foreclosure rates  tripled through 2009. The
U.S. unemployment rate swelled as high as 10 percent in late
2009 from an average of 4.6 percent in 2006.  AAA Club  Norway  and Sweden, both rated AAA with stable outlooks, are
among the world’s safest sovereign credits, default swap
contracts show. Norway, which isn’t an EU member, offers the
lowest risk and Sweden the third lowest after the U.S.,
according to bets by credit default swap traders. The club of
AAA rated sovereigns grew smaller last week after  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded nine euro members on Jan. 13, leaving only
four in the 17-nation currency bloc with the top rating. The
U.S. lost its AAA grade at S&P in August.  “There are some arguments connected to safe havens that
are probably in effect these days and that has to do with
government finances,” said Kjersti Haugland, a senior economist
at DNB ASA in Oslo, in an interview. While it’s fair that fiscal
surpluses should bolster the countries’ government bond markets,
any imbalances in the economy can disrupt the currency markets
very suddenly, she said.  ‘Very Illiquid’  “Since the Norwegian krone is such a very illiquid
currency it is not a good investment alternative in times of
high turbulence,” Haugland said. “We have seen before, around
Christmas 2008, we saw it very clearly that the euro/krone
exchange rate shot above 10 so it was very dramatic, if they
wanted to get out they had to accept a very low price for the
Norwegian krone.”  Norway’s krone has gained 2.3 percent against the euro
since a Nov. 28 low. It traded at 7.6819 on Jan. 13. Sweden’s
krona is up 4.7 percent against the euro in the same period, to
trade at 8.8649 at the end of last week. The Swedish currency
weakened to more than 11 versus the euro at the height of the
crisis in March 2009.  Daily trading in the Norwegian krone averaged $50 billion
in April 2010, or 1.3 percent of global turnover, according to a
foreign exchange survey from 2010 by the  Bank for International
Settlements . In Sweden’s krona, the equivalent figure was $83.5
billion, or 2.2 percent of global  currency trading .  Sweden, whose government bond market is 550 billion kronor,
pays  about 17 basis points less  than  Germany  to borrow for 10
years. Norway, where liquidity is much scarcer in the country’s
200 billion-krone government bond market, pays only  six basis
points more  than the largest euro-area economy.  According to Deddouche at Societe Generale, limited
liquidity in Norway and Sweden will amplify the fallout of any
economic decline as investors all try to leave through the same
narrow exit.  “It’s a small market and it makes it a dangerous game,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net  