-- Hedge Funds to Draw $80 Billion in 2012, Most in Five Years, Barclays Says
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-01-16T03:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/investors-to-put-80-billion-in-hedge-funds-barclays-says.html
Investors may add about $80 billion
of new capital to hedge funds globally this year, the most since
2007,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said in a report.  About 56 percent of investors surveyed by Barclays plan to
increase such investments in the coming year, more than seven
times the number that plan to reduce their allocations, the U.K.
bank said in an e-mailed statement dated Jan. 13. Endowments,
foundations, private banks and public pensions will most likely
be the sources of new capital to the industry, it said.  This year “has the potential to be the most significant
year for new capital allocations to hedge funds since 2007,”
Ajay Nagpal, Barclay’s head of  prime services , said in the
statement.  Barclays is projecting an increase in inflows after the
hedge fund industry globally posted the second-worst annual
performance on record in 2011.  Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index (EHFI251) 
declined 4 percent last year, according to preliminary data.  Investors may also reallocate about $300 billion of
existing investments to  hedge funds  within the same strategies
or across strategies, Barclays said.  Short-Term Traders  Global  macro  and systematic and  volatility  funds may be the
biggest recipients of new capital as investors look to allocate
money to short-term traders with lower correlation to stock
markets, it said. Macro funds bet on broad economic trends by
investing in commodities, currencies to stocks and bonds.
Volatility funds seek to profit from market swings.  Investors will most likely reallocate their capital within
equity and credit strategies as they try to redeem out of poor
performers and prefer for more specialized products, it said.  In terms of size of the funds, investors will continue to
increasingly put more money into hedge funds with less than $1
billion of assets this year, Barclays said. Smaller funds
already doubled their share of the net industry inflows to 18
percent last year over 2010, it said.  Smaller Managers  “Smaller managers are frequently seen by investors to be
more agile in adapting their existing strategies to generate
alpha,” said Louis Molinari, head of capital solutions within
Barclays’ prime services division. ‘With the greater
transparency and better fee and liquidity terms that many new
and smaller funds offer, investors continue to gain confidence
with investing in this segment of the hedge fund industry.”  Alpha is the premium an investment portfolio earns above a
certain market benchmark such as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
in the U.S.  The Barclays report was based on interviews and a survey of
investors at a symposium in  New York  with about $4 trillion of
assets under management, including $500 billion in hedge funds,
or a quarter of industry assets, it said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  