-- Iran Threatens U.S., U.K., Israel After Assassination of Nuclear Scientist
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-01-16T15:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/iran-threatens-u-s-u-k-israel-after-assassination-of-nuclear-scientist.html
Iran ’s intelligence minister warned
of a “firm response” to the killing of an Iranian nuclear
scientist and a senior military adviser said “every means”
will be used to defend “national interests” as the country
faces growing pressure to curtail its nuclear program.  “The U.S., the U.K. and  Mossad ,” Israel’s intelligence
agency, “will see the results of their actions and Iran will
deliver a firm response,” Heidar Moslehi said in the capital
Tehran yesterday, according to the state-run  Fars  news agency.  Iran will use “every means” of defense if endangered,
Major General Yahya Rahim Safavi, the Iranian supreme leader’s
senior military adviser, was cited as saying by the state-owned
 Islamic Republic News Agency .  Iranian officials have accused the U.S. and  Israel  of
targeting Iranian nuclear scientists in an effort to halt the
country’s atomic program. Moslehi said the three nations he
named wouldn’t be able to “hide” their role in last week’s
murder of Mostafa Ahmadi Roshan, a deputy director at the Natanz
uranium-enrichment facility in Isfahan province, Fars reported.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has rejected the
accusation. Yigal Palmor, an Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman,
has said he had no comment on the reports.  Arrests  “A number of people” who played a role in the killing
have been arrested and an investigation is under way, Iranian
Arabic language TV channel  Al Alam reported , citing Ali Larijani, speaker of the Iranian parliament.  Tensions have risen over U.S. and European efforts to
tighten economic sanctions on Iran. Western nations say Iran’s
nuclear work may be aimed at producing atomic weapons, an
allegation the Persian Gulf country rejects.  European Union foreign ministers will meet on Jan. 23 to
consider barring oil from Iran, the second-biggest producer in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia . Iran has threatened to close the  Strait of Hormuz , the
world’s largest choke point for  oil tankers , if its crude is
sanctioned. Iran held 10 days of naval maneuvers east of Hormuz
that ended on Jan. 3.  “No country in the world can manage the shock that results
from 15 to 17 million barrels of oil not entering the market,”
Mehr news agency reported today, citing comments by Iranian OPEC
Governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi. Arab oil suppliers should refrain
from supporting a possible European embargo, Khatibi said in an
interview with Shargh newspaper published yesterday.  Counterbalance  Saudi Arabia can “easily” compensate the loss of Iran’s
crude production if sanctions are imposed,  CNN  reported today,
citing an interview with the country’s oil minister, Ali Al- Naimi.  Iran yesterday acknowledged receipt of a letter from the
U.S. concerning the Strait of Hormuz and will respond if
“deemed necessary,” the Islamic Republic News Agency said.
Concerns about Iran and the strait have contributed to a 7.5
percent gain in London oil prices in the past month.  Roshan, who was killed in a Tehran bomb blast, was the
fourth prominent Iranian scientist to be targeted in similar
attacks,  Mohammad Khazaee , Iran’s ambassador to the  United
Nations , said on Jan. 11.  Roshan was a critic of his country’s nuclear program,
saying it has led to stricter sanctions and increased poverty,
Mohammad-Reza Heydari, who resigned as Iran’s Oslo consul in
2010 and was later granted political asylum, said in a phone
interview. Roshan had voiced his concerns about the nuclear
program to Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization, Heydari said.  Previous attacks against Iranian nuclear scientists include
the assassination of Massoud Ali-Mohammadi, killed by a bomb
outside his Tehran home in January 2010, and an explosion in
November of that year that took the life of Majid Shahriari and
wounded Fereydoun Abbasi-Davani, who is now the head of Iran’s
Atomic Energy Organization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  