-- Italian Luxury Clothiers Say Euro Crisis Won’t Stop 2012 Growth
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-01-16T11:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/italian-luxury-clothiers-say-euro-crisis-won-t-stop-2012-growth.html
Ermenegildo Zegna SpA and Raffaele
 Caruso (YRC)  SpA are among Italian luxury goods makers that say they
are optimistic for 2012 even as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
weighs on demand in the region and growth slows in  Asia .  Suitmaker Zegna anticipates high single-digit percentage
revenue growth, led by customers from outside Europe, after
record sales and profit in 2011, said the company’s eponymous
chief executive officer. Caruso, which makes menswear for brands
including  Christian Dior SA (CDI) , expects sales to rise 20 percent
this year based on current orders, said CEO Umberto Angeloni.  “Asia will be the real growth propeller, followed by the
U.S.,” Zegna said in a Jan. 14 interview before the Trivero-
based company’s fall-winter 2012/2013 menswear show in Milan.  The  luxury goods  sector will expand 10 percent in 2012, or
half last year’s rate, excluding currency moves and
acquisitions, Thomas Mesmin, an analyst at CA Cheuvreux,
estimates. Sales will rise 20 percent in Asia, excluding  Japan ,
6 percent in the U.S., 5 percent in Europe and 2.5 percent in
Japan, he figures.  “Current sales growth is definitely not sustainable,”
Mesmin wrote in a report last month. “Don’t stop the party,
just turn down the volume.”  The economic turmoil in Europe is cause for “major
caution,” even if growth in Asia and the Americas compensates
for a slowdown, said Roberto Cavalli SpA CEO Gianluca Brozzetti.
 Standard & Poor’s  decision last week to downgrade the sovereign
credit ratings of nine of the euro area’s 17 members, including
 Italy , will hurt local demand for luxury goods on the continent,
regardless of customers’ net worth, said Zegna.  ‘Ready for Bumps’  “It’s very much psychological,” Zegna said. “We have to
be ready for bumps” until European leaders find a solution.  In the interim, the euro’s decline is boosting the value of
sales in countries that use other currencies, said  Salvatore
Ferragamo SpA (SFER)  CEO  Michele Norsa . The Florence-based company is
“confident” for the year ahead after an “excellent” 2011,
which included better-than-expected holiday sales, Norsa said
yesterday before Ferragamo’s show.  Caruso, based in Soragna, reported a 32 percent increase in
sales in 2011, Angeloni said at a presentation yesterday. Growth
will continue after the company signed an agreement with  China
Garments Co. (000902)  to manufacture menswear for luxury brand Sorgere,
whose debut collection will be unveiled in March, he said. With
jackets retailing from about 7,000 euros ($8,860), Sorgere will
be the first Italian-made Chinese luxury brand, Angeloni said.  Zegna plans to boost sales by introducing more leather
accessories and extending its personalization service with more
devoted space in stores, CEO Zegna said. The suitmaker will also
open as many as 30 boutiques this year, including 10 in China
and outlets in Africa, he said.  Emerging Markets   Zegna had a “pretty good” December as it didn’t discount
merchandise in its own stores and introduced pre-spring/summer
collections early, he said. Offering “novelties” for visitors
from Russia, China, Brazil and other emerging markets “would be
the dogma for 2012,” the CEO said.  “We are trying our best to counterbalance a possible
decline of European consumption with an increase of business
derived from visitors,” Zegna said. About half of luxury-goods
sales in  Europe  come from non-European citizens, Mesmin said.  Zegna’s sales climbed 14 percent to 1.1 billion euros in
2011, the CEO said, citing preliminary figures. He declined to
provide a number for profit, saying only that it reached a
record. Demand was strongest in China, Korea and Southeast Asia,
followed by the U.S., where sales rose by at least 10 percent
excluding currency moves, the CEO said.  “Our cash position has strengthened with these good
results and it makes me very comfortable to make the necessary
investments,” he said, ruling out acquisitions.  While GDP growth is slowing in China, demand for luxury
goods is increasing in so-called second-, third- and fourth-tier
cities, Zegna said. “I think this will continue but we do not
expect a major slowdown in  China ,” he said. “We cannot expect
to keep growing at 30 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  