-- Liverpool’s Performance Didn’t Earn Apparel Deal Renewal, Adidas CEO Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-17T00:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/liverpool-s-on-field-performance-didn-t-warrant-price-adidas-head-says.html
Adidas AG (ADS)  declined to renew its
apparel deal with Liverpool because the price was too high given
the 18-time English soccer champion’s poor performance, the
chief executive officer of the world’s second-biggest sporting
goods maker said.  Liverpool, which is also a five-time European champion, has
replaced Adidas with a club record, 6-year, 25 million pound
($38.3 million) contract with Warrior Sports, a subsidiary of
New Balance Athletic Shoe Inc. The accord, Warrior’s first major
soccer contract, begins next season and is worth almost double
the current agreement with Adidas.  Liverpool has struggled to recapture glories that made it
 England ’s dominant team during the 1970s and 80s. It hasn’t won
a league championship since 1990 and last season was overtaken
by  Manchester United  as the holder of the most titles. Liverpool
didn’t make the  Champions League ,  Europe ’s top club competition,
this season and is seventh in the Premier League, 13 points
behind leader  Manchester City .  “The gap between their performance on the field and what
the number should be is not in balance,” Adidas CEO Herbert Hainer said in an interview in Munich yesterday. “Then we said,
‘Okay we will not do it. That’s the end of the story.’”
Liverpool didn’t respond.  The team’s lack of success hasn’t stopped it signing other
commercial agreements. London-based bank  Standard Chartered (STAN)  is
paying a record 81.5 million pounds to have its logo displayed
on its jerseys for four years and the team’s sales department
has also signed new sponsors like Turkish tourism.  Benefits?  The contract with Warrior may benefit the team further
because it allows Liverpool to retain control over all
merchandise not related to the clothing the team wears,
something that it had ceded to Adidas. Still, it will no longer
be able to rely on the company’s vast global supply chain.  “It all depends on the success and the effort and the
popularity, the exposure on TV, revenue you can generate by
merchandising,” Hainer said. “This all has to be brought in
line between what you offer and what you get. We thought their
asking and the delivering is not in the right balance.”  Adidas faces a big year ahead as the main partner to the
two biggest sports events taking place: soccer’s European
Championship and the London  Olympic Games .  Hainer said from a commercial point of view the soccer
event will be a bigger boost, while the Olympics is the biggest
platform the company has to show its commitment to sports. The
company enjoyed record 1.5 billion euro ($1.9 billion) in sales
in 2010 because of the soccer  World Cup  in  South Africa . The CEO
said it will do even better this year.  “We will definitely beat the 1.5 billion euro revenue
target in 2012: there’s no doubt for me,” said Hainer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  