-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Farmers Bank on Changes to Boost Cash, Output
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 2012-01-16T12:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/ivory-coast-cocoa-farmers-bank-on-changes-to-boost-cash-output.html
Cocoa farmers in  Ivory Coast , the
world’s biggest producer of the chocolate ingredient, are
banking on industry changes to boost incomes and improve the
harvest in the West African nation.  “With a stable and guaranteed price, the farmers will be
able to focus on quality, not only on quantity,” said Amara
Soumahoro, head of the branch of Coeada, a Daloa-based
cooperative in the western village of Gonate. “Everybody would
win.”  Ivory Coast announced a series of changes to its cocoa
industry last year in a bid to boost production, including a
plan to pay farmers 50 percent to 60 percent of the
international market price. Growers’ earnings often fall short
of the indicative rate, meant to be a benchmark for buyers,
which will be scrapped. It was set this year at 1,000  CFA francs 
($1.95) per kilogram (2.2 pounds).  Higher earnings mean producers would be more able to invest
in their farms, including spending on fertilizers and pesticides
that may improve yields, said Soumahoro.  “Most of the farmers we are working with agree with the
reforms,” he said.  Amidou Sanna, a 26-year-old farmer of a three-hectare (7.4-
acre) plot in the western village of Sokolaye, said he fetches
not more than 500 francs for a kilogram of his beans. “A
guaranteed price will be a very good thing for us,” he said in
an interview Jan. 10 on his farm.  Sanna’s farm has produced about 800 kilograms of cocoa so
far in the 2011-2012 crop harvest, similar to the previous
season. “The production has been fine so far but it doesn’t
rain enough at the moment,” he said. “I am a bit worried for
the future.”  ‘Fair Share’  President  Alassane Ouattara , who won a disputed November
2010 election that led to a five-month violent conflict, pledged
to make cocoa-industry changes a priority.  “Farmers should get the fair share of what they produce,”
he said in an interview in  New York  in September. His
administration announced the changes on Nov. 2.  Ouattara’s party won a majority in the country’s
legislature last month, paving the way for the cocoa-industry
revisions, which include a plan to sell as much as 80 percent of
the country’s cocoa harvest before the start of each season.  The amount might be too high at first, said Amoikou Boi, a
farmer in the eastern town of Abengourou, who said he supports
the idea.  “It would be better to start with 50 percent of the crop,
and see what are the benefits for the farmers,” Boi said by
phone yesterday. “Then, if it works, we can go pre-sell more of
the crop.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  