-- Japan’s Machinery Orders Jump 14.8% in Sign of Corporate Spending Rebound
-- B y   E l e a n o r   W a r n o c k
-- 2012-01-16T03:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/japan-s-machinery-orders-jump-14-8-in-sign-of-corporate-spending-rebound.html
Japan ’s  machinery orders  rebounded
in November, signaling that companies are willing to invest even
as the yen remains strong and the global economy slows.  Bookings, an indicator of future  capital spending ,  rose  15
percent in November from a month earlier, the Cabinet Office
said in  Tokyo  today. The median estimate of 29 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 5.1 percent increase.  Weak overseas demand and gains in the yen have cut profits
at Japanese exporters from  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  to Panasonic Corp.
The rebound in orders signals that the world’s third-largest
economy is showing some resilience to the stronger currency and
a slowing global economy.  “Strong November data comes as a relief, bolstering
confidence in the expansionary capex trend,” said  Takuji Okubo ,
chief Japan economist at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo.
Rebuilding from the March 11 earthquake means capital spending
will be “resilient” in 2012, he said.  The yen reached a postwar record of 75.35 per dollar on
Oct. 31. It traded at 76.84 against the dollar at 12:03 p.m. in
Tokyo today and 97.15 against  Europe ’s shared currency after
touching its highest since December 2000 earlier today.  Standard
& Poor’s  downgraded France, Austria and seven other European
nations last week.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters today that he was
“concerned” about the euro’s decline, which has been “a bit
rapid.” The region’s debt crisis “will be a big drag on global
growth this year” unless policy makers come up with a
“powerful” solution to keep the crisis from spreading, he
said.  Order Volatility  The increase in machinery orders, which are volatile
because they can be influenced by large one-off orders, was the
biggest since January 2008, the government said.  “Until I see a sustained rise in orders for the next few
months, I’m not ready to say I’m optimistic,” said  Mari Iwashita , chief market economist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
in Tokyo.  A stalled economy could increase opposition to Prime
Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s plan to double the nation’s sales tax
by 2015. The opposition party and some members of the ruling
party have said a tax hike could further cripple a rebound.  Authorities intervened in the currency market at least
three times to weaken the yen last year, and the government
compiled four extra budgets, worth about 20 trillion yen,
measures that have not been enough to sustain an export-driven
recovery.  Economic Contraction  The country’s economy may have contracted in the fourth
quarter of 2011, according to calculations by the Japan Center
for Economic Research, an independent analysis group in Tokyo.
Gross-domestic product contracted for two quarters before
growing an annualized 5.6 percent in the three months through
September. The Cabinet Office will release fourth-quarter GDP
data next month.  Nippon Steel Corp., Japan’s largest steel manufacturer,
reported on Oct. 26 that its profits declined by more than half
in the third quarter of 2011 on slow demand in  Asia .  Panasonic
Corp. (6752) , Japan’s largest home-appliance manufacturer, has revised
its forecast for the year through March 2012 to a loss of 420
billion yen, its largest in 10 years, due to appreciation of the
yen and company restructuring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleanor Warnock in Tokyo at 
 ewarnock@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  