-- Huntsman to End Bid, Endorse Romney
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-01-16T15:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/jon-huntsman-said-to-withdraw-u-s-republican-presidential-nomination-bid.html
Jon Huntsman Jr., trailing in the
polls and after a third-place finish in  New Hampshire , will drop
out of the Republican presidential race today and endorse  Mitt Romney , a campaign official said.  Huntsman, a former Utah governor who served as ambassador
to  China  for President  Barack Obama , struggled financially
throughout the primary contest and was running last in an
average of three statewide polls in South Carolina. He didn’t
compete in the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses to focus on the Jan. 10
contest in New Hampshire, staking his campaign on that state.  His decision to quit was made on the eve of a presidential
debate in Myrtle Beach and on the same day that the Columbia-
based newspaper, the State, endorsed him for  South Carolina ’s
Jan. 21 primary.  The move also comes as Rick Santorum and  Newt Gingrich  are
asking social conservatives to unite behind one of them as an
alternative to Romney.  A campaign official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
ahead of a formal announcement, confirmed Huntsman’s plans.  “With Governor Huntsman dropping out, we are one step
closer to a bold Reagan conservative winning the GOP
nomination,” R.C. Hammond, a Gingrich spokesman, said in a
statement.  Centrist Message  Huntsman’s candidacy was framed around a more centrist
message than his opponents as he sought to attract independent
voters and to compete in swing states in a general election.
While opposed to gay marriage, Huntsman does support civil
unions between people of the same sex.  His message proved to be out of sync with a party base
animated by calls for cutting taxes and  government spending  and
in search of a candidate capable of building a campaign machine
and message strong enough to defeat Obama, Huntsman’s last boss.  Romney won in New Hampshire, following his eight-vote
margin of victory in Iowa over Santorum.  Today, Santorum accused Romney, as well as a super PAC
supporting Romney and fellow rival Ron Paul of running “smear
campaigns” and “smarmy robo-calls” against him in South
Carolina. Political action committees known as super PACs can
take unlimited donations from corporations and individuals as
long as they don’t coordinate their activities with any
campaign.  Felons’ Voting Rights  Santorum called on Romney to ask the super PAC, called
Restore Our Future, to take down an ad that portrays Santorum as
soft on felons. Santorum, a former U.S. senator from
 Pennsylvania , said that while he supported allowing certain
felons to regain  voting rights  after completing their sentence,
that policy is the law in 48 states including  Massachusetts ,
where Romney was governor.  Santorum, who is courting conservative voters, said of
Huntsman’s plan to withdraw from the race and support Romney:
“Moderates are backing moderates. That’s sort of the bottom
line.” He said it was “important that we eventually consolidate
this race.”  Santorum spoke at a breakfast-time visit to the Lizard’s
Thicket restaurant in South Carolina’s capital, Columbia. He
said he intends to compete through  Florida  and in “Super
Tuesday” states so long as he emerges from South Carolina in a
“strong position.”  Personal Loan  Huntsman reported raising $4.5 million -- including a $2.25
million personal loan to his campaign -- and having $3 million
in debts as of Sept. 30, the last records available.  He ran no television advertisements before the  Iowa 
caucuses, saving all his fire for New Hampshire. In the Granite
State, Huntsman’s campaign ran only about $20,000 in commercials
on network stations while an outside group supporting his
candidacy, Our Destiny PAC, spent $1.2 million on commercials.  In South Carolina, the Our Destiny committee has run only
about $4,000 in commercials on network stations while his
campaign hasn’t aired any ads, according to data from New York-
based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks advertising.  Huntsman was a no-show for a Jan. 13 forum in Duncan, South
Carolina, with Gingrich and Santorum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Columbia, South Carolina, at   mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 