-- JPMorgan, Pforzheim Urged to Settle $71 Million Swap Suit
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-01-16T14:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/jpmorgan-pforzheim-urged-to-settle-71-million-swap-lawsuit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the German
city of Pforzheim should settle a dispute over 56 million euros
($71 million) in losses on an interest-rate swap, a judge said.  The city should accept one-third of the amount, Presiding
Judge Daniel Koehler told the parties at a hearing in Frankfurt
today. While the city may win the case if it can prove that it
wasn’t properly informed about the initial market value of the
derivative, this isn’t guaranteed and proceedings may drag on
for a long time, he said.  “A settlement would pour money in the city’s coffers right
away,” Koehler said. “The amounts at stake aren’t peanuts and
both sides face considerable risks in this case.”  The city of Pforzheim is among several European
municipalities that lost millions of euros on derivative
transactions that went sour. After  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s
biggest bank, lost a case over interest-rate swaps at Germany’s
highest civil court last year, cities and small companies are
trying to recover their losses in court.  Lawyers for the city said the settlement amount proposed by
the judge wouldn’t be acceptable and that the city council must
consider the issue. JPMorgan’s lawyer said he will discuss the
proposal with his client. The court scheduled a ruling for March
23.  Deutsche Bank Mirror  Pforzheim bought the swap to mirror a derivative it had
acquired from Deutsche Bank that accumulated 20 million euros of
losses. Over time, the Deutsche Bank transaction turned
positive, while the swap from JPMorgan incurred about 60 million
euros in losses.  Under most interest-rate swap agreements sold to utilities,
medium-size companies and cities, the lender paid a fixed rate
and the customer an amount based on Euribor rates.  The top court’s reasoning in the Deutsche Bank ruling would
apply in this case, so JPMorgan had a duty to disclose any
negative market value, Judge Koehler said. While the city had
experience with swaps and the negotiations were handled by two
women with some knowledge in the area, that didn’t exclude the
bank’s duty to advise its customer, he said. The court’s
assessment is preliminary, the judge added.  “It’s pretty much like in the top court case, there was
also a person with some economic education on the customer
side,” Koehler said. “Our top court tends to increase the
consumer-like protection it grants cities and small business.”  Pforzheim claims it didn’t know the negative market value
was 23 million euros instead of 20 million euros. JPMorgan
lawyer Carsten van de Sande told the court the bank always made
clear its profit margin and structuring cost for the instrument
were priced into the swap.  “You can’ take a chance without any risk,” said van de
Sande. “Pforzheim could also have decided to simply pay back
the 20 millon euros to Deutsche Bank at the time and not buy the
swap from JPMorgan.”  Today’s case is LG  Frankfurt , 2-25 O 669/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Frankfurt via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 