-- Natalie Dessay’s Soulful Manon Starts Paris Homage to Massenet
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-01-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/natalie-dessay-s-soulful-manon-starts-paris-homage-to-massenet.html
France  is celebrating the centenary
of Jules Massenet, its most successful Belle Epoque composer.  The country’s reigning diva,  Natalie Dessay , has the title
role in “Manon,” one of his two masterpieces, at the Bastille
Opera. There’s also a charming exhibition at the Palais Garnier,
“La Belle Epoque de Massenet.”  Dessay  has played the frivolous Manon already in Geneva,
Barcelona and  Chicago  -- yet, strangely, never before in Paris.  While her voice has lost some of its youthful sheen, Dessay
is still a perfect interpreter of that complex character --
naive, coquettish, soulful and, in the end, tragic. If you want
to catch her in one of the stellar moments of her career, get
the DVD of her Barcelona “Manon” with Rolando Villazon as her
passionate partner.  Giuseppe Filianoti  isn’t in Villazon’s league. He is a
small-scale Chevalier Des Grieux with a restricted top and a
thick Italian accent, reminding us of the sad fact that the
elegant conversational style of the Opera-Comique, where
“Manon” was a staple of the repertoire since its premiere in
1884, is irretrievably lost.  Paul Gay is more at ease as the Chevalier’s father. Franck
Ferrari, on the other hand, is a coarse Lescaut, Manon’s cousin.
The orchestra, conducted by Evelino Pido, turns in an effective
though not particularly subtle performance.  In an interview with the Bastille Opera’s house magazine,
director Coline Serreau said that she saw no need to go on an
ego trip: Thanks to her films she had plenty of possibilities to
live out her fantasies. In fact, she has made her name in the
movies; “Manon” is only her third opera staging.  Egomaniacal Colleagues  That laudable modesty didn’t prevent her from falling into
the bad habit of her more egomaniacal colleagues to update the
plots. That she does so only partially is no great help.  What we see is an incoherent mix of 18th-, 19th- and 20th-
century dresses (costume designer: Elsa Pavanel). Lascaut
appears as a punk rocker with metal chains and red hair.  The hostelry at Amiens in Act I looks like the main hall of
 New York ’s Grand Central (sets: Jean-Marc Stehle and Antoine
Fontaine). Instead of a coach, the two lovers flee on a
motorbike.  Nor will everybody share Serreau’s fondness of visual
jokes: Des Grieux’s big number in Act II, in which he daydreams
about married bliss, is illustrated by a 1950s-style poster
promoting kitchen utensils. The lady devotees of the preacher
Des Grieux in Act III sail into his church on roller skates.  Rating: **.  Garnier Show  The exhibition at the Palais Garnier takes you back to
where it all began. It brings together scores of Massenet’s
operas, maquettes of their first productions, photos of the
first casts, costumes and posters.  You also find views of Massenet’s overstuffed apartment and
snapshots from his life as a professor at the Conservatoire
where he taught from 1878 to his death. Gustave Charpentier,
Ernest Chausson and Georges Enesco were among his pupils.  The show confirms Massenet’s reputation as a ladies’
composer. Of his 27 operas, 17 have female title roles. With
quite a few of his stars, particularly the U.S. soprano Sibyl
Sanderson, his first Thais and Esclarmonde, he had more than
professional relationships.  Maybe that was the reason why he hated his first name:
“Jules” is French slang word for “pimp.”  “Manon” is in repertory at the Opera Bastille through
Feb. 13. “La Belle Epoque de Massenet” at the Palais Garnier
runs through May 13. Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 