-- Nigerian Unions Suspend Strike After Jonathan Agrees to Cut Gasoline Price
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-16T16:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/nigerian-unions-suspend-strike-after-jonathan-agrees-to-cut-gasoline-price.html
Nigerian labor unions suspended
strikes and protests in  Africa ’s top crude producer after
President Goodluck Jonathan limited gasoline-price increases.  The Nigeria Labour Congress and the Trade Union Congress
“decided that in order to save lives and in the interest of
national survival, these mass actions be suspended,” the two
labor federations said in a statement today in Abuja, the
capital. They also urged the government to release protesters
detained during demonstrations over the past week.  Jonathan, 54, earlier announced a limit on the increase in
gasoline prices to 97 naira ($0.60) a liter. The strike began
Jan. 9 after the government ended subsidies, which it said cost
1.2 trillion naira last year, and vowed to spend the savings on
 power plants  and roads. Gasoline prices more than doubled from
65 naira a liter since the subsidies were abolished on Jan. 1.  Jonathan “has bought some time and he has a short time to
improve the credibility of the government,”  Bismarck Rewane ,
chief executive officer of Lagos-based Financial Derivatives
Co., said by phone. “The unions have lost, the government has
lost and the people have lost.”  Nigeria is also facing a surge in religious violence in
parts of the north where Jonathan has declared a state of
emergency and says Islamic militants pose a worse threat to the
country than the 1967-70 civil war.  Northern Violence  At least 85 people have been killed in bomb and gun attacks
since Christmas Day on churches in Abuja and in the north that
the government blames on Boko Haram, a militant Islamic group
whose name in the Hausa language means “western education is a
sin.” The northeastern state of Adamawa on Jan. 14 declared a
24-hour curfew in four of its districts to curb the violence.  Central Bank of  Nigeria  Governor Lamido Sanusi praised
Jonathan’s handling of the negotiations to end the strike.  “I think it showed political maturity and a willingness to
move forward from where we were, even if he does not reach his
target in one go,” he said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “It also showed that he had listened because it
contained acknowledgment of many of the issues raised by civil
society.”  The strike slowed trading in stocks and the naira, closed
ports and banks and sparked street protests. The cost of the
labor action to sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy may
be more than $1 billion a day, according to Gregory Kronsten,
head of macroeconomic research at FBN Capital Ltd. in  London .  Square One  “At some point -- April appears to be the current time-
scale -- the government will phase out the subsidy again,”
Ashley Elliot, a Nigeria analyst at Control Risks in London,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Unless more is done
to lay the groundwork, we could be back to square one.”  Labor leaders will continue discussions on the subsidy with
an 11-member committee led by a former chief justice of Nigeria,
Alfa Begore, NLC President  Abdulwaheed Omar  said.  “In removing only half of the subsidy, this implies only
half of the subsidy funds will now redeployed, which is still
positive as it implies more spending on infrastructure and the
like,” Yvonne Mhango, an economist at  Renaissance Capital  in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed reply to questions today.
“It’s not like the government is cutting funds that had already
been redeployed.”  The government’s handling of the demonstrations drew
criticism today from the governor of Lagos state, Babatunde
Fashola, who said soldiers shouldn’t have been deployed against
peaceful protesters.  Military Presence  “Why should we feel irritated when they sing and dance in
protest against what we have done?” Fashola said today in a
broadcast. “For me this is not a matter for the military. The
sooner we rethink and rescind this decision the better and
stronger our democracy will be.”  Oil Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said she has set up
bodies to eradicate corruption and examine management in state
oil companies including the Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.
She will meet with the Senate this week to try and speed up the
passage of a proposed Petroleum Industry Bill needed to reform
the industry.  “Tensions on the narrow issue of fuel subsidies have
unleashed broader popular anger over corruption and
inequality,” Elliot said.  Crude Production  Nigeria pumped about 2.2 million barrels of oil a day last
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, accounting for
almost all of its export income. At least 90 percent of
Nigeria’s crude is produced by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , based in
 The Hague ;  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ;  San Ramon , California-based
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ; Total SA and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with the
state-owned NNPC.  Crude for February delivery rose 74 cents to $99.44 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 15:56 p.m. in London.  The naira was little changed at 161.94 per dollar as of
4:33 p.m. in Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
naira interbank market is still effectively closed, Samir Gadio,
a London-based emerging-market strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to questions today.  The Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index declined 0.1
percent to 20,824.82 at the close in Lagos, according to an e-
mailed statement from the bourse. Trading last week was about a
third of the 1.05 billion shares that changed hands the week
earlier, the exchange said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  