-- Nigerian Unions Suspend Protest While Maintaining Strike on Fuel Subsidies
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-16T09:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/nigerian-unions-suspend-protests-while-maintaining-strike.html
Nigerian labor unions suspended
protests while continuing a general strike over fuel subsidies
in Africa’s top crude producer after President Goodluck Jonathan’s announcement of a gasoline-price cut fell short of
their demands.  The protests were suspended “because of security
concerns” and fear that “certain elements want to hijack”
them, Nigeria Labour Congress President  Abdulwaheed Omar  said on
Lagos-based Channels TV. The unions will meet in Abuja, the
capital, and probably announce their decision on the strike at 1
p.m., Trade Union Congress President  Peter Esele  said by phone.  Jonathan earlier announced a cut in gasoline prices to 97
naira a liter after negotiations with the TUC and the Nigeria
Labour Congress ended without agreement yesterday. The main oil
union, Pengassan, said it will shut down oil output only as “a
last resort” to give more time for talks to end the strike.
Gasoline prices more than doubled from 65 naira a liter since
the subsidies were abolished on Jan. 1.  “We’ve only suspended the protests, but asked everyone to
sit at home,” Esele said.  Economist Cost  The strike, which entered its second week today, has slowed
trading in stocks and the naira, closed ports and banks and
sparked street protests. The cost of the labor action to sub-
Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest economy may be more than $1
billion a day, according to Gregory Kronsten, head of
macroeconomic research at FBN Capital Ltd. in London.  “The banks remain closed owing to security concerns as
labor is continuing with the strike,” James Eze, a spokesman
for Mainstreet Bank Ltd., said today by phone.  The strike began on Jan. 9 after the government ended
subsidies, which it said cost 1.2 trillion naira ($7.4 billion)
last year, and pledged to spend the savings on  power plants  and
roads. At the same time Jonathan is facing a surge in religious
violence in parts of the north where he has declared a state of
emergency and says Islamic militants pose a worse threat to the
country than the 1967-70 civil war.  Violence in North  At least 85 people have been killed in bomb and gun attacks
since Christmas Day on churches in Abuja and in the north that
the government blames on Boko Haram, a militant Islamic group
inspired by  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement. The northeastern
state of Adamawa on Jan. 14 declared a 24-hour curfew in four of
its districts to curb the violence.  “Hopefully this will reduce political tension in
 Nigeria ,”  Charles Robertson , chief economist at  Renaissance
Capital  in London, wrote today in e-mail. “While it can be
argued the government has had to scale back its reform
ambitions, some compromise is not a big surprise, and the
government is now promising to push ahead on the Petroleum
Industry Bill.”  Jonathan’s price cut fell short of the unions’ demand for a
full reversal, the NLC and the TUC said in a statement
yesterday, before the announcement.  The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of
Nigeria, or  Pengassan , said yesterday that while oil output and
exports remain unaffected by the strike, it’s ready “to execute
immediately the systematic shutdown of oil production should the
negotiation with the government break down.”  Corruption, Waste  The capping of gasoline prices in Nigeria, where two-thirds
of the population of about 164 million live on less than $1.25 a
day, led to a shortage of investment in refineries that forced
the nation to import about 70 percent of its fuel.  In opposing Jonathan’s policy, union leaders and protest
groups focused their criticisms on government waste and
corruption associated with fuel imports and distribution.  “The government’s credibility is seriously dented,”
 Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer of Lagos-based
Financial Derivatives Co., said in an interview. “They’ll have
to earn it back.”  Oil Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said she has set up
bodies to eradicate corruption and examine management in state
oil companies including the Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.
She will meet with the Senate this week to try and speed up the
passage of the petroleum bill needed to reform the industry.  Oil Accountability  “All hands are on deck to ensure full probity and
accountability in the oil industry,” she said in a statement.
“Having spent the last few months painstakingly reviewing its
operations and designing a vision for the future, it is now time
to deliver.”  Nigeria pumped about 2.2 million barrels of oil a day last
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, accounting for
almost all of its export income. At least 90 percent of
Nigeria’s crude is produced by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , based in
The Hague;  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ;  San Ramon , California-based
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ; Total SA and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with the
state-owned NNPC.  The naira gained 0.1 percent to 161.8 to the dollar as of
10:06 a.m. in Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Trading on the country’s bourse last week was about a third of
the 1.05 billion shares that changed hands the week earlier, the
 Nigerian Stock Exchange  said in an e-mailed report. The  Nigerian
Stock Exchange All-Share Index (NGSEINDX)  fell 0.2 percent on Jan. 13 to
20,840.97.  Crude for February delivery gained rose as much as 78 cents
to $99.48 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $99.35 at 9:35 a.m. in  London .
Cocoa prices in  New York  have advanced 4.6 percent in New York
since the strike started on concern shipment from Nigeria, the
world’s fourth-biggest producer of the beans, will be disrupted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Karl Maier at 
 kmaier2@bloomberg.net  