-- Nigeria’s Sanusi Sees Rate on Hold as Fuel Rise Lifts Prices
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-01-17T12:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/nigeria-s-sanusi-sees-rate-on-hold-as-fuel-rise-boosts-inflation.html
Central Bank of Nigeria Governor
Lamido Sanusi said it may be “counterproductive” to raise
 interest rates  in response to a jump in fuel prices that will
probably push up inflation in Africa’s top crude producer.  “We will have to see where the balance of the data points
to, but from where I sit it looks like holding for a bit is the
best option,” Sanusi said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. He said he wasn’t speaking for the Abuja-based bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee, which will meet Jan. 30-31.  The central bank had estimated inflation in sub-Saharan
Africa’s second-largest economy would accelerate to 14 percent
to 15 percent by mid-year, from 10.5 percent in November, taking
into account the initial full removal of a subsidy on fuel on
Jan. 1, he said. While the bank is studying the effect of
President Goodluck Jonathan’s decision to limit the increase,
“it is reasonable to keep as close as possible to the current
estimates in forming inflationary expectations,” Sanusi said.  Nigeria ’s labor unions suspended strikes and protests
yesterday after Jonathan limited gasoline-price increases to 97
naira ($0.60) a liter (0.3 gallon). The strike began Jan. 9
after the government scrapped the fuel subsidy, which it said
cost 1.2 trillion naira ($7.4 billion), a quarter of state
expenditure, last year, and vowed to spend the savings on  power
plants  and roads. Gasoline prices had more than doubled from 65
naira a liter.  Economic Cost  The strike slowed trading in stocks and the naira, closed
ports and banks and sparked street protests. It may have cost
the economy $5 billion, Gregory Kronsten, head of macroeconomic
research at FBN Capital Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed note
today.  “The government may have achieved some savings to fund its
infrastructure spend by effectively reducing future subsidy
claims,” Kronsten said. “However, the implication of a phased
withdrawal is that all the inefficiencies, costs and challenges
which are inherent in the system remain.”  The bank left the benchmark lending rate unchanged at a
record-high 12 percent for the first time last year on Nov. 21.
It increased the rate 2.75 percentage points in October after
inflation climbed above the bank’s 10 percent target.  Naira Target  The lower fuel-price increase will take pressure off the
 central bank  on monetary policy and in trying to keep the naira
around a midpoint of 155 per dollar,  Leon Myburgh , Citigroup
Inc.’s sub-Saharan Africa strategist, said by phone from
Johannesburg.  “The central bank is now unlikely to change its naira
target this year as the reduced price increase limits pressure
on the currency,” he said.  The currency weakened 0.6 percent to 162.90 per dollar as
of 12:45 p.m. in Lagos on the  interbank market . Earlier, it fell
to 163.15 per dollar, the lowest intraday level since Dec. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigeria, which imports fuel because it lacks refining
capacity, pumped about 2.2 million barrels of oil a day last
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, accounting for
almost all of its export income. At least 90 percent of
Nigeria’s crude is produced by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  San Ramon , California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Total SA
and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp.  Crude for February delivery gained as much as 2.3 percent
to $100.97 a barrel and was trading at $100.95 in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 11.40 a.m. in
London.  Religious Violence  Reducing the subsidies on fuel will probably make it more
attractive for companies to invest in building refineries,
Yvonne Mhango, an economist at  Renaissance Capital  in
Johannesburg, said today in an e-mailed note.  Nigeria is also facing a surge in religious violence in
parts of the north where Jonathan has declared a state of
emergency. He says militants of the Boko Haram Islamic group
pose a worse threat to the country than the 1967-70 civil war.  “The administration’s inability to prepare the groundwork
for reform in advance, both at the elite and public levels, or
to sequence credible palliative measures beforehand reinforces
the sense of incompetence, a perception which is hardening in
the security realm as the Boko Haram Islamist threat continues
to rise,” Philippe de Pontet, director of sub-Saharan  Africa  at
New York-based Eurasia Group, wrote in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  