-- Nigeria’s Naira Trading Limited as Unions Suspend Fuel Strikes
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-01-16T14:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/nigeria-s-naira-falls-trading-limited-after-protests-suspended.html
Naira trading remained limited as
banks stayed shut even after  Nigeria ’s labor unions suspended
their national strike as President Goodluck limited gasoline-
price increases.  The currency of  Africa ’s largest oil producer was little
changed at 161.94 per dollar as of 3:19 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Labor unions said they suspended a general strike “in the
interest of national survival,” after Jonathan had announced a
limit of 97 naira (69 cents) on gasoline prices. The cost of the
fuel more than doubled from 65 naira a liter when subsidies were
scrapped on Jan. 1, sparking nationwide strikes that started
Jan. 9. The action has limited trading in the national currency
and closed banks and ports.  The naira  interbank market  is still effectively closed,
Samir Gadio, a London-based emerging-market strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to questions
from Bloomberg today.  “There will be an increase in demand as the market
reopens, but the dollar-naira path will depend on the  Central
Bank of Nigeria ’s reaction,” he said. “If the central bank is
proactive in selling dollars to the interbank market, then the
upward pressure on dollar-naira may actually be mitigated.”  Auction  Nigeria sold $198 million at a foreign-currency auction
today, less than the $200 million on offer, the Abuja-based
Central Bank of Nigeria said in an e-mailed statement.  Dollars were sold for between 156.70 naira and 157 naira
each. The marginal rate, which is also used as the prevailing
exchange rate, was 156.70, unchanged from the previous auction
on Jan. 11, it said.  The government ended subsidies, which it said cost 1.2
trillion naira ($7.4 billion) last year, and pledged to spend
the savings on  power plants  and roads.  “The banks remain closed owing to security concerns as
labor is continuing with the strike,” James Eze, a spokesman
for Mainstreet Bank Ltd., said by phone today from Lagos.  Ghana ’s cedi gained less than 0.1 percent to 1.717 per
dollar as of 3:20 p.m. in Accra, the capital, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  