-- Noble’s Elman Prepares CEO Succession to ‘Take Life Easy’
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-01-16T08:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/noble-s-elman-prepares-ceo-succession-to-take-life-easy-.html
Billionaire Richard Elman said he
will soon install a new chief executive officer at  Noble Group
Ltd. (NOBL)  as the 71-year-old founder and chairman of  Asia ’s biggest
commodity supplier prepares to ease his managerial control.  “I expect some other management changes that will allow me
over the shortest period of time to take life a little bit
easy,” Elman told Susan Li and Rishaad Salamat in an interview
on Bloomberg TV’s “Asia Edge.” “It’s necessary for me to do
it and I’d like to do it, but we will get a proper succession
management in place before that. I promise that to myself and
all the shareholders.”  Elman’s successor will inherit a company that has grown
into Asia’s biggest listed commodity trader by sales in 25 years,
overtaking century-old rivals in  Japan  including  Marubeni Corp. (8002) 
Noble’s rapid growth over the last decade had also made it “a
little bit lazy” as the company posted its first quarterly loss
in 14 years in November, Elman said.  “We just have to shape up and deal with the situation,”
said Elman, a former scrap yard worker who set up Noble with
$100,000 in savings in a small  Hong Kong  office. “Everybody
just has to be a little more cautious, a little more alert.”  Noble  declined 1. 8 percent to S$1.110 as of 3:47 p.m. in
Singapore. The stock, down 1.3 percent this year, fell 48
percent in 2011, compared with a 17 percent drop in Singapore’s
benchmark index.  Turbulent Period  Management changes at Noble follow a turbulent succession
planning period since 2010.  Elman became acting CEO in addition to his chairman’s role
after CEO Ricardo Leiman quit on Nov. 9, the day Noble announced
a $17.5 million quarterly loss. Leiman’s departure followed
those of Executive Chairman Tobias Brown, Senior Executive Vice
President Peter James O’Donnell and Chief Financial Officer
Stephen Jeffrey Marzo, all within 12 months.  The loss, due to underperformance in the cotton and carbon
credit markets, threw Noble into a “major review” of its
businesses to improve profitability, the company said Nov. 9 in
a statement.  Standard & Poor’s  placed the company on credit
watch with negative implications on Nov. 11, saying Noble’s
financial strength has “weakened” and diminishing cash flows
leave it with a higher leverage than appropriate to its BBB-
rating. BBB- is the lowest investment grade.  “I believe this is an issue of the past,” Elman said in a
separate interview today to Bloomberg News. “We continue on a
daily basis to strengthen the balance sheet, to improve the cash
flow, to improve all the various ratios.”  Cash, Credit  Noble had close to $1.8 billion in cash and in excess of
$5.5 billion in committed credit lines and cash at the end of
September and that amount has subsequently increased, Elman said
today. The company, part-owned by  China ’s sovereign wealth fund,
is not in danger of violating any borrowing contracts, he said.  Noble’s business is in a “ good shape ” and it is expected
to grow this year amid tough market conditions, he said. Of the
23 analyst recommendations for the company’s stock, 15 are
“buy,” five “sell,” and the rest are “hold,” according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The person who will take over the management will need to
act as a real leader, Elman said.  Yusuf Alireza, the former Asia-Pacific co-president of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , was negotiating with Noble to take
over as chief executive officer, the Wall Street Journal
reported on Nov. 14, citing an unidentified person familiar with
the matter. Alireza, 41, was a long-term target for Noble and
was due to leave the  U.S. bank  after 19 years service, the
newspaper said.  New York , Hong Kong  Alireza, who joined Goldman’s fixed-income research group
in New York in 1992, held positions in fixed-income sales and
hedge fund sales and became a partner in 2004. He moved to Hong
Kong in 2008 to run the securities division in the Asia-Pacific
region. Elman has known Alireza for some time, according to the
WSJ.  Elman, Noble’s  biggest shareholder  with a 21.6 percent
stake according to data compiled by Bloomberg, transformed the
company from its beginning more than 20 years ago to the biggest
commodity trader listed in Asia with $78 billion in trailing 12-
month sales. Its nearest competitors are Japan’s  Toyota Tsusho
Corp. (8015)  with $71.2 billion and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  with $66.3 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Closest Rival  Prior to setting up Noble, Elman worked for commodity
trader  Phibro , the same company where the founder of Glencore
International Plc  Marc Rich  got his start. Glencore, the largest
public traded commodities company, said in marketing material
before its IPO this year that Noble was its closest comparable
competitor.  Noble expanded with the 2001 purchase of Andre & Cie.’s
commodity trading unit in Asia. It started acquiring industrial
assets about five years later, spending $2.55 billion since 2006
to buy stakes in Australian and Mongolian coal mines, Brazilian
sugar mills and ethanol refineries, and building oilseed
crushing plants in Argentina and China.  Noble will continue to pursue a spin-off of its
agricultural assets, a transaction that was approved by the
 Singapore  bourse last year, Elman said.  “It’s not a question of if, but when,” Elman said. “It
really depends on the financial environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  