-- Obama Says Martin Luther King Memorial Quote Is Call to Service
-- B y   S a b r i n a   S i d d i q u i   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-01-16T20:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/obama-says-mlk-memorial-inscription-that-faces-revision-is-call-to-service.html
President  Barack Obama  said the true
meaning of a quote that is being modified on the  Martin Luther King Jr . memorial following an uproar is that everyone can be of
service.  “I know there’s been a lot of controversy lately about the
quote on the memorial,” Obama, the nation’s first black
president, said at a service project at a school in Washington
in honor of today’s King holiday. “If you look at that speech
about Dr. King as a drum major, what he really said was that all
of us could be a drum major for service, all of us could be a
drum major for justice, and there’s nobody who can’t serve,
nobody who can’t help somebody else.”  The inscription on the stone monument reads: “I was a drum
major for justice, peace and righteousness.” It has drawn
criticism as having been taken out of context and representing
only part of a fuller quote. Obama dedicated the King memorial
on the national mall in  Washington  in October.  The actual quote from King during a February 1968  sermon 
was, “If you want to say that I was a drum major, say that I
was a drum major for justice. Say that I was a drum major for
peace. I was a drum major for righteousness. And all of the
other shallow things will not matter.”  Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  told the Washington Post on
Jan. 13 that he had directed the National Park Service to work
with the King family and other interested parties to come up
with a modification to the quote within 30 days.  ‘Do What is Right’  First lady  Michelle Obama  and daughter Malia joined the
president at the service event sponsored by the Corporation for
National and Community Service along with Big Brothers, Big
Sisters and Greater D.C. Cares at the Browne Education Campus in
Washington. Daughter Sasha didn’t attend.  The president painted a quote from King, “the time is
always right to do what is right,” on a wall during the event.  Later the president and the first lady will attend a
celebration at the Kennedy Center in Washington honoring King
and featuring Grammy Award-winning singer Bobby McFerrin.  Also today, Attorney General Eric Holder defended the
administration’s enforcement of the Voting Rights Act in remarks
prepared for a National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People rally in Columbia,  South Carolina . Discrimination
continues to harm the rights of voters and “in-person voting
fraud is uncommon,” Holder said in the remarks released by his
office.  “Making voter registration easier is simply not likely, by
itself, to make our elections more susceptible to fraud,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  