-- Oil Industry Promotes Keystone XL Among South Carolina Voters
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-01-16T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/oil-industry-promotes-keystone-xl-among-south-carolina-voters.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL
pipeline will aid  South Carolina , which holds a presidential
primary this week, even though it doesn’t pass through the
state, the largest U.S. oil industry trade group said.  “About 2,400 companies in 40 states are involved in work
to support Canadian oil-sands development,”  Jack Gerard ,
president of the American Petroleum Institute president, said in
remarks prepared for a speech today in Myrtle Beach, South
Carolina. “Including almost a dozen businesses right here in
South Carolina that provide materials, equipment, engineering
support and supplies.”  The industry has been stepping up its lobbying for White
House approval of the project, which would carry 700,000 barrels
of crude oil a day from  Canada ’s Alberta oil sands to refineries
along the U.S. Gulf of Mexico coast. Republicans support it as a
source of jobs, while environmentalists say it will contribute
to greenhouse-gas emissions and endanger drinking water supplies
in Nebraska.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration in November delayed
approving the project until after the 2012 election, saying it
wanted to study an alternate route that would take the pipeline
away from environmentally sensitive areas.  Congress last month set a 60-day deadline for the
administration to issue a pipeline permit. Republican
presidential candidates may highlight the job-creating aspect of
the project at a Jan. 19 debate in South Carolina, which hosts a
Jan. 21 primary.  Gerard’s group started airing a television commercial last
week in  Illinois , Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Nebraska, Ohio and in
the nation’s capital, portraying Keystone  XL as Obama’s chance
to create jobs.  The group also sent a letter last week to Obama, signed by
more than 100 associations, saying the project will “put
thousands of Americans to work.”  Supporters are seeking a decision before Obama’s State of
the Union speech, scheduled for Jan. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  