-- Oil Rises to Three-Day High as Saudi Arabia Is Seen Targeting $100 Crude
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-17T08:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/oil-trades-near-3-day-high-on-straits-of-hormuz-threats-eu-embargo-push.html
Oil rose to the highest level in
three days as France sought to limit delays for a ban on Iranian
imports and  Saudi Arabia ’s energy minister said the world’s
biggest crude exporter wants prices at $100 a barrel.  Futures climbed as much as 2 percent in  New York  to trade
above $100. Saudi Arabia aims to stabilize the average of crude
prices worldwide at that level in 2012, Ali al-Naimi said in an
interview with CNN yesterday. France wants a European Union
embargo delayed by no more than three months as members seek
alternative supplies, an official with knowledge of the matter
said yesterday. Iran, OPEC’s second-largest producer, has
threatened to block oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz
in retaliation against international sanctions.  “The embargo story is certainly not going away,” said
 David Lennox , an analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney who forecasts
U.S. crude will average $110 a barrel this year. “The Saudis
came out and said they were looking to target oil at about $100
a barrel. I suspect that’s what the driver has been.”  Crude for February delivery rose to as high as $100.67 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
up $1.95 from the Jan. 13 closing price, and traded at $100.65
at 3:45 p.m. Singapore time. Floor trading was shut yesterday
for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday and electronic
transactions will be booked with today’s for settlement purposes.  Brent oil for March on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange gained as much 1.1 percent to $112.58 a barrel. The
European benchmark contract was at an $11.65 premium to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade for the same month.
The front-month spread was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  European Embargo  France  is seeking a shorter exemption for crude contracts
with Iran even as other EU members favor a six-month delay,
according to a second official, who also asked not to be
identified because the talks are confidential.  EU foreign ministers are scheduled to decide at a Jan. 23
meeting on the ban, which will probably include an exemption for
Eni SpA,  Italy ’s largest oil company. An embargo requires
unanimous approval by the bloc’s 27 states.  Saudi Arabia, the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, can make up for any loss of crude
output if sanctions are placed on Iran, al-Naimi told CNN. The
minister doesn’t expect the  Strait of Hormuz  to be shut for an
extended period of time. The waterway is a transit route for
about a fifth of global oil trade, according to the U.S. Energy
Department.  Emergency Supplies  The  International Energy Agency  will release oil stockpiles
only in the event of a “serious” supply disruption, according
to Maria van der Hoeven,  executive director  at the adviser to
developed nations. The Paris-based agency is examining which
countries have extra production capacity, she said yesterday in
 Abu Dhabi . It is due to release its monthly report tomorrow.  Oil’s gains were curbed after Nigerian labor unions
suspended strikes and protests following President Goodluck Jonathan’s decision to limit gasoline-price increases. The
country is an OPEC member and  Africa ’s largest oil producer.  China ’s refineries boosted crude processing to a record in
December because of a domestic diesel shortage, data from the
National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing showed today. The
country is the second-biggest oil consumer after the U.S. Its
economy expanded 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, beating the median 8.7 percent estimate of 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  