-- Oil Climbs From Four-Week Low as Iran Warns of Hormuz Supply Disruption
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-01-16T18:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/oil-climbs-from-four-week-low-as-iran-warns-of-hormuz-supply-disruption.html
Oil climbed from the lowest price in
almost four weeks as  Iran  said that a disruption to crude
supplies through the Strait of Hormuz would cause a shock to
markets that “no country” could manage.  Futures rose 1 percent after sliding 2.8 percent last week.
Iran has threatened to shut the strait, a transit route for
about a fifth of global oil trade, in response to international
sanctions on its exports. Any disruption will harm the world’s
crude markets, Iran’s governor to OPEC said, according to the
state-run Mehr news agency. Nigerian labor unions suspended
protests after saying they would consider shutting down oil
output in opposition to higher fuel prices.  “Supply worries in Iran and Nigeria combined with the
recovering U.S. economy and demand from developing markets are
driving  oil prices  higher,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior
broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London, who predicts crude
prices will rise further. “It’s only the weakness of the euro
that’s stopping oil from making bigger advances.”  Crude for February delivery rose as much as $1.10 to $99.80
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange and was up 99 cents to $99.69 at 1:14 p.m. The contract
fell 0.4 percent to $98.70 on Jan. 13, the lowest settlement
price since Dec. 21.  The electronic session on the Nymex ended at 1:15 p.m.
local time. There was no floor trading in New York today because
of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.  Brent oil for February settlement rose 76 cents, or 0.7
percent, to settle at $111.20 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange. The contract expired today. The more
actively traded March futures rose 99 cents to $111.34 a barrel.
The European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate futures was at $11.51, compared with a record
$27.88 on Oct. 14.  OPEC Production Rises  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries kept its
forecast for 2012 oil demand unchanged today in its monthly
report on supply and demand. The  International Energy Agency 
publishes its own data on Jan. 18.  OPEC’s production rose to its highest level since October
2008, the report from its Vienna-based secretariat showed. The
group warned that Europe’s debt crisis could harm global
consumption, while making no reference to Iranian threats to
block shipping traffic through the Persian Gulf.  “No country in the world can manage the shock that results
from 15 to 17 million barrels of oil not entering the market,”
Mehr reported today, citing comments by Iranian OPEC governor
Mohammad-Ali Khatibi. Iranian Vice-President Mohammad Reza
Rahimi said on Dec. 27 that Iran may close the strait in
response to a possible embargo.  War of Words  “We are seeing a rebound primarily due to geopolitical
supply-side concerns,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at
Purvin & Gertz Inc., a consultant in  Singapore . “There is no
letdown in the continuing war of words involving Iran.”  Nigeria ’s main labor unions suspended protests over the
removal of fuel-import subsidies, Trade Union Congress President
 Peter Esele  said by telephone. The country’s leader, Goodluck
Jonathan, agreed to lower gasoline prices to 97 naira a liter.  Hedge-funds and other money managers cut bullish bets on
 Brent crude  by 3,476 contracts in the week ended Jan. 10,
according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 92,983 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. The data is for futures and options combined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  