-- Holcim Books $811 Million Charge on Africa, Weaker Markets
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-16T08:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/holcim-books-811-million-charge-on-africa-weaker-markets-2-.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-
largest cement maker, said it will book a 775 million-franc
($811 million) charge after writing off South African
investments and revaluing assets in sluggish markets from Spain
to the U.S.  The Swiss company is writing off 415 million francs related
to debt and accrued interest owed by a former unit in  South
Africa , it said in a  statement  today. The Jona-based company is
also booking 360 million francs in writedowns tied to plants in
Spain, eastern Europe and the U.S.  “It’s a little bit of a surprise, but it comes down to the
theme of excess capacity,” said  Tim Cahill , an analyst at J&E
Davy Holdings in Dublin. “Now companies and especially their
accountants are taking the view that demand is not returning any
time soon. This is the first of such writedowns, and we will see
more throughout the industry.”  Holcim and other global cement makers -- including the
industry’s No. 1, Lafarge SA of  France  -- are feeling the pinch
from expansion drives as projects undertaken during times of
economic growth now suffer from sluggish orders. Europe’s debt
crisis has stalled economies, weighing down on government
infrastructure spending as well as retail and property
developments. Holcim will book the costs in the  fourth quarter .  Shares of the Swiss building materials maker fell 1.1
francs, or 2.1 percent, to 50.75 francs as of 9:04 a.m. in
Zurich. Lafarge was down 2.3 percent in Paris.  Dividend Decision  The charges represent a hefty dent to Holcim’s earnings,
scheduled to be released on Feb. 29. Analysts estimated annual
net income of 952.4 million francs, on sales of 20.24 billion
francs, according to Bloomberg data. The company said today
there remains potential for a dividend, based on 2011 earnings,
and the level of the payout will be decided at the end of
February.  Martin Huesler, an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank AG in
Zurich, said he’s cutting 2011 estimates.  “The extent of the impairments surprise us and indicates
that Holcim does not expect a rapid recovery in the affected
markets, which, given the economic environment and the debt
problem, is not astonishing,” Huesler said in a note.  Holcim will retain a stake of about 2 percent in AfriSam,
which was taken over by a group of investors under the Black
Economic Empowerment initiative, spokesman Peter Gysel said. The
writedowns in eastern  Europe  related to operations in the Czech
Republic and  Hungary .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  