-- OPEC Keeps Oil Demand Forecast Steady, Warns on European Economic Crisis
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-01-16T11:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/opec-keeps-oil-demand-forecast-steady-warns-on-european-economic-crisis.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries kept its forecast for 2012 oil demand
unchanged, while warning that  Europe ’s debt crisis could harm
global consumption.  Oil use will increase by 1.1 million barrels a day, or 1.2
percent, to 88.9 million a day this year, OPEC said in its
monthly report today. The 69-page document made no reference to
Iranian threats to block shipping traffic through the Persian
Gulf. OPEC’s production rose to its highest level since October
2008, the report from its Vienna-based secretariat showed.  If Europe’s turmoil “were to worsen, the effect on the oil
market could be seen not only through a further decline in oil
demand in Europe, but also with spillover effects on oil demand
in the emerging economies,” OPEC said.  European leaders will this week try to rescue under-fire
efforts to deliver new fiscal rules and cut  Greece ’s debt burden
as they urge investors to ignore  Standard & Poor’s  euro-region
downgrades. Brent crude futures traded at $111 a barrel in
 London  today, having gained about 3 percent this year.  OPEC, provider of about 40 percent of the world’s oil, will
need to produce 30.1 million barrels a day to balance global
crude supply and demand in 2012, estimates in the report showed.
That’s up 60,000 barrels a day from its forecast last month. The
group set a formal output target for its 12 members of 30
million barrels a day on Dec. 14.  Above Output Ceiling  The group  pumped  822,000 barrels of crude a day more than
its agreed output ceiling last month as  Libya , the United Arab
Emirates and Iraq raised production, according to the report.
Daily supply from the organization increased to 30.82 million
barrels a day in December from 30.65 million in November.  Iranian Vice-President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that the Persian Gulf state may close the Strait of Hormuz in
response to a possible embargo against his country’s oil
exports. European foreign ministers will meet on Jan. 23 to
consider barring purchases of Iranian crude as part of sanctions
against the nation’s nuclear program.  Almost 17 million barrels a day, or about a fifth of all
oil traded globally, transits the waterway connecting the
Persian Gulf with the  Gulf of Oman  and the Arabian Sea,
according to the U.S. Energy Department.  OPEC maintained its prediction for production outside the
organization in 2012 at 53.1 million barrels a day. This
represents an annual increase of about 700,000 barrels a day,
driven by  Brazil , the U.S.,  Canada , Colombia and countries in
the former Soviet Union.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  The International Energy Agency would release its monthly
report on Jan. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  