-- Morgan Stanley Fund Said to Buy Russian Mall for $1 Billion
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-01-16T16:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/morgan-stanley-fund-said-to-buy-st-petersburg-mall-for-1-1-billion.html
A  Morgan Stanley (MS)  real estate fund
agreed to buy the largest mall in central  St. Petersburg ,
Russia, for about $1.1 billion, according to two people with
knowledge of the transaction.  Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund VII will purchase the
Galeria center from Meridian Capital CIS Fund, which is run by a
buyout firm backed by a group of Kazakh investors including
Askar Alshinbaev, the people said. They declined to be
identified because the transaction is private and won’t be
completed until later this month.  Galeria, which cost $380 million to build and opened in
November 2010, has 250 stores occupying 93,000 square meters (1
million square feet) over five floors, according to  Mace , one of
the construction companies that built the facility. The mall,
located on the intersection of Logovsky Prospekt and Nevsky
Prospekt near the city’s Moscow railroad station, features a
multi-screen movie theater, a 27-lane bowling alley plus
underground parking for 1,200 vehicles.  Morgan Stanley spokesman Tom Walton declined to comment.
Meridian Capital didn’t return a call seeking comment and its
broker,  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , also declined to comment
through Moscow-based spokeswoman Natalia Kopeychenko.  The purchase takes the Morgan Stanley fund a step closer to
investing money that its backers committed in June 2010. So far,
the fund has invested less than half of the $4 billion currently
at its disposal.  China Investment  MSREF VII’s backers, which include China Investment Corp.,
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and Government of Singapore
Investment Corp., extended the deadline for the fund to invest
all the money it raised by a year to June 2013. They also
negotiated lower management fees and a $700 million reduction in
their commitments to the fund.  Russian commercial real-estate sales totaled about 5
billion euros ($6.3 billion) last year, 15 percent less than in
2010, according to data compiled by Real Capital Analytics Inc.,
a New York-based research firm. That’s 48 percent less than the
investment in 2008, the data show.  Rising retail sales and  Russia ’s lack of modern mall space
has fueled a boom in shopping centers in Russia.  Wage Increases  Russians’ wages rose by an annual 7.1 percent after
inflation in November, the biggest increase in more than three
years, the Federal Statistics Service said last month. This
contributed to an 8.6 percent increase in  retail sales , separate
figures showed.  Russia’s economy may have grown by 4.5 percent last year,
exceeding the government’s official forecast, because of the
strength of  consumer spending , Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said Dec. 12.  That increase in demand is persuading owners of
international brands, seeking sales growth outside western
 Europe  and the U.S., to open stores in Russia. Developers will
open almost 3 million square meters of mall space in the country
in the 18 months to the end of 2012, according to research by
Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  The broker estimates that Russia has about 80.5 square
meters of mall space per 1,000 inhabitants, compared with an
average 240.3 square meters in the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 