-- U.K.’s Osborne Welcomes Hong Kong’s Decision to Extend Yuan Trading Hours
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-01-16T05:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/osborne-calls-for-expanded-yuan-trading-in-london-to-bolster-u-k-growth.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  called on London to expand its role as an
offshore trading center for the Chinese yuan as Europe’s
deepening debt crisis prompts Britain to seek new growth markets.  “Our objective is simple: we want to expand the amount of
business and trade we do with each other so that the citizens of
 China ,  Hong Kong  and Britain all benefit from the prosperity and
jobs that will bring,” Osborne said, according to remarks
released by his office in London as he began a three-day trip to
Asia that will include stops in Hong Kong, Beijing and Tokyo.  Closer financial links with the world’s fastest-growing
economy may help buffer Britain’s economy against turmoil in
 Europe , where nine countries were downgraded. Osborne is relying
on trade to boost an economy with record levels of consumer and
public debt and an austerity program that is sapping consumer
confidence and exacerbating unemployment.  The U.K. Treasury and Hong Kong Monetary Authority will
facilitate a forum for banks to increase cooperation on the
offshore yuan business, they said in statements today.  Osborne said he wants to build links with Hong Kong, which
acts as a gateway to China’s currency for foreign investors. The
former British colony was designated as China’s major offshore
yuan trading hub under China’s latest five-year plan.  Build Links  The forum, which will meet twice a year, plans to look at
clearing and settlement systems, market liquidity and the
development of new yuan products, according to the statement
from the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. HSBC Holdings Plc,
 Standard Chartered (STAN)  Plc and Bank of China Ltd. and other banks
will join.  Hong Kong authorities plan to lengthen yuan payments
trading by five hours by June, allowing London-based
institutions the opportunity to expand their 30 percent share of
trading outside the Chinese mainland. The yuan is a denomination
of the renminbi.  “London now has a unique opportunity,”  Peter Sands , chief
executive officer at  Standard Chartered , said in the Treasury
press release. HSBC Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  also
said in the statement that London can become the “premier
offshore trading center for the renminbi.”  Yuan-denominated deposits  in Hong Kong expanded to 627
billion yuan ($99 billion) in November from 64 billion yuan in
January 2010, according to Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  Separately, Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  will call for
an expansion of employee-owned companies by making tax and
regulation more favorable for such companies. Clegg said he will
also consider giving workers powers to request a change in
ownership in the company they work for.  “Firms that have engaged employees, who own a chunk of
their company are just as dynamic, just as savvy as their
competitors,” Clegg will say in speech in  London  today. “In
fact they often perform better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  