-- Osborne Sees Some Grounds for U.K. Optimism on EU Outlook
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-01-16T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/osborne-sees-grounds-for-optimism-on-europe-outlook-even-after-downgrades.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said he sees some reason for optimism in  Europe ,
while acknowledging that 2012 is set to be a challenging year.  “Obviously people are anxious about the year ahead, and I
understand that, but I would say there are some grounds for
optimism,” Osborne said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Hong Kong today. “I think the action the  European
Central Bank  took before Christmas to increase liquidity was
very welcome.”  Europe’s deepening debt crisis, which culminated in
 Standard & Poor’s  cutting the ratings of France and eight other
euro-zone nations on Jan. 13, is threatening global growth.
Osborne said in November Britain faces two extra years of
austerity and he used his end-of-year economic statement to
Parliament to announce 23 billion pounds ($35 billion) of
additional spending cuts after the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  slashed its forecasts for economic growth.  Osborne, referring to his nation’s credit rating, said
Britain is “to a degree reaping some of the benefits of being
early movers, of getting ahead of the curve, of setting out this
credible plan, and this is an important way of commanding
confidence in the economy.”  U.K. unemployment rose to a 17-year high in the three
months through October, deepening concerns Britain is heading
for another recession. Unemployment as measured by International
Labor Organization standards rose by 128,000 to 2.64 million,
the most since 1994, the Office for National Statistics said
Dec. 14.  “There’s no doubt that the crisis in the euro zone is
extremely challenging for Britain given that many of our exports
are to the euro zone,” Osborne said. “But actually some of the
more recent economic indicators over the turn of the year, some
of the survey data for services, manufacturing and construction
has actually been pretty positive,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  