-- Pakistan Supreme Court Issues Premier Gilani Contempt Notice, Summons Him
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-01-16T14:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/pakistan-supreme-court-issues-premier-gilani-contempt-notice-summons-him.html
Pakistan ’s Supreme Court began
contempt of court proceedings against Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  for failing to obey its order to pursue corruption
charges against President Asif Ali Zardari, a step that may lead
to Gilani’s dismissal.  The court ordered Gilani to appear before it Jan. 19, Law
Minister Mola Bux Chandio told reporters in Islamabad. A panel
of justices last week said Gilani violated his oath of office by
not resuming the graft investigations, which former military
ruler Pervez Musharraf suspended in a 2007 decree that the court
later revoked.  The contempt notice “is a very serious warning and now the
prime minister must come up with his defense,” Munir A. Malik,
a former president of the  Supreme Court  Bar Association of
Pakistan said in a phone interview. “If the court convicts
Gilani, it might warn him or hand down a sentence” that could
force his removal from office, Malik said.  The ruling came as a second judicial panel resumed hearings
on an alleged Zardari administration request in May for U.S. aid
against a possible coup, a claim that has triggered the biggest
confrontation between Pakistan’s generals and elected leaders
since army rule ended four years ago. The showdown complicates
U.S. efforts to restore a strained relationship with Pakistan
that’s key to its bid to stabilize  Afghanistan  before a 2014
troop withdrawal.  Chief Justice  The court hearings have again focused the spotlight on
Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, who four years ago
precipitated the downfall of General  Pervez Musharraf  and helped
return the country to elected government.  “By reviving the corruption cases just as the military
wants to see Zardari leave office, Chaudhry may be playing into
the hands of the army establishment,” said Ishtiaq Ahmed, a
Pakistani political science professor at Oxford University in
the U.K. “The confrontation risks undermining democracy.”  Supreme Court spokesman Faqir Hussain didn’t answer calls
to his office.  About 14 percent of 2,700 Pakistanis  surveyed  said the
court is overstepping its mandate, while 62 percent said it was
acting properly, Islamabad-based Gallup Pakistan said in a Jan.
12 poll that had a margin of error of 2 to 3 percent.  Chaudhry’s court is taking “a fair line” on the issues
coming before it, and has been forced to act by Zardari’s
failures to govern, said Wajihuddin Ahmed, who quit as a Supreme
Court judge rather than accept Musharraf’s 1999 coup.  Gilani will obey the court’s order to appear on Jan. 19,
Qamar Zaman Kaira, a spokesman for the ruling Pakistan People’s
Party, told reporters in televised comments.  ‘Mr. 10 Percent’  Zardari will discuss the ruling with top leaders of the
People’s party, his spokesman  Farhatullah Babar  said. The party
says that as president Zardari is immune from prosecution.  “This is no small matter and we will act in accordance
with the law,” the law minister, Chandio, told reporters.  Pakistani newspapers and critics of Zardari nicknamed him
“Mr. 10 Percent” in the 1990s, because of the corruption cases
against him. He has denied the charges and has never been found
guilty by the courts.  While Chaudhry is not serving on the Supreme Court bench
considering the graft investigations, he appoints all such
panels. He headed the bench that chose the commission of judges
investigating the alleged memo to the U.S.  Amnesty Decree  After Musharraf named Chaudhry chief justice in 2005, the
judge won public support with rulings that reversed the courts’
historic subservience to Pakistan’s three military regimes. When
Chaudhry in 2007 resisted two attempts by Musharraf to oust him,
protesters took to the streets, showered flower petals on the
judge’s car and demanded an end to army rule.  Negotiating with political parties to stay on as a civilian
president, the general decreed an amnesty to halt corruption
probes against 8,000 politicians and officials, including
Zardari and his wife, former Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto .  Chaudhry’s court invalidated the order and was considering
a challenge to Musharraf’s eligibility as president when the
general declared emergency rule and sent troops to the Supreme
Court to force Chaudhry from office.  Musharraf bowed to public demands for elections that were
won by Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party in the wake of her
December 2007 assassination. The new parliament moved to impeach
Musharraf in 2008, forcing him to resign, and elected Zardari.
Zardari reneged on a promise to restore Chaudhry, relenting only
when the judge’s supporters massed in 2009 to march on
Islamabad.  Ijaz Claims  Chaudhry’s court risks “over-reach” in pressing the
government to resume the corruption investigations because some
of them were politically motivated, said Ayesha Tammy Haq, an
Islamabad-based lawyer who helped organize the 2007 protests
that backed Chaudhry. The court could have left lawmakers and
prosecutors to decide how to reopen cases, she said.  Chaudhry and his court Dec. 30 backed the army’s call for a
probe into a letter revealed by Pakistani-American businessman
 Mansoor Ijaz . The memo sought U.S. help to prevent a feared coup
by Pakistani army officers angered by the American raid into
their country that killed  Osama bin Laden .  Ijaz says the note was dictated by  Husain Haqqani , then
Zardari’s envoy to  Washington , which Haqqani denies. U.S.
officials said they dismissed the note as not credible.  Gilani announced a parliamentary investigation of the memo
and opposed the inquiry by the Supreme Court. On Dec. 22, he
warned of a conspiracy to oust his administration by a “state
within a state,” a reference to the army. A Jan. 11 army
statement warned of “grievous consequences” after Gilani
criticized the military for overstepping its authority by
directly submitting a response in the case directly to the court
rather than via his cabinet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 