-- Patriots Have 44% Chance of Super Bowl Win, With Giants and 49ers at 21%
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-16T06:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/patriots-have-44-chance-of-super-bowl-win-with-giants-and-49ers-at-21-.html
The  New England Patriots  haven’t
lost in more than two months and are given a 44 percent chance
of winning their fourth Super Bowl title behind quarterback  Tom Brady  and coach  Bill Belichick , according to oddsmakers.  With the defending Super Bowl champion  Green Bay Packers 
getting eliminated by the  New York Giants  yesterday, the
Patriots now have the best odds among the four teams playing in
the National Football League conference championship games.  The Patriots are favored by seven points against the
Baltimore Ravens in the Jan. 22 American Football Conference
title game.  Now that the Packers are out of the playoffs, the eventual
AFC champion is favored by four points in the Feb. 5  Super Bowl 
over the winner of the National Football Conference title game
between the Giants and  San Francisco 49ers .  The projected point spreads now put  New England ’s
championship chances at 44 percent, said RJ Bell, founder of Las
Vegas-based handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  “From this point on, everyone will be focused on what we
need to do to be better next week and hopefully come out and
play for another championship,” Brady said after throwing a
playoff-record six touchdown passes in the Patriots’ 45-10 rout
of the  Denver Broncos  two days ago.  The Patriots previously won the Super Bowl after the 2000,
2003 and 2004 seasons. They’ve won nine straight games since
their last loss, a 24-20 setback against the Giants on Nov. 6.  The 49ers and Giants each have a 21 percent chance of
winning the Super Bowl.  San Francisco  is favored by 2 1/2 points
in the NFC championship game.  “San Francisco, because of home field, has a better chance
next week, but the Giants would have a better chance of beating
the Pats or Ravens,” Pregame.com’s Bell said by e-mail.  Ravens Are Underdogs  The Ravens, who this week are underdogs of more than seven
points for the first time since 2007, have a 14 percent chance
of winning their second Super Bowl title, Bell said.  Safety Ed Reed said Baltimore’s first step will be trying
to get a win in New England, where the Ravens are 1-4 all-time.
Their lone victory at Gillette Stadium was in the first round of
the playoffs two years ago, when Reed had one of his team’s
three interceptions of Brady.  “It’s going to be hard fought and fun at the same time,”
Reed said. “We’re coming and they know it.”  Giants coach Tom Coughlin also has more belief in his team
than the oddsmakers, especially after yesterday’s 37-20 victory
that ended the Packers’ season and 13-game home winning streak.  The Giants were 7 1/2-point underdogs in  Green Bay  and
previously bucked the odds during their Super Bowl run after the
2007 season, when they upset the Packers in the NFC championship
game before stunning the previously undefeated Patriots in the
Super Bowl as 12-point underdogs.  “I think we’re a dangerous team,” Coughlin said yesterday
at his postgame news conference. “I like where we are, I like
our attitude, I like the way we’re playing.”  The Packers had entered the playoffs favored by oddsmakers
to defend their title after going 15-1 in the regular season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  