-- Pembina Pipeline Buys Canada’s Provident Energy for $3.1 Billion in Stock
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-01-16T21:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/pembina-pipeline-buys-canada-s-provident-energy-with-shares.html
Pembina Pipeline Corp. (PPL) , an oil and
 gas pipeline  operator, agreed to buy  Provident Energy Ltd. (PVE)  for
C$3.2 billion ($3.1 billion) to add natural gas liquids assets.  Provident shareholders will receive 0.425 of Pembina stock
for each share held, or about C$11.86, Calgary-based Pembina
said today in a statement. That represents a premium of 25
percent based on last week’s closing share prices.  The transaction will create one of  Canada ’s largest
publicly traded energy-infrastructure companies by adding
Provident’s natural gas liquids extraction, storage and
transportation services to Pembina’s 7,500 kilometer- (4,661
mile-) network. The two companies are combining amid increased
production of  oil sands  and shale gas in  Alberta  and British
Columbia and near-record low prices for natural gas.  “It’s a good fit because there’s not a lot of overlap
between the two companies,” said Megan Macneill, a Vancouver-
based analyst at Haywood Securities Inc. who rates Provident
shares “sector outperform” and doesn’t own any.  Provident, based in Calgary, owns so-called midstream
assets and services such as storage, transportation and
logistics and extraction operations for the natural-gas industry
mostly in western Canada, according to its  website .  “Our expanded footprint will provide greater access to
natural gas liquids markets across  North America  and will allow
us to offer customers a significantly expanded spectrum of
energy services,” Pembina Chief Executive Officer Bob Michaleski said in the statement.  Canadian Footprint  Natural gas liquids are fluid fuels associated with the
production of gaseous natural gas and can be refined into a
variety of products.  The merged company will operate under the Pembina name and
be led by a combination of Pembina’s and Provident’s current
managers, Pembina said in the statement, without providing
details. Pembina also said it plans to make an offer to owners
of Provident’s convertible debentures following the closing of
the deal.  The combined company will have a market value of about
C$7.9 billion and have business in regions such as Montney and
Duvernay in British Columbia as well as the Alberta Deep Basin,
according to the statement. It will be able to transport gas
from the Marcellus and Utica shale deposits that have helped
turn the U.S. into the largest natural-gas producer in the
world.  Canada’s largest pipeline owners are  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  and
Enbridge Inc., both based in Calgary.  Deal Advisers  Provident  surged  18 percent to C$11.20 at the close in
Toronto. Pembina fell 4.3 percent to C$26.70.  Pembina was advised by Scotia Waterous Inc. and law firms
Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP. Provident was advised by TD Securities Inc. and
law firms Norton Rose Canada LLP, Dorsey and Whitney LLP and
Andrews Kurth LLP.  Today’s deal was in line with the average premium for
Canadian pipeline transactions of 26.6 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The acquisition is the largest Canadian pipeline deal since
 Kinder Morgan  Inc. bought FortisBC Holdings Inc. for C$6.7
billion in 2005. Last year,  Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA) 
bought  BP Plc (BP/) ’s natural gas liquids pipeline and processing
business in Canada for $1.67 billion.  Kinder Morgan, based in Houston, agreed in October to buy
 El Paso Corp. (EP)  for $21.1 billion to create the largest natural-
gas pipeline in the U.S. That acquisition was the largest
takeover of a pipeline company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  