-- Philippine Peso, Bonds Decline After European Rating Downgrades
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-01-16T08:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/philippine-peso-bonds-decline-after-european-rating-downgrades.html
The Philippine peso fell the most in
more than a week after credit-rating cuts in  Europe  damped
demand for emerging-market assets.  Government bonds  declined.  The nation’s benchmark  stock index  declined after  Standard
& Poor’s  downgraded nine euro-area countries including  France ,
increasing concern Europe’s debt crisis will hurt the global
economy. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will monitor the situation
in Europe, “will be watchful of bank exposures” to the region
and ensure policy settings will support inflation and growth
targets, Governor Amando Tetangco said in an e-mail yesterday.  “Downgrades in Europe are affecting all markets at this
point,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president and
treasurer at Security Bank Corp. in Manila.  The peso declined 0.4 percent to 43.878 per dollar in
Manila, the biggest drop since Jan. 6, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. The yield on the 6.375 percent January 2022 bonds
rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.18
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.  Bangko Sentral will cut its overnight borrowing rate to
4.25 percent from 4.5 percent on Jan. 19, 11 of 14 economists
predicted in a  Bloomberg News survey , with three forecasting no
change. Policy makers implemented two interest-rate increases
and twice raised the reserve-requirement ratio in 2011. The last
interest-rate reduction was in July 2009.  “The market has priced in a 25 basis-point cut and if that
doesn’t happen, there may be some negative reaction,” Algarra
said. “There’s been a significant run on bonds and there’s a
tendency for investors to take profit.”  Inflation Risk  Inflation may quicken on possible oil supply disruptions in
the  Middle East , Tetangco said in a mobile phone message today.
Consumer-price gains will still average within target, the
governor said. The inflation rate dropped to an 11-month low of
4.2 percent in December, official data showed Jan. 5. The
central bank aims to keep the pace of price gains between 3
percent and 5 percent until 2013.  Iran has threatened to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit
route for about a fifth of global oil trade, in response to
international sanctions on its exports. The Philippines imports
almost all its oil requirements.  Overseas remittances  rose 10.6 percent in November from a
year earlier to $1.78 billion, the central bank reported today.
Money sent home by more than 8.5 million Filipinos living
overseas increased 6.2 percent in October.  The peso will probably strengthen to the “low to mid 43
level” by the end of the first quarter, Algarra said. There are
still more dollars coming in than flowing out, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  