-- Poorest Nations Host Biggest Gas Finds in Sign of Deals: Energy
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-01-16T12:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/poorest-nations-host-biggest-gas-finds-in-sign-of-deals-energy.html
One of the world’s poorest regions
is also home to the biggest natural-gas discoveries in a decade,
luring investors from steel billionaire Lakshmi Mittal to  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  found about $800
billion of gas under the Indian Ocean off Mozambique, 36 times
more valuable than the nation’s economy, ranked 213 of 227
countries for per capita income. Explorers in neighboring
 Tanzania  have struck gas fields, and drilling will pick up pace
in Kenya this year.  The fields are big enough to support exports of liquefied
natural gas, or LNG, opening up a source of energy supply to the
world’s fastest-growing major economies, India and  China . They
are also drawing the interest of the world’s largest oil and gas
companies, which prize LNG projects for their decades of
generating cash.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Shell and BP Plc are the
biggest owners of LNG capacity worldwide.  “ East Africa  is obviously very exciting after being a
backwater for a long time,” said Evan Calio, an oil and gas
analyst at Morgan Stanley in  New York . LNG plants are “big,
capital-intensive projects. All the big ones want these.”  Smaller explorers in the region are ready to do deals.
 Ophir Energy Plc, (OPHR)  a London-based African specialist that counts
the Mittal family and New York hedge fund Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC among its largest investors, says it’s
seeking partners to drill off Tanzania.  Cove Energy Plc (COV) , which
holds a stake in Mozambique finds, said Jan. 5 it may sell the
company. Anadarko Petroleum Corp. is looking to sell assets.  Buying Projects  The world’s largest energy companies have been buying into
projects to supply gas to customers in  Asia . BP last year
completed a $7.2 billion acquisition of a 30 percent stake in 21
Indian gas fields operated by Reliance Industries Ltd.  Shell
last year agreed to acquire an interest in the Chevron Corp.-led
Wheatstone gas project in Western  Australia .  LNG prices in the Asian markets averaged between $16 and
$17 per million British thermal units at the end of last year.
In contrast, U.S. natural gas has dropped 43 percent in the last
year and traded today at $2.556 per million British thermal
units on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 7 a.m. local time.  ‘More Dominant’  “You’ll see the majors becoming more dominant through
acquisitions,” said Stuart Joyner, an oil and gas analyst at
Investec Securities in  London . “A lot of the independents that
really have been the vanguard in terms of opening the new
province will sell out as things start to move out of the
exploration stage.”  While enough gas has been found to support the region’s
first LNG projects, there’ll be no let-up in the hunt for
resources in the region, which is under-explored compared with
West Africa. Explorers have drilled fewer than 500 wells in East
Africa and more than 33,000 through the rest of the continent,
according to  Afren Plc (AFR)  data.  This year, 23 wells will be drilled off Kenya, Tanzania and
Mozambique, almost double the number in 2011, according to
research from Morgan Stanley.  “Assuming that the drilling success is continued you would
expect to see consolidation around probably one mega-terminal”
for Mozambique and one in Tanzania, Ophir Chief Executive
Officer Nick Cooper said in an interview. “Obviously the bigger
fish tend to eat the smaller fish.”  BP had been in talks on East Africa projects with Ophir,
while Shell teamed up with  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  in October to
explore off Tanzania.  ‘Looking Closely’  “It’s obviously a basin where many people of the world are
looking closely,” said Shell’s executive director for
exploration and production, Malcolm Brinded.  Tanzania, where Ophir’s Cooper reckons exploration has
lagged 18 months behind Mozambique, will be a focus of drilling
this year. Ophir and its partner  BG Group Plc (BG/)  have so far found
about 4 trillion cubic feet of gas in the East African country,
where a per capita income of $1,400 ranks it 201st in the world,
according to the Central Intelligence Agency’s fact book.  Ophir, which is buying Dominion Petroleum Ltd., will be
joined by Mubadala Oil & Gas of Abu Dhabi to explore Block 7 in
Tanzania. The company plans to import LNG to meet the Persian
Gulf nation’s growing demand for gas.  “Strategically it’s an interesting point,” Cooper said.
“It’s the first real evidence of Gulf entities picking up
acreage with the intention of taking gas into the Gulf.”  Plans to Drill  Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest oil company, plans to drill a
well this year at an exploration block in Tanzania where it’s a
partner with Exxon Mobil, CEO Helge Lund said. Statoil also has
to drill at two exploration license areas in  Mozambique  before
2015. The “geographic location is almost perfect for LNG”
shipments eastbound, Lund said.  Mozambique and Tanzania may eventually rival Qatar and
Australia as the world’s biggest suppliers of LNG, Investec’s
Joyner said. The East African deposits found so far are large
enough to justify construction of at least eight LNG production
trains, according to estimates by the companies. Today Qatar has
14 trains operating, while Australia has at least six trains
producing and about $250 billion in projects under construction
or planned.  Mambo Field  Eni,  Italy ’s largest producer, will invest $50 billion to
develop the 20 trillion-cubic-feet Mambo field off Mozambique’s
coast, CEO Paolo Scaroni said in December. “Our feeling is it
would be a super-giant gas field and is well-placed to supply
Asia by LNG,” he said.  Anadarko is examining the possible sale of at least some of
its holdings in the Mozambique discoveries, Chuck Meloy, a
senior vice president of worldwide operations, said last month.
The Woodlands, Texas-based company holds 36.5 percent of
Mozambique’s Area 1, which may yield as much as 30 trillion
cubic feet of recoverable gas.  Cove, Anadarko’s partner in the Rovuma Basin, is looking to
sell the whole company. Analysts at UBS AG said Jan. 6 that BP,
Statoil and  Total SA (FP)  are among the likely buyers.  The gas industry development will spur local economies,
field and supply services. For example, Irish oil and gas
engineering company Kentz Corp. is already pitching its products
to East African explorers in anticipation of an LNG construction
boom.  “That’s a key opportunity,” Kentz CEO Hugh O’Donnell
said, referring to discoveries in Mozambique. “We are making it
known to the people that it involves, what we are doing in
Mozambique right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  