-- Putin Reaches Out to Middle-Class, Pledges More Freedoms
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-01-16T10:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/putin-reaches-out-to-middle-class-pledges-more-freedoms-1-.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  sought to appease middle-class protests against his rule,
pledging to diversify the economy and increase civil liberties
if elected president in March.  “Russia’s growth over the next decades means expanding
freedoms for each of us,” Putin said in an  article  published
today in the Izvestia newspaper and posted on his website. “The
engine of growth must be citizens’ initiative. We will lose out
if we count only on the decisions of officials and a narrow
circle of big investors and state companies.”  Putin, 59, angered increasingly affluent Russians when he
announced in September that he would seek to return to the
Kremlin, edging aside President  Dmitry Medvedev . Allegations of
fraud in Dec. 4 parliamentary elections sparked the biggest
demonstrations since Putin came to power 12 years ago, with tens
of thousands of people rallying in Moscow and other cities.  The premier pledged to create 25 million highly paid jobs
in the high-technology sphere, describing his key goal as the
development of a “new economy for educated and responsible
people.”  Russia  remains dependent on sales of oil and gas,
which account for about 40 percent of budget revenues, and is
the most corrupt major world economy, according to  Transparency
International .  New Elections  Putin has refused demands by opposition leaders for new
parliamentary elections, insisting the Dec. 4 vote was fair. His
ruling party, which saw its majority in parliament cut to just
over half of the house’s seats from two-thirds, won only 30
percent of votes, according to the opposition Communists.  The Russian leader previously ridiculed the protesters,
comparing the white ribbons they wore to condoms. Organizers
plan to hold a rally in central Moscow on Feb. 4, exactly a
month before the presidential election.  Putin praised the growth of the middle class, which he said
now represents 20 percent to 30 percent of the population, up
from between 5 percent and 10 percent in 1998. Russians between
25 and 35 have the highest level of education in the world along
with  Japan ,  South Korea  and  Canada , with 57 percent having a
university degree, the premier said.  Russia’s gross domestic product per capita soared to
$12,000 last year from $2,400 in 2000, while the average annual
consumption per person in dollar terms rose to $7,400 in 2011
from $2,000 nine years ago, Citigroup Inc. said in a Nov. 21
report.  Harness and Modernize  “Russia’s main challenge is to learn how to harness the
educational drive of the young generation, mobilize the
increased demands of the middle class and its readiness to carry
responsibility for its wellbeing in order to guarantee economic
growth and the stable development of the country,” he said.  During Putin’s first two terms as president, he worked to
centralize power and increase state ownership of the country’s
biggest companies. Buffeted by a booming global economy,
Russia’s economic growth averaged 7 percent a year during his
2000-2008 tenure. Putin handed the presidency to Medvedev in
2008 after serving the maximum two consecutive terms allowed by
the constitution.  The premier justified his decision to seek re-election as
president by saying Russia faced unresolved tasks, including the
development of a more modern political system and an economy
that will guarantee citizens’ rights. The Russian leader may run
again in 2018 for another six-year term, giving him a quarter-
century at the helm.  Principal Cause  While Putin’s comments show he is aware of the scale of
middle-class discontent, they don’t offer anything new and his
determination to hang on to power remains the principal cause of
the protests, said Yevgeny Minchenko, head of the Moscow-based
International Institute of Political Expertise.  “I don’t think it is a serious effort to win over the
middle class in big cities, who are behind the protests, as they
will see Putin’s comments as insufficient,” he said by phone
today. “Putin still believes the current political system is
almost ideal and it can continue to function.”  Medvedev today submitted a draft law to parliament that
will restore direct elections for governors in Russia’s regions,
which were scrapped in 2004. In December he proposed legislation
to make it easier to register parties and run for president,
changes that wouldn’t take full effect until 2016 and 2018, when
the next parliamentary and presidential elections are scheduled.  First-Round Win  Putin is just short of the 50 percent support needed to win
in the first round of March’s vote, according to the latest poll
by the state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public
Opinion .  The Russian leader would get 48 percent, compared with 10
percent for Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov  and 9 percent for
 Vladimir Zhirinovsky  of the nationalist Liberal Democrats,
according to the survey of 1,600 Russians conducted Jan. 7-8.
The margin of error was 3.4 percentage points.  Opposition politicians and political analysts including
Gleb Pavlovsky, a former Kremlin adviser, say Putin doesn’t have
enough popularity to win an outright victory. Zyuganov said on
Jan. 11 that a first-round win for Putin in the election is
impossible, “even with major fraud.”  If there is no winner in the March 4 vote, a second round
will be held within 21 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  