-- Qunar Considers U.S. IPO as China Travel Demand Fuels Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-17T03:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/qunar-considers-u-s-ipo-as-china-travel-demand-fuels-expansion.html
Qunar.com Inc., a Chinese travel
search site partly owned by  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , is considering an
initial public offering in the U.S. as it expects soaring demand
for travel services to double revenue this year.  Qunar broke even in 2010 and more than doubled sales in
2011 to “a few hundred million” yuan, Chief Executive Officer
CC Zhuang said in an interview. He declined to give a timeframe
or other target terms for a share sale.  The website gets most of its revenue from cost-per-click
travel ads and may raise money from U.S. investors after selling
a $306 million majority stake to  Baidu (BIDU) , the nation’s biggest
search engine, last June.  China ’s tourism market may overtake
 Japan ’s as the world’s largest after the U.S. by 2013, Boston
Consulting Group Inc. said in March.  “We are a unique platform that connects the traditional IT
system of airlines and hotels with massive information searches
on the Internet,” Zhuang said Jan. 12 at Qunar’s Beijing
headquarters.  Zhuang is attracting users by offering flight and hotel
booking information that isn’t limited to specific vendors and
allows searchers to make reservations directly with airlines,
hotels and services that match their needs.  China travel industry revenue is expected to increase 14
percent annually to 5.5 trillion yuan ($871 billion) in 2020
from 1.5 trillion yuan in 2010, according to  Boston Consulting
Group .  “Moving forward, the whole nation will be more and more
comfortable using online travel,” Zhuang said.  Tencent, Ctrip  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company, on
May 17 said it bought a 16 percent stake in Qunar’s competitor
ELong Inc. for $84.4 million to expand in online travel. Chinese
rival  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  listed on the  Nasdaq
Composite Index (CCMP)  in December 2003.  Ctrip.com has declined 42 percent in the past 12 months in
Nasdaq trading, compared with a 1.6 percent drop of the Nasdaq
Composite Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qunar will consider an IPO “as soon as the market becomes
stabilized,” said Zhuang, who worked for the  World Bank  in
 Washington  from 2001 to 2005.  Qunar, which means “Where do you want to go?” in Chinese,
was founded in 2005. It provides information on flight tickets,
hotels, packages, and visas, among other travel services,
according to its  website . Its search functions list options for
travelers, who are then directed to the websites of airlines,
hotels and other travel services, to make their purchase.  Catching the West  Travel booked on the Internet accounts for about 7 percent
of China’s tourism market and that ratio is expected to surge to
30 percent in the next five years, similar to current levels in
the West, Zhuang said.  Qunar hasn’t used the cash from Baidu’s investment so far,
according to Zhuang. He wants the company to have cash on hand
to tap opportunities, especially growth in mobile device
applications.  “In the next few years, mobile travel is going to be
big,” he said. “Mobile travel may have new game rules, may
have new ideas -- something we don’t even imagine today, but
they will appear one night somewhere in the world.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  