-- South African Rand Rebounds on Speculation Worst Decline in Month Overdone
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-01-16T14:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/rand-declines-for-second-day-as-s-p-euro-area-downgrades-damp-risk-demand.html
The rand gained against the dollar
on speculation its biggest decline in a month, sparked by
downgrades of nine euro-region nations’ credit ratings and of
 South Africa ’s outlook, was overdone.  South Africa’s currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 8.0823
per dollar as of 3:52 p.m. in Johannesburg, rebounding from a 1
percent slump on Jan. 13, after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped
France of its top credit rating and cut eight other euro-area
nations, while Fitch Ratings reduced its outlook on South
Africa’s BBB+ rating to negative from stable. Against the euro
it climbed 0.7 percent to 10.2412 today.  The euro, the currency of most of South Africa’s trade,
pared losses today after the  European Central Bank  bought
Italian and Spanish notes after S&P warned that Europe’s efforts
to fight its crisis are falling short. South Africa’s benchmark
stock  index  advanced and bond yields fell.  “The move on Friday was overdone and once people had time
to think about it, it became clear that the ratings news hadn’t
changed anything at all,”  George Glynos , an economist at
Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, said by phone. “The ECB has
stepped in to stabilise the environment and calm people down.”  South Africa’s central bank will leave its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged on Jan. 19, according to all 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “Fitch’s announcement, coupled with our expectation that
inflation likely accelerated to 6.3 percent in December, means
that the outcome of this week’s meeting is almost certain to be
an unchanged repo rate,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments.  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 gained, driving
the yield down five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
8.04 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  