-- Richemont Third-Quarter Sales Rise 24% on Increased Demand in Asia Markets
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-01-16T17:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/richemont-third-quarter-sales-rise-24-on-increased-demand-in-asia-markets.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the
world’s second-largest luxury-goods maker, reported 24 percent
growth in third-quarter revenue, boosted by sales of Vacheron
Constantin timepieces and Cartier jewelry in  Asia .  Revenue rose to 2.62 billion euros ($3.31 billion) in the
three months through December from 2.12 billion euros a year
earlier, the Geneva-based company said today in a statement.
That beat the 2.54 billion-euro average  estimate  of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales gained 21 percent in December,
excluding currency shifts.  Richemont gets about 40 percent of revenue from the Asia-
Pacific region, where sales climbed 36 percent in the quarter.
The market’s growth, particularly in China, is fueling demand
for luxury watches. Cartier is the second-most favored brand in
 China  for gift-giving, according to Hurun Report Inc., a
research group. Sales also grew in  Europe  and the Americas.  “Watch and jewelry demand remains robust,” said Jon Cox,
head of Swiss research at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.
“While the market is well aware of the Asia-Pacific, the
ability of tourists to buoy Europe, as well as better-than-
expected growth in the Americas, are the positive surprises.”  Richemont rose 2.8 percent to 52.1 Swiss francs in Zurich.  “The group’s overall performance remains solid,” Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Johann Rupert said in the statement.
Operating profit was “significantly higher” in 2011 than the
prior year, he said.  Swatch’s Challenge  Revenue rose 27 percent to 6.83 billion euros from April to
December. Richemont doesn’t report profit for the period.  Third-quarter revenue in the Americas gained 23 percent to
382 million euros, while sales in Europe increased 16 percent to
914 million euros. The company’s jewelry brands posted a 25
percent increase in revenue, and its watchmaking operations
reported 28 percent sales growth. Excluding currency shifts,
group revenue in the period also increased 24 percent.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker of Swiss watches, said
on Jan. 10 that 2012 will be a “major” challenge after gross
revenue last year rose to a record. The same day, New York-based
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF)   declined  the most in more than three years after
cutting its annual earnings forecast.  Richemont may be “winning share if you look at Tiffany’s
recent trading statement,” according to Kepler’s Cox.  Montblanc and Dunhill  Richemont’s watchmaking third-quarter revenue of 697
million euros exceeded analyst estimates. Brands including
Jaeger-LeCoultre and Lange & Soehne generated about a quarter of
Richemont’s sales in the three months through December.  Sales at the jewelry brands amounted to 1.36 billion euros,
beating the 1.33 billion-euro average estimate. The division
accounts for about half of the company’s sales. Richemont also
gets revenue from businesses including online fashion retailer
Net-a-Porter and Alfred Dunhill, the London-based maker of
 leather goods , fashion and lighters.  Rupert, the company’s controlling shareholder, became CEO
in 2010 after Norbert Platt, who had held the job since 2004,
stepped down. Richemont named Richard Lepeu as deputy CEO and
Gary Saage as chief financial officer in March.  Richemont sells products under 19 brands including
Montblanc, which has expanded into timepieces and accessories
from its traditional pen business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  