-- Russia’s Rating Outlook Lowered to Stable by Fitch on Political Protests
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2012-01-16T10:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/russian-rating-cut-to-stable-by-fitch-on-political-concern-energy-exports.html
Russia’s credit rating outlook was
lowered to stable from positive at  Fitch Ratings  as political
uncertainty spurs capital flight and threatens plans to wean the
economy off its dependence on energy exports.  “Political uncertainty in Russia has risen and the global
economic outlook has worsened since Fitch last affirmed the
rating” at BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, in
September, Charles Seville, director in Fitch’s sovereign group,
said in the statement. “Recent events have highlighted the
limitations and risks associated with Russia’s political
model.”  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is facing the biggest
demonstrations since he came to power more than a decade ago
over accusations of ballot-rigging in Dec. 4 parliamentary
elections. He’s seeking to return to the presidency in March 4
polls after pushing aside his protege, President  Dmitry Medvedev . None of the three main rating companies have upgraded
Russia since the 2008-2009 global financial crisis.  “It’s unclear how the country’s leadership will respond to
the unexpected wave of protests triggered by the elections,”
Fitch said. “In the long term, democratic development that
leads to better governance could be positive for Russia’s
ratings, but in the short term, uncertainty has increased.”  Rating ‘Outrage’  Putin has said Russia’s debt grade is an “outrage” that
lifts corporate borrowing costs and increases risks. The
nation’s sovereign credit rating was last raised by  New York- 
based Moody’s Investors Service in 2008 to Baa1, the third-
lowest investment grade, one level ahead of  Brazil  and four
below  China .  The 30-stock Micex Index dropped 0.4 percent to 1456.92 as
of 2:19 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble pared a gain of as much as 0.2
percent against the dollar to trade little changed at 31.8305.  Russia’s dollar Eurobonds due 2020 advanced, lowering the
yield 19 basis points to 4.447 percent. The yield on dollar debt
due 2015 slid 12 basis points to 3.14 percent.  “Political uncertainty increases the risk of capital
flight, which could put greater pressure on central bank of
Russia reserves and the ruble,” the rating company said. “A
government under popular pressure may be less inclined to carry
out a fiscal adjustment, to reduce the non-oil fiscal deficit
towards its pre-crisis target of 4.7 percent of GDP.”  Russia ’s net outflow of capital more than doubled last year
to $84.2 billion, reaching the second-highest level since
central bank records began in 1994, Bank Rossii said on its
website Jan. 12, citing preliminary data. Outflows in the fourth
quarter advanced to $37.8 billion from $19 billion in the
previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  