-- RWE Dismisses Utility Merger as EU Commissioner Calls for Scale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-01-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/rwe-s-grossmann-says-major-eu-utility-merger-not-on-cards-.html
RWE AG (RWE)  said a merger of “major”
European utilities is unlikely even as the region’s energy
commissioner suggested Germany’s largest power and natural gas
companies are too small to compete in a global market.  “I don’t think any major merger is on the cards at the
moment,”  Juergen Grossmann , RWE’s chief executive officer, said
on the sidelines of an event in Berlin yesterday. “It is not
likely this can ever happen,” he said, when asked if RWE could
merge with larger German rival EON AG.  German utilities are losing earnings and cutting jobs after
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government shut down the country’s
oldest reactors following the disaster at the Fukushima nuclear
plant in Japan. European Union Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger said this month that a merger between RWE and EON
could help the companies compete with the world’s largest energy
suppliers.  Oettinger, in an interview with  Rheinische Post , said a
merger of EON and RWE would give both companies the scale to
compete with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  or  Gazprom OAO. (GAZP) 
Grossmann cited probable antitrust concerns as standing in the
way of such a combination.  Grossmann said in June that he would consider merging RWE
with a competitor, should it benefit Germany’s second-largest
utility. The company has considered combining with  Iberdrola SA (IBE) 
of Spain,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported at the time. Grossmann
declined to comment on that in an interview with Sueddeutsche.  Global markets have since been rattled by Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis and slower economic growth.  Close Reactors  Germany plans to close all its reactors by 2022 after
meltdowns at the Fukushima station in Japan stoked safety
concerns and lost Merkel’s party votes in state elections.  RWE, based in Essen, said in November that recurrent net
income, which the utility uses to calculate its dividend, fell
to 1.78 billion euros ($2.25 billion) in the first nine months
of 2011 from 3.18 billion euros a year earlier.  EON wants to expand into countries where growth in energy
demand outstrips that in European markets. The utility, which is
based in Dusseldorf, said last week that it will pay 850 million
reais ($476 million) to take 10 percent of Brazilian billionaire
Eike Batista’s  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3)  and set up a joint venture to
generate 20,000 megawatts in Brazil and Chile.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  