-- Euro Rescue Fund Sells Bills ‘Smoothly’ After S&P Credit Rating Downgrade
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-01-17T13:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/s-p-cuts-efs-facility-to-aa-from-aaa.html
The European Financial Stability
Facility issued six-month debt for the first time, selling 1.5
billion euros ($1.9 billion) of securities a day after the euro
region’s temporary bailout fund lost its top  credit rating .  The EFSF sold the 182-day bills at an average yield of
0.2664 percent, it said in a statement. Investors bid for 3.1
times the amount of bills sold, little changed from the 3.2 bid-
to-cover ratio at a Dec. 13 offering of three-month bills. The
facility’s longer-dated bonds underperformed their euro-area
peers after the  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade to AA+ from AAA.  “The fact that the bill auction has gone so smoothly is
encouraging,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at
WestLB AG in London. “The much bigger hurdle will be when, say,
the EFSF comes to market with a five-year bond.”  The EFSF, designed to finance rescue packages for  Greece ,
Ireland and Portugal with bond sales, owed its AAA rating to
guarantees from its sponsoring nations. Two of those sovereigns,
France and Austria, were cut on Jan. 13 to AA+ from AAA by S&P,
which also downgraded seven other euro countries.  “The EFSF’s obligations are no longer fully supported
either by guarantees from EFSF members rated AAA by S&P, or by
AAA rated securities,” S&P said yesterday. “Credit
enhancements sufficient to offset what we view as the reduced
creditworthiness of guarantors are currently not in place.”  ‘Mechanical Consequence’  The decision was a “mechanical consequence” of the
previous rating cuts and “does not represent in any way a lack
of trust in the European financial backstops,” European
Commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in Brussels
today.  “The EFSF has sufficient means to fulfill its commitments
under current and potential future adjustment programs,” said
Klaus Regling, chief executive officer of the EFSF, said in an
e-mail late yesterday.  S&P said governments “may currently be exploring credit-
enhancement options” and if the EFSF adopts improvements
“sufficient to offset its now-reduced creditworthiness,” the
rating company “would likely raise” the rating back to AAA.  Euro-area finance ministers will discuss at a Jan. 23
meeting how to respond to the downgrade, a person familiar with
the matter said on condition of anonymity because the talks are
private.  Taken in Stride  Investors have taken the S&P downgrades of euro-area
nations in their stride in an echo of the rally in  Treasuries (USGG10YR) 
that followed the company’s downgrade of the U.S. last year.
French borrowing costs fell at a sale of one-year notes
yesterday and borrowing costs also dropped for  Spain  today in
its first debt offering after a two-step cut by S&P.  Japan ’s support for the EFSF won’t be immediately affected
by the rating cut, Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters in
 Tokyo  today.  The facility plans to to hold “regular” auctions of
three-, six- and 12-month bills, Christophe Frankel , deputy
chief executive officer of the EFSF, said in an e-mailed
statement. Today’s auction “confirms investors’ confidence in
EFSF as a high quality issuer,” he said.  Still, the extra yield investors demand to hold the EFSF’s
2.75 percent bonds due July 2016 rather than benchmark German
government debt increased nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 163 basis points. The spread has widened 15 basis
points from Jan. 13, the day  France  and Austria lost their AAA
ratings at S&P. Ten-year EFSF debt underperformed all other
euro-area sovereigns, bond-spread data show.  EFSF Replacement  Regling underscored the fact that the EFSF, which has a
capacity of 440 billion euros, will be replaced by a permanent
fund in July. The European Stability Mechanism will be less
vulnerable to rating changes, he told reporters in  Singapore .  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
euro-area finance ministers, said the EFSF “will continue to be
backed by unconditional and irrevocable guarantees by euro-area
member states.”  While S&P left the door open to return the EFSF to AAA
status, it also said that if enhancements are “not likely to be
forthcoming,” it would change the outlook to negative to
“mirror the negative outlooks of France and  Austria .”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  indicated the
government won’t increase its guarantee on the facility, saying
the nation’s liability of 211 billion euros is sufficient to
ensure the EFSF’s ability to lend.  ‘Sufficient’  “The guarantee sum that we have is sufficient by far for
what the EFSF has to do in coming months,” he said yesterday in
an interview on Deutschlandfunk radio.  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said on Jan. 14 that she was “always of the opinion that the
EFSF doesn’t necessarily need a AAA rating.”  The European Commission said yesterday that S&P’s
downgrades ignored  Europe ’s progress in fiscal consolidation.
Commission forecasts show the euro area’s aggregate deficit will
fall to 3.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2012 from 4.1
percent in 2011, spokesman Olivier Bailly said in Brussels.  Kraemer said in an interview on Bloomberg Television
yesterday that while there has been progress on fiscal
discipline, “little has been done to address the core
underlying problems” of competitiveness and imbalances.  Merkel said the rating company’s criticism of
“insufficient” policy steps reinforced her view that leaders
must redouble efforts to resolve the crisis.  Germany , France, the Netherlands, Finland, Austria and
Luxembourg were the top-rated nations backing the fund, and
Germany is now the only one of the 17 euro nations with a stable
AAA rating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  