-- Samsung Electronics Plans First Dollar Debt Since 2004
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-03-29T12:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/samsung-electronics-may-issue-first-overseas-bond-since-1997.html
(Corrects year of last dollar-denominated bond sale in
headline, first paragraph of story published Jan. 16 )  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of computer memory chips, plans to issue its first
U.S. dollar-denominated bonds since 2004 to expand production of
processors used in mobile devices including Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  The company has sent requests for proposals to banks to
borrow as much as $1 billion to expand production capacity at
its factory in Austin,  Texas ,  James Chung , a Seoul-based
spokesman for Samsung, said by telephone today, confirming a
report in the Korea Economic Daily yesterday. The bonds will be
issued by Samsung’s U.S. unit and may have maturities of five
years, Chung said.  Samsung Electronics sold $100 million of floating-rate
three-year notes placed privately with investors in 2004,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its last publicly sold
dollar bonds that were not convertible into equity were issued
1998, the data show.  Samsung joins cash-rich technology companies including
 Google (GOOG)  Inc. in entering the  bond market  as borrowing costs fall,
making it cheaper for the company to raise funds to meet surging
smartphone demand. Suwon-based Samsung’s credit rating, on par
with that for  South Korea , suggests strong demand for its bonds,
said Louis Shin of Woori Investment & Securities Co.  “Samsung will probably receive very positive feedback from
global investors,” Shin, a credit analyst at Woori Investment
in Seoul, said by telephone. “Investors are thirsty for
companies with good credit.”  Lower Treasury Yields  The yield on the benchmark 10-year  U.S. Treasury  bond
reached 1.87 percent on Jan. 13 in  New York , the lowest level
since Dec. 20, after dropping nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, for the week, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  Borrowing costs for global industrial companies were at the
lowest level in about two months as of Jan. 13, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Samsung, the exclusive maker of  Apple-designed (AAPL)  processors
powering the iPhone and iPad tablet computer, fell 1.5 percent
to 1,030,000 won at the close of trading in Seoul. South Korea’s
Kospi index dropped 0.9 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service has a “stable” outlook on
Samsung’s A1 rating, the fifth-highest of 10 investment grades.  Samsung had  22 trillion won  ($19 billion) in cash and
equivalents as of Sept. 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Google, which planned to issue $3 billion in its
first bond sale, had $43 billion in cash and equivalents, the
data show.  Double Spending  Samsung began running the Austin factory’s production of
mobile-phone processors at maximum capacity in October. Third-
quarter industrywide shipments of smartphones increased 44
percent from a year earlier, according to Strategy Analytics
Inc.  The Korean company may almost double spending on its logic-
chip business, which oversees manufacturing of Apple’s A4 and A5
processors, to a record 8 trillion won this year, said Shin Hyun Joon, a Seoul-based analyst at Dongbu Securities Co.  Operating profit at the business probably more than doubled
in 2011 and may increase 82 percent this year, according to
Korea Investment & Securities Co.’s estimate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  