-- Santorum Seeks Momentum After Evangelical Leaders’ Support
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-16T20:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/santorum-seeks-momentum-after-evangelical-leaders-endorsement.html
Rick Santorum , buoyed by support
over the weekend from national evangelical leaders, is urging
Republican voters in the final week of campaigning before South
Carolina’s primary to coalesce behind him as the alternative to
former  Massachusetts  Governor Mitt Romney.  “If all you think we need to do to get this economy going
and get this country on the right track is to cut government and
reduce taxes, you don’t understand America,” Santorum, a former
Pennsylvania senator, said yesterday at a “Faith, Family &
Freedom” rally in Florence, South Carolina.  “America is a moral enterprise, not an economic
enterprise,” Santorum said. “Don’t compromise on what you know
is best for this country,” he added. “ South Carolina , vote
your conscience, vote your values.”  The decision by religious leaders within the  Republican
Party  to endorse Santorum before South Carolina’s Jan. 21
primary may be the last chance to stall Romney’s march toward
the party nomination. He made history with back-to-back wins in
the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses and the Jan. 10 New Hampshire primary.  Santorum sought to play down the effect of another Romney
boost, from Jon Huntsman Jr., the former Utah governor and
former U.S. ambassador to  China  under President Barack Obama,
who today suspended his campaign and gave his support to Romney.  Backing a Moderate  Santorum, speaking to reporters at a breakfast event in
Columbia, South Carolina, ahead of Huntsman’s announcement, said
it represented a moderate backing a moderate and would have
little effect on the conservative vote.  Huntsman’s withdrawal narrows the Republican field after
Romney claimed an eight-vote win in  Iowa  and 16 percentage-point
victory in New Hampshire.  In 2008, 60 percent of South Carolina Republican primary
voters said in  exit polls  that they consider themselves “born
again” or evangelical Christians, who often oppose abortion
rights and gay marriage. Romney’s record on those issues is
mixed. When running for a U.S. Senate seat in Massachusetts in
1994, he said he would protect abortion rights. He now says he’s
changed his mind on the issue and opposes them.  Evangelicals helped propel former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  into second place in South Carolina four years ago.
What’s unclear is whether Santorum can use the endorsement of
religious leaders to his advantage. A late embrace by Iowa
evangelical leaders helped him capture second place in the
caucuses, just eight votes behind Romney.  New Hampshire  Vote  In New Hampshire, Santorum failed to capitalize on that
momentum and dropped to fifth place behind Romney, Texas
Representative  Ron Paul , Huntsman and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  respectively.  “It would have been better if it happened a lot earlier --
or even a week earlier,” said David R. White, chairman of the
political science department at Francis Marion University in
Florence, South Carolina. “It’s too little, too late.”  Richard Viguerie, chairman of the website ConservativeHQ
and a Republican political consultant, said in an interview
today that he was among those at the Texas gathering of
evangelicals who spoke on Santorum’s behalf and that it was a
fair process.  If Romney emerges as the nominee, Viguerie said, “He will
be depicted as part of that 1 percent” in a class-warfare
debate with Obama.  Eighty percent of conservatives are undecided, “but if the
vast majority of the 80 percent begins to focus on Santorum,
that can mean tens of millions of dollars overnight and much
grassroots support,” Viguerie said.  Debate Tonight  Santorum will have a chance to highlight his new backing in
Myrtle Beach, where Republican rivals are gathering ahead of
tonight’s Fox News Channel and Wall Street Journal presidential
debate. Another debate on CNN is set for Jan. 19.  Gingrich, who is challenging Santorum’s claim as the Romney
alternative, told reporters in Myrtle Beach today that because
of Santorum’s low standing in the polls, a vote for him is
“functionally voting for Governor Romney to be the nominee
because he’s not going to beat him.”  Romney won the  backing  of the Greenville News. Huntsman’s
endorsement may make it easier for the two-time presidential
candidate to lock up the votes of those not swayed by social
issues.  Paul, who has made just one campaign appearance in South
Carolina since his second-place showing in the New Hampshire
primary on Jan. 10, did so yesterday to collect the endorsement
of an anti-tax and anti-government spending Tea Party champion,
State Senator  Tom Davis .  Perry’s Lost Standing  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry , who was initially the top choice
of conservative leaders who gathered in Texas on Jan. 14, was
unable to hold them as his candidacy has slipped to sixth place
in most public opinion polls.  Santorum received 85 of 114 votes on the third ballot at
the gathering on a ranch near Bleiblerville, Texas, defeating
Gingrich, Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research
Council, told reporters on a conference call.  “We feel very good about that,” Santorum said to
reporters after yesterday’s rally in Florence. “We feel like,
that conservatives are coalescing around our campaign and that’s
going to be good for us not just in South Carolina but as we go
forward.”  Gingrich told reporters today that the evangelicals’
support for Santorum “has a very marginal impact.”  ‘Soft’ Support  Dave Woodard, a political science professor at  Clemson
University  in Clemson, South Carolina, and a Republican
consultant, said Gingrich’s second-place standing in three
statewide polls is built on “soft” support and that “a lot of
people are regular listeners to Christian radio stations and
they will follow this as a cue to help them.”  “I think most people will make up their mind Thursday,
Friday and Saturday,” said Woodard.  J.C. Watts, a former Oklahoma congressman who is a national
co-chairman for the Gingrich campaign and attended the Texas
gathering, said it’s incorrect to describe the voting there as
an endorsement. He said it was more correct to say Santorum won
a “majority” of the support.  Watts said that, although the primary campaign could go on
weeks or months longer, “after South Carolina, there will have
to be a consensus candidate” for social conservatives.  9.9 Percent Unemployment  The  South Carolina (BEESSC)  contest will play out in an economic
environment worse than the national average. The state’s
 unemployment rate  was 9.9 percent in November, the most recent
month available, compared with December’s  national rate  of 8.5
percent. That’s high enough to put South Carolina in the top 10
states for the most unemployment in November.  On the final weekend before the primary, advertising also
grew more frequent across the state.  The Red White and Blue Fund, a group supporting Santorum’s
campaign, began airing a commercial that promotes his opposition
to abortion and radical Islam.  Romney’s campaign released an online ad that seeks to
address concerns some voters might have about his changed
position on abortion during his political career.  A political action committee backing Perry began airing an
ad that attacks Gingrich on ethics and accuses Santorum of
voting for pay raises and locally targeted federal spending
projects known as earmarks.  Winning Our Future, a committee backing Gingrich, is airing
two new ads in South Carolina. One links Romney to President
 Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care overhaul and says Romney is
“not conservative” and “not electable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  