-- Saudi Aramco to Invest $200 Billion in Refining, Exploration
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-01-17T16:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/saudi-aramco-to-invest-200-billion-in-refining-exploration.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. plans to build
refineries in  China  and  Indonesia  as part of a $200 billion
spending program to double refining capacity and explore for oil
and natural gas during the next decade.  Saudi Aramco, as the state-run company is known, is
preparing for talks about “final terms” for a Chinese refinery
and is still waiting for “good terms to be put on the table”
for a processing plant in Indonesia, Chief Executive Officer
Khalid al-Falih said in an interview. Aramco will probably
decide soon whether to invest in expanding a plant it operates
with  Japan ’s Sumitomo Chemical Co., he said on Jan. 14.  Aramco, the world’s largest crude exporter, is expanding
refining and petrochemical production to meet domestic demand
and export refined products that can fetch higher prices than
oil. The company plans to boost its global refining capacity to
8 million barrels a day in 10 years, including projects yet to
be announced, al-Falih said.  “It’s an aspiration for a longer-term growth objective,”
he said of the refining-capacity target in the interview at
company headquarters in the eastern Saudi city of Dhahran.  Aramco also plans to invest in drilling for oil and gas
inside the kingdom and in petrochemicals production and other
downstream activities, he said.  Tight Gas  The company is exploring for unconventional gas, including
shale and tight gas, in the nation’s northwestern region, al-
Falih said on Jan. 14. Low gas prices are a “challenge” to
developing these hard-to-reach deposits, he said. Aramco’s
capital spending will probably rise to more than $20 billion a
year if it develops unconventional gas, he said in the
interview.  Aramco will invest $90 billion in the next five years to
increase refining capacity by 50 percent to 6 million barrels a
day in projects “that more or less have been identified,” al-
Falih said. Refining capacity in  Saudi Arabia  itself will rise
to 3.46 million barrels a day in 2016 from 2.26 million barrels,
according to a presentation Aramco officials made at an October
conference in Bahrain.  Saudi Arabia’s crude oil production rate in December was
9.76 million barrels a day, the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries said in a report yesterday, using the
average of several external estimates.  China Demand  Most of the capacity to be added above the five-year target
will be at refineries in  Asia , with the bulk of that in China,
al-Falih said. Aramco seeks to tap increasing consumption in
China, Asia’s biggest energy user, by forming joint ventures
with local partners.  The CEO said he was confident about reaching final terms on
a plant with  China National Petroleum Corp. (CNPZ) , that nation’s
largest energy producer, to be built in southern Yunnan
province. The companies have agreed on the scope of the project,
including the refinery and marketing, he said.  “It’s always key for  Saudi Aramco  when we invest anywhere
to consider both the refining side and the retail marketing
network,” he said.  A pipeline to transport crude to the refinery from
neighboring Myanmar will be completed in 2013, al-Falih said.
Aramco would ship Arabian Light and Arabian Medium crude grades
under long-term contracts to Myanmar for onward transportation
through the pipeline, he said.  Positive Indications  In Indonesia, “early indications are positive” on
Aramco’s plan to develop a refinery with state-run  PT Pertamina (PERT) ,
al-Falih said. The companies may build a 300,000 barrel-a-day
refinery in Tuban in East Java, Edi Setianto, Pertamina’s
processing director, told the Jakarta Globe newspaper. The $8.8
billion plant may start operating in 2018, according to the Dec.
29 report.  Al-Falih declined to predict when Aramco would conclude
discussions on either the Chinese or Indonesian project.  “It took us nine years to finalize the terms with Sinopec,
and it’s only less than a year since we started talks with
PetroChina,” he said.  PetroChina Co. (857)  is China National
Petroleum’s Hong Kong-listed unit. “It will take some time but
I’m sure ultimately we will have a very good project with a very
good partner.”  Japanese Partner  Aramco will meet this month with Sumitomo Chemical to
discuss “where to go from here” on the planned expansion of
their jointly owned PetroRabigh refinery in Saudi Arabia. The
partners missed their year-end target for deciding whether to
invest $6 billion to $8 billion to enlarge the facility.  “When we said year-end, we meant more or less that date,”
al-Falih said.  Saudi Aramco is committed to make the expansion of Phase 2
of PetroRabigh happen and al-Falih said he’s confident that both
companies will come to an agreement on the enlargement.  Saudi Aramco might consider expanding the  Ras Tanura 
refinery as a part of its plan to double refining capacity in 10
years, al-Falih said on Jan. 14. The expansion involved a plant
to process 400,000 barrels a day of Arabian Heavy crude though
the company pushed this into the future after it decided to add
a new local refinery with the same capacity in Jazan, in
southern Saudi Arabia. Ras Tanura is Aramco’s largest local
refinery with a capacity to refine 550,000 barrels of oil a day.  Aramco and Sinopec signed an agreement on Jan. 14 to
develop a refinery in the Saudi city of Yanbu at a cost of as
much as $10 billion. The 400,000 barrel-a-day plant will
probably begin operating in 2014, al-Falih said after the
signing ceremony in Dhahran.  Sinopec, Aramco’s largest Chinese customer, agreed last
March to take a 37.5 percent stake in the Red Sea refinery,
known by its acronym Yasref. The two companies are in early
talks to add a new refinery in China that can process as much as
300,000 barrels a day, al-Falih told reporters.  The signing coincided with a visit by Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  to the Saudi capital  Riyadh .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  