-- Shanghai Mayor Says Timing Not Right for Exchange’s International Board
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-17T02:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/shanghai-mayor-says-timing-not-right-for-international-board.html
Shanghai ,  China ’s financial hub,
signaled the delay of its international board two months after
the city’s stock exchange said it was ready to allow overseas
companies to list in the world’s third-biggest equity market.  The timing isn’t right to start the board allowing foreign
issuers to sell shares in the city even as preparations remain
smooth, Mayor  Han Zheng  said, without giving a reason. Shanghai
will instead start an over-the-counter exchange soon, he said.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has dropped 11
percent since the stock exchange said in November it’s
“basically ready” to roll out the international board, paving
the way for companies including HSBC Holdings Plc and Coca-Cola
Co. to offer equity in the city. That compares with a 0.2
percent decline in the MSCI All Country World Index.  “We have a series of preparation work to do for the
international board, including regulations,” Han told reporters
yesterday after the annual meeting of the city’s legislature.
“The timing is critical for the launch of the international
board and at this moment, it is not a good time.”  The city will also strengthen property-market controls and
focus on developing shipping services, Han, 57, said.  Shanghai, which wants to become a global financial center
by 2020, has sought to allow the trading of foreign equities to
broaden options for the nation’s 85 million individual investors
who are restricted from buying shares abroad by  capital controls .  ‘Time is Ripe’  Trading on the international board should start “as soon
as possible when the time is ripe,” Xu Ming, executive vice
president in charge of the  Shanghai Stock Exchange ’s
international stocks board, said in the November interview.  “The introduction of the international board is simply a
matter of timing now and that will be highly related to the
performance in the A-share market,” said  Li Jun , a strategist
at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Though the
possibility of launching it in the near term is low, it will
come out anyway because that will push ahead with the openness
of China’s stock market and the process of yuan’s
internationalization.”  NYSE Euronext has also expressed interest in selling stock
in the city.  Lawson Inc. (2651) , a Tokyo-based convenience-store
operator, wants to list in Shanghai within three years, becoming
the first Japanese company on the international board, the
Nikkei newspaper reported Jan. 9.  Property, Shipping  Shanghai plans to strengthen efforts to control the
municipality’s property market this year as  home prices  are
still “too high,” Han told reporters. The city will lower the
standards for applications on affordable housing this year to
cover more families and detailed policies will be released this
quarter, the mayor said.  Shanghai, one of two cities in China that introduced a tax
on properties last year, is joining national efforts to curb the
real-estate market even as the economy cools. Chinese leaders
affirmed last month they will stick with a campaign to bring
down property prices even amid a “very grim” global outlook.  “We have some achievements on property-market control last
year but the result is not solid enough,” said Han, who has
been Shanghai’s mayor since 2003. “The controls will not be
softened, the existing policies will not change, and the
policies from the central economic work meeting will be fully
implemented.”  China’s economy  expanded 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
today. Growth fell below 9 percent for the first time since mid-
2009, based on previous data, and compared with the 8.7 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists.  Shanghai, which is also home to the world’s busiest
container port, will also focus on developing marine-related
services, including shipping financing, information services and
freight forwarding, Han said yesterday.  The city will also gradually reduce internet fees as prices
are too high, the mayor said. Wireless services will be expanded,
he also said.  --Alfred Cang, with assistance from Zhang Shidong, Bonnie Cao,
Jasmine Wang,  Henry Sanderson  and  Michael Wei . Editor: Bloomberg
News, Linus Chua  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story: 
 Alfred Cang  in Shanghai at   acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  