-- Shark Attack at South Africa’s Port St. Johns Claims First Death of Year
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-01-16T10:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/shark-attack-at-south-africa-s-port-st-johns-claims-first-2012-fatality.html
A 25-year-old man died after being
bitten by a shark while swimming off Second Beach at Port St.
Johns in  South Africa ’s Eastern Cape Province, the world’s first
deadly attack of 2012.  The man sustained “multiple traumatic lacerations” to his
torso, arms and legs, John Costello, station commander for the
 National Sea Rescue Institute  in Port St. Johns, said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement without identifying the victim. The
man, who was swimming in waist-deep water with a crowd of
bathers, was declared dead at a local clinic “after all efforts
to save him had been exhausted.”  Fourteen people died after being bitten by sharks last
year, the highest number of people since 2000, according to data
from Princeton, New Jersey-based Shark Research Institute Inc.’s
 Global Shark Attack File . Of the attacks, 12 took place in the
 Indian Ocean , four of which were in Australia and three in South
Africa, the data shows. Exactly a year ago, 16-year-old South
African, Zama Ndamase, died after a shark bit him while surfing
off the same Port St. Johns’ beach.  KwaZulu-Natal’s  Sharks Board  is “carrying out studies in
an effort to try to determine why there has been such a frequent
spate of shark incidents in Port St. Johns,” Costello said in
the statement. The sea water was very warm and there was low
visibility off Second Beach yesterday, he said. The victim’s
name is not yet being released, Craig Lambinon, the National Sea
Rescue Institute’s spokesman, said by phone today.  Human Impact  With the world’s population now topping 7 billion people,
low cost travel and an increasing number of people engaging in
activities such as scuba diving, there are more people in the
water than ever before, according to research done by George
Burgess, director of the Gainesville, Florida-based
 International Shark Attack File . The sharks most often cited for
fatal attacks, which include great white sharks and bull sharks,
have not become more aggressive, International Shark Attack File
said.  “With all the human pressure on fish stocks and impacts on
the natural food chain, there may be times when there is less
natural prey available to the shark, so they hunt what they can
to survive,” Amy Wilkes, a senior aquarist at the  Sydney
Aquarium , said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Increased
numbers of attacks in one area are not necessarily the same
shark, rather there are more sharks in that particular area.”  Climate Change  In the past three years, countries including Russia,
Seychelles, Egypt and  Australia  have recorded more than one
fatality in the same area over a short period of time, according
to Global Shark File data. These attacks often result in calls
for the culling of sharks or the use of shark nets, measures
that may disturb the ocean’s balance and cut the shark
population.  “Changes in climatic conditions, whether anthropogenically
driven or otherwise, are likely to produce knock-on effects
within marine ecosystems, affecting the movement patterns of
large, wide ranging predators,” David Jacoby, who studies shark
behavior at  The Marine Biological Association of the U.K. , said
in response to e-mailed questions. “Of course some places just
have a larger population of these animals within their waters,
such as South Africa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  