-- Singapore’s Private Home Sales Drop to Lowest in Two Years on New Taxes
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-01-16T06:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/singapore-s-private-home-sales-drop-to-lowest-in-two-years-on-new-taxes.html
Singapore’s December private home
sales dropped to the lowest in two years after the government
imposed new taxes on house purchases.  Private home sales in the island city fell to 632 units
in December, the lowest since December 2009, according to
data from the  Urban Redevelopment Authority . Total sales for
the year declined 24 percent to 12,656 units from a year, the
data showed.  “This result was as predicted when the policy was
implemented,” Carolyn Goh, a spokeswoman at PropNex Realty,
a real estate broker, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Cautious sentiments prevails in December, with potential
private homebuyers preferring to keep their options open
before committing to any purchase in waiting for price
corrections.”  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since
2009, when the government barred interest-only loans for some
housing projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb
interest payments for apartments still being built.  Home
prices (URPIPRCA)  climbed 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter from the
previous three months, the smallest gain in 2 1/2 years,
according to government data.  More Taxes  The introduction of additional taxes on foreigners
buying homes in the island city will probably cause a further
drop in demand as they made up 36 percent of transactions in
the prime market last year,  Jones Lang  LaSalle Inc., the
world’s second-biggest publicly traded commercial-property
broker, said.  Foreigners and corporate entities will have to pay an
additional 10 percent stamp duty, the government said on Dec.
7. The extra levy will be 3 percent for permanent residents
purchasing a second home and for citizens buying their third
residential property. The government earlier imposed a 1
percent duty on the first S$180,000 ($139,232) of the
property price, 2 percent on the next S$180,000 and 3 percent
for the remainder.  Demand for prime properties such as those close to the
Orchard Road shopping belt has been falling, with sales
dropping 44 percent in the fourth quarter compared with the
previous three months, Jones Lang said on Jan. 12. The prime
markets are suffering from an oversupply of new stock, with
approximately 60 percent of completed and unsold units
island-wide located in those areas as of September, it said.  Sales in the quarter fell to 3,726 units, the lowest in
three quarters, government data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  