-- Singapore Exchange, China Sky in Courtroom ‘Test of Wills’
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-01-16T10:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/singapore-exchange-takes-china-sky-to-court-in-enforcement-test-of-wills-.html
Singapore Exchange (SGX) , where 40 percent
of listed firms are based outside the city state, is going to
court to enforce its listing rules for the first time after a
Chinese company ignored a deadline to appoint a special auditor.  The exchange sued  China  Sky Chemical Fibre Co. and four of
its Chinese directors on Jan. 6 to compel the Quanzhou City,
Fujian-based company to have a special auditor investigate
“interested party transactions,” a failed land acquisition and
certain costs. A closed hearing was held today.  “This is the first time that a company has been so
defiant,” said Lan Luh Luh, an associate professor at the
 National University  of  Singapore ’s business school. “They’re
testing the will and limits of the SGX. All eyes are on SGX to
see the extent of its enforcement.”  Singapore investors have pressed for tougher rules as
accounting scandals have wiped out the market values of China-
based firms from  New York  to  Hong Kong , including  Sino-Forest
Corp. (TRE)  and  FerroChina Ltd (FRC) . Singapore Exchange,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest bourse by the value of shares traded, accused China Sky
of “flagrant disregard” of its directive.  China Sky, in minutes of a Dec. 24 meeting in Singapore
between its Chief Executive Officer Huang Zhong Xuan and
Lawrence Wong from the bourse, submitted to the exchange that
some of its demands “were extremely unreasonable.” China Sky
released the minutes of the meeting in a statement to the
Singapore Exchange.  ‘Bullied Child’  “Huang told them that the company’s position was similar
to that of a bullied child,” according to the minutes.  Joan Lew, a spokeswoman for Singapore Exchange, declined to
comment on the case today because it’s before the courts.  “The board of directors may need more time to be able to
give me meaningful instructions on how to respond to the present
proceedings,” China Sky’s lawyer, Leonard Chia, said today.  Trading in China Sky shares has been suspended since Nov.
17, a day after the exchange first ordered the company to
appoint the special auditor. The shares had  tumbled  96 percent
from their peak of S$2.74 in October 2007.  The watchdog and China Sky have issued 25 regulatory
filings since the Nov. 16 directive. All three independent
directors at the nylon fiber maker quit on Jan. 5, citing non-
compliance with the exchange’s order.  There’ve been no further statements since  Singapore
Exchange  started legal proceedings on Jan. 6.  Spirit ‘Beyond Form’  “Issuers must comply with the listing rules in accordance
with the spirit, intention and purpose by looking beyond form to
substance,” Lorraine Chay, vice president of the exchange’s
issuer regulation unit, said in a 640-page court filing. The
exchange is seeking a court order for China Sky to follow its
directive and get its approval for board hires.  Refusing to heed a court order would be in contempt of
court, which carries a jail term, a fine or both. No maximum
penalty has been specified under Singapore’s constitution.  Er Kwong Wah, Lai Seng Kwoon and Yeap Wai Kong, the three
Singaporean independent directors who quit on Jan. 5, declined
to comment on China Sky’s dispute with the exchange, saying it
was “inappropriate.”  In March, a Singapore court sentenced Peter Madhavan, a
former independent director at Singapore-based freight forwarder
Airocean Group Ltd., to four months in prison for his role in
issuing a misleading regulatory filing. He was the first
independent director to be jailed.  Increased Scrutiny  Chinese firms listed on overseas exchanges including  North
America  and Hong Kong have come under increased scrutiny from
regulators and investors. In Singapore, at least 20 Chinese
firms on the city’s  S$775.8 billion  ($600 billion) stock market
have been suspended or ordered to delist since 2008.  The  FTSE Strait Times China Index (FSTC)  of 53 Chinese stocks
tumbled 33 percent last year, compared with a 17 percent fall on
the benchmark Straits Times Index.  Shares of Singapore Exchange Ltd. fell 2.2 percent to
S$6.10 at the close of trading today. The bourse reported a 12
percent fall in net income for the three months ended December
today as daily trading volumes plunged 37 percent.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has set up a
 task force  to look for fraud in overseas companies, specifically
from China, with listings on U.S. exchanges, and in 2010 began a
probe asking auditors for information on audit practices of such
companies.  Deloitte  Shanghai-based Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. was
ordered this month to appear in a U.S. court after rejecting a
SEC demand for documents related to an investigation of its
former client  Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. (LGFTY)   Deloitte & Touche LLP in Singapore had recommended that its
client China Sky hire an external consultant, supporting the
exchange’s view that special auditors should be appointed,
according to Singapore Exchange’s court filing.  Doreena Tong, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at Deloitte,
declined to comment on China Sky, citing client confidentiality.
China Sky’s  net income  rose 87 percent to 111.1 million yuan
($17.6 million) for the nine months ended Sept. 30.  “The company’s financial statements have been audited by a
Big Four accounting firm and the company has been receiving a
clean bill of health since IPO to date,” China Sky’s lawyer
Chia said in a Dec. 8 letter to the exchange, according to court
filings. “The directive was issued with no apparent regard for
the various explanations and clarifications painstakingly
provided to you.”  ‘Inadvertent Lapses’  The next day, the Chinese firm sent a letter to the
exchange’s Chay saying while there’ve been “inadvertent
disclosure lapses, it is never the intention of the company to
hide or deliberately misinform the investing public.”  China Sky had devoted substantial time and resources to
answer the regulator’s queries, which has been “most
disruptive” to its operations and distracted it in “this
difficult time,” the company said in the letter signed by
Huang, its CEO and largest shareholder with a 37.8 percent
stake.  Guoco Group Ltd. (53) , the second-largest investor in China Sky
with a 10.3 percent stake, “strongly urges the board to
speedily resolve and to comply” with the exchange’s directive,
said Stella Lo, a Guoco spokeswoman. Hong Kong-based Guoco is
controlled by Malaysian billionaire Quek Leng Chan.  “China Sky and its directors should act promptly to comply
with their listing obligations in the interests of all
shareholders,” said the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the
capital markets regulator with oversight of the exchange.  “It clearly indicates that the Singapore Exchange is
prepared to do what is within its powers to make companies
comply,” said Lock Yin Mei, who advises on initial public
offerings at London-based law firm Allen & Overy LLP’s Singapore
office. “Listed companies should take heed.”  The case is Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Ltd. v
 China Sky Chemical Fibre Co. (CSCF) , Huang Zhong Xuan, Cheung Wing Lin,
Song Jian Sheng and Wang Zhi Wei OS11/2012 in the Singapore High
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  