-- Singapore Exchange Withdraws Enforcement Suit Against China Sky Chemical
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-01-17T05:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/singapore-exchange-withdraws-enforcement-suit-against-china-sky-chemical.html
Singapore Exchange  withdrew a
lawsuit filed to force  China Sky Chemical Fibre Co. (CSCF)  to comply by
listing rules, and said lawyers for both sides met after the
company ignored a deadline to appoint a special auditor.  China Sky’s lawyer is seeking further instructions from the
Quanzhou City, Fujian-based company, the exchange,  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest bourse by value of shares traded, said in a
statement yesterday. Singapore Exchange didn’t give a reason for
withdrawing the suit, according to a separate statement.  Investors have pressed for tougher rules as accounting
scandals wiped out millions of dollars in the market values of
China-based companies including  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  and led others
such as  FerroChina Ltd. (FRC)  to be delisted. The exchange had accused
China Sky of “flagrant disregard” of its order to appoint a
special auditor.  “SGX must show its teeth and pressure errant companies,”
said  Aloysius Wee , managing principal at the Singapore
operations of Beijing-based Dacheng Law Offices. “Legal
proceedings may not be the appropriate way.”  Singapore Exchange (SGX) , also known as SGX, sued the Chinese
nylon-fiber maker and four of its Chinese directors on Jan. 6 to
compel the appointment of a special auditor to investigate
“interested-party transactions,” a failed land purchase and
certain repair costs. All three independent directors at China
Sky quit Jan. 5, citing non-compliance with the bourse’s order.  ‘Face-Saving’ Move  SGX issued the two statements after a closed hearing on the
lawsuit at Singapore’s High Court yesterday.  “Close-door mediation would be the best way forward,”
said Wee, who isn’t involved in the case. “It’s face-saving for
both.”  Some demands made by the bourse “were extremely
unreasonable,” China Sky said in minutes of a Dec. 24 meeting
in  Singapore  between its Chief Executive Officer Huang Zhong Xuan and the bourse’s Lawrence Wong. The Chinese company
released the minutes in a Jan. 6 statement to the Singapore
Exchange. China Sky will “continue to communicate with SGX to
resolve the impasse,” it said in the statement.  Shares of Singapore Exchange Ltd. rose 1.3 percent to
S$6.18 as of 1:04 p.m. local time. The bourse yesterday reported
a 12 percent drop in net income for the three months ended
December as daily trading volumes plunged 37 percent.  Shares Suspended  Trading in  China Sky shares  has been suspended since Nov.
17, a day after the exchange first ordered the company to
appoint the special auditor. The shares closed trading on Nov.
16 at S$0.102, tumbling 96 percent from their peak of S$2.74 in
October 2007.  Guoco Group Ltd. (53) , the second-largest investor in China Sky
with a 10.3 percent stake, had strongly urged the Chinese firm
to “speedily resolve” the dispute with the exchange, according
to Stella Lo, a Guoco spokeswoman.  “There’s little comfort in SGX withdrawing the lawsuit,”
said David Gerald, president of the Securities Investors
Association of Singapore, which represents 70,000 retail
investors. “There’s still no word on whether China Sky will
comply or when the share suspension will be lifted. Shareholders
are in a limbo.”  The case was Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Ltd. v.
China Sky Chemical Fibre Co., Huang Zhong Xuan, Cheung Wing Lin,
Song Jian Sheng and Wang Zhi Wei OS11/2012 in the Singapore High
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  