-- Singapore Exchange Quarterly Profit Slides on Volume Plunge
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-01-16T10:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/singapore-exchange-quarterly-profit-slides-on-volume-plunge-1-.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , operator of
Asia’s eighth-largest equity market by value, said second-
quarter net income fell 12 percent from a year earlier as daily
trading volumes plunged 37 percent. Revenue from derivatives
products climbed 11 percent amid market volatility.  Profit in the three months ended December fell to S$65.4
million ($50.6 million) from S$74.2 million a year earlier, the
bourse operator said in a filing to the exchange. That exceeded
the average  estimate  of S$61.4 million by five analysts compiled
by Bloomberg. Revenue from trading of securities dropped 34
percent from a year before.  “We’re pleased with the results given that we’ve had a
very difficult quarter,” Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker 
said at a briefing. “We’ve seen some bright spots especially in
the derivatives business. Over time, this will be a big growth
driver.”  Stocks plunged globally in 2011 as Europe struggled to
resolve its debt crisis and  China  took steps to cool its
 property market . Singapore’s benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) 
slumped 17 percent, the most since 2008. A daily average of
S$1.1 billion of shares traded on the exchange in the second
quarter, compared with S$1.8 billion in the same period a year
earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg News.  Bocker, appointed in December 2009, has been trying to
boost equities trading with the introduction of the world’s
fastest order processor in August and by scrapping the lunch
trading break in the city-state. His most ambitious plan, the
A$8.3 billion ($8.5 billion) takeover bid for ASX Ltd., was
blocked by the Australian government in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  