-- Speedy EU Energy-Rule Change Will Protect Trading, Trayport Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-01-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/speedy-eu-energy-rule-change-will-protect-trading-trayport-says.html
Speedy decisions by European Union
regulators to clarify changes in energy rules will help protect
trading volumes, Trayport Ltd said.  Producers, utilities, traders and brokers will probably
need to change how they report transactions under reforms to
antitrust rules and the Regulation on Energy Market Integrity
and Transparency, or REMIT, said  Dan Smith , head of corporate
development at the London provider of trading systems owned by
 GFI Group Inc. (GFIG)   Rules to limit market abuse are being expanded to cover
power, natural gas, coal and carbon trading, with firms in those
markets required to register with national regulators and report
trades to the European Agency for the Cooperation of Energy
Regulators in Ljubljana, Slovenia, known as ACER. Regulators
including ACER need to finalize rules to remove risks during a
period when the sovereign-debt crisis is hurting energy prices,
Trayport said in an e-mailed report.  “This type of regulatory limbo can drag on investment in
trading and, while unresolved, could slow development of the
market,” Smith said by phone on Jan. 13. “That said, we
believe the increased transparency that comes with REMIT when
fully implemented will be good for the market.”  Red Tape Burden  Trayport will probably offer new software to make it easier
for traders and brokers to meet reporting requirements, it said.
“Overlapping licensing programs on the EU and national level
add to the burden of red tape on traders. But now that we have
an EU-level license, it’s important to quickly evolve this to a
state where it can replace national schemes,” Smith said.  Brokers won’t feel the full impact of the regime until the
transaction reporting and market monitoring by ACER is in full
swing, which may be at least 18 months away, Smith said.  “While this process is going on, it makes it difficult for
participants to plan,” he said. “They need clarity.”  Regulators need the transactions to be reported in order
for them to better investigate any allegations of  insider
trading  in energy markets, Smith said. The report was co-
authored by Sapient Global Markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  