-- Stocks in Europe Advance as France Sells Treasury Bills; Carnival Tumbles
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-16T16:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/stock-futures-in-europe-fluctuate-before-french-auction-of-treasury-bills.html
European stocks  advanced to a five-
month high, snapping three days of losses, as France auctioned
debt at a lower borrowing cost even after  Standard & Poor’s 
stripped the country of its top  credit rating .  Fiat SpA (F)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  led a rally in  carmakers  after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended the industry.  Carnival
Corp. (CCL)  tumbled 16 percent in London after its Costa Concordia
cruise liner ran aground off  Italy , killing at least six people.
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  retreated 1.6 percent as the cement maker said it
will book a charge in the fourth quarter.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed 0.8 percent to 251.12 at
the close, rising above its 200-day moving average to the
highest level since Aug. 3. The benchmark measure earlier fell
as much as 0.5 percent. The gauge erased its gains on Jan. 13,
the final day of trading last week, amid reports S&P planned to
downgrade several euro-area countries.  “Rating downgrades are always a bit of old news and
everybody already anticipated the move from S&P, but a  positive
is that President Sarkozy will have less leverage against
 Chancellor Merkel , who’s getting more room to push her agenda,”
said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S in
Copenhagen, which manages $45 billion. “We’ve seen a series of
indicators showing macro-economic conditions have improved.”  S&P Downgrades  France   The rating company downgraded France to AA+ from AAA with a
negative outlook after the close of European trading on Jan. 13.
It cut Cyprus, Italy, Portugal and  Spain  by two grades, while
also lowering the long-term ratings on Austria, Malta, Slovakia
and Slovenia.  Germany , Belgium, Estonia, Finland, Ireland,
Luxembourg and the Netherlands had their grades affirmed.  National benchmark indexes rose in every west-European
market except Portugal and Spain. France’s CAC 40 Index jumped
0.9 percent, Germany’s DAX Index gained 1.3 percent and the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index increased 0.4 percent.  The euro declined for a second day, falling to an 11-year
low against the yen today even as the  European Central Bank  was
said to buy Italian and Spanish bonds.  French borrowing costs fell at a sale of 51-week treasury
bills in the first sale since the nation’s credit downgrade.
France sold 1.895 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of one-year notes
at a yield of 0.406 percent, down from 0.454 percent on Jan. 9.
The Treasury sold a total of 8.59 billion euros in bills,
including three and six-month paper.  Fiscal Deficit Rules  Euro-area leaders will this week try to rescue under-fire
efforts to deliver new fiscal rules and cut  Greece ’s debt burden
as they urge investors to ignore the S&P downgrades.  Greek officials will reconvene with creditors on Jan. 18
after discussions stalled last week, raising the threat of
default. German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will also meet as the ECB warns governments
against “watering down” a revamp of budget laws.  Fiat led a gauge of carmakers to the biggest gain on the
 Stoxx 600  today as Goldman Sachs reiterated its “attractive”
view on the industry. Fiat surged 7 percent to 4.16 euros,  Fiat
Industrial SpA (FI)  increased 3.9 percent to 7.41 euros and Pirelli &
C. SpA climbed 4.9 percent to 6.92 euros as analysts recommended
all three companies’ shares and added Pirelli to their
“conviction buy” list.  Daimler (DAI)  was also added to Goldman’s “conviction buy”
list, while  Renault SA (RNO)  was upgraded to “neutral” from
“sell.” The carmakers climbed 3.6 percent to 39.35 euros and
2.9 percent to 30.87 euros, respectively.  “The sector is now discounting a substantial decline in
returns in 2012,” wrote Goldman analyst Stefan Burgstaller in a
report to clients dated today. “The European Union sector is in
better financial and operational shape than in 2007, and we
believe it is well placed to benefit from global economic
realignment.”  Carnival Shares Tumble  Carnival tumbled 16 percent to 1,878 pence, the biggest
drop since the shares started trading in London in 2000, after
its cruise liner capsized off the Italian coast on Jan. 13,
injuring about 60 people. The ship, carrying more than 4,000
passengers and crew, hit submerged rocks in the Tyrrhenian Sea.
Rescuers are still searching for as many as 17 people.  Morgan Stanley lowered its recommendation for  the shares  to
“equal weight” from “overweight.”  Holcim lost 1.6 percent to 51 Swiss francs. The world’s
second-largest cement maker said it will book a 775 million-
franc ($812 million) charge in the  fourth quarter  after writing
off investments in  South Africa  and revaluing assets in sluggish
markets from Spain to the U.S.  Lundin Drops  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  sank 14 percent to 152.10 kronor after
the company said it will probably reduce its estimates for the
recoverable resources at the Avaldsnes discovery.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA gained 2.8 percent to 52.10
francs after the world’s second-largest luxury goods maker
reported 24 percent growth in  third-quarter revenue  to 2.62
billion euros, as sales of Cartier jewelry increased in  Asia .
That beat the  median analyst estimate  of 2.54 billion euros.  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH)  jumped 10 percent to 303.75
pence, its biggest rally in a month, after the Sunday Times
reported that Cairn Energy Plc has held talks with the U.K.
company that discovered oil near the Falkland Islands off
Argentina.  Rockhopper has hired Bank of America Corp. to find a
partner to share development costs. The talks may lead to a
takeover, the Sunday Times said, citing unidentified bankers.  Cairn Energy doesn’t comment on rumors, a spokesman, who
declined to be identified citing company policy, told Bloomberg
News by phone yesterday. Rockhopper spokesman Patrick d’Ancona
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  