-- Study Disputes Finding That Hormone Therapy Causes Breast Cancer
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-01-16T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/study-disputes-finding-that-hormone-therapy-causes-breast-cancer.html
The Million Women Study , a U.K.
project that found hormone replacement therapy led to increased
risk of breast cancer, had flaws that call into question the
findings, according to a review of the evidence led by a South
African researcher.  Design flaws, such as including cases of cancer detected
within a few months of the start of the study and using
participants involved in a breast screening program, may have
skewed the findings, according to the analysis led by Samuel
Shapiro at the University of Cape Town Medical School.  The Million Women Study, begun in 1996 and conducted by
Cancer Research U.K. and the  National Health Service , involves
more than a million participants in the U.K. age 50 and over.
Users of estrogen-progestogen  hormone replacement therapy , or
HRT, had twice the risk of developing  breast cancer  compared
with non-users, and HRT use by women aged 50 to 64 between 1993
and 2003 resulted in about 20,000 additional cases of breast
cancer, according to the  study .  “We conclude that the evidence in the MWS was indeed
unreliable,” Shapiro and his authors wrote in an article
published today in the  Journal of Family Planning and
Reproductive Health Care . “HRT may or may not increase the risk
of breast cancer, but the MWS did not establish that it does.”  Hormone therapy is prescribed to women to ease the symptoms
of menopause. Reduced estrogen levels during  menopause  may cause
the part of the brain responsible for temperature control to
malfunction, according to the North American Menopause Society,
a nonprofit organization based in Mayfield Heights,  Ohio . Hot
flashes strike suddenly and can be accompanied by rapid
heartbeat, nausea, dizziness, headaches, muscle weakness and
fatigue.  ‘Implausible’  For the most aggressive forms of cancer, it is generally
accepted that it takes a decade for a tumor to reach the size of
1 centimeter, which is the smallest size that can be diagnosed
clinically, according to the authors. Therefore, it is
“implausible” that HRT use, which was less than seven years in
the study, could have increased the risk of breast cancer, they
said.  “The authors omit to say that Million Women Study
findings, of an increased risk of breast cancer in users of HRT,
especially of estrogen-progestogen combinations, have been
replicated in over 20 other studies,” said Valerie Beral, a
lead researcher for the Million Women Study and director of the
cancer epidemiology unit at Oxford University in Oxford,
 England , in an e-mailed statement. “The totality of the
worldwide evidence is now overwhelming.”  Industry Consultants  Shapiro and three of his co-authors are consultants for
manufacturers of HRT products, according to their disclosure in
the article. The other co-author has been a consultant in the
past. Wyeth, acquired in October 2009 by New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  for $68 billion, is the largest maker of hormone
replacement drugs.  “This paper is a re-statement of views held by many
consultants to HRT manufacturers -- as these authors are --
attempting to dispute evidence about the adverse effects of
HRT,” Beral said.  The recent large decrease in HRT use has been followed in
many countries by a nationwide decline in the incidence of
breast cancer, Beral said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  