-- Sumitomo Mitsui to Buy RBS Aviation in World’s Biggest Plane-Leasing Deal
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-01-17T16:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/sumitomo-mitsui-to-acquire-rbs-aviation-leasing-division-for-7-3-billion.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is
selling its aviation leasing unit to  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316)  for about $7.3 billion, the biggest disposal by the
state-owned lender since its U.K. government bailout in 2008.  The sale of the Dublin-based unit should be completed by
the end of the third quarter, leaving  Japan ’s second-biggest
bank by market value and partner Sumitomo Corp. in control of a
fleet of 206 aircraft, with commitments to buy another 87 by
2015, RBS said in a statement. The Tokyo-based group fended off
bids from  China Development Bank  Corp. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  as
its President Koichi Miyata sought overseas acquisitions to
counter slowing growth at home.  RBS  shares  have rallied 23 percent this year as the
Edinburgh-based bank announced about 4,800 job cuts and asset
sales that have reduced its so-called “non-core” division by
more than 160 billion pounds ($246 billion) to less than 100
billion pounds in three years. The bank said last week it plans
to sell or close its cash equities, mergers advisory, corporate
broking and equity capital markets operations.  “This is a milestone in terms of RBS running down its non-
core business and marks another step in the right direction,”
said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool.
“These were long-term assets which aren’t particularly liquid,
which meant RBS had to hold quite a bit of capital against
them.”  RBS gained 1.8 percent to 24.85 pence at the close in
 London . Sumitomo Mitsui  closed  1.2 percent higher at 2,211 yen
in Tokyo, while Sumitomo rose 1.1 percent to 1,045 yen.  Insurance Unit  Further RBS asset sales this year may include the bank’s
insurance unit, including Churchill and Direct Line, which could
raise as much as 4.7 billion pounds, Shore Capital’s Greenwood
said. RBS has to sell the business by 2013 to comply with a
European Union ruling following its receipt of state aid.  RBS, which received 45.5 billion pounds from taxpayers
during the world’s biggest bank bailout, will use the proceeds
to strengthen its core Tier 1 capital position and reduce
wholesale funding requirements, it said yesterday.  The deal is the biggest overseas takeover by a Japanese
bank since at least 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Tokyo-based firm bid together with its main
lending unit, as well as  Sumitomo Mitsui  Finance & Leasing Co.
and trading company Sumitomo, it said in a statement.  “It’s positive to see Sumitomo Mitsui obtain a business of
this type, which generates higher profit margins than operations
in its home market,” said Yoshinobu Yamada, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo. “Japanese banks will be significant
players in acquisitions of European assets.”  Additional Purchases  Sumitomo Mitsui became the leading bidder after concern
grew that state-owned  China Development Bank (SDBZ)  would struggle to
gain government approval in a timely manner, a person with
knowledge of the talks said on Jan. 12.  Barclays Plc’s Barclays Capital unit and bankers from
Sumitomo Mitsui’s Nikko unit are advising the Japanese bank on
the deal, along with Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Clifford Chance LLP are advising RBS.  Sumitomo Mitsui plans to buy “several hundred billion
yen” of assets being sold by European lenders, Miyata said in a
December interview.  Project Financing   Other Japanese lenders are also seeking to purchase assets
abroad.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , the country’s
largest bank, aims to become one of  Asia ’s three biggest lenders
by profit through acquisitions, funding infrastructure projects
and expanding retail banking, Deputy President  Tatsuo Tanaka 
said in an interview last week.  Tokyo-based Mitsubishi UFJ agreed in November to buy RBS’s
Australia-based infrastructure advisory business. That followed
the lender’s 3.9 billion-pound acquisition in 2010 of RBS’s
project financing assets in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa .  Lessors buy planes and then lease them to airlines for
monthly fees, seeking to profit from the residual value by
selling aircraft after about 15 years. RBS Aviation has the
seventh biggest fleet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  