-- U.K. AAA Rating Will Avoid S&P-Style Downgrade, Citigroup Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-16T10:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/u-k-aaa-rating-will-avoid-s-p-style-downgrade-citigroup-says.html
Britain’s top credit rating is
“secure for now” and the country should avoid the fate of the
euro area, where nine member states were downgraded by  Standard
& Poor’s  last week, Citigroup Inc. said.  “To be sure, the U.K. suffers from some of the adverse
factors cited by S&P to justify the euro-area downgrades,”
London-based Citigroup analysts  Michael Saunders  and Mark Schofield said in a note to clients today. “Nevertheless, in
other respects, we think the U.K.’s ability to return to fiscal
sustainability is significantly better than most” euro-region
governments.  Germany  was left with the euro area’s only stable AAA
rating at S&P after the ratings company cut nine sovereigns on
Jan. 13. Citigroup said the U.K. will retain its rating and
“not be placed on negative watch or negative outlook” because
of the government’s commitment to reducing the  budget deficit 
and the nation’s flexible monetary policy.  Citigroup also said the U.K. faces less risk of having to
support euro-area countries and banks ensnared in the region’s
debt crisis. At the same time, the British government’s
proposals to protect U.K. lenders’ consumer units will limit its
liabilities to backstop them against other losses.  “Nevertheless, of course, the U.K.’s AAA rating would be
vulnerable if the economic outlook for 2012-13 proves far worse
than we currently expect,” the analysts said, adding that the
next hurdle will be Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s
budget in March.  “We do not currently believe that extra fiscal tightening
will be needed to keep the deficit edging down in 2012-2013, but
if it proves necessary, the chancellor will probably implement
it,” they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  