-- U.K. Home Sellers Cut Prices as Recovery in ‘Paralysis’: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-16T11:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/u-k-house-prices-decline-for-third-month-at-start-of-challenging-2012.html
U.K. home sellers cut  asking prices 
for a third month in January, according to  Rightmove Plc (RMV) , which
said the  property market  will remain “challenging” this year.  Average asking prices in England and  Wales  fell 0.8 percent
from December to 224,060 pounds ($343,000), the lowest in a
year, the operator of Britain’s biggest  property website  said in
London today. In the capital, values gained 0.8 percent.  U.K. property prices may remain under pressure as
 unemployment  rises and euro-region turmoil threatens economic
growth. Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club said today that Britain
has slipped back into a recession and Europe’s inability to end
the debt crisis has had a “debilitating effect” on the U.K.,
which is in a “state of paralysis.”  “It really depends how long the euro-zone crisis drags
on,”  Andrew Goodwin , senior economic adviser to the ITEM Club,
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” today. “What we
have to see happen is some form of resolution, which then
stabilizes confidence and gets consumers and businesses
spending. That’s not going to be instantaneous.”  European leaders will meet for a summit on Jan. 30 to try
to end the turmoil.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the ratings on nine of
the region’s sovereigns on Jan. 13. Citigroup Inc. said today
that Britain’s top credit rating is “secure for now,” saying
the U.K. faces less risk of having to support euro-area
countries and banks ensnared in the debt crisis and because of
the government’s commitment to budget cuts.  ‘Extremely Challenging’  “There’s no doubt that the crisis in the  euro zone  is
extremely challenging for Britain,” Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
 Hong Kong  today. “But actually some of the more recent economic
indicators over the turn of the year, some of the survey data
for services, manufacturing and construction, has actually been
pretty positive.”  ITEM Club said Britain’s economy will probably shrink in
the current quarter after contracting in the last three months
of 2011. It cut its 2012 growth forecast to 0.2 percent from 1.5
percent. Data on Jan. 18 will show jobless claims probably
increased by 7,000 in December, according to the median of 25
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The FTSE 100 Index was little changed at 5,633.95 as of
11:35 a.m. in London.  Europe ’s  Stoxx 600 Index  rose 0.2 percent
after earlier falling as much as 0.5 percent. Today is a public
holiday in the U.S.  Japan  Resilience  In  Australia , data today showed  home-loan approvals  rose in
November for an eighth month as the central bank’s first
interest-rate reduction in two years helped attract first-time
buyers. In  Asia , Japan’s machinery orders rebounded in November
from a month earlier by more than economists estimated,
signaling the world’s third-largest economy is showing some
resilience to the global growth slowdown.  China ’s economy probably grew 8.7 percent in the  fourth
quarter  from a year earlier, which would be the weakest in more
than two years, according to the median forecast of 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The data are scheduled
for release tomorrow in Beijing.  While Rightmove said there are signs of “pent-up demand”
for U.K. property, a lack of mortgage finance may limit sales.
 Mortgage approvals  were little changed in November and banks
expect to toughen lending terms in the first quarter because of
strains in funding markets related to the euro crisis, according
to the Bank of  England .  Low Transactions  Searches on Rightmove’s website rose 27 percent from a year
earlier to more than 44 million in the first 10 days of the
year, the highest since it was started in 2000.  “While this doesn’t necessarily indicate a surge in
proceedable buyer numbers, it does highlight a strong pent-up
demand to move,” the company said. “The market is stuck in a
low transaction volume pit that will be hard to escape from
without the mortgage funding.”  “The market will remain challenging and fragmented during
2012,” it said.  Out of the 10 regions in England and Wales tracked by
Rightmove, six posted declines this month, led by a 3.5 percent
drop in southwest England. Excluding  London (RMREGL) , prices in the other
nine areas fell an average of 1.5 percent from December.  From a year earlier, prices nationally rose 0.4 percent in
January, the company said. In  London , they surged 6.1 percent.  London prices will probably continue to outperform other
regions in 2012, according to Rightmove. The number of new
listings in the capital fell to its lowest level in three years
in the first week of January, an “early indication that a
shortage of sellers and upwards price pressure will again
feature in 2012,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  