-- U.S. Stock Futures Rise as French Borrowing Costs Decline After Auction
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-01-16T16:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/u-s-stock-futures-decline-on-as-rating-cuts-raise-european-debt-concerns.html
U.S. stock-index futures rose as
French borrowing costs fell in the first sale of bills since
Standard & Poor’s downgraded the country.  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  tumbled 14 percent in German trading after
its Costa Concordia cruise liner ran aground off Italy’s Tuscan
coast, killing at least six people and injuring 60.  S&P 500 Index (SPX)   futures  expiring in March rose 0.2 percent to
1,291.4 at 11:30 a.m. in New York, paring an earlier drop of 0.6
percent. The equity gauge climbed 0.9 percent last  week  and
reached a five-month high on Jan. 12. U.S. markets are closed
for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday today.  “The bill auctions have been carried out without a
problem, which is helpful for  market sentiment  toward the euro
area,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “The reaction
to the S&P downgrade has been somewhat muted. The move wasn’t a
surprise and was well-flagged for a number of the issuers.”  France sold 1.9 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of one-year
notes today at a yield of 0.406 percent, down from 0.454 percent
on Jan. 9. as investors shrugged off S&P’s downgrade. The agency
warned on Jan. 13 that the euro area’s efforts to fight its
sovereign-debt crisis have fallen short as it lowered the top
ratings of France and Austria by one level to AA+. It downgraded
Italy, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus by two steps and cut Malta,
Slovakia and Slovenia by one level. It affirmed the grades of
countries including Germany, Belgium and Ireland.  Quarterly Results  Investors will be watching fourth-quarter earnings. Wells
Fargo & Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Microsoft Corp. are among the
U.S. companies due to  report  this week. S&P 500 companies, which
beat estimates in the previous 11 quarters, are forecast to
report a 4.6 percent increase in per-share profit during the
September-December period, according to projections compiled by
Bloomberg.  Carnival, the world’s biggest cruise operator, slumped 14
percent to $29.64 in German trading today after a cruise ship
belonging to its Costa Crociere unit capsized off Italy’s Tuscan
coast. The incident will cost the company $95 million this
fiscal year, and Carnival said it anticipates additional
expenses that are impossible to determine at this time. The
London-listed shares tumbled 16 percent to 1,878 pence, the
biggest drop since October 2000.  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) , the world’s second-largest
cruise operator, fell 7.1 percent to $26.72 in German trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  