-- U.S. Carries King’s Spirit With Global Push for Gay Rights: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/u-s-carries-king-s-spirit-with-an-international-push-for-gay-rights-view.html
Even  Martin Luther King Jr ., the man
the U.S. honors today, had his blind spots. The circle of human
rights he gave his life to expand didn’t include everyone. Left
out, for instance, were gay men and lesbians.  One of King’s most laudable attributes, however, was his
ability to evolve and grow, and so we imagine that were he alive
today he would endorse the efforts of the Obama administration
to help bring basic freedoms and protections to gay people the
world over.  According to a  recent study  by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights, people in every part of the world
experience violence and discrimination because of sexual
orientation and gender identity. Homosexual conduct is illegal
in 76 countries and punishable by death in at least five.  In recent weeks, the U.S. has moved to the forefront of
efforts to address this problem internationally.  Hillary Clinton 
made history last month by becoming the first secretary of State
to make protection of gay rights globally a major component of
 U.S. foreign policy .  In a Dec. 6 speech in Geneva, Clinton addressed what she
rightly called “one of the remaining human rights challenges of
our time.” Simultaneously forthright and sensitive, she insisted
that practices change while acknowledging that attitudes will
soften only through respectful dialogue.  Promote and Protect  Clinton’s initiative was twinned with a  memo  from President
 Barack Obama  directing all U.S. agencies working abroad to
promote and protect the rights of gay and transgender people. A
$3 million fund was created to support foreign groups working on
these issues.  There’s been speculation that, with the presidential
election approaching, Obama timed the announcements to appease
gay Democrats, who’ve been dissatisfied with his record on these
issues. But Clinton was the more likely driver of the policy.
Having announced she won’t serve as secretary of State in a
second Obama term, she is said to be eager to establish her
legacy with ground-breaking initiatives.  As Clinton herself noted, fighting this problem is daunting
in part because waging the battle can make it worse. For
instance, African officials who  claim homosexuality is a Western
import  that needs to be eliminated from their countries may
seize upon the U.S. initiative as proof.  To mitigate that risk, the U.S. should link its efforts
when possible to those of gay-rights-friendly non-Western
countries such as  Japan ,  Brazil ,  Argentina , Uruguay and  South
Africa . Because some of the worst abuses are in sub-Saharan
 Africa , having at least one more champion there would be
valuable. Rwanda is worth nurturing as a potential partner;
during a 2010 UN debate, its representative prominently opposed
a proposal to remove gay men and lesbians from a resolution
protecting individuals from extrajudicial execution.  The State Department is preparing a toolkit to help guide
embassy personnel through complex cultural terrain. But there is
no substitute for building ties with local groups and seeking
advice in advance, as they can best gauge the domestic scene and
minimize the chances that an initiative will backfire. Doing so,
for instance, might have prevented the U.S. Embassy in  Pakistan 
from hosting a high-profile Pride Celebration in June that led
to harassment of the local gay community.  Modest but Meaningful  The $3 million set aside for groups that fight
discrimination is a modest but meaningful amount, considering
what little money has been invested in such organizations so
far. Among worthwhile projects to support are efforts to
strengthen the rule of law, tolerance campaigns, police-
sensitivity trainings, and scripture discussions among religious
leaders who support gay rights and those who don’t.  There will also be moments for well-chosen words by U.S.
leaders. In 2010, scandalized Albanians protested after a young
man came out of the closet during the local version of the
reality program “Big Brother.” The U.S. ambassador helped calm
the mood by showing support for the young man in a TV appearance
afterward. This tactic was appropriate in Albania, where
homophobia is rampant but support for the U.S. is strong.  The defense of gay rights abroad is the latest chapter in
the steady advance of U.S. human rights diplomacy since the
1970s, when it first achieved prominence. At home, meanwhile,
the Obama administration in the last three years has repealed
the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy and ordered the
 Justice Department  to stop defending a federal ban on gay
marriage. Yet on this day in particular, Americans are reminded
that their country’s own journey toward equal rights for all is
ongoing. In that spirit, Clinton’s initiative is to be lauded.
Carrying it out will call for nuanced acts as well as principled
stands.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 