-- U.S. Retail Sales Growth Will Slow to 3.4% This Year, NRF Says
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-01-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/u-s-retail-sales-growth-will-slow-to-3-4-this-year-nrf-says.html
U.S.  retail  industry sales growth
will shrink to 3.4 percent this year, hampered by the lingering
housing slump, a trade group forecast.  Sales will total $2.53 trillion in 2012 after inflation
helped boost growth to a greater-than-projected 4.7 percent last
year, the Washington-based  National Retail Federation  said. The
10-year average annual growth rate was 3.1 percent, said  Ellen
Davis , a spokeswoman for the trade group.  This year’s expansion will be “incremental, modest,” NRF
Chief Executive Officer Matthew Shay said in an interview
yesterday at the organization’s annual convention in  New York .
The housing slump is the “biggest drag” on the U.S., he said.  Holiday sales grew a greater-than-predicted 4.1 percent
last year, the  NRF  reported this past week. Retailers, including
 J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  and  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM) , have reduced profit
forecasts for the fourth quarter because of the promotions they
used to drive those sales.  “The economy is not growing at the pace we would hope,”
Shay said. “Consumers are finding a way to get out there and
spend. But the consumers are different today. They are much more
focused on value. They are much more informed than they ever
were.”  ‘Tax Fairness’  Home prices will drop 1 percent in 2012, according to a
forecast by  Freddie Mac , which along with Fannie Mae and Ginnie
Mae guarantee so-called agency mortgage bonds with government
backing. The housing market has been held back by weak demand
because of high unemployment and concerns about job security,
Douglas Duncan,  Fannie Mae ’s chief economist, said Jan. 12.  The government must help the industry by lowering U.S.
retailers’ average corporate tax rate from about 35 percent to
the 25 percent average enjoyed by companies in the countries of
the Organization for Economic Development, Shay said. The U.S.
government must establish “tax fairness” by capturing state
sales taxes from online sellers as it does from brick-and-mortar
stores, and should make it easier for foreign tourists to obtain
visas so they can shop in the U.S., he said.  “For retailers in 2012, risk-taking will move from
optional to mandatory,” Shay said. “You are going to have to
distinguish yourself with something other than price.”  The NRF’s measure of retail industry sales is based on the
Commerce Department’s figures and excludes autos, gasoline and
restaurants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  