-- Ukraine Enters Final Russia Gas Push as Yanukovych Seeks to Duck Demands
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-01-17T16:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/ukraine-enters-final-russian-gas-push-in-bid-to-duck-imf-demands.html
Ukraine’s talks with Russia over
cheaper natural-gas imports failed to make a breakthrough as it
seeks to avoid the increases in household fuel costs needed to
revive a $15.6 billion bailout.  Energy and Coal Minister  Yuriy Boyko  met the head of  OAO
Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s gas export monopoly, in Moscow today without
reaching a deal, according to company statement. Negotiations
will continue, Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, said.  Ukraine must agree on a lower price with Russia within a
month or bow to International Monetary Fund demands for a 30
percent jump in household gas fees, Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said Jan. 11 amid signs of rising tensions between the
two nations. The government, which faces $8.2 billion in debt
payments in 2012, wants to bolster state finances after the
current-account deficit widened and reserves dwindled.  “To get through the year, the government must agree on a
lower gas price, sell assets or do a deal with the IMF,”
 Barbara Nestor , emerging-market strategist at Commerzbank AG in
London, said Jan. 13. “We expect market pressure to increase on
Ukraine.”  While raising household gas tariffs would reduce losses at
state energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, higher heating costs
may prove unpopular as President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s ruling
party braces for elections in October.  Credit-default swaps to insure the country’s debt against
non-payment for five years have jumped 72 basis points this year
to 928 points on Jan. 16, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers.  No Date Set  No date has been set for the next meeting between Ukraine
and Gazprom officials,  Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman for the
Moscow-based company, said by phone. Boyko and Chief Executive
Officer Alexey Miller had a “constructive meeting” and agreed
to continue negotiations, Gazprom said in an e-mailed statement.  Ukraine was granted its second IMF bailout in two years in
July 2010. Having disbursed $3.4 billion, the Washington-based
lender froze the program last March after the government refused
to raise household gas tariffs to trim a  budget deficit  that
reached 4.3 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, according
to the  Finance Ministry .  The gap was 2.7 percent of GDP, excluding a 20.6 billion-
hryvnia ($2.6 billion) shortfall at Naftogaz and measures to
recapitalize banks, the ministry said Jan. 14 on its website.  Pipeline Offer  Instead,  Ukraine  wants to reduce the price it pays Russia
for gas by a third to $250 per 1,000 cubic meters, Yanukovych
said Dec. 21. Under the current contract, the price will rise to
$416 per 1,000 cubic meters this quarter from $400 in the
previous three months, Boyko said Jan. 13.  Gazprom has sought to acquire Ukraine’s pipelines, which
carry Russian gas to the European Union, in exchange for cheaper
energy supplies, according to Boyko. Belarus reduced its
payments to Russia under a similar deal in November.  “Ukraine won’t consider selling its pipelines,” Boyko
said. “If we find a model that satisfies both sides, we’ll make
a deal. Otherwise, we’ll work under the current contract.”  Gazprom has agreed on revised tariffs with five more
European customers, including GDF Suez SA and its Wingas venture
with BASF SE, to reflect the gas market, Deputy CEO  Alexander
Medvedev  said today. Lower spot-market prices have spurred
European demands for cuts in Gazprom’s long-term contract rates.  International Arbitration   Ukraine may seek international arbitration if talks with
 Russia  fail, the Interfax news service cited Ukrainian Premier
 Mykola Azarov  as saying today.  Ukraine’s economy grew about 5 percent in 2011, the fastest
pace since 2007, helped by a good harvest and exports, Azarov
said Jan. 11. Growth may slow to 3.9 percent this year, the
government forecasts.  The current-account deficit widened to $8.75 billion in the
first 11 months of last year compared with $2.13 billion in the
same period of 2011 because of increased gas imports and strong
demand for foreign equipment, the central bank said Jan. 4.  Gold and foreign-exchange reserves shrank to $30.4 billion
at the end of 2011 from $38.2 billion in August as the central
bank supported the hryvnia. The currency slid to 8.0435 per
dollar yesterday, its lowest level in almost two years, before
strengthening 0.2 percent to 8.0253 today.  Depleting Reserves  Without an IMF deal, “the government will have to continue
depleting its limited foreign-currency reserves to meet its
external debt obligations,” Liza Ermolenko, an emerging-markets
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said Jan. 13 by
e-mail. “With over $50 billion in short-term external debt to
be repaid this year by both the government and private sector
and a hefty gas bill, this is hardly a sustainable strategy.”  The yield on Ukrainian government dollar bonds maturing in
2017 fell for a second day to 10.901 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ukraine relies on Russia for more than 70 percent of its
gas needs. Should talks fail, it plans to cut 2012 imports to 27
billion cubic meters from 40 billion last year, Boyko said.  That would violate a contract signed after Russia cut gas
supplies to Ukraine for almost three weeks in January 2009,
leading to disrupted deliveries to the EU amid freezing
temperatures, Gazprom said Jan. 12.  $14 Billion Compromise  “Gazprom and Ukraine differ sharply on how much gas
Ukraine should buy in 2012, with the value of the difference
being $10 billion,” analysts at UralSib Financial Corp. led by
Alexey Kokin said in a report today. “We expect a compromise,
with Russia supplying about 35 billion cubic meters of gas at
$400 for a total value of $14 billion.”  Yanukovych says that deal is detrimental to Ukraine’s
financial health. A court in Kiev in October sentenced former
Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko , who signed the contract with
her Russian counterpart  Vladimir Putin , to seven years in prison
for abuse of office. She denies wrongdoing.  Ukraine may also be able to increase domestic gas and coal
production and shift utilities to coal, saving 6 billion cubic
meters of gas a year, according to Boyko.  The government has sufficient resources to sustain itself
until the parliamentary elections without turning to the IMF or
raising  gas prices , according to  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist
for Russia and the  Commonwealth of Independent States  at
investment bank  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow.  Not ‘Sufficiently Dire’  “Irrespective of how the negotiations with Russia evolve,
the Party of Regions is not yet in a sufficiently dire position
to surrender to the IMF’s requirements,” he wrote yesterday in
an e-mailed note. “The government macroeconomic and budget
framework is already based on the new high import gas price.”  Support for Yanukovych’s Party of Regions fell to 13.9
percent support in December from 16.6 percent three months
earlier and 39.1 percent in April 2010, the  Razumkov Center for
Economic and Political Studies  in Kiev said Dec. 27. Backing for
Tymoshenko’s party rose to 15.8 percent from 13.8 percent. The
survey of 2,008 voting-age Ukrainians was conducted Dec. 9-16
and had a margin of error of 2.3 percentage points.  Yanukovych last week ruled out higher household gas prices.
While steps must be taken to address Ukraine’s financial
position, selling the pipeline infrastructure may be preferable
for the president as voters focus on their own fortunes.  “Economic growth won’t catch up with the gas-price
increase,” Alexander Pecherytsyn, head of research at ING Groep
NV in Kiev, said Jan. 13 by phone. “Voters look at their
pockets first of all. They don’t care about gas pipelines.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 