-- Hungarian Stocks Drop as S&P Downgrades Rekindle Debt Concerns
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-16T10:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/hungarian-stocks-drop-as-s-p-downgrades-rekindle-debt-concerns.html
Hungarian stocks declined the first
time in three after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the credit ratings of
nine euro-zone nations including Austria, for which it cited
banks’ exposure to its neighbor Hungary.  The benchmark BUX stock  index  slid as much as 1.2 percent
and traded 0.5 percent weaker at 17,260.59 by 10:25 a.m. in
Budapest.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest lender, fell 0.7
percent and Gedeon  Richter Nyrt ., the country’s biggest
drugmaker, slumped 0.8 percent. The yield on  government bonds 
due in 2022 rose one basis point to 9.698 percent.  Austria lost its AAA rating at S&P’s because of its links
to neighbors Italy, its second-biggest trading partner, and
Hungary, where the Alpine country’s banks are among the biggest
lenders, the rating company said on Jan. 14. S&P, which also
lowered  France ’s AAA rating and that of seven other European
Union nations, stripped Hungary of its investment-grade ranking
in December, one of the three rating companies to move Hungary
to junk in the last two months.  “Everyone is digesting the S&P downgrade of nine EU
nations this morning,” Levente Blaho and Adam Keszeg, Budapest-
based equities analysts at Raiffeisen Bank International AG,
wrote in a research report.  The currency of Hungary, the EU’s most indebted eastern
member, strengthened 0.1 percent to 310.17 per euro.  The government will take all necessary steps to reach its
budget targets and meet spending goals because a recession is
possible, Economy Ministry State Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay told
public television M1 today.  Csefalvay’s comments helped support the forint, the
Raiffeisen analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  