-- Forint May Drop to Record on Hungary IMF Tactic, SocGen Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-16T16:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/hungary-appeasing-imf-may-be-short-term-tactic-socgen-says.html
The forint may weaken to a record
low against the euro, Societe Generale SA said, citing the risk
that  Hungary  will drop its pursuit of an aid deal with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  Investors should sell the forint, which may slump to as low
as 325 per euro, Guillaume Salomon, a London-based strategist at
the bank, wrote in a report after meeting officials in Budapest
last week. The forint depreciated 0.2 percent to 311.1 per euro
by 4:46 p.m. in Budapest, compared with a record low of 324.24
on Jan. 5. The central bank will probably raise its benchmark
 interest rate , already the highest in the EU, to defend the
forint, Salomon said.  The IMF and EU broke off talks on a bailout last month when
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  refused to withdraw new regulations
the organizations said threatened the central bank’s
independence. The forint rebounded last week after Orban said he
was ready to accept “any kind” of  credit line  that strengthens
the country’s market financing.  “We are far from certain as to whether the recent more
conciliatory comments from the Hungarian governments towards the
EU commission and the IMF are nothing more than yet another
tactic to calm markets down,” Salomon wrote.  The  government bonds  due in 2022 slumped, lifting the yield
three basis points to 9.718 percent, the highest in a week.  Rate Rise  Hungary’s central bank may raise its  benchmark rate  by 50
basis points this month and again next month unless the forint
returns below 300 per euro,  Societe Generale (GLE) ’s Salomon said
after meeting officials at the Magyar Nemzeti Bank during his
trip. The rate-setting Monetary Council last month raised the
rate to 7 percent, the highest in the European Union.  “A speedy return to 325.00 for euro-forint would unite the
council in calling for an emergency meeting and a forceful
response would then be delivered,” Salomon said. “We would
then expect a hike in the region of 200 basis points to 300
basis points.”  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said on Jan. 12
that Hungary needs to take “tangible steps” on resolving
policy issues before talks can be resumed. The independence of
the Hungarian central bank is a “prerequisite” for resuming
aid talks, European Commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told
reporters in Brussels on Jan. 13.  ‘Drastic’ Conditions  Tamas Fellegi, Hungary’s minister in charge of talks on an
international bailout, is meeting European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  this week. Hungarian central bank
President Andras Simor will also take part in the ECB talks.  “Conditions attached to any aid will be drastic and will
touch on many recent laws and measures introduced by the
government,” Salomon said.  Hungary may not obtain aid “soon” even if the ruling
Fidesz party is willing to make concessions to the international
lenders, Ilan Solot, a London-based emerging-market strategist
at Brown Brothers Harriman, said in comments sent by e-mail
today.  The Cabinet’s strategy may also be interpreted as “just
going along to pacify markets in the short term” without
intending to make the necessary concessions, Solot said.  “Ideally, this would give the government enough time to
sell more debt at better prices and hope for a stabilization of
global risk appetite,” Solot said.  Hungary last week met its target amounts at two Treasury
bill auctions and exceeded the target at a bond sale, following
several auctions in December and January that fell short of the
state debt agency’s fundraising plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  