-- Huntsman Ends Presidential Bid to Throw Support Behind Front-Runner Romney
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-01-16T21:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/huntsman-ends-presidential-bid-to-throw-support-behind-front-runner-romney.html
Jon Huntsman Jr. dropped out of the
Republican presidential race and endorsed  Mitt Romney , saying
the party should unite behind the former Massachusetts governor
as the candidate “best equipped” to defeat President  Barack Obama .  “Today I am suspending my campaign for the presidency,”
Huntsman said at a news conference in Myrtle Beach,  South
Carolina . After a divisive Republican campaign, he said the
party should coalesce behind the person with the best chance to
oust Obama, adding, “Despite our differences and the space
between us on some of the issues, I believe that candidate is
Governor Mitt Romney.”  Newt Gingrich , who was running second behind Romney in
state polls ahead of the Jan. 21 South Carolina primary, said
Huntsman’s exit means “now we’re in the real game.” Gingrich
spoke from Myrtle Beach, where Republicans are gathering for
tonight’s televised presidential debate.  Huntsman used his last moments in the campaign spotlight to
criticize what he called the “toxic” discourse of the
Republican primary contest.  “This race has degenerated into an onslaught of negative
and personal attacks not worthy of the American people and not
worthy of this critical time in our nation’s history,” Huntsman
said. He called on the Republican candidates “to cease
attacking each other” and focus on how conservative principles
could improve voters’ lives.  Behind Colbert  Huntsman, a former Utah governor who was ambassador to
 China  for Obama, trailed in the polls and finished third in the
 New Hampshire  primary after staking his campaign on that state.
He struggled financially and was last in an average of three
statewide polls in South Carolina.  Romney, the New Hampshire primary winner, didn’t attend
Huntsman’s announcement though he issued a statement saluting
him.  “Jon ran a spirited campaign based on unity not division,
and love of country,” Romney said. “I appreciate his
friendship and support.”  Republican rivals Gingrich and  Rick Santorum  are asking
social conservatives to unite behind one of them as an
alternative to Romney.  ‘Marginal Impact’  Gingrich said today that Santorum’s majority showing of
support from a group of evangelicals who met in  Texas  over the
weekend will have “a very marginal impact.” He said with a
vote for Santorum, “you’re functionally voting for Governor
Romney to be the nominee because he’s not going to beat him.”  Santorum said today the evangelicals’ support was giving
him a boost.  According to the website Real Clear Politics, in an average
of three South Carolina polls conducted Jan. 11-15, before any
bump from the evangelical leaders’ endorsement, Romney led with
29.7 percent of the Republican vote, while Gingrich had 22
percent,  Ron Paul  had 15 percent and Santorum was in fourth
place, with 14.3 percent.  Regarding Huntsman’s decision to support Romney, Santorum
said today, “Moderates are backing moderates. That’s sort of
the bottom line.” Speaking at the Lizard’s Thicket restaurant
in South Carolina’s capital, Columbia, he said it was
“important that we eventually consolidate this race.”  ‘Smear Campaigns’  Santorum also accused Romney, Paul and a super PAC
supporting Romney of running “smear campaigns” and “smarmy
robo-calls” against him in South Carolina. Political action
committees known as super PACs can take unlimited donations from
corporations and individuals if they don’t coordinate their
activities with any campaign.  Huntsman left his withdrawal announcement without answering
questions from reporters. He ignored several questions about his
past critiques of Romney and whether he still considers him
“unelectable,” as Huntsman said in a Nov. 6 interview on NBC’s
“Meet the Press.”  Huntsman attacked Romney during that interview for changing
his positions on issues.  “There’s a question whether he’s running for the White
House or the Waffle House,” Huntsman said during the interview.
“I don’t know if he can go on to beat President Obama, given
his record.”  Huntsman’s campaign had also circulated several anti-Romney
Web videos recounting his reversals on such issues as health
care mandates and abortion rights -- which the former
Massachusetts governor once supported and now opposes. One of
the videos called Romney a “perfectly lubricated weathervane.”
The films had been removed from Huntsman’s website in advance of
today’s endorsement.  More Centrist Message  Huntsman’s candidacy was framed around a more centrist
message than his opponents as he sought to attract independent
voters and to compete in swing states in a general election.
While opposed to gay marriage, Huntsman does support civil
unions between people of the same sex.  His message proved to be out of sync with a party base
animated by calls for cutting taxes and  government spending  and
in search of a candidate capable of building a campaign machine
and message strong enough to defeat Obama.  Huntsman reported raising $4.5 million -- including a $2.25
million personal loan to his campaign -- and having $3 million
in debts as of Sept. 30, the last records available.  He ran no television advertisements before the Iowa
caucuses, saving all his fire for New Hampshire. In the Granite
State, Huntsman’s campaign ran only about $20,000 in commercials
on network stations while an outside group supporting his
candidacy, Our Destiny PAC, spent $1.2 million on commercials.  The Our Destiny PAC was largely funded by his father, Jon Huntsman Sr., chairman of petrochemical company Huntsman Corp.,
who attended his son’s withdrawal announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  