-- Turkey Yields Drop on Lower Funding Costs, Interest Rate Bets
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-16T09:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/turkey-yields-drop-on-lower-funding-costs-interest-rate-bets.html
Turkish  yields  sank for a fourth day
as the central bank reduced borrowing costs in one-week repo
auctions and on speculation that the government will intervene
to contain  interest rates .  Yields on two-year  benchmark debt  decreased 28 basis
points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 10.53 percent at 10:38 a.m.
in Istanbul, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi index of the securities
showed. That gives a four-day drop of 91 basis points, the
biggest decline since October 2009 on a closing basis.  The central bank offered to lend 7 billion liras ($3.8
billion) in a one-week repo auction at its lowest annual rate of
5.75 percent today. This is the fifth day the bank offered
funding at this level after not doing so since Dec. 29.  “The funding at 5.75 percent approached 60 percent of the
total funding in the market and this is a serious policy
change,” Murat Yardimci, chief trader at ING Bank AS in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “Funding at 5.75 percent
was previously at zero.”  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said last week  Turkey 
will make “strong, pointed responses” to a lobby that is
pressing for higher interest rates.  “We won’t let the lobby work in comfort” because their
success means “the spending power of citizens of this country
who consume declines,” Erdogan said in Ankara on Jan. 11,
according to state news agency Anatolia.  “The market appears to have interpreted this as signal
that interest rates will not rise,” said Arda Kocaman, head of
treasury at Finans Invest in Istanbul.  The central bank has more than doubled the cost of funding
it provides to banks to curb a slump in the lira and cap
inflation that accelerated to a three-year high of 10.5 percent
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  