-- Hutchison Said to Be Near Agreement to Buy Orange Austria for $1.8 Billion
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-01-17T03:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/hutchison-said-to-near-deal-to-acquire-orange-in-austria-for-eu1-4-billion.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s biggest company, is nearing a deal to acquire
Orange Austria, the mobile-phone operator owned by  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  and buyout firm Mid-Europa Partners, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  A transaction that may value Orange Austria at about 1.4
billion euros ($1.8 billion), including debt, may be finalized
within weeks, the people said, declining to be identified as the
talks are private.  France Telecom  may receive about 100 million
euros in cash from the sale of its 35 percent stake, one of the
people said.  European mobile operators are looking to consolidate, some
concentrating on fewer markets, as subscriber growth stagnates
in their home countries and network expenses rise because of
data-hungry devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. Hong Kong-based
Hutchison’s 3 Group sells services in European countries
including Austria, Italy, the U.K. and Sweden as well as
Australia.  “Looking across Hutchison’s European footprint, they are
not going to have too many opportunities like this in Austria,”
said Nick Brown, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in
London. “It’s always been subscale in  Europe , and this is a way
for them to gain scale in one of its markets.”  Stock Gains  Hutchison rose as much as 1.9 percent to HK$68.55, the
highest intraday level since Dec. 5, before trading at HK$68.30
as of 10:53 a.m. in  Hong Kong . The benchmark Hang Seng Index
gained as much as 1.8 percent.  France Telecom advanced 0.6 percent in Paris trading
yesterday.  A deal would combine the third- and fourth-largest Austrian
operators, improving the enlarged company’s ability to compete
in the country of 8.2 million people. The operator may gain
almost 30 percent market share after divesting the Yesss! brand
to  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , Espirito Santo’s Brown said. Hutchison is
the fourth-largest operator in both Italy and Britain.  Representatives of France Telecom and Hutchison declined to
comment, as did an official at Mid-Europa, which owns 65 percent
of Orange Austria.  Attractive Pricing  “Given the economic environment, you’d expect certain
assets in Europe will be more attractive in terms of pricing
compared to six to 12 months ago,” said Adrian Lowe, an analyst
at Mirae Asset Securities in Hong Kong. “It’s typical of
Hutchison to consider buying when markets are considered cheap.
They have a lot of cash.”  Hutchison, with investments in industries including ports,
energy, retail and telecommunications in more than 50 countries,
had HK$83 billion ($10.7 billion) of cash and near cash assets
at the end of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  3 Group, Hutchison’s unit with mobile-phone operations in
the U.K., Italy, Ireland, Austria, Denmark, Sweden and
Australia, posted its first profit before interest and tax in
2010, seven years after starting services. The Hong Kong parent
incurred combined losses of more than $20 billion at 3 Group
between 2003 and 2009 while battling to win users against
European carriers, including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Telecom
Italia SpA. (TIT)   Orange Austria posted sales of 578 million euros in 2010,
down from 595 million euros the year before and 615 million
euros in 2008.  France Telecom, the country’s former phone monopoly, last
year began a review of European assets as it rebalances its
portfolio toward  emerging markets . The Paris-based company last
month agreed to sell its Swiss unit to Apax Partners LLP for 1.6
billion euros. France Telecom may also sell its stake in a
Portuguese mobile operator.  “They’re very keen on exiting operations where they don’t
have market power,” said Alexander Wisch, an analyst at S&P
Capital IQ Equity Research. “The Austrian market is the most
competitive in Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  