-- Van Rompuy Says Progress Being Made to Reshape Euro Area
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-16T14:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/van-rompuy-says-progress-being-made-to-reshape-euro-area-1-.html
Real “progress” is being made to
reshape the euro region, which must now focus on economic growth
and job creation after agreeing on new rules to ensure budget
discipline, European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said.  “Market players or rating agencies sometimes consider our
response as incomplete or insufficient,” Van Rompuy said at a
press conference in Rome today after meeting with Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti . “Yet real progress has been made in
reshaping the euro area in order to build on its fundamentals,
which are on average sound.”  While EU leaders are set to sign an agreement on a fiscal
compact “in early March” to ensure budget rigor across the
bloc,  Europe  must make jobs and growth its “foremost concern,”
Van Rompuy said, warning that a weakening economy could add to
the region’s 23 million unemployed.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the sovereign credit ratings
of nine of the single currency’s 17 members last week, citing
“insufficient” measures to tame the sovereign debt crisis.
 Italy ’s score was cut two levels to BBB+ from A with a negative
outlook, while France and Austria were both stripped of their
AAA ratings.  S&P’s decision “points to inadequate governance within the
euro area as a risk factor,” Monti told the briefing. The
rating company also cited “the positive side of the ongoing
efforts taken by the Italian government,” the premier said.  Van Rompuy praised Monti for achieving “impressive”
results after two months in office, saying his government’s
targets are in line with those of the European Union. “The
Italian agenda is the European agenda,” he said. “There is no
distinction between what you are pursuing here and what is being
pursued in Brussels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  