-- Federer, Nadal Advance on Australian Open Day One Amid Off-Court Dispute
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-01-16T15:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/victoria-azarenka-races-through-to-second-round-as-australian-open-begins.html
Four-time champion  Roger Federer  and
second-ranked Rafael Nadal beat qualifiers on the first day of
the Australian Open as defending champion Kim Clijsters and top-
seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  also began with straight-set wins.  Federer, who won his record-extending 16th Grand Slam
championship at Melbourne Park two years ago, defeated Russia’s
Alexander Kudryavtsev 7-5, 6-2, 6-2.  After his match, the Swiss played down tension with Nadal.
At a pretournament news conference, Nadal said it was easy for
Federer to keep quiet and “look like a gentleman” about the
gruelling schedule on the men’s tour while everyone else
suffers. Federer is president of the player council of the men’s
ATP World Tour, while Nadal is vice-president.  Federer told reporters that he had “no hard feelings”
towards Nadal. Following a 6-4, 6-1, 6-1 win against Alexander
Kuznetsov of the U.S., Nadal said he’d probably been wrong to
make his comments in public. “These things can stay, must stay
in the locker room,” Nadal said.  On the second day of the Australian Open, No. 4 seed  Andy Murray  of Britain plays  Ryan Harrison  of the U.S. while
defending champion Novak Djokovic of Serbia starts against
Italy’s Paolo Lorenzi. Former champion Serena Williams of the
U.S. faces Tamira Paszek of Austria.  Del Potro Wins  Former U.S. Open champion Juan Martin Del Potro, seventh
seed Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic  and American Mardy Fish, the No. 8 seed, advanced in temperatures as high as 33
degrees Celsius (91 degrees Fahrenheit). Seeded Spaniards
Nicolas Almagro and Feliciano Lopez also won, while countryman
Fernando Verdasco blew a two-set lead and lost in five sets to
teenager  Bernard Tomic , the top-ranked Australian in the men’s
draw at No. 38.  “I don’t know how I found the energy,” Tomic, who next
will play  Sam Querrey  of the U.S., said after winning 4-6, 6-7
(3-7), 6-4, 6-2, 7-5 in 4 hours, 11 minutes on Rod Laver Arena.
“I really don’t know how I won.”  Nadal, who will next play three-time semifinalist Tommy Haas of  Germany  in the second round, said he wasn’t sure that he
would be able to play his opener because of pain in his right
knee that occurred when he was sitting on a chair the day before
his match.  “I really don’t understand what happened,” Nadal said.
“I was much more scared about the first match than the rest,
because now I have 48 hours to the next match.”  Clijsters Advances  Argentina’s  Del Potro , the only man other than Nadal,
Federer and top-ranked Novak Djokovic to win one of the past 27
majors, beat France’s Adrian Mannarino 2-6, 6-1, 7-5, 6-4.  No. 25 Juan Monaco of Argentina, 28th-seeded Croat Ivan Ljubicic and No. 31 Jurgen Melzer of Austria joined No. 22
Verdasco as men’s seeds to lose.  Clijsters, the women’s No. 11, beat Portuguese qualifier
Maria Joao Koehler 7-5, 6-1. The Belgian entered the season-
opening major after retiring from a semifinal in Brisbane
earlier this month due to a hip injury.  “I’m feeling good,” Clijsters said in a televised
interview. “That’s all behind me. Your body has to get used to
it. It doesn’t matter how hard you train in the offseason,
matches still put a strain on your body.”  Denmark’s Wozniacki, who also arrived in  Melbourne  with
injury concerns after hurting her wrist, closed play on Rod
Laver Arena by beating Australia’s Anastasia Rodionova 6-2, 6-1
as she tries to win her first Grand Slam title.  No. 1 Ranking  Third-seeded  Victoria Azarenka , one of six women in the
field who can reach the No. 1 ranking at the conclusion of the
two-week event, earlier became the first player to advance. The
Belarusian won 12 straight games to overpower unseeded Briton
Heather Watson 6-1, 6-0 in 67 minutes.  No. 5 seed Li Na, whom Azarenka beat in the Sydney final,
eased to a 6-3, 6-1 victory over Ksenia Pervak of Kazakhstan. Li
lost to Clijsters in last year’s final at Melbourne Park before
winning the French Open to become  China ’s first Grand Slam
singles champion. Sixteenth-seeded Peng Shuai, China’s No. 2-
ranked player, also won in straight sets.  Women’s seeds advancing on day one also included No. 8
Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland,  Francesca Schiavone , the 10th
seed from Italy, and No. 13 Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia . Flavia Pennetta, the No. 19 seed from Italy, was knocked out by Russian
qualifier Nina Bratchikova.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net ; Danielle
Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  