-- Vietnam Coffee Farmers Curb Pre-Tet Sales to Push Price Higher
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-16T01:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/vietnam-coffee-farmers-curb-pre-tet-sales-to-push-price-higher.html
Coffee farmers in  Vietnam , the
biggest robusta grower, may sell 33 percent of this year’s
harvest by the start of the Tet Lunar New Year holiday, less
than the usual 50 percent as they limit sales to let prices gain.  Sales may total 414,750 metric tons before the week-long
break that starts on Jan. 21 from a crop likely to reach 1.26
million metric tons, according to the median estimate of six
traders, exporters and officials in a Bloomberg survey. The
harvest is at least 90 percent complete and may finish before
the holiday, according to the survey.  The withholding of the beans used to make instant drinks
may help boost prices that tumbled 14 percent last year on
speculation that a record crop in Vietnam will increase supply.
Vietnam’s production will rise to 20.6 million, 60 kilogram bags
in the 12 months to Sept. 30 from 18.75 million a year earlier,
a unit of the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said on Dec. 13.  “Farmers aren’t selling as much coffee before Tet as they
did,” said Mai Ky Van, head of the export and business division at
Dak Lak province-based October Coffee, Cocoa Co. “I would
expect only about a third of the crop to be sold by Tet, while
it was about half at the same time last year.”  Futures for March delivery dropped 2.8 percent to $1,832
per ton on NYSE Liffe on Jan. 13. Vietnamese prices fell to
36,000 dong ($1.71) per kilogram on Jan. 9, the lowest level in
a year, according to data from the  Dak Lak Trade & Tourism
Center  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Holding the Beans’  Sales are “slower than at the same time last crop year,
since farmers are holding the beans on expectation of some
increases in prices,” said Nguyen Xuan Thai, director at Thang Loi
Coffee Co., Vietnam’s largest grower.  Profits from high prices in the first half of 2011, when
futures gained 19 percent, have left many farmers with enough
cash to conserve inventories. Traditionally farmers would
accelerate sales in the weeks before Tet to raise funds for the
holiday period.  Bean size in the latest crop may be larger than the
previous harvest as a result of good growing conditions during
the summer, while quality may also be better. Prolonged rains
during the picking and drying period last year led to a higher
proportion of low-quality, black beans.  “Quality is better this crop since the bean size is bigger
than in the last crop,” according to Cao Van Tu, director of Dak
Lak-based Ea Pok Coffee Co. “It still depends on the drying
conditions to make sure the beans are all good at the end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  