-- Voluntary Greek Debt Cut Is ‘Central Scenario,’ BNP Chief Says
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-01-16T13:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/voluntary-greek-debt-cut-is-central-scenario-bnp-chief-says.html
A voluntary Greek debt cut remains
the “central scenario” as the country’s government and its
creditors resume talks this week,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Laurent Bonnafe said.  “Obviously some additional time is needed to come to a
conclusion,” Bonnafe, head of France’s largest bank, said today
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with
Maryam Nemazee. “For the time being, we are on a voluntary
basis resolution plan so this is the central scenario.”  Greek officials and creditors agreed in October to a 50
percent cut in the face value of Greek debt by voluntarily
exchanging outstanding bonds for new securities, with a goal of
reducing the nation’s borrowings to 120 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020. The two sides, which interrupted talks
on Jan. 13, have struggled to find an agreement on the coupon
and maturity of the new bonds, raising the risk of a sovereign
default.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said two days
ago that talks with the  Institute of International Finance  will
resume on Jan. 18. The Washington-based IIF represents financial
firms holding the bonds, including BNP Paribas and  Germany ’s
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) .  BNP Paribas, based in Paris, set aside total provisions of
2.68 billion euros in the second and third quarters of last year
as it wrote down its Greek sovereign-debt holdings by 60 percent
following the October agreement by European leaders. BNP Paribas
had 1.6 billion euros of net residual exposure to Greek bonds at
the end of October, according to its website. The bank will
publish 2011 results on Feb. 15.  Rating Cut  Separately, Bonnafe said he sees “no impact” for BNP
Paribas’s rating from  Standard & Poor’s  decision last week to
strip  France  of its AAA credit rating for the first time, by
cutting the sovereign’s grade by one level to AA+.  “French banks are extremely solid both in terms of capital
and liquidity,” Bonnafe said. “Their financing capacity will
not be affected by this decision.”  Bonnafe also repeated that BNP Paribas will comply with
Basel III capital rules as of Jan. 1, 2013. “We will be at the
right level,” he said.  BNP Paribas is “well ahead” in its self-imposed plan to
cut its dollar liquidity needs by $60 billion between last June
and the end of this year.  “We don’t need to increase this target,” said Bonnafe.
“We will do it and most probably we will close the plan quite
in advance.”  BNP Paribas cut its liquidity needs by $20 billion in the
third quarter, mostly in capital-markets activities, it said in
November. The bank planned a further $20 billion reduction in
the fourth quarter from corporate-financing and capital-markets
and is targeting another $20 billion cut in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  