-- VW to Expand Car Financing in Europe to Win Customer Loyalty
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-01-16T11:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/vw-to-expand-car-financing-in-europe-to-win-customer-loyalty.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, plans to increase financial backing for its vehicles
in the region by one-third to strengthen customers’ loyalty.  The maker of the Passat sedan and Beetle hatchback will
finance or lease 40 percent of new VW, Seat, Skoda and Audi
models delivered in Europe within four years compared with 30
percent in 2011, Frank Witter, the head of the manufacturer’s
financial unit, said in an interview in Vallendar, Germany.  “We can increase the penetration in the European
markets,” Witter said. “In Germany, 54 percent of all
Volkswagen group cars are financed or leased through us.”  Volkswagen posted a 14 percent increase in companywide
global sales last year to 8.16 million cars, sport-utility
vehicles and commercial vans. That included growth of
11 percent to 1.15 million deliveries in  Germany , 7 percent to
1.98 million elsewhere in western Europe and 29 percent to
548,000 in central and eastern Europe. Demand was bolstered by
new versions of the Passat and the Audi A6 sedan.  “Financial-services customers are more loyal,” Witter
said in a presentation Jan. 13 in Vallendar. “There is a date
that the customer has to make a decision, when the finance
contract ends, and we know about that date. This is an
opportunity or us to talk to the customer and offer what’s new
out there.”  Car Loans   Of the vehicles that Wolfsburg, Germany-based  VW (VOW3)  provides
backing for in Europe, 70 percent involve car loans and 30
percent are leased, Witter said in the interview.  The Volkswagen Financial Services division’s balance sheet
increased to around 90 billion euros ($114 billion) at the end
of 2011 from 87.8 billion at the end of June, according to the
presentation. About 25 percent, or 22 billion euros, was held in
the form of customer deposits, a proportion the company will
strive to increase to 33 percent, Witter said in the interview,
declining to specify a time frame.  The  carmaker  has no plans to expand customers’ financial
offerings in the U.S. for the Audi luxury division, Witter said.
Roughly 65 percent of Audi’s vehicles in the country are
financed or leased, with a 50-50 split between each option.  “We will grow the business very slowly,” he said. “We
are not going to risk something that is very important: residual
value and quality. If you put a lot of incentives behind your
car, you have way more off-lease value cars, and that puts
pressure on your residual values.”  Audi ranks second worldwide in luxury-vehicle sales, after
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , while in the U.S. its sales lag
behind such brands as  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, BMW and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus. Audi historically hasn’t been as aggressive
in its U.S. leasing model as Munich-based BMW or Stuttgart,
Germany-based Daimler, according to  Jesse Toprak , an analyst at
Truecar Inc. in  Santa Monica ,  California .  “In a lot of U.S. markets, the leasing percentage for
German luxury brands exceeds 70 percent,” Toprak said by
telephone on Dec. 30. “So if your lease model is not that
attractive, you’re not going to sell that many.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  