-- Wild-Caught, Farmed Fish Have Same Climate Impact, Study Shows
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-16T17:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-16/wild-caught-farmed-fish-have-same-climate-impact-study-shows.html
Cod and plaice fished in the  North
Sea  have the same environmental impact as farmed salmon and
tilapia, according to a study by Dutch agricultural researcher
LEI, an affiliate of Wageningen University.  Life-cycle analysis of wild catch and farmed fish found no
“significant difference” in energy use or global warming
potential, LEI wrote in a  report  published online today.  Energy use per kilogram (2.2 pounds) of cod or plaice is
higher than for beef, pork or chicken, while the effect on
global warming is similar because of emission of  greenhouse
gases  such as methane by livestock and manure, LEI wrote.
Technologies to curb fuel use would improve the environmental
impact of wild-caught fish, according to the researcher.  “Both the wild-caught sector and aquaculture can improve
their environmental performance,” the researchers wrote. “The
life-cycle impact of North Sea fishing is linearly related to
fuel consumption.”  Consumers hold fisheries responsible for loss of
biodiversity and environmental damage, LEI said. New fishing
techniques and fuel-saving technology may lead to “significant
reductions” in environmental impact, according to LEI.  “Various relatively cheap whitefish products are imported
in large quantities in  Europe  and compete with wild-caught,
freshly landed North Sea whitefish,” the researchers wrote.
“In  France  and  Spain , this has already led to serious problems
for the domestic fishing sector.”  To improve the marketing position of wild-caught fish, more
information is needed on how wild catch compares with farmed
fish, according to LEI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  