-- ’Skyfall’ Retakes Weekend Top Spot With $11 Million Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-12-10T23:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/-skyfall-reclaims-top-spot-with-ticket-sales-of-11-million.html
(Corrects spelling of Kathryn in fifth paragraph.)  The James Bond thriller “Skyfall”
reclaimed first place during a slow weekend at theaters in the
U.S. and  Canada , taking in $11 million for distributor  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and making it the studio’s highest-grossing film ever.  The sole new movie in wide release, “Playing for Keeps,”
a romantic comedy from independent producer and distributor
FilmDistrict, was sixth with $6 million in sales, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Holdovers dominated ahead of this coming weekend’s release
of director Peter Jackson’s “The Hobbit: An Unexpected
Journey,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s New Line Cinema and Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.’s “Skyfall,” which opened Nov. 9, edged out
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s “Rise of the Guardians,” an
animated film that made $10.5 million in its third weekend in
theaters.  “This is the proverbial calm before the storm,” Paul Dergarabedian, president of Hollywood.com Box-Office, said in a
telephone interview. “It seems only ‘The Hobbit’ will be able
to supplant the holdovers.”  “The Hobbit,” the first of three planned films based on
J.R.R. Tolkien’s book, is expected to debut with as much as $130
million after opening on Dec. 14, according to researcher
Boxoffice.com. It will be followed on Dec. 19 by Sony’s “Zero
Dark Thirty,” director Kathryn Bigelow’s take on the search for
Osama Bin Laden, and “Les Miserables,” from Universal
Pictures, on Dec. 25. Domestic sales are expected to reach a
record $10.8 billion this year, according to Dergarabedian.  A Billion  In “Skyfall,” Bond battles a new villain, played by
Javier Bardem, who is determined to bring down MI6 and kill its
leader, M. Daniel Craig returns as Bond and Judith Dench
reprises her role as M. The movie from Sony and partner Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer has generated $918 million in worldwide sales, a
Sony record, beating “Spider-Man 3” ($890 million), Sony said.  “No Bond movie has ever made a billion dollars worldwide
and this movie is on its way,” Dergarabedian said. Sales have
been driven by word of mouth, he said.  Returning films filled the second through fifth slots.  Second place’s “Rise of the Guardians” has taken in $61.9
million since opening Nov. 21. The film pits storybook creatures
such as Santa Claus, Jack Frost and the Sandman against an evil
force threatening children. The film had a production budget of
$145 million, according to Box Office Mojo.  “The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn - Part 2,” the finale
of the teen vampire movies from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ,
took in $9.2 million in third place, bringing its domestic total
to $268.7 million.  ‘Playing for Keeps’  “Lincoln,” Steven Spielberg’s examination of the 16th
U.S. president’s political campaign to end slavery, placed
fourth with receipts of $9.1 million. It was produced by the
director’s DreamWorks Studios and is being distributed by  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)   “Life of Pi,” from “Brokeback Mountain” director Ang Lee, had sales of $8.3 million for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth
Century Fox, finishing fifth. The fantasy adventure features
Suraj Sharma as a young man who survives a disaster at sea and
finds himself sharing a lifeboat with a Bengal tiger.  “Playing for Keeps,” finishing sixth in its debut, stars
Gerard Butler as former soccer star who tries to rebuild his
relationship with his son by coaching the boy’s team. Jessica Biel, Uma Thurman and Catherine Zeta-Jones co-star. The film met
Boxoffice.com’s opening-weekend forecast.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 8 percent to
$72.9 million from $67.8 million in the year-earlier period,
Hollywood.com said. Domestic film attendance has climbed 6
percent this year, and year-to-date revenue is up the same
amount.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Dec. 7 and 8 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net 
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  