-- Accor Expands in Indonesia on Economic Growth: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-12-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/accor-expands-in-indonesia-on-economic-growth-southeast-asia.html
Accor SA (AC) , Europe’s biggest hotel
operator, plans to locate half of its new Southeast Asia
properties in Indonesia to take advantage of the country’s
growing economy and expanding middle class.  The Paris-based  company  plans to increase the number of its
hotels in the region to more than 200, from 132, Robert Murray,
chief operating officer for Accor’s northeast and Southeast
Asian operations, said in a telephone interview. The group’s
hotels in  Indonesia , which include 16 Novotels and 11 Mercures,
will increase to 94 from 55 now, he said.  “Indonesia is  China  without the public relations,” Murray
said from Bangkok on Dec. 7. “The middle class keeps growing
and Indonesians are traveling more and more.”  Hotel and airline operators are seeking to take advantage
of a swelling population in the nation whose growth has
outperformed every major economy except China this year. More
than two-thirds of Accor’s business in  Indonesia  comes from
domestic travelers, driving demand for its mid-tier brands in
secondary or smaller cities in the country, Murray said.  Accor will add 20 hotels in Bandung, Makassar, Serpong,
Samarinda and 12 other smaller cities, mostly through its lower-
priced Ibis and mid-scale Mercure and Novotel brands, he said.
It will also add 11 properties in the capital, Jakarta, and
eight on the island resort of Bali, he said. The group will
consider buying properties, taking on management contracts and
franchises, he said.  Jakarta, Bali  “Traditionally, Jakarta and Bali were the primary
Indonesia stories,” Murray said. “But the secondary cities,
that’s where the domestic demand is growing and that’s where the
hotels are being built.”  Indonesia’s economic growth will average 6.4 percent from
2013 to 2017, equal to that recorded in the two decades before
the 1997 Asian financial crisis, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a report in November. The
nation’s economy may expand 6.6 percent next year, Vice Finance
Minister Anny Ratnawati said in an interview on Nov. 7.  Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is increasing
spending on roads, seaports and airports as he woos investments
to spur Southeast Asia’s largest economy. Growth held above 6
percent for an eighth quarter in the three months through
September, a report showed last month.  Growth in the country’s tourism market is also spurring
airlines to expand. Indonesian carrier PT Lion Mentari Airlines
is considering purchasing additional aircraft from Airbus SAS
and  Boeing Co. (BA)  as it adds flights in a region where  air travel 
is expected to grow more than 6.4 percent annually through 2031.  Budget Airlines  “The influx of low-cost carriers in Southeast Asia has
contributed to a fair bit of domestic and intraregional travel
and that’s led to a lot of growth in hotel demand in
Indonesia,” Jonas Ogren, Asia director at STR Global, which
provides research for the hotel industry, said in a telephone
interview. “Indonesia is definitely one of the hot markets that
a lot of groups are looking at.”  Indonesia has the third-highest number of hotel
developments in the planning or construction stages, after China
and India, Ogren said. The country, which added more than 7,000
rooms in the 12 months to Oct. 31, has almost 28,000 more rooms
in the pipeline, he said.  At the same time, gains in the president’s economic
development efforts have been undermined by corruption scandals
and delays caused by land disputes.  Indonesian Logistics  The country placed 59th out of 155 economies in the  World
Bank ’s  Logistics Performance Index  for 2012, lagging behind
Singapore, Japan,  Taiwan ,  South Korea , China,  Malaysia ,  Thailand ,
India, the  Philippines  and  Vietnam . The index measures the
perceptions of international freight forwarders doing business
with Indonesia.  More than a decade after the Asian financial crisis forced
Indonesia to seek an International Monetary Fund bailout,  Fitch
Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service have raised their ratings
on the nation’s debt to investment grade.  The number of hotels in the Asia-Pacific region will grow
by about 410,040 rooms in the next three to five years,
according to the  website  of the World Hotel and Resort
Development Congress. Southeast Asia will account for about 18
percent, and Indonesia will have the biggest share at 5 percent.  Southeast Asia’s “growth is exploding,” Murray said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  