-- Advantest Gains After Saying Orders Will Rise 20%: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-12-10T04:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/advantest-s-matsuno-says-orders-will-increase-20-this-quarter.html
Advantest Corp. (6857) , the world’s largest
producer of semiconductor-testing devices, rose the most in 10
months in Tokyo trading after saying new orders may rise 20
percent this quarter from the previous three months.  Orders will increase to about 30 billion yen ($364 million)
this quarter and reach 70.5 billion yen for the six months
ending March 31, or the lower end of the  company ’s forecast,
President Haruo Matsuno said in an interview, challenging a
Credit Suisse Group AG report that predicts a decline. The stock
jumped as much as 7.9 percent to 1,150 yen, headed for the
biggest gain since Jan. 30.  Advantest’s stock rating was cut to underperform last week
by Credit Suisse analyst Hideyuki Maekawa, who wrote in a report
that the company’s orders will fall this quarter from the
previous three months. Maekawa also predicted orders in the
fiscal second half will drop below the company’s forecast.  “The shares are being bought back as investors think
orders may recover soon,” said Yuichi Ishida, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. “It’ll be important
to confirm the recovery in the third and fourth quarters.”  Advantest traded at 1,127 yen as of 12:59 p.m. in Tokyo and
has risen 53 percent  this year.   Orders will increase amid rising sales of smartphones and
tablets and the introduction of smaller-sized, higher-speed DRAM
and NAND-type flash memory next year, Matsuno said in a Dec. 7
interview. The company will grab more market share to offset a
decline in global demand for semiconductor-testing devices, he
said.  ‘Brighter Scenario’  Sales of such testing equipment are expected to drop 9.7
percent in 2013 from this year, according to SEMI, an industry
group. Sales of chip-manufacturing devices are also forecast to
decline 2.1 percent. Advantest held a 49 percent share of the
global market for chip-testing devices in 2011, according to
research company Gartner Inc.  “As we will increase our share in the market, we don’t
expect sales to decline even as the whole market shrinks,”
Matsuno said. Consumer sentiment in the U.S.,  China ,  Japan  and
South Korea also may improve next year, he said.  Of the total company  sales  in the year ended March 31, 29
percent came from Intel Corp. and 12 percent was from Samsung
Electronics Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The second half of next year may be a “brighter scenario”
compared with this year, Matsuno said. The president said the
company hasn’t made any changes to its forecasts, adding that he
expects sales and profit to rise in the year to 2014.  Advantest targets sales of as much as 160 billion yen this
fiscal year, while the profit-to-sales ratio is projected to be
as much as 11 percent. Advantest aims for 250 billion yen in
sales and more than 20 percent in operating profit-to-sales
ratio in the year to March 31, 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in  Tokyo  at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshito Okubo 
 yokubo1@bloomberg.net  