-- Manchester Utd. Beats City 3-2 With Injury-Time Van Persie Goal
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-12-10T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/manchester-utd-beats-city-3-2-with-injury-time-van-persie-goal.html
Robin van Persie  scored in injury
time as Manchester United beat defending champion Manchester
City 3-2 yesterday to move six points clear of its rival atop
the Premier League.  Wayne Rooney  struck twice to move to 150 goals in English
soccer’s top league as United established a 2-0 halftime lead.
City rallied with efforts from Yaya Toure and  Pablo Zabaleta  at
its Etihad Stadium before Dutch striker Van Persie sealed
victory for the visitors.  “It was a fantastic game, you couldn’t take your eyes off
it,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told  Sky Sports .  Amid angry scenes, United defender Rio Ferdinand was hit by
an object thrown from the crowd as he celebrated the winning
goal. He sustained a cut over an eye.  Everton rallied to beat Tottenham 2-1, while Liverpool had
a 3-2 comeback win at West Ham in the day’s other games.  United has 39 points and City is on 33, with Chelsea four
points further back. Everton, Tottenham and West Bromwich Albion
have 26 points.  City came into the match unbeaten in the league this
season. The club hadn’t lost a home game in the competition
since December 2010 against Everton.  The hosts dominated the early stages and tested United’s
goalkeeper for the first time on six minutes from a long-range
Mario Balotelli free kick. The ball stayed low and went under
the defensive wall, forcing David de Gea to turn it wide for a
corner.  Five minutes later, Balotelli fired a shot high over
following a move involving  David Silva  and  Gael Clichy .  Rooney Opener  After another City attack in the 16th minute, United broke
quickly with Ashley Young carrying the ball forward. The England
winger passed to Rooney, who turned past Zabaleta before hitting
a shot into the bottom corner of the net. Goalkeeper  Joe Hart 
stood motionless as the effort trickled past him.  City was forced into a defensive change midway through the
first half with captain  Vincent Kompany  replaced by Kolo Toure.  United started to take control and Hart had to advance
quickly from his goal to kick clear as Young chased a long pass.  The home team had a chance at the other end moments later,
although  Sergio Aguero ’s shot was tame after he had beaten
several challenges to break into the penalty area.  The 27-year-old Rooney doubled United’s lead after 29
minutes. The England forward struck a low shot past Hart from a
pass by Rafael da Silva.  United center-back  Jonny Evans  was replaced by Chris
Smalling early in the second half, with City’s Balotelli taken
off for Carlos Tevez seconds after giving the ball away with a
back-heel.  City Scores  Van Persie  hit the bar after 59 minutes and Young was
adjudged to be offside when he put the rebound into the net.
Within a minute City had a goal back.  Tevez tested De Gea with a close-range shot and the
goalkeeper stopped a follow-up effort by Silva. Tevez kept the
move alive and passed to Yaya Toure 15 yards from goal. The
Ivory Coast midfielder placed his shot into the far corner of
the net.  Silva came close for City with 11 minutes remaining when he
hit a shot from a tight angle that hit De Gea on the shoulder
then deflected against a post.  With only four minutes left City appeared to have rallied
for a point when fullback Zabaleta scored at a corner. Instead,
United sealed the win from a 25-yard free kick which hit City’s
Samir Nasri in the wall and beat the diving Hart.  City ‘Credit’  “We should have been out of sight with the chances we
had,” Ferguson said. “But you have to give credit to City,
they keep going and they score late goals and they have done it
against us again. Fortunately we got the last one.”  City released a statement saying it apologized to Ferdinand
after he was hit by an object following Van Persie’s goal. The
club said it “unreservedly condemns the actions which led to
his being injured.”  The day’s other matches also involved late drama. At
Goodison Park, a 76th-minute goal from Clint Dempsey looked to
have given visiting Tottenham a win before  Steven Pienaar  and
Nikica Jelavic scored in the final minute and injury time
respectively.  Glen Johnson  and  Joe Cole , who both started their careers
at West Ham, scored in Liverpool’s win at Upton Park. The team’s
winner came from an own goal by Hammers defender James Collins.  West Ham’s goals came from a Mark Noble penalty and a
Steven Gerrard own goal.  Liverpool and West Ham both have 22 points, with the Reds
ahead on goal difference in 10th spot.  Two days ago, Chelsea beat Sunderland 3-1, Arsenal defeated
West Brom 2-0, and Southampton won 1-0 against Reading to climb
out of the relegation positions.  Last-place Queens Park Rangers tied 2-2 at Wigan, the match
between Aston Villa and Stoke was scoreless, and Norwich beat
Swansea 4-3. Fulham hosts Newcastle today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 