-- Marquez Knocks Out Pacquiao in 6th Round to Win 4th Meeting
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-12-09T08:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/marquez-knocks-out-pacquiao-in-6th-round-to-win-fourth-meeting.html
Mexico ’s Juan Manuel Marquez knocked
out  Manny Pacquiao  in the sixth round of a non-title
welterweight bout to defeat the Filipino boxer for the first
time in four fights between the two.  Marquez knocked Pacquiao to the canvas with a strong right
hand to the chin in the final second of the sixth round. He had
also dropped Pacquiao in the third round, marking the first time
he had knocked him down in 39 rounds.  “I tried to look for the knockout,” Marquez said in a
televised interview with ESPN. “I feel very happy. I’m going to
rest and celebrate this with my family, my country and all of
the Mexicans around the world.”  Marquez, 39, improved to 55-6-1 with 6 knockouts.  “I never expected that punch,” Pacquiao said. “He got me
with a good one.”  After being knocked down in the third, Pacquiao rebounded
to drop Marquez in the fifth. Pacquiao, 33, said the early
knockdown was due to overconfidence.  “I was starting to get careless because I thought I got
him,” he said.  The loss dropped Pacquiao to 54-5-2 with 38 knockouts.
Pacquiao said he has no plans to retire and would welcome a
fifth fight.  “If they give it to us, why not?” He said. “My job is to
fight.”  Super Featherweight  Pacquiao won a majority decision in the last of three
previous meetings between the two fighters in November 2011. He
won by one point when the two fighters met in March 2008 in a
Super Featherweight match. Their first meeting in May 2004 for
the featherweight championship ended in a draw. During those
first two fights, Pacquiao knocked down Marquez four times.  “This is a very heartbreaking loss,” said Marita Graciano,
a market vendor and Pacquiao fan in  Manila  who was teary eyed
after the bout. ”I hope he can recover from this.”  In June, Pacquiao lost his welterweight title in his first
defeat in seven years when two of three judges scored a World
Boxing Association contest in favor of American Timothy Bradley.
A five-person WBO panel later ruled that Pacquiao won the
welterweight fight. The original decision in Bradley’s favor
stood.  “Nothing changed,” said Edwin Lacierda, spokesman for
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino . “The Filipino nation’s
admiration and support for Manny remains.”  Pacquiao earned $9 million from the Nevada Athletic
Commission for the match, and Marquez received a $3 million
paycheck. The totals don’t include the fighters’ shares of pay-
per-view fees or ticket sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  