-- Tarullo Telegraphs Fed’s Plans to Cap Bank Size
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-12-09T23:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/tarullo-telegraphs-fed-s-plans-to-cap-bank-size.html
Here’s a puzzle to entertain your
friends this holiday season. Why would a senior governor of the
Federal Reserve System publicly ask a question to which he
plainly knows the answer?  We are all familiar with the dark art of reading central
bank communications as they pertain to interest rates. The
opacity of former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan was legendary; his
successor, Ben S. Bernanke, and other current central bankers
lean toward greater transparency and signaling their intentions.  But today’s puzzle isn’t directly about  interest rates . It
is about regulation in general, and the Fed’s policy toward big
banks in particular.  In the bad old days -- before October -- the Fed would
elide such issues more often than not. Officials would point out
that there are many other bank regulators or that it was up to
Congress to make the big decisions. Even the  Dodd-Frank 
financial-reform legislation didn’t immediately inspire Fed
governors to take up the role of thought leaders on the nature
of systemic financial risk, and what to do about it.  Yet, in prominent speeches delivered  Oct. 10 ,  Nov. 28  and
 Dec. 4 , the Fed governor responsible for bank supervision,
Daniel K. Tarullo, seemed intent on asserting a leadership role
for the central bank. The speech in October laid out a broad
agenda and floated the idea of size caps on the largest U.S.
banks.  Capitalization Rules  In November, he sensibly proposed actions to ensure that
the U.S. operations of foreign banks are capitalized separately.
To borrow a phrase from the former Bank of  England  official
Charles Goodhart, big banks live globally but die locally, and
we should prepare accordingly.  Lawyers for the bankers reply that such arrangements will
make cross-border resolution of failing banks harder. That
argument makes no sense. In fact, the opposite is true;
resolution would become easier. The Fed will prevail on this
issue.  The most interesting speech was delivered last week, when
Tarullo asked whether there are significant economies of scale
or scope in global megabanks. In other words, is there a good
reason not to force these institutions to shrink over time?  It is well established that there are no such economies. In
fact, we know that the scale of public subsidies for these banks
-- and the damage they can cause -- increases as the banks
become larger.  So why did Tarullo ask the question? Here are three
possibilities:  The first is that he isn’t aware of the careful studies on
this issue. But Tarullo is, among other things, a leading
academic expert on banking. And, just in case he is too busy,
the Fed is full of really good economists who have read
everything on this issue. There is zero chance that Tarullo has
overlooked the work showing that big banks aren’t more
efficient, and receive much larger implicit subsidies than
smaller ones.  The definitive summary is the Oct. 25 speech by  Andrew Haldane  of the Bank of England, “ On Being the Right Size .” In
particular, study Chart 9, which demonstrates that there are no
economies of scale when you adjust for the undeniable implicit
subsidies received by megabanks.  For anyone on the Fed staff wanting to catch up on the
literature, I also recommend: “ The Implicit Subsidy of Banks ,”
by Joseph Noss and Rhiannon Sowerbutts, also of the BOE. Or have
a look at “ The Social Costs and Benefits of Too-Big-To-Fail
Banks: A Bounding Exercise ,” by John Boyd and Amanda Heitz, or
“ Too Big to Be Efficient? The Impact of Implicit Funding
Subsidies on Scale Economies in Banking ,” by Richard Davies and
Belinda Tracey, or “ Size Anomalies in U.S. Bank Stock Returns ,”
by Priyank Gandhi and Hanno Lustig.  Disagreement Maybe  And there is also a comprehensive soon-to-be-published
book, “ The Bankers’ New Clothes : What’s Wrong With Banking and
What to Do About It,” by Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig. It
isn’t officially available, though the galleys are a hot
property.  The second possible way to explain Tarullo’s question is
that he disagrees with the findings in this literature. But in
his speech he didn’t mention any of the important findings or
take issue with any of the authors and the substantive points
they make.  However, he did cite a recent  Clearing House study  that
claims big advantages in having humongous banks. Wisely, he
didn’t appear to take seriously this lobbying document, which is
based on claims that can’t be independently verified because
they are based on “proprietary data” and “interviews.” Why would
anyone take such propaganda seriously?  The main proposals on the table -- for example, the  Safe,
Accountable, Fair and Efficient Banking Act  sponsored by Senator
Sherrod Brown of  Ohio  -- would roll back the largest banks to
the size they were in the mid-1990s. What great positive impact
for the broader economy have we seen from the increase in bank
size over the past 15 years? Tarullo didn’t claim any, because
there are none.  The last possibility is that Tarullo and his colleagues
understand the facts and agree that the largest banks are too
big, and he framed his speech to send a signal. What is it?  The Fed agrees that the largest banks are too big.
Eradicating the problem of too big to fail may be impossible,
though we can move in the right direction by strengthening
capital and leverage requirements (more equity for bigger
banks), by putting in place a resolution regime that could work
(but the cross-border problems loom large), and by removing the
funding-cost advantage that big banks enjoy because their
creditors know there is effective downside protection from the
government.  Still, the Fed isn’t ready to move on this issue by itself.
It wants to first stir the hornets’ nest, with angry comment
letters from bankers and high-profile congressional hearings.  The Fed has the authority to cap bank size, but it wants to
shift the consensus first. The banks will push back hard, which
will expose the weakness of their arguments.  The major reform battleground for 2013 is a focused
question with a clear answer: Are there economies of scale or
scope in banking that outweigh the unfair, nontransparent and
highly dangerous government subsidies that megabanks receive?
No, there aren’t.  (Simon Johnson, a professor at the MIT Sloan School of
Management as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 