-- Maserati Gears Up Porsche Pursuit With $193,000 Four-Door
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-12-10T15:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/maserati-gears-up-porsche-pursuit-with-196-000-four-door.html
Maserati, the luxury-auto maker
owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , will start an effort to boost sales eightfold
and challenge Porsche for performance-car buyers with a new
version of its Quattroporte flagship sedan.  The sixth generation of Maserati’s four-door model, which
debuted today in Nice, has a top speed of 307 kilometers (191
miles) per hour. By trimming its weight by 100 kilograms (220
pounds) and using more efficient engines from Ferrari SpA, the
model will cut fuel consumption by around 20 percent.  “The new Quattroporte represents the start of an
industrial revolution for Maserati,” said Harald Wester, the
brand’s chief executive officer.  The Fiat unit targets selling as many as 15,000
Quattroportes next year. The car will cost as much as 150,000
euros ($193,000) in  Europe  and challenge the Porsche Panamera
Turbo for performance drivers needing a back seat.  “The new Quattroporte will close the power gap the old
version had with the fastest Porsche Panamera, while maintaining
its unique driving feeling,” said Pierluigi Santoro, a
cardiologist in Naples who has three Maseratis and chairs the
brand’s Italian owners’ club. “When you drive a Quattroporte
you feel like you’re in a sports car, but you’re really in a
luxury sedan with plenty of room for five.”  The Quattroporte spearheads a series of six new models that
will be introduced by the Modena, Italy-based Fiat unit over the
next four years, including the Levante sport-utility vehicle and
a smaller sedan called the Ghibli. The goal is to boost sales to
50,000 vehicles by 2015 from 6,159 last year.  Turnaround Plan  Maserati’s expansion is critical to Fiat Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne ’s plan to turn around the automaker’s
European operations, which Fiat expects will lose 700 million
euros this year. Combined with an expansion of Alfa Romeo, the
Turin, Italy-based automaker is counting on demand for higher-
margin luxury cars for export outside debt-strapped Europe to
fill factories in  Italy .  The brand’s sales this year will probably tumble to roughly
70 cars in Italy from about 450 in 2011. Because of the downturn
in Europe, Maserati delayed its target of doubling the number of
dealers to 500 outlets by 2015. The carmaker now expects 425
showrooms worldwide in three years.  Fiat cut its 2014 profit goal by 31 percent in October with
the European auto market on pace to contract for its fifth
straight year to the lowest level since 1995. Marchionne doesn’t
see any recovery in demand before 2014 and is targeting reaching
the break-even point in Europe in 2015 at the earliest.  Stock Drop  Marchionne’s plan has so far failed to convince investors.
At least seven analysts lowered their recommendations on the
shares since the plan was presented at the end of October. Since
then Fiat  stock  has fallen 12 percent, the steepest decline on
the Stoxx 600 Automobile & Parts index in that period. Fiat
shares fell as much as 5.9 percent today, burdened by political
turmoil in Italy.  The revamped Quattroporte, which was first built in 1963,
will be assembled at Fiat’s Grugliasco plant near Turin. Fiat
aims to employ 1,500 workers at the factory.  The Italian carmaker, which controls Chrysler Group LLC,
will also assemble the entry-level Ghibli sedan for Maserati.
Porsche is planning a smaller version of the Panamera to compete
with the new Maserati.  Maserati decided to shift production of the planned Levante
SUV to Italy from  Detroit  because the Jefferson North factory
needs all its capacity for its current lineup of Chrysler
models, including the  Jeep Grand Cherokee , said Wester, who is
also Fiat’s technology chief.  Italian Turmoil  Even after Prime Minister  Mario Monti  announced he would
resign, the Fiat executive isn’t concerned that economic and
political instability in Italy will threaten 1.22 billion euros
in investment on the three new Maserati models by 2014.  “I’m convinced of the good sense of Italians,” Wester
said today in Nice. “I’m convinced that our investments in
Italy will have a successful conclusion.”  As part of Marchionne’s strategy to reduce costs by using
the same technology for different brands, the Quattroporte and
the upcoming Ghibli will share electrical components with the
Chrysler 300 sedan, Wester said.  The Ghibli, which will compete with cars such as  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz E-Class and the 5-Series from  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , is due to start production in the second half
of 2013.  Luxury Expansion  Fiat isn’t the only volume carmaker in Europe pushing
upscale vehicles. Demand in the segment is typically more
resilient during economic swings than mass-market models.
 Renault SA (RNO)  plans to revive the Alpine sports car brand and is
considering building its Initiale Paris insignia into a full-
fledged luxury brand, while  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  is expanding the
Citroen DS line.  The moves are an attempt to mirror  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s success
with Porsche, Audi and other luxury brands, which account for
about half of the entire group’s profit. VW’s upscale marques,
along with BMW and Mercedes, are Fiat’s main targets.  “There is space, obviously, which is currently being
occupied exclusively by German producers that I think Maserati
has access to,” Marchionne said when presenting Fiat’s
turnaround plan in late October.  With European car sales on track to suffer their biggest
drop in 19 years in 2012, demand for mid-sized luxury cars are
on the rise. Worldwide deliveries in the segment are forecast to
increase 19 percent to 3.25 million vehicles in 2015 boosted by
growth in  China  and the U.S., according to IHS Automotive.  Only Chance  “Marchionne has no other chance to succeed in fast-growing
countries than with upscale Italian brands,” said Giuliano Noci, associate dean at Milan Polytechnic’s business school.
“In Asia and  Russia , Italian brands are perceived as synonymous
with elegance and quality.”  As part of Marchionne’s plan to introduce 19 Italian-built
vehicles by 2016, Fiat also plans an  Alfa Romeo  model based on
the Ghibli and may likewise assemble it at the Grugliasco
facility. Other models include a compact Jeep and a total of
nine new Alfa Romeos.  The expansion of  luxury vehicles  contrasts with delays in
bread-and-butter models. Marchionne postponed the introduction
of a new version of the Fiat Punto hatchback because of the lack
of prospects to recoup the investment amid stiffer competition
in Europe’s volume car market.  Fiat’s efforts to ramp up luxury-car sales may fall short
of its expectations. IHS forecasts Maserati delivering 28,100
cars in 2015, 44 percent short of its 50,000-vehicle goal.  “Maserati has the right reputation and consumers are out
there for more premium cars, especially in U.S. and China,”
said Neil King, an analyst at Euromonitor International in
 London . “On the other hand, their target is incredibly
ambitious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  