-- Bakrie’s Resignation From Bumi Is ‘Meaningless’, Rothschild Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-12-09T21:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/bakrie-s-resignation-from-bumi-is-meaningless-rothschild-says.html
Indra Bakrie’s decision to quit as
co-chairman of Bumi Plc, the London-listed coal company founded
by  Nathaniel Rothschild  and the family-run Bakrie Group in 2010,
is “meaningless”, according to Rothschild.  Bakrie told Bumi in a letter he is leaving “because the
initial objective of the Bakrie Group in pursuing a London
listing had not been met,” resulting in a proposal to exit the
investment made in October, Bumi said in Dec. 7 a statement.
“It was therefore appropriate that he resigned as a director of
the company, the letter said,” according to Bumi.  The Bakries put forward in October a $1.2 billion proposal
that would unwind the 2010 deal that grouped stakes in two
Indonesian coal producers. Rothschild, who controls about 12
percent of Bumi voting stock and who quit the board in October,
said last month he’d raised $270 million for a rival proposal
that similarly sought to sever ties with the Bakrie Group.  Bakrie “has not attended a board meeting for almost a year
and was content to do his business through Samin Tan,”
Rothschild said in e-mailed comments to  Bloomberg News ,
referring to Bumi’s chairman.  Bumi fell 0.3 percent to close Dec. 7 at 275.4 pence in
London trading. The stock has slumped 69 percent this year.
Rothschild sold shares in Vallar Plc, the precursor to Bumi, at
1,000 pence a share in 2010.  Rothschild said the drop in the share price since Tan’s
involvement with the company highlights the need for Bumi’s
independent directors to “act swiftly to prevent further value
destruction.” Bumi stock has fallen 61 percent since Tan was
appointed chairman on March 27.  Lost Confidence  Rothschild resigned as a director amid a feud with the
Bakries and Tan, saying he’d lost confidence in the board. The
boardroom infighting as well as investigations in London and
 Indonesia  into potential financial irregularities have prompted
moves to undo the $3 billion deal struck with the Bakries two
years ago.  The proposal from 41-year-old Rothschild, whose ancestor
helped bankroll Britain’s war against Napoleonic  France , was
sent to Bumi independent directors in October as he stepped up a
battle for control of the group. He repeated demands for Tan and
Rosan Roeslani, a director who indirectly controls about 13
percent of Bumi, to resign.  “We need to see the exit of Samin Tan, and Rosan Roeslani,
before any semblance of normalcy returns to this company,” he
said. Tan couldn’t immediately be reached by mobile phone. A
London-based spokesman for the Bakries declined to comment.  Secured Support  Rothschild, who is being advised by Morgan Stanley, has
also secured support from Hashim Djojohadikusumo, son of
Sumitro, one of the architects of Indonesia’s economic programs
in the late 1960s, a person familiar with his plans said last
month. His proposal is being studied by Bumi’s advisers and
independent directors, according to a Nov. 5 statement.  The Bakries have offered to acquire the 29 percent stake in
Indonesian coal producers PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI)  and 85 percent of  PT
Berau Coal Energy (BRAU)  held by Bumi Plc.  They’ve offered to exchange a 23.8 percent stake in Bumi
Plc for 10.3 percent of Jakarta-based Bumi Resources. The group
also made a conditional proposal to buy back the remaining 18.9
percent in Bumi Resources in cash by Christmas. In addition, it
plans to offer $947 million for Bumi Plc’s 84.7 percent stake in
Berau Coal Energy.  Bumi Resources, Indonesia’s top producer of power-station
coal, said a court on Nov. 9 approved an independent
investigation into its accounts dating back to 2010. Bumi
Resources is part-owned by the Bakrie family.  The London-listed company announced Sept. 24 an inquiry
into “potential financial and other irregularities” at its
Indonesian operations,  Bumi (BUMI)  Resources and Berau Coal Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  