-- Barcelona’s Lionel Messi Sets Scoring Record; Inter Beats Napoli
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-12-09T23:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/barcelona-s-lionel-messi-sets-scoring-record-inter-beats-napoli.html
Lionel Messi  broke soccer’s single
year scoring record as Barcelona defeated Real Betis 2-1, while
Juventus stretched its lead in Italy after Napoli lost 2-1 at
 Inter Milan .  Messi put the visitors ahead after 16 minutes last night
and nine minutes later the Argentina international eclipsed Gerd Muller’s record tally of 85 goals in 1972. Ruben Castro
completed the scoring for Betis six minutes before halftime.  “My goals are to win titles with the team,” Messi told
reporters. “The Spanish league, Spanish Cup or  Champions League 
are more important than any personal records.”  Barcelona remains six points ahead of second-placed
 Atletico Madrid , which got five goals from Falcao in a 6-0 rout
of Deportivo La Coruna last night. Barcelona has 43 points from
15 games.  Fredy Guarin and  Diego Milito  got first-half goals for
Inter before Edinson Cavani scored for Napoli in the 54th minute.  Also yesterday, Juventus won 1-0 at Palermo, with Stephan Lichtsteiner getting the only goal for the defending champion.  Juventus leads Serie A with 38 points, with Inter on 34 and
Napoli a further point back. Lazio, Roma and Fiorentina all have
29 points.  Lazio is at Bologna today, while Roma won 4-2 against
Fiorentina on Dec. 8. Seventh-place AC Milan won 4-2 at Torino
among yesterday’s other games.  In Spain two days ago, third-place Real Madrid twice
rallied from a goal behind to win 3-2 at Valladolid, with Mesut Ozil scoring twice. Malaga defeated Granada 4-0 and Levante beat
Mallorca 4-0 in other games.  Lyon Wins  Lyon stretched its lead in Ligue 1 to five points with a 1-
0 win at Saint-Etienne in yesterday’s late game. Lyon has 34
points, with Paris Saint-Germain and Marseille on 29.  PSG defeated Evian 4-0 two days ago, while 10-man Marseille
slipped to a 3-0 loss at home against Lorient yesterday.
Marseille’s Charles Kabore was red-carded after 38 minutes.  Bayern Munich  increased its advantage atop the Bundesliga
to 11 points through the weekend’s matches. It won 2-0 at
Augsburg on Dec. 8, while second-place  Bayer Leverkusen  lost 3-2
at Hanover yesterday.  Borussia Dortmund  and Eintracht Frankfurt are three points
further back. Dortmund was beaten 3-2 by Wolfsburg, and
Frankfurt beat Werder Bremen 4-1.  PSV Eindhoven  leads Dutch soccer’s Eredivisie by two points
as it beat  FC Twente  3-0 yesterday. Twente and Vitesse Arnhem,
which lost 3-1 at VVV Venlo, are its closest challengers, with
Ajax another point back. Ajax beat Groningen 2-0 two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 