-- Big Money Still Had Destructive Role in 2012 Elections
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-12-09T16:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/big-money-still-had-destructive-role-in-2012-elections.html
The fears that big money would
corrupt the political process in 2012 weren’t realized, the
conventional wisdom says. The fat cats, unshackled by U.S.
 Supreme Court  and lower court decisions, weren’t able to buy the
presidency or the Senate.  True. It also misses the point. About  $6 billion  was spent
on the campaign, and outside groups poured $1.3 billion into
political races, according to data from the  Federal Election
Commission  and the Center for Responsive Politics.  Supporters of the  Citizens United  and other campaign-
finance rulings dismissed the concerns about corruption,
contending that more money in politics would increase voter
participation and turnout and enhance the public’s knowledge
about the candidates and important issues.  Actually, even though considerably more money was spent
than four years earlier, turnout in the general election was
down a little. Even in some of the most competitive states such
as  Ohio , where both sides poured in cash, voter participation
decreased.  And the higher turnout in some other venues was due more to
the political infrastructure and ground game than the money the
outside groups spent on the airwaves. During the autumn
campaign, dozens of voters in those states told me that the
carpet bombing of political television commercials caused them
to turn off their televisions.  Primary Turnout  The outpouring of money was pronounced in the Republican
primaries and turnout didn’t soar there either, even though
there wasn’t a real competing Democratic contest.  One irony was that the super political action committee
backing former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  devastated his
Republican opponents in the primaries; in the general election,
it was a super-PAC backing President  Barack Obama , with its
early attacks on Romney’s private-equity background, that was
most effective.  Did the record amounts of money inform and edify voters? It
would be hard to find a serious Republican or Democrat who
argues it did.  The flood of outside money weakened political parties. The
incumbent party always dominates its national committee, as did
Obama this time. The Republican chairman, Reince Priebus, did a
good job cleaning up the shambles he inherited, but the
unofficial party chief was  Karl Rove , with the checkbook he
controlled through American Crossroads, the Citizens United-
enabled outside group he led.  Most insidious is the corrosive corruption of big money.
This is a reality that the ruling’s backers in the Supreme Court
majority -- none of whom had to run for office -- tried to play
down. Do they believe that Texas billionaire Harold Simmons, who
could gain a lot more money with a favorable Nuclear Regulatory
Commission decision permitting his West Texas dump site to
accept depleted uranium, contributed $27 million to Romney and
other Republicans only in the interest of good government?  The Republicans’ biggest sugar daddy, the Las Vegas casino
magnate  Sheldon Adelson , forked over $90 million in this cycle.
The  Huffington Post  reported that Adelson was in Washington last
week to meet Republican members of Congress, possibly to discuss
changes to the anti-bribery Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. His
company is under investigation by the Justice Department and
Securities and Exchange Commission for possible violations of
the law by his casinos in Macau.  On the Democratic side, there are reports that Obama’s next
ambassador to the U.K. -- or perhaps France -- will be  Anna Wintour , the Vogue editor whose chief qualification appears to
be that she held at least three big fundraisers for the
president and, as a top bundler, raked in more than $2.7 million
for his campaign.  Constitutional Amendment  Correctives to the Citizens United ruling are difficult.
House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  is pushing a constitutional
amendment to overturn the decision. That’s not going to happen:
Such an effort has the support of almost no Republicans and
requires approval from two-thirds of the Congress and three-
fourths of the states.  Two  House Democrats ,  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland  and  David Price  of  North Carolina , are pushing a measure that would match
small contributions with government money. This solution would
be much cheaper for taxpayers than relying on special interests,
but it’s a tough slog in the current Washington climate. They
also are pushing for greater transparency when it comes to the
fiction that candidate super-PACs are distinct from the
candidate’s campaign. And Van Hollen would end the secret
contributions now permissible under Federal Election Commission
rules and require complete disclosure.  These proposals meet the Supreme Court’s standards. A test
of whether the measures go anywhere is whether they can garner
some Republican support; advocates are waiting to see if one-
time campaign-finance reform champion, Senator  John McCain  of
Arizona, will rekindle his reformer’s zeal.  The bankruptcy of the money-driven system was evident in
the amount of time the presidential candidates spent
fundraising. In the three weeks after the Republican convention,
Romney held 12 rallies, three press conferences and 18
fundraisers in places such as mansions overlooking Biscayne Bay
in Florida and a Las Vegas steakhouse where Adelson had a front-
row seat.  It was at a fundraiser, which he thought was private, as
most were, that Romney made his  infamous comment  about the 47
percent of Americans who “believe they are victims,” and “pay
no income tax.”  Obama hustled almost as much, taking time away from
governing and campaigning. Spending so much time in the opulent
homes of donors, filled with priceless art and antiques,
reinforced the president’s view that the rich can afford to 
pay higher taxes.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 