-- Billionaire Adi Godrej Sees Future in Mom & Pop: Corporate India
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-12-10T10:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/billionaire-adi-godrej-sees-future-in-mom-pop-corporate-india.html
Billionaire Adi Godrej said his
company, India’s second-largest consumer goods maker by value,
will still depend on small retailers for sales 10 years after
foreign companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  open outlets.  Department chains buy just 6 percent of  Godrej Consumer
Products Ltd. (GCPL) ’s Cinthol soaps and Good Knight mosquito
repellents, Godrej said. India in September allowed multi-brand
retailers such as Wal-Mart and Tesco Plc to invest 51 percent in
Indian ventures. The nation’s parliament last week endorsed the
plan that the opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  said will put
the so-called mom & pop shops out of business.  Restrictions on store locations and investment rules will
mean sales to large chains may account for about 20 percent of
Godrej Consumer’s  revenue  after a decade, the company’s chairman
said. Small grocery stores, known as kirana, which often sell
goods on credit, villagers hawking products on carts and small
town shops will account for 90 percent of the second-most
populous nation’s 47-trillion-rupee ($863 billion) retail market
by 2017, according to a business chamber  report .  “Traditional retail will, five or 10 years from now, still
form the bulk of assets,” Godrej said in an interview in his
office in Mumbai. “There are many points of competitiveness
that traditional retail has in India, especially since they give
credit to neighboring customers. Service, convenience are other
factors.”  Share Performance  Godrej Consumer’s sales rose 32 percent to 48.6 billion
rupees in the year ended March 31. The company’s  shares  have
risen 88 percent this year making it the second-best performing
stock in the 190-company  Bloomberg World Asia Pacific Consumer
Non Cyclical Index. (BPRCNCY)  They rose 1.4 percent to 723 rupees in
Mumbai.  Wal-Mart, Tesco and Indian companies including billionaire
 Mukesh Ambani ’s Reliance Retail may have sales of 4.8 trillion
rupees by 2017, according to the October report by the
Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India, or
Assocham, and  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)   “Traditional retail is flourishing for manufacturers,”
said Kumar Rajagopalan, chief executive officer for the
Retailers Association of India. Small stores “take care of
specialized needs of consumers. Not all the large retailers can
do this. The concept of personalization is predominantly Indian
in nature.”  Punit Mandle, the owner of Bengal Store in New Delhi’s Gole
Market, said he allows customers to pay as late as three days
and takes orders over the phone for home deliveries.  ‘Why Go Far?’  “If you run out of sugar or salt at home, you won’t go to
a mall,” said Mandle in his 10 feet by 12 feet store. “You’ll
waste time, and if you get salt close to your house, why would
you go far?”  Overseas retailers, which have been allowed to own a 51
percent in local ventures, will not be able to sell products
online. Foreign companies will also be required to invest a
minimum of $100 million, with half being used to build
facilities such as manufacturing, distribution and warehouses
within the first three years of their foray,  India ’s Department
of Industrial Policy & Promotion said in September.  In  China , where foreign retailers can own 100 percent of
their local units, Wal-Mart had 384 stores as of Oct. 31,
according to the company’s website. Indonesia, Thailand and
 Russia  also allow 100 percent foreign ownership, according to
Assocham’s report.  State Rules  Stores will be permitted in states where the local
government gives its consent and in cities with a population of
more than 1 million people. In areas where there are no such
towns, the local government may choose which areas the stores
may be set up in, according to the statement.  The restrictions weren’t enough for the opposition
lawmakers who repeated arguments that the policy would throw
small shopkeepers out of work, further impoverish farmers and
hurt consumers.  “You would eventually have stores owned by the Americans,
the French and the British selling Chinese products,”  Arun Jaitley , leader of the BJP in the upper house said in his speech
in Parliament on Dec. 6. India “would become a nation of sales
boys and sales girls. The manufacturing sector will collapse.”  Large retailers may prompt Godrej Consumer, part of a group
that was established in 1897, to cut prices narrowing the
company’s  margins , Godrej said. Earnings margin before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization widened to 18 percent in
the year ended March.  ‘Bargaining Leverage’  That compares with 14.95 percent margin at  Hindustan
Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , India’s largest maker of household products.  Modern retailers “tend to have a better bargaining
leverage with manufacturers and marketers as opposed to the
small mom-and-pop stores,” said Godrej, who’s also the
president of the Confederation of Indian Industries, the
nation’s biggest business lobbying group.  The government and the nation’s central bank have said
foreign investment in multibrand retail could help bring down
food prices, a major driver of inflation that’s the highest
among the largest emerging economies. Investment in cold storage
and warehouses may reduce the wastage of fruits and vegetables,
35 percent of which rots before reaching the market, and food
grains of which 10 percent are wasted, as per government
estimates.  “While it may not be the best thing for us, the benefit we
would get -- because the Indian economy would benefit -- would
be more than what we would lose out in terms of our bargaining
ability,” Godrej said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore at 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  