-- Branson May Trim Stake in Virgin Atlantic, Sunday Times Reports
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-12-09T13:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/branson-may-trim-stake-in-virgin-atlantic-sunday-times-reports.html
U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson  is
in talks to sell part of his 51 percent stake in Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. to  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , the  Sunday Times  reported,
citing unidentified people with knowledge of the discussions.  A three-way transaction would also see Atlanta-based Delta
Air Lines Inc. buying Singapore Airlines Ltd.’s 49 percent share
in the U.K. carrier, the Times said. A deal may be concluded
early next week, according to the newspaper.  Calls to Air France and Delta went unanswered outside
normal office hours. Joanne Foster, a Virgin spokeswoman, said
by e-mail that the company is “always talking to many airlines
on a number of different matters but we never comment on the
details of these discussions.” Singapore spokesman  Nicholas Ionides  declined to comment beyond a Dec. 3 statement that
reported the airline’s negotiations with “interested parties.”  The Asian carrier paid 600 million pounds ($962 million)
for its holding in 1999. The global economic slowdown, rising
fuel prices and increased competition out of London’s Heathrow
Airport have weighed on Virgin Atlantic’s earnings since then.  Branson hired Deutsche Bank AG in 2010 to study possible
alliances and said earlier this year that Virgin Atlantic was in
advanced talks. The carrier posted a loss of 80.2 million pounds
for the year through February and has delayed adding bigger
planes.  North Atlantic flights generate about a quarter of all
global revenue from first- and business-class fares, more than
twice as much as the second-place Pacific routes, according to
the  International Air Transport Association . Heathrow is closer
to London than Delta’s previous base at  Gatwick airport , which
U.S. airlines have shunned since flight rules eased in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  