-- China Survey Shows Wealth Gap Soaring as Xi Pledges Help
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-09T06:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/china-s-wealth-gap-soars-as-xi-pledges-to-narrow-income-divide.html
China ’s wealth gap is now 50 percent
higher than a risk level for social unrest, according to a
central bank-backed survey, underscoring new Communist Party
chief  Xi Jinping ’s warning that corruption may endanger its rule.  The Gini coefficient, an index measuring  income inequality ,
was 0.61 in 2010, based on a survey of 8,438 households by the
Survey and Research Center for China Household Finance, a body
set up by the Finance Research Institute of the People’s Bank of
China and Southwestern University of Finance and Economics. The
survey also estimated the urban jobless rate in July 2012 was
8.05 percent, almost double the official figure.  The ruling Communist Party pledged during a once-a-decade
power transition last month to narrow the gap between rich and
poor and address corruption that’s fueling discontent in the
world’s second-biggest economy. Reducing inequality is one of
the main challenges facing China, the World Bank said in a
February  report  that outlined policies to help the nation make
the transition to a high-income country.  “China’s wealth gap is so prevalent between regions,
sectors, and urban and rural that it’s impossible to see a
meaningful decline in the Gini coefficient in the short term,”
Gan Li, director of the Chengdu-based center and a professor at
 Texas A&M University  in  College Station ,  Texas , said at a
briefing in Beijing today. “Depending on market forces alone
can’t resolve the gap and China must change the structure of
income distribution and rely on massive fiscal transfers to
narrow such a yawning disparity.”  Income Redistribution  Higher fiscal revenue and a bigger share of state-owned
enterprises’ profits could give the government about 3.8
trillion  yuan  ($610 billion) a year to spend on income
redistribution, said Gan, who has a doctorate in economics from
the  University of California  at Berkeley. In the long run
“China needs to beef up funding for education and reduce
inequality of opportunity to lower the  income gap ,” he said.  The widening inequality reflected in the Gini reading may
exacerbate concerns that the benefits of  economic growth 
averaging 10.6 percent a year over the past decade are going
mainly to the rich, fanning protests against corruption and
injustice. Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  was appointed as the party’s
new discipline chief as part of a once-a-decade power transition
last month, tasked with cracking down on corruption.  So-called mass incidents, including strikes, riots and
other disturbances, doubled to at least 180,000 in 2010 from
2006, according to Sun Liping, a sociology professor at
Beijing’s Tsinghua University.  Social Disturbances  China’s Gini coefficient has risen more than any other
Asian economy’s in the last two decades, Murtaza Syed, the
International Monetary Fund’s resident representative in Beijing,
said in February.  The index ranges from 0, which represents perfect equality,
to 1, which implies perfect inequality. Readings above 0.4 are
used by analysts as a gauge of the potential for social
disturbances. The index is also measured on a scale of 0 to 100.  The  World Bank  put China’s Gini index at 42.48 for 2005,
the last year it published a figure for the country.  The government hasn’t published a national number since
2000 when the figure was 0.412. Bo Xilai, the ousted former
Communist Party secretary of Chongqing, said in March it had
exceeded 0.46.  China isn’t deliberately hiding its Gini coefficient, and
will release the data once it improves its survey methodology,
 Ma Jiantang , head of the statistics bureau, said in March.  ‘Dangerously’ High  The center’s household survey, first conducted last year,
is one of the largest polls of its kind in China and is being
carried out every quarter, Gan said today. The Gini reading may
not be directly comparable with the  statistics bureau’s  number
due to differences in sample size and methodology, he said.  The  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , a state research
institute, found a Gini figure of 0.54 in 2008,  Li Wei , from the
organization’s sociology institute, said at today’s briefing.  Li Shi, executive dean of Beijing Normal University’s China
Institute of Income Distribution, who compiled his own Gini
survey in 2007, told Bloomberg News in September that a poll of
20,000 households gave an index of 0.48.  Li, who helped draft a government plan on income
distribution that’s due to be released by the end of the year,
said at the time the income gap will persist at a
“dangerously” high level over the coming decade.  Migrant Workers  In its report today, the Survey and Research Center for
China Household Finance estimated China’s urban jobless rate had
risen from 8 percent in July 2011 while unemployment among
migrant rural workers had almost doubled to 6 percent in July
2012 from 3.4 percent a year earlier.  China’s  urban registered jobless rate , the only official
measure of unemployment, was 4.1 percent at the end of September,
unchanged from the previous eight quarters. The rate rose to a
more than eight-year high of 4.3 percent in 2009 during the
global financial crisis.  The official data understate unemployment because they
exclude millions of rural workers who migrate from one province
to another to find jobs. The government set a target of keeping
the urban jobless rate under 4.6 percent this year.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  