-- China’s Factory Output Tops Forecasts as Rebound Picks Up
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-09T07:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/china-nov-consumer-prices-rise-2-vs-2-1-economists-est-.html
China ’s industrial  output  and retail
sales exceeded forecasts last month while inflation rebounded
from a 33-month low in signs the economic recovery is
accelerating.  Factory production climbed 10.1 percent in November from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today in
Beijing, compared with the 9.8 percent median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Retail sales growth
accelerated to 14.9 percent, while the consumer price  index  rose
2 percent from a year earlier.  Today’s reports may reassure China’s new leadership under
Communist Party chief Xi Jinping that  growth  in the world’s
second-largest economy, which has slowed for seven quarters,
will exceed the government’s target this year. The data may also
reduce the odds of additional fiscal or monetary easing to
support expansion.  “The Chinese economy is now in a sweet spot and can stay
in the sweet spot” through the first half of 2013, Lu Ting,
head of Greater China economics at Bank of America Corp. in  Hong
Kong , said in a note today. “The current macro backdrop should
bolster asset prices from equities to commodities.”  The nation’s benchmark stock gauge, the Shanghai Composite
Index, rose 4.1 percent last week, the most in a year, on
expectations the recovery will gather pace and as the ruling
Politburo signaled an increased focus on urban development.  Trade Data  China’s customs administration will tomorrow release
November trade data. Export growth probably cooled to 9 percent
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of 31
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports rose 2 percent,
easing from a 2.4 percent pace the previous month.  The rise in  retail sales  compared with the 14.6 percent
median estimate of analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Fixed-
asset investment excluding rural households in the first 11
months of the year rose 20.7 percent, the same pace as in the
January-October period. Economists had forecast a 20.9 percent
gain.  Output of rolled steel rose 16.5 percent in November from a
year earlier, up from an 11.7 percent pace in October, while
electricity production increased the most since February,
government data showed. Industries with accelerating growth
included telecommunications and computers, ferrous metal
smelting and pressing and general-purpose equipment, according
to the statistics bureau.  “Growth is on track to rebound sharply” above 8 percent
this quarter, said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong. Inflation probably “bottomed in
October and will likely rise further in December and 2013, as
growth picks up and adds inflationary pressure,” Zhang said.  Inflation Forecast  Consumer inflation compared with the 2.1 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 35 economists and a 1.7
percent gain in October. Producer prices fell 2.2 percent, the
ninth straight drop, while the pace of the decline moderated for
a second month. Deflation eased in costs for mining, raw
materials and manufacturing, the statistics bureau said.  “Chinese authorities will continue to guard against the
inflation risk in 2013,” Liu Li-Gang, chief  Greater China 
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Hong
Kong, said in a note today. Investment spending and high food
prices will help inflation “re-emerge” in the second half of
2013, and the central bank will have to pay more attention to
managing price expectations, Liu wrote.  The Politburo, in its first public assessment of the
country’s development since a new generation of leaders took
office last month, said the economy is stabilizing and favorable
factors are increasing, according to a report from the official
Xinhua News Agency on Dec. 4.  Caterpillar CEO  Caterpillar Inc., the world’s biggest construction and
mining equipment maker, is seeing signs of recovery in China and
expects economic growth to increase next year as the government
focuses on rural migration to towns and cities, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said.  “I’m convinced we are going to see positive changes in the
next few months,” Oberhelman said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television on Dec. 6. “I’m pretty optimistic about
China, not a big boom like we’ve seen, but slowly recovering.”  Consumer-price gains have slowed from a three-year high of
6.5 percent in July last year and have stayed below the
government’s 2012 target of 4 percent since February.  Food Prices  The pace of food-price gains accelerated for the first time
in three months, increasing 3 percent in November from a year
earlier after a 1.8 percent rise in October, today’s inflation
report showed. The decline in  pork  prices moderated to 11.5
percent in November from a year earlier, after a 15.8 percent
fall in October. They jumped 26.5 percent in November last year.  Non-food inflation cooled to 1.6 percent in November from a
year earlier, while consumer-goods prices jumped 1.9 percent,
the most since August.  China’s gross domestic product may expand 7.7 percent in
the three months through December from a year earlier, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Growth was 7.4
percent in the third quarter, the least in three years. The
government’s 2012 target is for 7.5 percent growth.  --Zhou Xin, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Regina Tan, Penny Peng and Jessica Zhou in Beijing, Janet Ong in Hong Kong and
Ailing Tan in  Singapore . Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  