-- DBS to Add Bankers for Hong Kong, China Corporate Unit
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-12-10T03:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/dbs-plans-to-add-bankers-for-hong-kong-china-corporate-business.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast
Asia’s biggest lender, will increase the number of bankers
serving large companies in  Hong Kong  and  China  by 20 percent
next year as it seeks more revenue from outside of  Singapore .  The bank plans to add 10 to the 50-person team, Ginger
Cheng, who heads DBS’s institutional banking for large companies
in Hong Kong and China, said in a briefing.  DBS Chief Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta  is targeting
faster-growing markets as corporate loan growth in Singapore
slows. The bank derived 63 percent of its  net income  from the
Southeast Asian city in the third quarter, down from 66 percent
a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are looking to hire mostly senior bankers as we expect
strong funding demand needs by Chinese corporates,” said Cheng
of DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Ltd.  The bank next year will also set up a team to provide
financing and cash management services to multinational
companies in Europe and the U.S., she said.  Shares of DBS rose 0.7 percent to S$14.90, the highest in
almost four months, as of 11:34 a.m. in Singapore trading,
extending their gain this year to 29 percent.  In addition to the corporate banking expansion, DBS plans
to sell more services to wealthy people in Hong Kong to increase
consumer banking revenue in the city by at least 10 percent a
year, Pearlyn Phau, head of consumer banking for Hong Kong, said
on Nov. 2.  DBS Hong Kong’s consumer banking revenue rose 14 percent in
the first nine months from a year earlier, including 17 percent
growth from  wealth management , Phau said. The lender said last
year that it would invest S$250 million ($205 million) to build
wealth management business in Asia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  