-- Designer Cells From Patients’ Blood Spur Cancer Remission
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-12-10T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/designer-cells-from-patients-own-blood-spur-cancer-remissions.html
Nine leukemia patients are cancer-
free after being treated with genetically-altered versions of
their own immune cells, giving strength to a promising new
approach for treating the blood cancer.  The trial of 12 patients, two of them children, bolsters
findings from 2011. Then, scientists from the University of
Pennsylvania in Philadelphia reported that two of the first
three patients treated showed no traces of the malignancy after
getting the therapy. The results were presented yesterday at the
American Society of Hematology’s  annual meeting  in Atlanta  For Walter Keller, 59, who had failed every other treatment
for his chronic lymphocytic leukemia diagnosed in 1996, the
regimen meant he’s been in remission since his treatment in
April. Before the therapy, “I thought I had a year to live,”
he said.  “I feel better than I have in a long, long time,” said
Keller, of Upland,  California , in a telephone interview. ”I’m
excited because I think this will help a lot of people.”  The approach developed by University of Pennsylvania
scientists has since been acquired by  Novartis (NOVN)  AG.  The scientists, led by Carl June, a professor of pathology
and laboratory medicine at the Abramson Cancer Center at the
University of Pennsylvania and a study author, used genetic
engineering to manipulate white blood cells extracted from the
patients. The researchers reprogrammed the cells to specifically
target the leukemia cells and reinjected them into the patients.  Slow-Growing  CLL is a slow-growing cancer that starts from white blood
cells in the bone marrow and interferes with the production of
healthy blood cells. The condition leads to complications such
as immune deficiencies and swollen lymph nodes. The disease
strikes about 16,000 adults each year and 4,600 die from it,
according to the  American Cancer Society .  The disease is treated with chemotherapy. Another approach
is bone marrow transplant in which chemotherapy is first given
to kill diseased cells then replaced with healthy ones from bone
marrow extracted from the patient or a donor.  Keller underwent chemotherapy and then a stem cell
transplant in 1998 and 1999. He was in remission for 5 and a
half years. He then underwent a different chemotherapy regimen
and got a second stem cell transplant. The cancer came back
again in 2010, and he had no options left. He was one of 10
adult patients treated so far.  “No patient who had complete remission has lost it,” said
Keller’s doctor,  David Porter,  director of blood and marrow
transplantation at the University of Pennsylvania’s Abramson
Cancer Center. “It’s unusual to have a treatment that can work
to this magnitude and until now, this duration.”  Cancer Remission  Two of the original three patients treated have maintained
their remissions over 2 years later. The scientists found signs
of the designer blood cells still circulating in their bodies.  Two girls, ages 7 and 10 were also treated for a fast-
growing blood cancer that affects children called  acute
lymphoblastic leukemia . Both had been treated and had then
relapsed, said  Stephan Grupp , director of Translational Research
in the Center for Childhood Cancer Research at the Children’s
Hospital of Philadelphia. He presented research on their care at
the hematology meeting.  One of the girls has been in complete remission in the 8
months since her treatment. The other had a remission of “a few
months” before relapsing again, Grupp said. The younger girl
had severe side-effects.  Flu Symptoms  Previous studies have documented severe, flu-like illness
in patients treated with their pumped-up immune cells. The 7-
year-old’s severe reaction helped explain what was happening,
Grupp said. Her levels of an inflammatory protein called IL-6
were very high, 998 times her ordinary level. His group treated
her with Roche Holding AG’s  Actemra , approved for rheumatoid
arthritis, which targets the protein. Because her levels of
another inflammatory protein called TNF were high, she was also
treated with Amgen Inc. and Pfizer Inc.’s Enbrel.  “The next morning, she was dramatically better,” Grupp
said.  Her reaction suggests that the illness caused by the
treatment is the result of an overactive immune system.
Previously it wasn’t clear what had caused the reactions, since
tumors also release poisons when they’re broken up to be cleared
from the system.  Three adults being dosed with their own altered immune
cells were also treated with Actemra, which lowered high fevers,
restored abnormally low blood pressure, and allowed patients to
easily breathe again.  “Everyone says I look good,” said Keller, who also
experienced flu symptoms after the treatment. “I guess I looked
like crap before.”  Novartis funded a $20 million research center at the
University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, as well as paying an
undisclosed amount of money for rights to the therapy in August.
The therapy will be called CTL019 by the drugmaker.  The research was funded by the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society,
the Alliance for Cancer Gene Therapy and the National Institutes
of Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  