-- Dubai Rents Advance on Population Growth, Prime Areas, CBRE Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-12-09T07:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/dubai-rents-advance-on-population-growth-prime-areas-cbre-says.html
Residential rents in Dubai rose 17
percent on average amid  population growth  and limited supply in
certain areas, according to CBRE Group Inc.  “Dubai is seeing higher rental growth this year due to a
sustained period of population growth, positive economic
performance, increased occupier demand and limited availability
of quality units in the most desirable locations,”  Matthew Green , head of United Arab Emirates’ research at CBRE  Middle
East , wrote in a report today.  Dubai, which witnessed one of the world’s worst property
crashes with 65 percent drop in home values from its 2008 peak,
is returning to large projects which dominated the market. The
Persian Gulf business hub, which is home to the world’s tallest
tower and man-made islands, last month announced plans to
develop a new district with the world’s largest mall, 100 hotels
and gardens larger than  London ’s Hyde Park. Just days after the
Mohammad Bin Rashid City was announced, the sheikhdom said it
would build five theme parks for $2.7 billion.  About 36,000 apartments and single-family homes maybe
completed from 2013 to 2015 provided construction delays are
minimal, according to CBRE. The majority of residential supply
is expected from locations such as Dubailand, while about 26
percent of it will be in Motor City, Dubai Sports City, Liwan
and Dubailand Residences, it said.  “With supply levels becoming increasingly tight in popular
community areas, further product launches are anticipated during
2013,” according to Green. Although investor confidence is
growing, “the main focus for investors remains completed assets
in established locations,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 