-- Egypt’s Shares Surge Most in 5 Months After Mursi Revokes Decree
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-12-09T14:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/egypt-s-shares-surge-most-in-5-months-after-mursi-revokes-decree.html
Egyptian stocks climbed the most in
more than five months after President Mohamed Mursi revoked a
decree that had expanded his powers and sparked the worst unrest
since his election in June.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , Egypt’s largest publicly
traded company, jumped the most since June.  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the biggest publicly traded
lender, rose 5.9 percent. The  EGX 30 (EGX30)  climbed 4.4 percent, the
most since July 2, to 5,051.96 at the close in Cairo. About 77 
million shares  were traded today, compared with a 12-month daily
average of 129 million shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The gains are indicative of a possible breakthrough,”
said Ahmed Sarhan, a trader at Cairo-based Dynamic Securities
Brokerage. “But there’s no indication that it’s sustainable
because the opposition is holding firm and there’s an escalation
in rhetoric from the Islamists, which raises the possibility of
more violence ahead.”  All stocks except one on the benchmark index climbed after
the reversal of the decree, which had shielded Mursi’s decisions
from judicial oversight. The announcement, made yesterday by
Islamist politician Mohamed Salim El Awa, came as opposition
supporters began a third week of rallies outside the
presidential palace to protest a draft constitution, which they
say favors Islamists.  New Constitution  Thirty-day volatility, a measure of price swings, rose in
nine out of the last 12 days to 45 today, compared with nine for
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Mursi rejected his opponents’ demands to delay a Dec. 15
referendum on the constitution, prompting them to press ahead
with planned marches today to the main presidential palace in
Cairo. Eight people were killed and more than 700 people were
injured when pro- and anti-Mursi demonstrators clashed outside
the compound last week, according to the Health Ministry.  If the constitution is rejected, a new committee would be
seated within three months to draft a charter, according to
yesterday’s presidential statement.  “It is still unclear if this rally would last, especially
since the opposition has already raised the ceiling of demands
and Mursi is still insisting on the Dec. 15 referendum,” said
Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales at Cairo-based
Mega Investments Securities.  Orascom Construction  Orascom Construction Industries surged 5.2 percent to
235.03 Egyptian pounds. Commercial International Bank gained the
most since July 2 to 34.45 pounds.  In the Gulf Cooperation Council, Kuwait’s  gauge  rose 0.5
percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.6 percent and
Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  climbed 0.4 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC 200
Index (BGCC200)  of the biggest companies in the GCC advanced 0.2 percent.
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  fell 0.1 percent. Bahrain’s measure was little
changed and  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  increased 0.1
percent. Dubai’s DFM General Index added 0.2 percent.  Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  rose 0.5 percent. The yield on the
benchmark 5.5 percent bonds due 2022 fell one basis point to
3.78 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  