-- Manchester Football Match Probed After Player Hit by Object
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-12-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/england-s-f-a-starts-probe-after-ferdinand-is-hit-by-missile.html
English soccer’s ruling body opened
an investigation after Manchester United’s Rio Ferdinand was hit
by an object thrown from the crowd at the end of yesterday’s
Premier League match at Manchester City.  The incident came amid angry crowd scenes as United players
celebrated an injury-time goal by Robin van Persie that gave his
team a 3-2 win at their opponents’ Etihad Stadium. Defender
Ferdinand seemed to be hit by a coin, sustaining a cut above an
eye and wiping blood from his face.  “It is disappointing that after a great game and advert
for the Premier League that we are discussing this issue,” the
Football Association said  on its website . “We will work with
the clubs and authorities to identify those responsible and
support the strongest sanctions available, including life
bans.”  The F.A. said it will liaise with Greater Manchester Police
and await reports from its crowd control adviser who was present
at the game and the match referee Martin Atkinson.  The ruling body said it was “simply unacceptable that any
player is exposed to injury in this way. To witness Rio
Ferdinand leaving the field with a cut above his eye to receive
treatment is appalling.”  League champion City apologized over the incident.  “Manchester City wishes to offer its sincere apologies to
Rio Ferdinand,” City said on its website. “The club
unreservedly condemns the actions which led to his being
injured.”  Police Probe  City said its security officials are “cooperating fully
with Greater Manchester Police in relation to events leading up
to the throwing of missiles onto the field of play, and between
the two sets of supporters, during today’s game.”  City added that the police’s review of fan behavior at the
match will be fully supported by the club, through the provision
of closed-circuit footage and eyewitness accounts. The club
pledged to “apply its own disciplinary policies for any fans
found guilty of offenses.”  After Ferdinand was hit, a City fan ran on the field and
approached him before being intercepted by City goalkeeper Joe
Hart and led away.  United manager Alex Ferguson condemned the unruly incidents
surrounding the winning goal, which left his team six points
clear of City at the top of the standings.  “It’s just unfortunate towards the end a City fan runs on
and then they throw coins at our players and that,” he told Sky
Sports. “Two fantastic teams today, I think, and a fantastic
game of football, and it could do without that.”  Ferdinand commented about the incident on social networking
site Twitter.  “What a result, 3 points! Sweet! Whoever threw that coin,
what a shot!” he said. “Can’t believe it was a copper
2p....could have at least been a £1 coin!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  