-- Here’s a New Tax on Savings You Didn’t Know About
-- B y   A l a n   D .   V i a r d
-- 2012-12-09T23:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/here-s-a-new-tax-on-savings-you-didn-t-know-about.html
In the debate over the looming
fiscal cliff, U.S. President  Barack Obama  often  plays down  any
adverse economic impact from letting the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts
expire for high-income Americans, claiming that the top tax
rates would merely return to where they were during the Clinton
years.  Unfortunately, the president’s claim is incorrect because
he ignores the impending arrival of the  unearned income Medicare
contribution  tax, which will further raise tax rates on income
from saving.  Scheduled to take effect on Jan. 1, the tax, which was
adopted as part of the 2010  health-care law , is a 3.8 percent
levy on interest, dividends, capital gains and passive business
income received by taxpayers with incomes exceeding $200,000 (or
$250,000 for couples).  Because the new tax was  added  to the health-care law late
in the process without congressional hearings, it received
little attention at the time. With only a few weeks left before
it takes effect, it remains largely unknown.  Its obscurity has allowed bizarre myths to circulate on the
Internet -- despite what you may have read online, the tax is
not a 3.8 percent levy on home sales.  One problem with the unearned income Medicare contribution
tax is the name Congress chose for it, which is a triple
misnomer. The income that will be subject to the tax isn’t
unearned -- it is earned by savers who receive market rewards
for delaying consumption and providing funds to finance business
investment.  Also, because the proceeds will be paid into the general
treasury,  the tax  will have no financial link to Medicare. And,
of course, the tax will be a compulsory payment, not a voluntary
contribution.  Intricate Regulations  Another concern is the complexity of the tax, as
demonstrated by the intricate proposed regulations the Internal
Revenue Service has had to develop to carry it out. The
regulations, which still leave a few implementation issues
unresolved, and the accompanying explanation filled  42 pages  of
the Dec. 5 Federal Register.  The biggest issue, however, is the additional penalty the
tax will impose on the savings that finance investment and fuel
long-run economic growth. It’s true that relatively few
Americans have high enough incomes to be subject to the tax. But
they account for a large portion of what the nation saves,
magnifying the economic impact.  IRS data for 2010  reveal that the 3 percent of taxpayers
with incomes of more than $200,000 received 45 percent of the
interest income, 58 percent of the dividends and 88 percent of
the capital gains (net of losses). More taxpayers and more
saving will gradually become subject to the unearned income
Medicare contribution tax in coming decades because its income
thresholds won’t be adjusted for inflation.  Even if the high-income portions of the 2001 and 2003 tax
cuts are fully extended, the unearned income Medicare
contribution tax’s arrival next year will raise the top rates on
interest, dividends and capital gains 3.8 percentage points
above this year’s levels. Or, if the high-income provisions are
allowed to expire, it will push the top rates on interest,
dividends and capital gains 3.8 percentage points above Clinton-
era levels.  Even if we can’t repeal this tax, we should at least keep
in mind its burden on saving as we decide the fate of the 2001
and 2003 tax cuts.  Finally, if we keep the unearned income Medicare
contribution tax, we should give it a more accurate name. The
IRS is now calling it the “net investment income tax.” I prefer
to call it a  “tax on income earned by savers.”   (Alan D. Viard is a resident scholar at the American
Enterprise Institute. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Alan D. Viard at  aviard@aei.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 