-- EU’s Van Rompuy, Barroso See Stronger Union After Debt Crisis
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2012-12-09T14:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/eu-s-van-rompuy-barroso-see-stronger-union-after-debt-crisis.html
European Union  leaders said the bloc
will fix its flaws and emerge more united from the sovereign
debt crisis as they arrived in Oslo to collect this year’s Nobel
Peace prize.  “We are going through a difficult period,” EU President
Herman Van Rompuy said at a press conference today at the Nobel
Institute. “We will come out of this time of uncertainty and
recession stronger than before.”  The EU was awarded the prize on Oct. 12 for helping to
reconcile warring superpowers in the wake of two world wars and
for promoting democracy and human rights. The bloc has grown
from six countries in 1957 to 27, embracing 500 million people
with an economy of $15 trillion. It’s now struggling to contain
a financial crisis that has entered its fourth year and sent
unemployment to record highs.  EU leaders have taken the award as a call to action to
prevent the crisis from halting the drive toward a united
continent. The Norwegian Nobel Committee coupled praise for the
EU’s past with a warning that economic weakness and social
instability pose a risk to the historic achievement of
entrenching peace and democracy on the continent.  The committee singled out  Greece , Spain and  Portugal  --
all at the forefront of the debt crisis -- as beneficiaries of
the political and economic freedoms that are fundamental
elements of the EU.  December Summit  European leaders meet this week in Brussels to try to
agree on the next step in reviving the region’s economy. At a
summit on Dec. 13-14, the heads of state and government will
debate a roadmap for the overhaul of the euro area, including
increased powers to intervene in national budgets and the
establishment of a single banking supervisor.  The financial crisis has shown the bloc wasn’t “fully
equipped to deal with a crisis of this magnitude” and it’s now
working to complete an economic union, Jose Manuel Barroso,
president of the European Commission, said at today’s press
conference.  The prize ceremony is scheduled to be held in Oslo City
Hall tomorrow, and will be attended by about 20 of the union’s
leaders, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  