-- Europe’s Banks Seek Basel Review on Eve of Implementation
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-12-10T10:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/europe-s-banks-seek-basel-impact-study-on-eve-of-implementation.html
Europe ’s banks are calling for a
review of tougher financial regulations on the eve of their
adoption as the region sinks into a recession, dimming prospects
of raising $621 billion in capital needed to meet the rules.  Christian Clausen , president of the European Banking
Federation, said the cumulative impact on lenders and the
economy of new rules is unknown because of their piecemeal
creation during the global financial crisis. After correctly
anticipating Europe won’t be ready to implement tougher
standards on schedule, Clausen now wants politicians to allow an
impact study to measure the economic cost of all the
requirements due to be enforced.  “We don’t really know the implications,” Clausen, who is
also the chief executive officer of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , said in an
interview in Copenhagen. “Remember, it’s come in steps. It’s
not one plan. It’s many plans put together.”  The European Union aims to implement collateral and
liquidity recommendations by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  during 2013, after a Jan. 1 deadline was pushed
back. The Basel committee meets this week to resolve clashes
over the liquidity provisions, which European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  has said could choke interbank lending.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
fell today the most in a month, dropping 1.9 percent to 87.58 as
of 10:17 a.m. in  London , led by declines in  Italy ’s lenders.
Before today, the 38-member index had gained 20 percent since
Jan. 1.  Absorbing Losses  Basel envisaged the new rules should be phased in from the
start of next month and be effective by 2019. U.S. regulators
said last month they won’t be able to apply the Basel rules on
schedule.  The  Boston Consulting Group  estimates global lenders have
to raise as much as 474 billion euros ($621 billion) to meet the
requirements, which more than triple the core capital banks must
hold to absorb losses.  Clausen, whose own bank is cutting about 10 percent of its
workforce “over a few years” to adjust to stricter rules,
estimates  capital ratios  may climb as high as 25 percent of
risk-weighted assets if provisions for bail-in instruments are
included. Nordea has already eliminated about 7 percent of its
employees, the bank said last week.  “The bigger the capital, the bigger the implications,”
Clausen said. “Do we want to build a society, an economy, with
such a high capital level that new investments get expensive and
therefore difficult to do?”  Unsecured Lending  European banks have a 256 billion-euro shortfall to meet
minimum Basel III core Tier 1 capital ratios based on their
year-end figures, according to the Boston Consulting Group.
That’s more than double the 112 billion-euro shortfall for U.S.
banks.  European banks’ reluctance to lend to each other on an
unsecured basis rose to the highest in 10 weeks, according to a
money-market indicator. The difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight  index (BEBANKS)  swaps, known as the
Euribor-OIS spread, was 14.4 basis points at 8:25 a.m. in
London, from 14.2 on Dec. 7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The spread is the widest since Sept. 21.  The 17-nation euro area fell into a recession in the second
quarter as governments cut spending to reduce deficits. Several
economies probably will continue contracting next year, European
Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said last
week.  ‘Risky’ Words  Moving ahead with Basel against that backdrop “is like
asking somebody who is hospitalized to run a marathon,” said
Jesper Berg, head of regulatory affairs at Nykredit A/S,
Europe’s biggest issuer of mortgage-backed covered bonds. “I’m
not sure that a new impact study is needed to reach that
conclusion. The impact studies we’ve seen so far have been
partisan.”  The role bankers played in creating the financial crisis
makes it “risky” to speak out, Clausen said. Still, decisions
about how to regulate banks are also decisions about how to run
the economy, he said.  “It is difficult to see how the European economy will grow
because this is a drag on the economy when we have to build the
equity,” Clausen said. A review of the requirement could go
hand in hand with the regulatory process under way, he said.  “We shouldn’t’ scrap anything,” Clausen said.
“Everything is well thought-out. But we’re adding on top all
the time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  