-- Dollar Falls Before Fed Considers Added Monetary Stimulus
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-12-10T22:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/euro-near-2-week-low-on-monti-resignation-plan.html
The dollar weakened against most its
major counterparts amid better-than-forecast factory data from
China and bets the U.S. central bank will add to monetary
stimulus.  The U.S. currency fell versus the euro and the yen before
the  Federal Reserve  starts a policy meeting tomorrow amid
forecasts it will expand bond-buying plans. Japan’s currency
touched the highest in almost two weeks versus the euro after
 Italy ’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said he intends to resign.
Mexico’s peso advanced after a report showed exports increased
13 percent from a year earlier.  “You’re starting to see a slight divergence appear in the
 currency markets , as the Chinese data remained quite
favorable,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York . “Despite what is happening in
Italy, markets are still relatively calm. People are looking
ahead to the Federal Reserve this week, which should be an event
that is positive for risk and negative for the dollar.”  The dollar fell 0.1 percent to $1.2941 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York. It dropped 0.2 percent to 82.36 yen. The Japanese
currency was 0.1 percent higher against the euro at 106.58,
after reaching 105.98, the strongest since Nov. 28.  The U.S. currency declined versus 10 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts. It sank 0.3 percent versus the  New Zealand dollar 
and retreated 0.2 percent against the pound.  Futures Positions  The yen’s gains against the dollar were buoyed as investors
may have ended wagers the currency would decline. Net-short yen
positions against the greenback reached 90,326 last week, the
most since July 2007, Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data
show .  Japan’s currency has depreciated 9.5 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The greenback dropped 2.3 and
the euro lost 2.5 percent.  Mexico’s peso rose 0.3 percent to 12.8090 per dollar. The
nation’s exports rose in October compared to that month a year
before.  South Africa’s rand fell against most of its major
counterparts before a report expected to show  consumer prices  in
the nation rose 5.6 percent even as the economy  slows .  The rand declined for the first time in six days, falling
0.2 percent to 8.6695 per dollar.  Dollar Measure  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell 0.1 percent to 80.301, after earlier
declining as much as 0.2 percent.  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee meets for the last
time this year on Dec. 11-12. It will consider whether to expand
purchases of assets after its so-called Operation Twist program
of swapping $45 billion a month in short-term Treasuries for
long-term debt expires this month.  “There’s a good chance that the Fed will announce a new
round of money printing and bond buying,” which would be
negative for the dollar, said Imre Speizer, a strategist in
Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   China’s factory production climbed 10.1 percent in November
while retail sales growth accelerated to 14.9 percent, the
National Bureau of Statistics said Dec. 9. Both figures exceeded
analysts’ median estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The euro erased losses against the dollar earlier today as
U.S. stocks pared declines after McDonald’s Corp., the largest
restaurant chain, added 2.3 percent as its November sales rose
2.4 percent globally. Analysts projected a gain of 0.2 percent
for sales at stores open at least 13 months, the average of 14
estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix.  Italy’s Leadership  Italy’s Monti will attempt to convince his coalition, which
includes his predecessor  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of Liberty
Party, to vote to pass budget legislation before handing in his
“irrevocable resignation,” national President Giorgio
Napolitano’s office said Dec. 8.  “The political situation in Italy has added to uncertainty
in  Europe ,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in London. “This political uncertainty
may linger for a while and that could be negative for the euro
in coming months.”  The euro may strengthen to a seven-month high against the
dollar should it stay above a level of so-called support, ING
Groep NV said, citing trading patterns. The currency is poised
to halt recent declines as long as it remains higher than its
50-day moving average, currently at $1.2918, and its 200-day
average of $1.2785, according to Roelof-Jan van den Akker, a
technical analyst at ING in Amsterdam. Should it hold above
those the euro will rise toward $1.3172, the high of Sept. 17,
he said.  Canada’s dollar strengthened after the government approved
 Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion purchase of energy company  Nexen Inc. (NXY) 
and signed off on Malaysian Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s purchase
of  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  on Dec. 7.  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 98.63
cents per  U.S. dollar , the strongest since Oct. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  