-- Frankfurt Airport Cancels Quarter of Flights Amid German Snow
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-12-09T18:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/frankfurt-airport-cancels-quarter-of-flights-amid-german-snow.html
More than a quarter of the flights
scheduled at Fraport AG’s Frankfurt airport were canceled today
as snowfall caused travel disruption across  Germany .  Of Frankfurt airport’s 1,210 scheduled flights, 377 were
canceled as of 5:45 p.m., operations manager Waltraud Riehemann
said by telephone.  Deutsche Bahn  AG, the German rail operator,
said trains nationwide were also delayed as it limited their
speed to prevent accidents, a spokeswoman said.  “It is mostly flights within Germany that are affected,”
Riehemann said, adding that 172 of the cancellations at Europe’s
third-biggest airport were arrivals and 205 departures. Flights
to New York,  Newark  and  Washington  also were canceled.  Temperatures fell to as low as -20 degrees Celsius (-4
degrees Fahrenheit) in parts of Germany, according to the
website of the Deutscher Wetterdienst, which predicted new
snowfall of as much as 20 centimeters. The temperature in
 Frankfurt  was a little over 1 degree celsius at 5 p.m.  Deutsche Bahn limited from noon the speed of its inter-city
trains to 200 km/h (125 mph) as a precautionary safety measure,
said a spokeswoman who declined to be named, citing company
policy. The trains can usually travel up to 260 km/h, she said.
Some trains were delayed by as much as half an hour, she said.
She was unable to say how many services had been canceled.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , which is Europe’s second-biggest
airline and uses Frankfurt as its main hub,  canceled  at least
258 flights today in Frankfurt, Munich, Berlin and Dusseldorf to
international destinations including  San Francisco , Chicago and
Seoul, according to the company’s website. A spokeswoman was
unable to comment on the cancellations.  Fraport said last month it planned to deploy 700 employees
in Frankfurt for snow clearance to ensure that at least one of
its four runways is always operational. The airport has 31
tractors available to clear snow as well as storing 130 tons of
grit and 3.6 million liters of deicing liquid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  