-- Genome Challenge Emerges in Society Sharing DNA Benefits
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-12-09T17:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/genome-challenge-emerges-in-sharing-dna-benefits-across-society.html
Sharing the benefits of DNA science
across social and class lines is one of the next big challenges
facing genome researchers, scientists said at a Nobel conference
in  Stockholm  today.  The meeting, entitled Genetic Revolution and its Impact on
Society, is intended to “deepen the dialogue between the
scientific community and the rest of society” according to the
 Nobel website . The first-of-its-kind  gathering  precedes the Dec.
10 awarding of the Nobel prizes announced in October.  Sequencing DNA , the inherited information that guides the
development of humans and other organisms, with faster and
cheaper technologies has opened up new opportunities for
fighting disease, hunger and promoting economic well-being,
scientists said. With most of the expertise in genetics centered
in the academic centers of developed countries, scientists need
to ensure the advances reach society’s most vulnerable, said
Helga Nowotny, president of the  European Research Council .  “One possibility would be that we would end up with a
genetic divide,” she said in a speech at the conference. “I’m
most afraid of the corrosive effects of inequalities.”  Genetics has become increasingly pervasive in both academia
and industry, said U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu. Genetic
modifications are leading to crops that can withstand extreme
heat, and new fuel sources, he said at the conference.  The heightened ability to decode genetic material and
understand its influence on biology has now moved into the
clinic, said Craig Mello, a winner of the 2006  Nobel Prize  for
Medicine or Physiology, and genetics professor at the  University
of Massachusetts  in Worcester.  Cancer Treatment  Today, some cancer patients get treatment targeted to
mutations discovered in their tumors. DNA sequences can tell
doctors how patients will respond to widely used treatments,
such as blood thinners. Rare or previously unseen disorders in
children that once took years to diagnose can now be classified
with by sequencing of the entire genome.  “The impact has been huge,” Mello said in an interview
before the conference began. “We are simply learning.”  The widening scope of genetic understanding will push the
technology into more routine medical uses, said Mary-Claire
King, a geneticist at the  University of Washington  in  Seattle .
New DNA findings may allow doctors to select treatment for
schizophrenia based on individual genetics. Tests that screen
for about two dozen genes that increase  breast cancer  risk will
soon be available that could benefit all women, she said.  “The presence of these risk genes isn’t always apparent,
because they’re inherited from the father about half the time,”
she said in an interview at the conference. “About half the
women who carry these genes have no family history of breast
cancer.”  Heightened Interest  Heightened public interest in the human genome and its
applications has led to some oversimplification of its function
and power, said John Dupré, director of the ESRC Centre for
Genomics in Society in Exeter, U.K. While genes are often
described as the “blueprint” for human physiology and
behavior, research continues to show that many non-genetic
influences contribute to human development, he said.  Doctors still need education in the subtleties of genetics
so that they can digest the results of DNA tests, and pass that
understanding along to their patients, Dupré said. Patients need
to understand that most genes, such as those that are associated
with  Alzheimer’s disease , are seldom sure predictors of future
illness.  “We’re still getting a lot of the popular conception
that’s grounded in the one-way, causal image of the genome,” he
said in an interview at the conference. “The idea that the
future of medicine is going to be broadly genetic is a very real
danger.”  Sharing Findings  The conference comes 50 years after  James Watson  along with
the late  Francis Crick  and  Maurice Wilkins  won a Nobel in 1962
for their discovery of the double-helix structure of the DNA
molecule. To fully realize the potential of the human genome,
more of those involved will have to commit to sharing findings
about the connections between genes, development, disease and
behavior, researchers said. Since the time that the first human
genome was fully sequenced in 2001, patents have genes have
limited access to some DNA tests and their results, Watson said.  Researchers, governments and patients, whose privacy
interests must be taken into account, are all involved, said
Eric Lander, director of the Broad Institute at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Sharing Information  “We have bits and pieces of information and we don’t have
the complete picture,” said Lander, who also advises President
 Barack Obama  on science, in a speech. “We have a choice: are we
going to share that information or is it going to be kept behind
many separate walls that will prevent us from learning about
it?”  Poor nations are particularly at risk of being left behind
in the genetic rush, said Tikki Pang, former director of
research policy & cooperation for the  World Health Organization 
in Geneva. Drug and vaccine development, along with access to
patented technologies, sometimes pits rich countries against
poor countries, said Pang, who is now a visiting professor at
the  National University  of  Singapore .  “The problem is not the science, the science is
fantastic,” he said in a speech. “The challenge rather is
making sure that the benefits of science go to those in greatest
need.”  While the Watson, Crick and Wilkins research, published in
1953, appeared abstract at the time, the suitability of the DNA
design for encoding and replicating information was obvious
immediately, Watson said.  “It was all apparent within 15 minutes,” of completing
the correct model, Watson, 84, said at the conference. “It was
almost too good to be true.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  