-- Germany Social Democrat Steinbrueck Pledges to Unseat Mer
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-12-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/germany-social-democrat-steinbrueck-pledges-to-unseat-mer.html
German Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck  accused  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government of
isolating the country in the  European debt crisis  as his party
approved his candidacy to challenge her in next year’s election.  The SPD candidate, who was finance minister under Merkel
from 2005 to 2009, described Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union 
as “listless” and shirking  Germany ’s responsibilities by
working in its own interest during Europe’s turmoil at the
expense of euro members burdened by debt and austerity. SPD
delegates voted for his candidacy by a margin of 93 percent.  “We come across as a taskmaster in Europe -- that’s not
what a good neighbor does,” Steinbrueck told party members
yesterday in the central city of Hanover. “The only thing the
CDU has to offer is the chancellor herself, and nothing else.”  Merkel’s bloc remains ahead of the SPD in polls 10 months
before national elections even after leading Germany through the
debt crisis with a recipe of deficit and debt reduction.
Steinbrueck, who in the past has supported pooled European debt
and easing austerity, said he would embrace Germany’s “broad
responsibility for Europe” as chancellor.  The CDU’s support stands at 40 percent, the party’s highest
level since February 2006, according to an Emnid poll published
yesterday in the  Bild newspaper . The SPD trailed with 28
percent. Merkel was reaffirmed as CDU chairwoman Dec. 4 with a
margin of 98 percent, the strongest support of any CDU leader
since  Helmut Kohl  reunified Germany 22 years ago.  Steinbrueck, 65, pledged to form a government with the
environmental  Green Party  and rejected a repeat of the so-called
grand coalition following the 2005 election, when the SPD was
forced into a partnership with the CDU.  Grand Coalition  “I’m not available for a grand coalition,” Steinbrueck
said ahead of elections scheduled for September 2013.  With the SPD and Greens falling short of a majority and
Merkel’s current coalition partner, the Free Democrats,
struggling in polls, a CDU-SPD government would be the most
likely outcome if the election were held today.  Offering a program including a nationwide  minimum wage ,
higher tax rates and robust  bank regulations , Steinbrueck said
the CDU’s only agenda was to buttress the power of a popular
chancellor. Merkel’s politics consist of “popcorn phrases,
which contain lots of air and little substance,” he said.  Steinbrueck became the favorite to lead the party in the
campaign after two other party leaders, former Foreign Minister
Frank-Walter Steinmeier and SPD Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  bowed
out of the race in September. Since then, Steinbrueck has been
beset by criticism for paid speeches he’s given to groups such
as business associations and banks.  ’Heavy Stones’  The candidate expressed regret for the speeches, saying the
payments “were heavy stones that I’ve carried in my bag and
laid on your shoulders as well.”  A trained economist, who once worked for former Chancellor
Helmut Schmidt, Steinbrueck spearheaded Germany’s response to
the 2008-2009 financial crisis during Merkel’s first term. He
subsequently criticized the chancellor’s austerity-first policy
and has supported jointly issued euro-denominated bonds, a
proposal that Merkel’s government has rejected.  Before joining the federal government in 2005, Steinbrueck
lost an election to stay on as premier of the western state of
North Rhine-Westphalia, a defeat that spurred Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  to call early elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Hanover, Germany at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  