-- Ghana’s Mahama Wins Presidential Election With 50.7%
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-12-09T22:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/ghana-s-mahama-wins-presidential-election-with-50-7-.html
Ghana’s president, John Dramani Mahama, won the Dec. 7 election, defeating opposition leader
Nana Akufo-Addo and six others to earn a four-year term leading
one of  Africa ’s fastest-growing economies.  Mahama of the National Democratic Congress got 50.7 percent
of votes cast, while Akufo-Addo of the New Patriotic Party took
47.7 percent, Electoral Commission Chairman Kwadwo Afari-Gyan
told reporters in Accra, the capital, today. No results from the
parliamentary election held at the same time were given.  The 54-year-old Mahama, who came to office in July
following the death of John Atta Mills, will face calls from
Ghanaians to equitably share benefits from oil production that
began in 2010 and rising output of gold. The economy, which
expanded at the fastest pace in Africa last year at 14.4
percent, is projected to grow 8.2 percent this year and 7.8
percent in 2013.  Voting was extended to a second day yesterday in more than
400 polling stations after biometric machines machines used to
confirm identities of voters broke down and delays in getting
election materials to centers led to long lines.  “In the main, the electoral process was peaceful and
transparent,” an observer mission from the Economic Community
of West African States said yesterday in a statement.  High Turnout  Supporters of the NPP who gathered at the Electoral
Commission headquarters today were pushed back by police
officers on horseback. About two hours earlier, NPP Chairman
Jake Obetsebi-Lamptey told reporters that the party questioned
what he said were discrepancies between figures counted at
polling centers and at regional collation areas and called on
Afari-Gyan’s commission to conduct an audit before releasing the
figures.  Johnson Asiedu Nketia, general secretary of the NDC, told
reporters they have “confidence in the resilience and
truthfulness” of the commission. “If anybody has a problem
with mathematics that should not be visited on the nation.”  There was a high voter turnout and the process was largely
peaceful, Pakalitha Mosisili, former Lesotho prime minister and
head of the U.K.-based Commonwealth’s observer group, told
reporters today. “We urge all parties to remain constructively
engaged, await the outcome and use official channels in case of
any complaints,” he said.  Jubilee Crude  During the campaign, Mahama pledged average annual growth
of at least 8 percent,  inflation  below 10 percent and to reduce
the  budget deficit  to 5 percent of gross domestic product. The
fiscal gap widened to 7.3 percent in the first nine months of
the year from 1.9 percent a year earlier.  The former communications minister and member of Parliament
said he would more than double electricity output to 5,000
megawatts and use oil and natural gas to expand manufacturing
industries.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  pumps crude at the Jubilee field, with
production forecast to reach 90,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day by the end of this year, from last year’s average of 78,200,
according to the company. Tullow, Anadarko Petroleum Ltd. and
Eni SpA are developing more wells, while AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.
and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  are expanding their  gold mines  as
prices for the metal rose 8.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  