-- Ghana’s Mahama Holds Lead as Voters Await Commission
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-12-09T17:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/ghana-s-mahama-holds-lead-as-voters-await-commission.html
Ghana ’s leader, John Dramani Mahama,
maintained a lead after Dec. 7 presidential and parliamentary
elections as the main opposition in West  Africa ’s second-biggest
economy raised concern about some of the provisional figures.  “We will all await peacefully the  Electoral Commission ’s
verdict and we will abide by whatever the Electoral Commission
says,” Mahama, 54, told reporters at his home in Accra, the
capital, following a meeting with Olusegun Obasanjo, the former
Nigerian president and head of observer missions sent to Ghana
by the African Union and Economic Community of West African
States.  Mahama led with 50.7 percent of votes from 269 of the
country’s 275 constituencies, according to closely held
broadcaster Joy FM, which projected that he would win the
election. Nana Akufo-Addo, the main opposition candidate, had
47.8 percent, the figures showed. The commission’s website
showed Akufo-Addo leading with 51 percent of ballots from 117
constituencies, and Mahama taking 47.8 percent.  The winner will face mounting calls from Ghanaians to
spread wealth from one of Africa’s fastest-growing economies,
led by the start of oil exports in 2010 and rising gold
production. Growth is forecast to increase by 8.2 percent this
year and 7.8 percent in 2013, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Constitutional Right  Akufo-Addo’s New Patriotic Party questioned what it said
where discrepancies between figures counted at polling centers
and at regional collation areas and asked the Electoral
Commission to conduct an audit before releasing official data.  “We call upon our party members and the general public to
ignore the tainted provisional results announced in the mass
media,” Jake Obetsebi-Lamptey, chairman of the party, told
reporters in Accra today. “These results cannot be forced down
the throats of the people of Ghana, as this would be very
subversive of their constitutional right to determine who leads
them.”  About half an hour later, Johnson Asiedu Nketia, general
secretary of Mahama’s National Democratic Congress party, told
reporters they have “confidence in the resilience and
truthfulness” of the commission. “If anybody has a problem
with mathematics that should not be visited on the nation.”  Security officers guarding the agency’s office in  Accra 
blocked a group of NPP demonstrators as they approached the
building just before 4 p.m. In their statements, both Obetesbi-
Lamptey and Nketia called on supporters to remain calm.  Equipment Breakdown  “The commission will not hesitate to investigate any
petition immediately,” Christian Owusu-Pare, the commission’s
spokesman, said by phone. “If they are not happy or satisfied
with any result declared, they have another option to seek
redress in court.”  Balloting stretched into yesterday at more than 400
stations after delays in delivery of election materials and
breakdowns in biometric equipment used to verify identities of
voters.  There was a high voter turnout and the process was largely
peaceful, Pakalitha Mosisili, former Lesotho prime minister and
head of the U.K.-based Commonwealth’s observer group, told
reporters today. “We urge all parties to remain constructively
engaged, await the outcome and use official channels in case of
any complaints,” he said.  Abena Takyi,  a 30-year-old supermarket sales assistant who
said she voted for Mahama, listened closely to her radio for
results today.  “I want Afari-Gyan to declare Mahama the winner so I can
feel free and get on with my life,” she said. “I can’t go to
church because I fear I may miss something.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  