-- Goldman, BMO Among Banks to Get Fees for Nexen, Progress
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-12-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/goldman-bmo-among-banks-to-get-fees-for-nexen-progress.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of
Montreal  and other financial firms stand to claim as much as
$150 million in investment-banking fees after Canada approved
the foreign takeovers of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  and  Progress Energy
Resources Corp. (PRQ)   Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper on Dec. 7 approved
 Cnooc Ltd’.s (883)  $15.1 billion takeover of Nexen and Petroliam
Nasional Bhd.’s C$5.2 billion ($5.3 billion) offer for Progress,
clearing a key hurdle for closing the acquisitions of the
Calgary-based companies.  Investment banks on both sides of Nexen’s takeover by
Beijing-based Cnooc stand to make $80 million to $100 million in
advisory fees, according to Lam Nguyen, a director at Freeman &
Co., which specializes in mergers consulting in the financial
industry. Freeman, based in New York, uses its own model to
estimate bank fees based on deal size, industry and nature of
the transaction.  Nexen estimates fees and expenses tied to the takeover to
be about C$81.7 million, which includes fees to its financial
advisers, New York-based Goldman Sachs and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,
the country’s largest lender, according to regulatory filings.  Cnooc is being advised by Toronto-based  Bank of Montreal (BMO) 
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  of New York. Those fees haven’t been
disclosed.  The Progress-Petronas transaction was estimated to generate
$40 million to $50 million in combined advisory fees, Freeman’s
Nguyen said in a Dec. 8 e-mail.  Progress Fess   Progress said estimated fees and costs from its takeover
are not expected to exceed C$22.7 million, according to
regulatory filings. The amount includes  “employee
obligations,” fees to Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets as
its financial adviser and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  for a fairness
opinion, as well as legal fees and other costs, according to the
July 20 filing.  Transaction costs for Petronas, which is being advised by
 Bank of America Corp.’s  Merrill Lynch unit, haven’t been
disclosed.  Spokesmen for the financial firms either declined to
comment or didn’t respond to messages left after regular
business hours.  Canadian companies have been involved in $200 billion of
announced takeovers this year, with Cnooc-Nexen the biggest and
Petronas-Progress the fourth-largest, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That has surpassed the $182.6 billion of announced
deals for all of last year, and matching the amount for 2010.  Royal Bank’s RBC Capital Markets unit is the top arranger
for takeovers involving Canadian companies so far this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman ranks second,
followed by BMO Capital Markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  