-- Google Said to Get Best Bids for Unit from Pace, Arris
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-12-10T21:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/google-said-to-get-best-bids-for-unit-from-pace-arris.html
Arris Group Inc. (ARRS)  and  Pace Plc (PIC)  have
made the most compelling bids for  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Home
Business, which sells set-top boxes and equipment to cable-
television providers, a person familiar with the situation said.  Google, which has been trying to sell the unit, received
multiple offers on Dec. 7, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the process is private. A deal has a 50-50
chance of being announced by year-end or postponed because of a
complicated financing structure that involves Google retaining
some equity and the unit’s patents, the person said. Pace said
it made a bid and that it’s halting the trading of its stock.  Google acquired the division through a $12.5 billion
purchase of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. in May and is
selling it now to focus on high-end smartphones as it steps up
competition with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Google was looking to fetch about $2
billion for the unit, a person said in August.  Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, declined to comment. Google rose 0.2 percent to
$685.42 at the close in  New York .  Pace, confirming the proposal, said the deal would result
in a “reverse takeover,” given its size relative to the
Motorola Home Business. Shares of the West Yorkshire, England-
based company are suspended until the company can provide more
information on a possible transaction or report that discussions
have ceased, Pace said.  Financing Possible  Talks with Google are at a preliminary stage and there’s no
guarantee an agreement will be reached, Pace also said.  Alex Swan, a spokesman at Suwanee, Georgia-based Arris, a
cable-equipment maker, declined to comment.  Private-equity firms are unlikely to emerge as buyers of
the unit because its technology is being replaced by digital
applications, other people familiar with the process said.  The sale of the set-top unit also may be complicated by
Motorola’s patent-infringement litigation with  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)   Google and Barclays Plc, its financial adviser, are
weighing whether to provide financing to prospective buyers,
said the people, who also asked not to be identified because the
talks are private.  Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman for Barclays, declined to
comment.  Google said in August that it would cut 4,000 Motorola
workers and close about a third of its 90 facilities as part of
a plan to restore the hardware firm’s leadership in the mobile
market.  Google’s share of the smartphone market will slip to 63.8
percent by 2016 from 68.3 percent this year for all devices
running the company’s Android software, according to a report
from research firm IDC. Apple’s iPhone will rise to 19.1 percent
from 18.8 percent, staying in second place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  