-- Greece Extends Debt Buyback Deadline After Nearing Target
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-12-10T13:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/greece-is-close-to-reaching-debt-buyback-target-official-says.html
Greece  extended the deadline for a
buyback of sovereign bonds that’s crucial to unlocking aid from
the International Monetary Fund and the European Union.  Investors have until noon London time tomorrow to offer
their Greek bond holdings, the Athens-based Public Debt
Management Agency said today in a statement. Holders of
securities already tendered can’t modify their participation,
the agency said, without saying why it lengthened the offer. The
original deadline was 5:00 p.m. London time on Dec. 7.  “We’ve taken note of Greece’s decision,” Simon O’Connor,
spokesman for EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn, told reporters today. “We are confident that there is
still scope for additional tenders by domestic and international
investors.”  Greece was near its target in the buyback with the amount
offered close to 30 billion euros, an official at the Greek
Finance Ministry said yesterday on condition of anonymity,
referring to the face value of the securities. The transaction
went “very well,” Prime Minister Antonis Samaras told
reporters in Munich yesterday.  Greek 10-year bonds rose, pushing the yield down 55 basis
points to 13.91 percent at 1:16 p.m. in  London , the lowest since
the nation restructured its debt in March.  ‘Good Investment’  Domestic and overseas investors offered to sell back to
Greece as much as 27 billion euros of their holdings of the
nation’s bonds, state-run NET TV reported. Greek banks submitted
offers of about 10 billion euros, while foreign investors,
including hedge funds, offered as much as 16 billion euros,
Kathimerini newspaper said.  Greylock Capital Management LLC is tendering only part of
its holdings in Greek sovereign debt, retaining about 60
percent, because “it’s going to be a very good investment,”
Hans Humes, president of the New York-based hedge fund, said
today in a radio
interview on Bloomberg’s “The First Word” with Michael McKee.
“The yield is extremely high and exceeds anything else in
 Europe .”  Greece is using a 10 billion-euro loan from Europe’s
bailout fund to repurchase debt it issued earlier this year in
the biggest sovereign restructuring in history. Bailout funds
have been frozen since June after two elections and amid a
deepening recession.  Greek Banks  The buyback was part of a package of measures approved by
euro-area finance ministers on Nov. 27 to lower the nation’s
debt to 124 percent of gross domestic product by 2020 from a
projected 190 percent in 2014.  Greece’s four biggest banks said they participated in the
buyback. The lenders are set to offer their entire holdings of
the nation’s government bonds to bridge any shortfall from the
target amount, both NET and Kathimerini reported.  The country’s banks held about 15 billion euros of the
securities, while its pension funds had about 8 billion euros,
according to a Nov. 27 draft report from the European
Commission, European Central Bank and IMF.  The buyback program will be successful and ensure payment
of the next loan tranche from international creditors, Greek
Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said in an interview
published in Athens-based Ta Nea newspaper. The program must
succeed,  Finland ’s Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said in
another interview, published yesterday in newspaper Real News.  Higher Price  The buyback is focused on the 62 billion euros of bonds
issued when Greece restructured its privately held debt in
March. The prospects for a successful completion improved after
the government increased the offer price above the closing level
of Nov. 23, which euro-area finance ministers had said would be
the maximum.  The buyback is a success based on the reports and “will
allow Greece to borrow 10 billion euros from the European
Stability Mechanism to retire outstanding debt with a face value
of 30 billion euros, reducing its net debt by 20 billion
euros,” Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in
London, wrote in a note to investors.  The prices offered for Greek bonds maturing from 2023 to
2042 averaged 33.1 percent of face value, based on information
in a statement from the Greek debt agency on Dec. 3. That
compares with the average of 28.1 percent of face value on Nov.
23, according to a note from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The IMF set the 2020 debt-reduction target as a condition
for continuing to fund a third of Greece’s bailout program. The
fund will examine the results of the buyback before deciding
whether to approve the disbursement of additional aid, Managing
Director Christine Lagarde said after a euro-area finance
ministers’ meeting on Nov. 27.  Euro-area finance ministers plan to make a formal decision
on Greece’s 34.4 billion-euro disbursement on Dec. 13. Deutsche
Bank AG and Morgan Stanley were appointed to manage the buyback,
according to the Greek debt agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  