-- If We Don’t Measure Leverage, We Risk More Crises
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2012-12-09T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/if-we-don-t-measure-leverage-we-risk-more-crises.html
You can’t control what you don’t
measure.  In engineering, control theory is all about using
information gained by measuring a system to plan and carry out
intelligent actions that will control it. Ideally, it leads to
desirable outcomes, such as a nuclear reactor that doesn’t melt
down, or a robotic arm that does precisely what it is supposed
to do.  In the case of the economy, we might not be measuring
everything we need to achieve control.  For at least half a century, policy makers seeking to
control inflation and unemployment have typically focused on
managing interest rates. The U.S. Federal Reserve lowers its
 target rate  if the economy stalls, and raises it if inflation
appears on the horizon. The recent financial crisis, however,
had more to do with the amount of borrowing people did and the
way such leverage fueled a bubble in the housing market.  Where does leverage currently fit in the equation of
macroeconomic stability? Surprisingly, the answer seems to be
that it doesn’t.  For 15 years, Yale economist John Geanakoplos has argued
that policy makers should pay more attention to leverage.
Prevailing interest rates determine the cost of borrowing, if a
borrower ultimately repays the loan.  Independent Quantity  Leverage -- reflected by how much collateral people or
firms need to put down to borrow and might lose if they fail to
pay the loan back -- determines how much someone can buy with a
given amount of starting capital. It’s an independent quantity
that also influences what happens in the economy, whether
borrowing is easy and attractive or not.  Importantly, leverage isn’t a fixed quantity. It changes
over time as people get more or less optimistic and lenders more
or less confident of being repaid. Geanakoplos makes a
convincing case that such changes in leverage can and routinely
do drive major economic booms and busts, and that managing
leverage should be as much a part of the Fed’s activities as
managing  interest rates .  The core of his argument rests on a common-sense insight:
An increase in leverage generally leads directly to an increase
in prices. Consider the housing market. At any moment, you’ll
find that some people are more optimistic than others, more
convinced that prices will go up in the future and hence eager
to invest on that belief. If banks change their practice to
require only a 5 percent down payment, rather than 20 percent,
these optimists have more to spend. They can purchase up to 20
times the value of their own funds, rather than just 5 times,
hoping to profit when things go well. As more money chases the
available houses, prices go up, which makes the optimists even
more bullish.  In a series of  papers  and  presentations , Geanakoplos has
documented how the leverage effect operates in the real world
(see further discussion  on my blog ). From 2000 to 2005, for
example, down payments on home mortgages fell from about 15
percent to 3 percent. Leverage increased similarly for banks and
 hedge funds  borrowing to buy mortgage-backed securities. Housing
 prices  rocketed up, spurring home-building and all kinds of
other economic activity.  The boom also set the stage for collapse. As markets grew
more volatile, and everyone more uncertain, lenders of all kinds
naturally wanted to preserve their money, so they increased
collateral demands accordingly. By 2008, investors could buy
only $1.20 in mortgage securities for each dollar of their own
money, compared with $15 in 2006. The down payments required on
new  mortgage loans  rose to as much as 30 percent.  Leverage Cycle  Geanakoplos argues that this dynamic is not a one-off
peculiarity of the latest financial crisis, of modern banking,
deregulation and derivatives. He sees it as a natural cycle --
the leverage cycle -- that is fully able on its own to drive an
economy up and down even if interest rates stay the same. He
suggests we’ve had three crises linked to the leverage cycle in
the past 20 years: in 1994, in 1998 and in 2008.  If you take his view seriously, it looks as if economic
theory, and the Fed policy based upon it, hasn’t been paying
attention to the right variables. Some economists are working to
include leverage in the basic models that central banks use, and
we can hope they will succeed. The Fed is beginning to collect
data of the kind that would be useful for identifying leverage
changes and their effect on economic activity, but how far
leverage control will enter practical policy and regulation on
banking and investment firms remains unclear.  Crises incur real damage, in the form of lost jobs, credit-
starved companies and people who can’t borrow to buy a car or
fix their house. Banks wouldn’t be in such precarious condition,
and so many homeowners wouldn’t be underwater, if leverage had
not reached such extreme proportions before falling back again.
To avoid such outcomes in the future, we need to find ways to
manage leverage as well as interest rates.  Since the crisis, there have been myriad proposals for new
measures to detect systemic risk. The mathematics and data used
are getting ever more complex. Yet one of the most important
measures may be one of the simplest. We’ve understood the
benefits and potential dangers of leverage for a long time. Now
we need to start measuring it.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 