-- IMF’s Lagarde Says U.S. Fiscal Agreement Should Be Comprehensive
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-12-09T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/imf-s-lagarde-says-u-s-fiscal-agreement-should-be-comprehensive.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said a political agreement on the
U.S. budget should be comprehensive because a minimal deal would
fail to provide certainty for investors.  Markets would sink without measures to avoid more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases due to come into
force next year, Lagarde said, according to a transcript of a
taped interview for today’s “ CNN ’s  State of the Union ”
program. Still, an agreement that would only extend tax cuts for
the middle class without addressing spending or entitlements
would be insufficient to reassure the rest of the world, she
said.  “I don’t think that is enough because there is still that
degree of uncertainty that fuels doubt, that prevents investors,
entrepreneurs, households from making decisions, because they
don’t know what tomorrow will be,” Lagarde said when asked
about such an option. “It would be much better to actually have
a more comprehensive approach and to deal with all the issues.”  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  and President  Barack Obama 
appear no closer to a budget agreement with three weeks left to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff. Obama this week insisted that
no deal is possible without letting income tax rates rise for
high earners, while Boehner said the administration needs to get
“serious” about spending cuts.  Lagarde, who at the IMF helm has been consumed by the
European debt crisis, said the turmoil there is less of a risk
for the  U.S. economy  than the fiscal cliff. The Washington-based
IMF expects U.S. growth of about 2.1 percent next year, and no
growth without a broad ranging fiscal agreement, she said.  “The real threat that we have at the moment is really here
with us,” Lagarde said. “We can be our own best friend or our
own best enemy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  