-- Indian Options Grow Fastest in World as Sensex Tops BRICs
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-12-10T11:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/india-options-trade-grows-fastest-in-world-as-sensex-tops-brics.html
India ’s  options  market is growing at
the fastest pace in the world, helping restore investor
confidence in a stock market yet to recover from a 52 percent
plunge during the global financial crisis.  Equity options traded on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. rose 36 percent in the first half, the most among the
10 largest bourses, according to the World Federation of
Exchanges. The BSE India Sensitive Index’s volatility has
dropped below measures in  Brazil ,  Russia  and  China  to the lowest
level since at least 1993, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Foreigners bought a net $21 billion of local equities this
year, pushing the  Sensex (SENSEX)  up 26 percent, the most of the so-
called BRIC markets. While the increase in options reflects
speculation by Indian investors, it also provides international
money managers with the opportunity to hedge their bets. In
2008, when the crisis sparked a record plunge in the Sensex,
options trading was 92 percent below today’s level.  “Indian options have given sophisticated investors the
flexibility to protect themselves from volatility and also
profit from it,” Manoj Murlidharan Vayalar, the associate vice
president of derivatives at  India Infoline Ltd. (IIFL) , said in a phone
interview on Dec. 7 from Mumbai.  Options  trading  may grow at a 20 percent annual pace during
the next four years as  Asia ’s fifth-biggest equity market
matures, said Rakesh Somani, the president of the Association of
National Exchanges Members of India and a director at Eureka
Stock & Share Broking Services Ltd., in a Nov. 23 interview.
Options give investors the right, without the obligation, to buy
or sell assets at a fixed price by a specific date.  Volumes Surge  The Sensex fell 0.1 percent to 19,409.69 at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai, after changing directions at least 19 times.  Options volumes began rising in 2008 after the government
reduced taxes on the contracts. Trading on the NSE and BSE
Ltd.’s bourse in Mumbai exploded to a notional value of about
$468 billion in October, or about eight times the value of
traded  shares , data compiled by the WFE and Bloomberg show. In
Brazil, the value of options was about twice that of stocks. A
total 23.7 million equity options traded on the NSE in the first
six months of 2012.  Average daily trading in options of Mumbai-based  State Bank
of India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest lender, climbed to about 74,000
contracts in November from 2,200 four years ago, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Volumes for Bangalore-based  Infosys
Ltd. (INFY) , India’s second-largest software services exporter,
increased to about 14,000 from 800.  Speculative Trades  “Options are wonderful instruments as they add to the
liquidity, functionality and trading choices,” Sunil Singhania,
who helps oversee about $16 billion as the head of equities at
Mumbai-based Reliance Capital Asset Management Ltd., India’s
second-biggest mutual fund manager, said in an interview at his
office on Dec. 7. The growing market “attracts long-term money
from both India and abroad.”  Options trading has hurt India’s capital markets by
encouraging speculation instead of long-term equity investment,
said Jignesh Shah, the vice chairman of MCX Stock Exchange Ltd.,
which plans to start trading stocks and equity derivatives next
year.  The 30-day average value of shares traded on the NSE and
BSE has dropped to the equivalent of about $2.4 billion from
$4.6 billion three years ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Giving excessive focus on a single segment like
derivatives and a few speculative products has caused great harm
to the overall balance of Indian  capital markets ,” Shah said in
an interview in Mumbai on Nov. 19. “The fundamental approach we
have is to create an investment culture.”  Leveraged Products  India’s stock market regulator prevented the creation of
so-called mini-derivatives linked to the Nifty and Sensex
indexes last month. The Nov. 20 ban is meant to keep individuals
from trading the securities, which have a smaller notional value
than standard contracts, the  Securities & Exchange Board of
India  said in the order.  “Small investors were not aware of the various nuances and
the fact that mini-derivatives were leveraged products,” SEBI
Chairman U.K. Sinha said in Mumbai on Nov. 23. “But by no means
should options be done away with. Derivatives are not weapons of
mass destruction. They serve a legitimate function of providing
liquidity and hedging risks.”  The growth is prompting brokerages that dominate trading to
shift staff.  Religare Capital Markets Ltd. has moved employees to its
options business from equities this year, said Gautam Trivedi,
the head of equities at the unit of  Religare Enterprises Ltd. (RELG) ,
the nation’s largest securities firm by market value.  Motilal
Oswal Financial Services Ltd. (MOFS)  is increasing options training for
research and sales staff, said Sameer Kamath, the chief
financial officer at the Mumbai-based broker.  Foreign Buyers  “Domestic brokerages are increasingly selling more
derivatives products to offshore clients,” said R.K. Gupta, who
helps oversee about $645 million as a New Delhi-based managing
director at Taurus Asset Management Ltd.  Foreign  purchases  of Indian shares this year were the
biggest among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg. The Sensex
index is valued at 16 times reported earnings, compared with 20
for Brazil’s Bovespa Index, 11 for China’s Shanghai Composite
Index and 5.8 for Russia’s Micex Index.  Options are also becoming more popular because they allow
speculators to leverage bets, according to Gupta. Options
typically cost a fraction of stocks and prices for contracts
approaching expiration often fluctuate more than the underlying
shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Strike Price  Call options that expire this month on  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) , India’s largest company by market value, traded at 15.4
rupees on Nov. 20. The  contracts , which have a strike price of
780 rupees, jumped 15 percent to 17.65 rupees the next day as
the underlying shares gained 0.8 percent to 771 rupees.  The 90-day historical volatility of the Sensex fell to a
record 11.46 today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Brazil’s
Bovespa has a volatility reading of 20, versus 16 for the Micex
and the Shanghai Composite, and 11.7 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  The India VIX, a measure of options prices, dropped to a
record 13.04 on Oct. 22. The gauge fell for a third day today,
losing 3 percent to 14.51 at 4:31 p.m. today.  Dalton Capital Advisors India Pvt., a unit of London-based
Dalton Strategic Partnership LLP, buys options to protect stock
holdings from declines before market-moving events. The
contracts are cheap after a drop in volatility, U.R. Bhat, a
Mumbai-based managing director at Dalton Capital, whose parent
has $2 billion of global assets, said by phone on Dec. 7.  “Most institutions are increasingly using more options,”
Bhat said. “Growth of the options market has been aided by a
rise in liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  