-- Irish, Greek Workers Seen Suffering Most in 2013 Amid EU Slump
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-12-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/irish-greek-workers-seen-suffering-most-in-2013-amid-eu-slump.html
Workers in Ireland and  Greece  will
suffer most from wage stagnation next year as businesses cut
costs to survive, a study by  Hay Group  researchers shows.  “Salary forecasts are typically lower than last year,
reflecting troubled economic times in Europe,” the consulting
firm said today in a survey of employee data from 20,000
organizations. “Greece and Ireland are unsurprisingly the
hardest hit. Fast-growing economies like Turkey and Russia buck
the trend.”  Unemployment in Europe is running at almost 12 percent,
with Greece’s jobless rate second only to Spain’s, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Nations are cutting spending and
raising taxes to trim budget deficits, increasing pressure on
companies to reduce costs and limit salary growth.  Pay in  Europe  will rise by an average 3.3 percent in 2013,
led by the Turkish, Russian and Ukrainian economies where
employees can expect an increase of 8 to 10 percent, according
to the study. That compares with a 5.5 percent gain in 2012.  “Employees in developed markets face a tough year ahead,
with pay rises falling behind -- or barely outstripping --
inflation,” Ben Frost, global product manager at Hay Group,
said in a statement. “Organizations in these countries are keen
to minimize cost and drive productivity.”  Inflation in Latin America will result in the highest pay
growth in 2013 at 8.9 percent, followed by Asia on 7.5 percent,
the survey shows. North America will have the lowest growth at
2.9 percent, while average salaries in the Mideast and  Africa ,
led by  Egypt , South Africa and  Kuwait , will jump 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  