-- Japan Suspends Beef Imports From Brazil on Mad-Cow Disease
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-12-10T06:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/japan-suspends-beef-imports-from-brazil-on-mad-cow-disease.html
Japan ,  Asia ’s largest beef buyer,
suspended imports from  Brazil  after a cow in Parana state tested
positive for mad-cow disease.  “We suspended imports from Brazil as soon as an outbreak
of BSE was confirmed,” the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
and Fisheries said yesterday, referring to bovine spongiform
encephalopathy, or the brain-wasting disease known as mad cow.  Japan, which last year imported 1,435 metric tons of beef
from Brazil, the world’s largest exporter, will seek supplies
from alternative exporters such as the U.S. and Australia. Other
beef importers may follow suit, bolstering cattle futures in
 Chicago  that rallied to a record last month and have gained 7.4
percent this year.  “The suspension will have no major impact on Japan’s beef
market as imports from Brazil represent a very small share,”
said Susumu Harada, senior director at the Tokyo office of U.S.
Meat Export Federation. “Unless major importers of Brazilian
beef suspend purchases, the impact on the international market
will be limited.”  Russia  was the top importer of Brazilian beef in the first
10 months of the year, followed by  Egypt  and  Hong Kong , data
from the Trade Ministry in Brasilia showed. Priscilla Yip, a
media relations officer at Hong Kong’s Food & Environmental
Hygiene department couldn’t immediately comment. Cattle futures
for February delivery lost 0.5 percent to $1.304 a pound on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange on Dec. 7.  Parana State  Brazil’s Ministry of Agriculture said Dec. 7 that tests on
a 13-year-old cow that died in Brazil’s Parana state in 2010
showed it carried the “causing agent of bovine spongiform
encephalopathy.” The animal didn’t develop the disease, nor did
the agent cause its death, according to the Brazilian ministry.  Shipments from Brazil were limited to 0.3 percent of
Japan’s beef imports last year as meat from the South American
country must be heat-treated before arrival on concerns about
foot-and-mouth disease there. Japan imported 240,815 tons of
beef in the first half of 2012, with 24 percent coming from the
U.S., according to the ministry.  Australia  was the largest
supplier at 153,938 tons.  The health ministry will next year relax to 30 months from
20 months the maximum age of cattle from which U.S. beef can be
imported, according to Hideshi Michino, director at the
ministry’s food-safety department. The threshold was imposed to
safeguard against mad-cow disease, as the U.S. found its first
case of BSE in 2003. The risk of BSE may be lower in cattle
younger than 30 months, scientists have said.  Brazil has shipped $4.2 billion worth of the meat through
September this year, up 5 percent from a year earlier, according
to information on the exporter’s association website. Russia is
the biggest importer, buying about 20 percent.  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef producer, fell the most on
the Bovespa index on Dec. 7 on speculation Brazilian exports may
be halted on mad-cow concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  