-- JPMorgan Said to Ask Staff to Help Fund U.K. Tax Settlement
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-12-09T07:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/jpmorgan-said-to-ask-employees-to-help-fund-u-k-tax-settlement.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  asked more than
2,000 current and former employees to contribute to a settlement
with the U.K.’s tax authority over their use of an offshore
trust for bonus payments, according to a person briefed on the
situation.  Employees who participated in the trust were asked to help
fund a payment of at least a few hundred million pounds if they
want to settle with Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, the U.K.
tax authority, the person said, asking not to be named because
the talks are private. The bank and workers may pay about 500
million pounds ($802 million) total, the Financial Times
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  Corporations including  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , Amazon.com Inc. and
Google Inc. have come under attack from British lawmakers and
protesters for using complex accounting methods to minimize tax
liabilities in the U.K. The government will invest in the part
of the tax office that targets multinational companies,
Chancellor  George Osborne  said last week.  The case involving JPMorgan focuses on a Jersey-based trust
established 20 years ago, according to the FT. Such entities,
typically holding bonus payments that can’t be repatriated
without triggering tax payments, are being closed after they
were targeted in legislation last year, the FT said.  “Our employee trust has always been transparent to HMRC,
and its independent trustee has consistently paid taxes in
accordance with U.K. tax law,” JPMorgan said in an e-mailed
statement.  Blind Auction  In addition to taxes paid by the trust, the bank has paid
more than 1 billion pounds of corporate and payroll taxes to the
U.K. authority annually over the past decade, according to the
statement.  People who used JPMorgan’s trust told the FT they were
asked to participate in a so-called blind auction, in which they
would volunteer to pay a tax rate of their choosing.  If the auction fails to generate enough money to fund the
settlement, people who submitted less than the average bid would
be excluded from the deal and face a 52 percent tax rate when
the trust’s assets are liquidated, the newspaper said.  People who don’t wish to participate can try to fight the
government’s demand, the person briefed on the situation said.  HMRC cannot comment on individual cases, spokesman  Patrick
O’Brien  wrote by e-mail, citing confidentiality rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  