-- N. Korea May Delay Launch of Rocket Carrying Satellite
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-12-09T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/n-korea-may-delay-launch-of-rocket-carrying-satellite.html
North Korea  said it may delay a
planned rocket launch after neighboring nations protested and
 Japan  and the U.S. made preparations to shoot down any missile
that’s deemed to pose a threat.  “Our scientists and technicians are now seriously
examining the issue of re-adjusting the launching time of the
satellite for some reasons,” state-run Korea  Central News
Agency  reported yesterday, citing earlier comments by a
spokesman for the Korean Committee of Space Technology. No
elaboration was given.  Kim Jong Un’s regime said on Dec. 1 it would launch a long-
range rocket to orbit a satellite between Dec. 10 and Dec. 22.
The plan prompted the U.S. to deploy ships capable of
intercepting the rocket, and Japan to ready its military to
destroy any possible debris. North Korea made a rare admission
of failure four hours after April’s botched test that scuttled a
food aid deal with the U.S.  “Given the cold weather and North Korea’s technical level,
it would be difficult for it to succeed with this launch,” Koh
Yu Hwan, a professor of North Korean studies at  Dongguk
University  in Seoul, said yesterday. “Opposition from the new
Chinese leadership is another major constraint.”  Solidifying Status  South Korea ’s Unification Ministry urged the North to scrap
the plan, saying it poses a serious threat to security in
northeast  Asia . The communist regime is seeking to solidify its
status as a nuclear state, and the rocket launch is aimed at
developing the means to deliver nuclear warheads, the ministry
said in a statement dated Dec. 7.  “Another failure would deal a heavy blow to Kim’s
regime,” Koh said. “He would lose more than gain, so his best
tactic is to keep the threat open and maximize its bargaining
power.”  Japan has yet to confirm any North Korean postponement of
its launch plans, Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said yesterday
in an appearance on Fuji Television.  North Korea expects the rocket’s fuselage to fall about 140
kilometers (87 miles) west of South Korea and its second stage
to drop into waters about 136 kilometers east of the  Philippines ,
South Korea’s Transportation Ministry said on Dec. 7, citing
launch plans the North submitted to the  International Maritime
Organization  and the  International Civil Aviation Organization .  Presidential Elections  Japanese Defense Minister Satoshi Morimoto on Dec. 7
ordered his military to intercept and destroy any part of the
rocket that threatened the country, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Osamu Fujimura said, adding that a threat wasn’t expected.  North Korea’s plans coincide with South Korea’s Dec. 19
presidential election. Both ruling party candidate Park Geun Hye
and opposition nominee Moon Jae In are calling for re-engagement
after five years of deteriorating ties marked by atomic bomb and
missile tests and two clashes in 2010 that killed 50 South
Koreans.  Kim has shown no willingness to heed international calls to
halt nuclear weapons development.  North Korea has invested about $480 million to ready its
rocket launch, South Korean Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan told
lawmakers last week. South Korea estimates the launch site to
have cost $400 million, a further $50 million for parts
manufacturing operations near Pyongyang, and $30 million for the
satellite itself, he said.  North Korea’s military arsenal includes Scud, Rodong and
Musudan missiles. The Musudan has a range of more than 3,000
kilometers and can carry a 650 kilogram warhead, according to
South Korea’s defense ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  