-- Newark’s Booker Will Decide Governor Run Within 2 Weeks
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-12-09T17:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/newark-s-booker-will-decide-governor-run-within-2-weeks.html
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , who said
he’s considering a challenge to  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  next year or a possible run for  U.S. Senate  in 2014,
plans to decide on his future in the next two weeks.  A decision “has got to be within the next two weeks or so
because, especially in New Jersey, there’s a lot of good
candidates for governor on the Democratic side,” said Booker,
43, a rising Democratic star with a national following. He made
the comments today on “Face the Nation,” the CBS network
television show.  Booker, mayor of New Jersey’s largest city since 2006,
trailed Christie by 18 percentage points in a potential match-
up, according to a Quinnipiac University poll last month that
showed the mayor was the strongest Democratic challenger. Before
a gain in Christie’s popularity following superstorm Sandy, a
similar survey had the Republican with a 4 point lead.  Booker said he’s weighing a run against Christie, or a
potential Senate run for the seat now held by Democrat  Frank Lautenberg , 88. He said he wants to remain part of the
Democrats’ “push forward,” either as a candidate or supporter.  “I’m really thinking about both offices right now and
which one can I better serve on the issues I’m passionate
about,” Booker said.  Christie, who unseated incumbent Democrat  Jon Corzine  in
2009, climbed to a record approval rating of 77 percent as
Democrats and independents gave him high marks for his storm
response, according to a Nov. 26 PublicMind poll. He announced
his pursuit of a second term the same day, saying he wanted to
finish the job of leading the storm recovery.  Booker, a Rhodes Scholar and Yale Law School graduate,
promised to reduce crime and lure businesses to Newark when he
defeated Sharpe James, the city’s mayor for 20 years. James
later went to jail for helping a woman profit off city land
deals.  Booker served as co-chairman of the  Democratic Party ’s
platform committee for its national convention in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  