-- Nexen Approval Paves Way for More Foreign Deals in Gas
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-12-10T14:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/nexen-approval-paves-way-for-more-foreign-deals-in-gas.html
Canada ’s approval of two Asian
takeovers valued at $20 billion may spark more foreign
acquisitions of natural gas producers in the country while
capping state-owned control of  Alberta ’s oil sands.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  approved China-owned
Cnooc’s Ltd.’s $15.1 billion bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  and a C$5.2
billion ($5.27 billion) offer for  Progress Energy Resources
Corp. (PRQ)  by Petroliam Nasional Bhd, Malaysia’s state-owned energy
company, on Dec. 7. At the same time, Harper unveiled foreign
investment  guidelines  to prevent future takeovers of oil-sands
companies by state-owned companies, except under “exceptional
circumstances.”  “Canada is open for business but it’s not going to be a
garage sale,” Robert Cooper, an analyst at Haywood Securities
Inc., said by phone from Calgary. Cooper highlighted  Painted
Pony Petroleum Ltd. (PPY)  and  Tourmaline Oil Corp. (TOU)  as takeover
candidates in the gas sector. “If I was a betting man and
that’s where you were in the markets, those names will catch a
bid.”  The two takeovers tested Harper’s ability to balance the
need to bolster economic relations with Asian economies without
letting them gain too much influence over the world’s third-
largest pool of proven oil reserves.  Joint Ventures  Harper, who has appealed to Asian investors to help develop
Canada’s resources, didn’t preclude takeovers in the nation’s
gas industry from companies controlled by foreign governments.
Minority stakes and joint ventures in all Canadian businesses
will still to be welcomed.  “When we say that Canada is open for business, we do not
mean that Canada is for sale to foreign governments,” Harper
told reporters. Under the guidelines, the government will
strengthen scrutiny of state-owned bids for companies outside
the oil sands, assessing the control they would have on the
target and its industry.  Nexen, based in Calgary, rallied 15 percent to $26.97 at
9:34 a.m. in New York, 1.9 percent below Cnooc’s $27.50 offer.
The Canadian dollar rose 0.1 percent to 98.76 cents per  U.S.
dollar . Cnooc’s Hong Kong-traded shares advanced 1.1 percent to
HK$16.78 today.  Canada’s Biggest  The Cnooc-Nexen transaction is the biggest in Canada since
 Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  bought Petro-Canada in August 2009 for about
$18 billion. Through its C$2.1 billion acquisition of Opti
Canada Ltd. last year, Cnooc already owns 35 percent of the Long
Lake oil-sands project operated by Nexen. It would gain Nexen’s
20 percent interest in the Usan offshore Nigerian project
operated by a unit of Total SA.  The oil-sands restrictions may cause a sell-off in oil-
sands companies, said Kevin Kaiser, energy analyst at Hedgeye
Risk Management, an independent investment research firm based
in  New Haven ,  Connecticut . Canada’s three largest oil-sands
companies by market value are Suncor, Imperial Oil Ltd. and
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., all based in Calgary. Imperial
Oil is about 70 percent-owned by Exxon Mobil Corp., based in
Irving, Texas.  “Harper is explicit that you won’t see a corporate
takeover in the oil sands. Not by a state-owned enterprise,”
Kaiser said by phone on Dec. 7. “Oil sands are going to be
lower on Monday.  MEG Energy Corp. (MEG)  will plummet. Cnooc has a
stake and investors were thinking that at some point, China
would take out MEG. That is wiped clean off the table now.”  Merger Acceleration  A telephone message and e-mail left with Brad Bellows, a
spokesman for MEG, outside of regular business hours, wasn’t
immediately returned.  MEG fell 2.7 percent to C$33.79 at 9:53 a.m. in Toronto.  The sheer “magnitude of the oil sands resource” explains
Harper’s new rules, said Ryan Bushell, who helps manage C$2
billion at Leon Frazer & Associates Inc. in Toronto.  Oil-sands production is controlled by about 15 companies
that represent a “huge portion” of the country’s oil industry
and 60 percent of global oil output that’s “not in state
hands,” Harper said.  The gas industry won’t face such explicit limits under the
new guidelines. With surging Asian demand for natural gas and a
narrow window for projects due to competition from the U.S.,
Australia and the Middle East, foreign buyers must act, Eric Nuttall, a  fund manager  at Sprott Asset Management Inc, said by
phone from Toronto.  “There should be an acceleration, imminently, of merger
and acquisition activity,” among gas companies, said Nuttall,
who oversees C$110 million in assets, including Painted Pony, a
likely target, he said.  Shale Rock  Choosy foreign energy companies will limit the number of
Canadian gas producers to get bids, Bushell said. “It’s a short
list of buyers and those buyers are very savvy and they’re
probably looking at a short list of assets,” he said.  The takeover of Progress by Petronas, as Petroliam Nasional
is known, helps speed exports of Canadian gas to markets outside
 North America , said Michael Culbert, chief executive officer of
Progress.  “Really what this does for Progress Energy and for the
Canadian natural gas sector is it’s a material infusion of
capital that allows us to accelerate the growth of our Canadian
assets,” Culbert said in an phone interview Dec. 7.  Petronas expects to complete the acquisition by Dec. 12,
the company said in a  statement  on its website dated Dec. 9.
Progress rose 14 percent to C$21.97 in Toronto, just less than
the C$22 share offer.  Gas Isolated  A glut in North American gas output from shale-rock
formations caused the price of gas to reach a 10-year low in
April, prompting energy companies to propose liquefying the gas
by cooling it to reduce the volume and ship it by tanker to
higher priced markets.  British Columbia’s natural gas is isolated from the main
North American markets and closer to the Pacific coast ports of
Kitimat and Prince Rupert, making liquefied natural gas exports
one of the few options for monetizing the fuel. Petronas is
planning an export facility worth C$9 billion to C$11 billion,
joining rivals such as Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Exxon Mobil
proposing LNG terminals.  LNG interest is driven by demand in Asia, where Chinese
consumption of the fuel has increased an average of about 16
percent annually from 2000 to 2010 and will continue expanding
as much as 12 percent a year through 2020, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates.  Japan  and South Korea
are the world’s top LNG importers.  Chevron, ONGC  Companies looking for Canadian gas assets and LNG projects
may include  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , India’s  Oil & Natural Gas Corp Ltd. (ONGC) 
and China Petroleum and Chemical Corp., said Bob Schulz, a
business professor at the University of Calgary who specializes
in the Canadian oil and gas industry.  “What you’re going to see on the gas side is
consortiums,” he said. “Those global companies are going to go
incorporate somebody else’s assets to go and make the deal work
on the supply side.”  Canada’s oil and gas industry has generated $42.7 billion
in merger and acquisition activity this year, with Chinese,
Japanese and Malaysian companies among the top acquirers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That has risen from
$11.5 billion in 2000, of which Canadian acquirers were
responsible for 78 percent of the transactions.  Global Stage  “The Canadian industry is now seen as being on the global
stage,” said Greg Stringham, vice president of the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers, in an interview from
Calgary. “On natural gas there’s an opportunity for Canada, but
the window of opportunity is fairly tight because you’re
competing with the Middle East, with America and Australia. We
need to step through that window fairly quickly.”  Petronas has the world’s largest single site producing LNG
in Sarawak, Malaysia, according to its website, and also
operates the world’s largest LNG carrier fleet. The Sarawak
compound has begun taking LNG imports to quench domestic demand.  Recent Canadian gas transactions include Exxon’s C$2.92
billion offer for Celtic Exploration Ltd. Both Progress and
Celtic drill in the Montney shale, one of Canada’s biggest
proven shale-gas reserves with an estimated 49 trillion cubic
feet and far from the main North American markets that are
already oversupplied by shale gas from eastern and southern
parts of the U.S.  Montney Shale  To make itself a more attractive takeover candidate,
Painted Pony on Dec. 4 said it would acquire about 15,800 acres
in the Montney Shale region to add to its existing land British
Columbia. “Recent Montney-related transactions have highlighted
the importance of large, contiguous Montney gas resource
positions to global consolidators,” the company said at the
time.  Other Canadian companies operating in British Columbia’s
Montney formation include Canbriam Energy Inc.,  Yoho Resources
Inc. (YO)  and Tourmaline Oil. Canadian producers developing the
province’s Horn River gas reserves include Encana Corp.,
Imperial Oil Ltd. and Pengrowth Energy Corp.  While natural gas companies may see an upswing in
transactions, some smaller oil sands producers may struggle to
find financing partners as potential investors absorb the new
rules, said Tony Baldanza, partner at Fasken Martineau DuMoulin
LLP with expertise in foreign investment and chairman of the law
firm’s antitrust law group.  “This will cast a shadow on oil-sands investments,” he
said. “It’s putting up a yellow flag, not a red flag, but it
remains to be seen what those exceptional circumstances might
be.”  Seeking Clarity  Alberta Premier Alison Redford welcomed Harper’s approval
of the Nexen and  Progress Energy  takeovers and reserved judgment
on the new restrictions involving state-owned investments in the
oil sands.  “As owners of the oil sands resource, we believe we have a
stake in the decisions that affect the development of those
Resources, Redford said. ‘‘We will seek clarity on how
‘exceptional circumstances’ will be defined.’’  Canada is already the world’s sixth-largest crude producer
and most of the expected increase in production in the coming
years will come from the oil sands. The $1.7 trillion economy,
whose biggest export is crude, relies on foreign investment to
spur growth and help develop the bitumen resources in Alberta.  Investment in Canada’s oil sands, the world’s third largest
with more than 170 billion barrels of recoverable reserves, will
probably reach C$23 billion this year, according to the  Canadian
Association  of Petroleum Producers.  Watching Cnooc  Smaller oil sands producers include Athabasca Oil Corp.,
BlackPearl Resources Inc. and Connacher Oil and Gas Ltd.  Athabasca  fell  2.9 percent to C$9.95 at 9:43 a.m. in
Toronto.  Potential investors will watch how successfully Cnooc is
able to integrate Nexen’s far-flung assets and set up a
headquarters and management structure in Calgary, said  Wenran
Jiang , adviser to the Alberta government on China and director
of the Canada-China Energy and Environment Forum.  ‘‘It’s not going to be easy and there’s no sure guarantee
it will succeed,” he said. “Cnooc has limited resources in
terms of how they can engage such a big venture, but again it’s
a test case,” being China’s largest overseas purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  