-- Obama Meets with Boehner Privately at White House
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-12-09T22:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/obama-meets-with-boehner-privately-at-white-house.html
President  Barack Obama  and House
Speaker  John Boehner  met today at the White House to discuss the
dispute over the U.S. budget, representatives of both said.  “This afternoon, the president and Speaker Boehner met at
the White House to discuss efforts to resolve the fiscal
cliff,”  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, and  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, said in identical statements.
Both said no details of the conversation would be provided “but
the lines of communication remain open.”  The meeting was the first known face-to-face conversation
between the two leaders since Nov. 16, when Boehner and other
congressional leaders sat down with Obama at the White House.
They have talked on the telephone since then. Obama met with
 Nancy Pelosi , the House Democratic minority leader, on Dec. 7.  Obama and Boehner, an Ohio Republican, are trying to reach
an agreement that would prevent more than $600 billion in
spending cuts and tax increases from taking effect in January.  Disputes over tax rates, spending cuts and the debt ceiling
are among the barriers to a deal.  House Republicans  insist on broadening the tax base to
generate revenue rather than raising rates, Representative  Kevin McCarthy  said earlier today, signaling no softening in the
chamber’s standoff with Obama.  Republican Offer  Republicans have offered $800 billion in additional revenue
over the next decade, achieved in a way that would be less
damaging to the economy than higher rates, McCarthy, the third-
ranking Republican in the House, said today on NBC’s “Meet the
Press.”  “The best way to get that is through closing special
loopholes,” the California congressman said.  The optimal strategy for Republicans might be to let the
tax rates on top earners expire, Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee
Republican, said today on “Fox News Sunday.”  “There’s a growing group of folks looking at this and
realizing that we don’t have a lot of cards,” he said. “Go
ahead and give the president this 2 percent increase and all of
a sudden the shift goes back to entitlements and maybe that puts
us in a place where we can do something.”  Inevitable Recession  If no deal is reached, Republicans will “own” the
recession that will inevitably follow, Senator  Richard Durbin  of
Illinois, the second-ranking Democrat in the Senate, said while
appearing with McCarthy on the NBC program.  Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma and Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, both Republicans, said on ABC’s “This Week
with  George Stephanopoulos ” that Democrats needed to accept
significant changes in entitlement programs.  “This talk of taxes is almost irrelevant to the trillions
and trillions of debt,” said Hensarling, who will become
chairman of the House Financial Services Committee in January.  Durbin said he was open to charging high-income retirees
more money for Medicare to help reduce spending. He said he is
less willing to consider increasing the eligibility age for
Medicare to 67 from 65.  “What happens to that early retiree?” he asked. “What
about that gap in coverage between their workplace and
Medicare?”  Higher Rates  Obama, who has called for higher rates on income of
individuals above $200,000 and married couples above $250,000,
wants $1.6 trillion in additional revenue, double what
Republicans have offered. He said in a Bloomberg Television
interview Dec. 4 that limits on tax breaks could generate only
$300 billion to $400 billion.  Each side’s argument on tax rates has gaps. Obama’s own
budget calls for more than $750 billion in revenue from top
earners without raising rates, and he said last year that
achieving $1.2 trillion without higher rates was possible.  Higher rates are necessary, Durbin said.  “The American people spoke on this issue in the
election,” he said.  Republicans, meanwhile, haven’t specified which tax breaks
they would limit. The costliest breaks are among the most
popular, such as those for mortgage interest, charitable
contributions,  capital gains  and employer-provided health
insurance.  If Congress doesn’t act by the end of the year, income
taxes at all levels will go up, and the top  tax rate  will reach
39.6 percent, up from 35 percent now.  Automatic spending cuts, half in defense programs, will
begin taking effect. The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates
that inaction would lead to a recession in the first half of
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  