-- Monti Plans to Resign as Berlusconi Seeks Return to Power
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-12-09T10:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/monti-plans-to-resign-as-berlusconi-seeks-return-to-power.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
told the head of state he has lost support in Parliament and
intends to resign, while earlier in the day his predecessor,
 Silvio Berlusconi  announced plans for a return to power.  Monti will try to corral his coalition, which includes
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party, for a vote to pass the
budget before handing in his “irrevocable resignation” and
leaving his post, President Giorgio Napolitano’s office said in
an e-mailed statement late yesterday. Monti, 69, will quit
immediately if his allies won’t comply, the premier’s
spokeswoman, Elisabetta Olivi, said in a telephone interview.  “The prime minister doesn’t think continuing his term is
possible and has therefore expressed his intention to resign,”
Napolitano’s office said in the statement. Monti’s term was
originally scheduled to conclude in April.  Speculation about Monti’s demise sparked a selloff in
Italian debt last week, pushing the yield on the country’s 10
year bond up 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, in three
days to 4.53 percent on Dec. 7. The yield is still 247 basis
points below its level on Nov. 16, 2011, when Monti was named
prime minister.  Monti’s government was thrown into crisis this week by
Berlusconi as the billionaire ex-premier prepared his election
strategy. His allies in  Italy ’s Senate and Chamber of Deputies
put two Monti confidence votes at risk on Dec. 6 by partially
withdrawing their support. Yesterday, Berlusconi, 76, officially
ended a six-week retirement from politics and announced he will
run for the premiership to roll back Monti’s budget rigor.  People’s Support  “I am returning to the public sphere due to desperation,”
Berlusconi told reporters at the practice facilities of his
professional soccer team near Milan, according to a  video  posted
on the website of Sky TG24.  People of Liberty will back the budget bill, party General
Secretary Angelino Alfano told the Ansa news service after
Napolitano’s statement. Italy’s  Democratic Party , the second-
biggest force in Monti’s coalition, wants to pass the budget,
RAI 24 news reported yesterday, citing party head Pier Luigi Bersani.  Monti will resign the day of the budget vote if he is
assured it will pass, Olivi said.  Elections will take place 45 to 75 days after Napolitano
dissolves the parliament.  The showdown pits Monti, the economist and former
university president, against Italy’s most successful politician
of the past two decades. Monti has been weakened as his tax
increases push Italy deeper into  recession , while Berlusconi,
who first became prime minister in 1994, has been tarnished by
criminal trials, including a fraud conviction in October.  `Italian Situation'  Monti defended his record publicly yesterday before meeting
Napolitano and urged voters to reject the politics of the past.
Berlusconi had been pushed from power last year when Napolitano
called Monti from academia and asked him to form an emergency
administration to cut the deficit and shield Italy from  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis.  “When I was installed in power 13 months ago, there was
European, American and global interest in the Italian situation
because we could have led to the definitive break-up of the  euro
zone ,” Monti said yesterday in Cannes, where he gave a speech
to the World Policy Conference, before returning to  Rome  to meet
Napolitano.  2013 Budget Proposal  Monti’s budget proposal, announced in October, calls for a
one percentage point increase in the value-added tax and would
curb some deductions. The plan, which was criticized by the
retailers lobby, consumer groups and labor unions, also seeks a
one percentage point reduction to the two lowest income tax
brackets, according to the proposal at the time it was
announced.  Monti, who previously led Milan’s  Bocconi University ,
succeeded in slashing Italy’s borrowing costs thanks to
austerity and his push in Europe for collective crisis fighting.
His tax increases and public spending cuts were supported in
parliament by People of Liberty in partnership with the PD, its
traditional rival.  Berlusconi is seeking a comeback after a year in which his
party’s approval among the public plummeted. People of Liberty,
or PDL, has been hurt by corruption scandals among regional
members as well as Berlusconi’s own trials. PDL had 13.8 percent
of public support in an SWG Institute poll released this week,
compared with 30.3 percent for the PD.  Berlusconi was sentenced to four years in prison in a fraud
verdict, which was tied to film rights involving his  Mediaset
SpA (MS)  television company. He is free pending appeal. Berlusconi is
standing trial in an unrelated case on charges of abuse of power
and engaging a minor in prostitution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  