-- How to End Congressional Meddling in the Debt Ceiling
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-09T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/how-to-end-congressional-meddling-in-the-debt-ceiling.html
Washington has no shortage of fiscal
disasters to grapple with. Raising the debt ceiling shouldn’t be
one of them.  No member of Congress, of either party, looks forward to
going on the record to support an increase in the amount of
money the U.S. government can borrow -- and therefore spend.
That’s why these debt-ceiling votes have become such
irresistible political targets.  Now President  Barack Obama , adopting a proposal first  made 
last year by Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, has offered
a way for members of Congress to make their political point --
without harming the markets, the economy, or the full faith and
credit of the United States. If Republican members would drop
their resistance, Congress and the White House could move on
with the more important  task  of getting the federal government’s
budget deficit under control.  Recent  estimates  project that the U.S. will hit its $16.4
trillion debt limit in the last week of December, and will be
able to muddle through until February by  delaying  certain
payments and shifting money among various government accounts.
Republicans are  saying  they won’t approve an increase in the
debt limit without spending cuts in exchange.  It’s time to end this congressional chokehold, which is not
merely symbolic of Washington dysfunction but has real
consequences. The U.S. will have $18.9 billion in higher
interest  payments  over the next decade as a result of last
year’s gamesmanship. The threat of U.S. default makes investors
nervous,  harms  the economy and weakens the nation’s hand in its
dealings with other countries.  Obama’s sensible  plan  would give the White House more power
over the debt ceiling so the U.S. can avoid this  sideshow . Under
his proposal, the president would be required to notify Congress
when the U.S. is within reach of its borrowing limit and request
an increase. Congress could then register its objection by
passing a resolution to reject the increase -- and the president
could then veto it, allowing the U.S. to borrow more money.  Although it’s modeled on a proposal McConnell made during
last year’s debt-ceiling hijinks, Republicans now oppose the
idea. McConnell  called  Obama’s idea “a power grab” and vowed to
keep control of the “federal credit card” limit with Congress.  Memo to McConnell and his fellow Republicans: You already
have that power. The debt limit is simply the  mechanism  by which
the U.S. borrows money to pay for existing commitments. Because
the U.S. runs a budget deficit, the Treasury Department must
borrow money to finance all sorts of things Congress has
previously authorized -- from interest payments to national
defense to Social Security checks to government salaries.  To extend McConnell’s analogy: Republicans (and more than a
few Democrats) may think that the government is putting too much
on its credit card. That’s a different argument. To reduce its
debt, the federal government has to stop putting so much stuff
on its card in the first place. It can’t just say it’s going to
stop paying for what it has already bought, which is what
rejecting a debt-limit increase would amount to.  There are legitimate reasons to want to reduce  how much
money  the U.S. borrows. The nation’s debt load is already at
about 73 percent of gross domestic product -- its highest  level 
since 1950 -- and is projected to grow to 93 percent by 2022
absent any serious deficit reduction efforts, according to the
Congressional Budget Office. That level would be calamitous for
the U.S. economy, leading to reduced saving, higher interest
rates, lower income growth and more borrowing from abroad.  Averting this scenario will require the U.S. to reduce its
budget  deficit  through a  combination  of less spending and more
revenue.  Washington  is already trying to deal with those
challenges -- albeit in a tortured fashion -- as it works to
prevent more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases from going into effect next year. Those negotiations
are the appropriate forum for dealing with the unsustainable
fiscal situation.  Congress has enough to fight about. Taking the debt-limit
authority out of its hands would allow lawmakers to concentrate
on fixing the nation’s fiscal woes and force them to find
legitimate ways to curb spending.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 