-- Ping An’s New Business Value Rebounds as Premium Sales Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-10T04:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/ping-an-s-new-business-value-rebounds-as-premium-sales-increase.html
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318) , whose
biggest shareholder HSBC Holdings Plc agreed to sell its 15.6
percent stake, said growth in new business value recovered in
the second half of 2012 after a decline in the first six months.  The embedded value of new individual life policies “has
resumed growth” and the most profitable, protection-type, 10-
year or longer contracts sold through agents have “returned to
the path of growth after some volatility in the first half,”
Chief Insurance Officer Li Yuanxiang told reporters in Guilin of
southern Guangxi province on Dec. 5.  Ping An’s new business value, which gauges the estimated
profit from new policies sold, may rise 13 percent in the second
half as agent sales shift back to long-term risk-protection
products, improving from a 9 percent drop in the first half,
Barclays Plc said last week.  “We’re encouraged by the actions the company is taking to
improve the quality of its agency force, including comprehensive
training plans, well-designed sales support and monitor systems,
and clear growth targets,” Barclays analysts led by Mark Kellock wrote in a Dec. 7 report after meeting Li. “The
successful execution in agency is critical for future new
business value growth -- a key driver of value creation.”  Ping An rose 1.5 percent to HK$60.90 at the noon break in
Hong Kong trading, extending this year’s rally to 19 percent.
The benchmark Hang Seng Index gained 0.4 percent.  Remain Stable  Margins of new business should be able to remain stable for
the long term, a trend that investors including  Thailand ’s
Charoen Pokphand Group that is buying the insurer’s stake from
HSBC, care more about than the short-term numbers, Li said.  HSBC last week agreed to sell its stake in Ping An
Insurance to Thai billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s Charoen for
$9.4 billion as  Europe ’s biggest bank by market value moves to
revive profit and boost capital.  Ping An enjoys the highest individual agent productivity
among Chinese insurers and the highest new-business
profitability thanks to its strong presence in bigger cities and
effective management of its agent forces, according to Core
Pacific Yamaichi International Ltd.  Ping An’s agents averaged 7,316 yuan ($1,175) in new
business per month in the first half of this year, compared with
4,800  yuan  at larger China Life Insurance Co. and 4,400 yuan at
China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., said Olive Xia, Core
Pacific’s Shanghai-based analyst. Subsequently, Ping An’s new-
business margin stood at 32 percent for the period, more than
double China Life’s and China Pacific’s, according to Xia.  Positive Contribution  “When we look at life insurers’ capital strength in real
terms, we would also consider the impact of profits their
business can generate in the future,” Joyce Huang, a Hong Kong-
based director for insurance at Fitch Ratings, said on a
conference call today. “If there’s any improvement in the
profit margin of Ping An’s new business value, it will
contribute positively to the company’s capital level.”  The company plans to boost the share of “high-
productivity” agents, whose sales average more than 20,000 yuan
per month compared to about 4,000 yuan by an “ordinary” agent,
to 35 percent from almost 19 percent currently, Li said without
giving a timeframe for the target.  Ping An also seeks to expand its presence to as much as 12
percent of  China ’s counties from 8 percent, a move that will
boost premiums without sacrificing margins as it would be
selling the same products in the less-wealthy regions as in big
cities and will only pick the “relatively good” counties, he
added.  Individual Agents  Founded in 1988 as China’s first joint-stock insurer, Ping
An has grown into the nation’s second-biggest insurance company,
with 74 million clients, more than 175,000 employees, and about
500,000 agents. The change in its biggest shareholder won’t have
any impact on the company’s insurance operations, Li said.  “The importance of agency cannot be understated, given
this accounts for more than 90 percent” of the company’s new
business value each year, the Barclays analysts wrote.
“Steadily increasing the number of county markets covered and
increasing the productivity levels in these new markets could be
a key driver of Ping An’s future new business growth.”  China’s insurance market  expanded  an average 19 percent a
year in the past decade to become the world’s sixth biggest,
while insurers’ assets jumped tenfold, according to the China
Insurance Regulatory Commission. Premiums income declined 1.3
percent in 2011 as regulators tightened rules on selling
coverage over bank counters and insurers adjusted their product
mix to improve profitability.  “The market remains good and the room for growth is huge,
especially individual life insurance,” Li said. “One should
not become skeptical about the potential for China’s insurance
market because of the volatility caused by bancassurance.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  