-- PPR Aims to Buy More Chinese Brands After Adding Qeelin
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-12-10T10:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/ppr-acquires-chinese-jeweler-qeelin-for-undisclosed-price.html
PPR SA (PP)  bought a majority stake in
Chinese jeweler Qeelin for an undisclosed price and said it is
looking to make more acquisitions in the Asian nation to bolster
growth in its largest market for high-end goods.  Qeelin has 14 boutiques and its jewelry, which sells for
HK$20,000 ($2,600) to HK$300,000, is also distributed in stores
like Colette in Paris and Restir in  Tokyo , Paris-based PPR said
today. The transaction will probably close in January.  While PPR remains committed to non-acquisitive Chinese
growth, “we’ll also be looking for mid-sized companies in China
with a strong identity and strong growth prospects, if
opportunity arises,” Alexis Babeau, managing director of PPR’s
luxury division, said today on a conference call.  The acquisition of Qeelin, which is profitable, underscores
 China ’s importance to global luxury companies that rely on its
increasingly affluent shoppers to drive sales in the Asian
country and overseas. More than half of the jeweler’s clients
are mainland Chinese, said PPR, which follows competitor Hermes
International SCA in owning a Chinese luxury brand. Hermes’s
Shang Xia brand opened its first store in  Shanghai  in 2010.  By purchasing Qeelin, PPR aims “to develop its jewelry
brands portfolio, which only contains Boucheron so far,” said
Thomas Mesmin, an analyst at CA Cheuvreux in Paris who rates the
shares outperform. The deal’s enterprise value is probably less
than 75 million euros ($97 million) based on sales of about 30
million euros, he estimates.  PPR gained as much as 0.4 percent in Paris trading and was
little changed at 141.90 euros at 11:49 a.m.  Asian Tourists  Sales of discretionary goods in China will grow at a
compound annual rate of 13.4 percent between 2010 and 2020,
McKinsey & Co. said in a report in March.  Prada SpA (1913) , an Italian
handbag maker, last week reported third-quarter earnings that
beat estimates after Asian tourists fueled gains in  Europe .  Qeelin runs seven boutiques in mainland China, four in Hong
Kong and three in Europe. The “Qilin” is an auspicious Chinese
mythical animal, PPR said. The brand sells fine jewelry,
accessories and watches made of precious metals and stones.  PPR has “great ambitions” for the brand, PPR Chief
Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault said in a statement.  The French maker of Bottega Veneta handbags and Puma
sneakers is reorganizing to focus on luxury, sports and
lifestyle brands as it seeks to lift sales to 24 billion euros
by 2020.  Redcats, Fnac  PPR disposed of furniture retailer Conforama last year and
agreed in October to sell Redcats’s U.S. sports and leisure
business for $215 million. Last week, it agreed to sell the
online retailer’s OneStopPlus large-size clothing business in a
deal that implied an enterprise value of $525 million.  PPR, which also plans to spin off the Fnac music and
electronics chain in 2013, has said it will use some of the
proceeds from disposals for acquisitions. The company is
interested in small and medium-sized luxury and sporting goods
makers with growth potential, Pinault has said.  PPR agreed to buy Italian suitmaker Brioni Roman Style SpA
last year for less than 350 million euros and surf, skate and
snowboarding clothier Volcom Inc. for $608 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  