-- Republicans Firm Against Higher Tax Rates, McCarthy Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-12-09T17:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/republicans-firm-against-higher-tax-rates-mccarthy-says.html
U.S. House Republicans insist on
broadening the tax base to generate revenue rather than raising
rates, Representative Kevin McCarthy said, signaling no
softening in the chamber’s standoff with President  Barack Obama .  Republicans have offered $800 billion in additional revenue
over the next decade, achieved in a way that would be less
damaging to the economy than higher rates, McCarthy, the third-
ranking Republican in the House, said today on NBC’s “Meet the
Press.”  “The best way to get that is through closing special
loopholes,” the California congressman said.  The divides on tax rates and spending on entitlement
programs are the key issues stalling negotiations on how to
avert more than $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax
increases scheduled to take effect in January.  House Speaker John Boehner said Dec. 7 that he had “no
progress” to report and said the administration had wasted
another week.  To avert the so-called fiscal cliff, McCarthy said Obama
needs to stop campaigning, become more engaged in talks and work
on government spending, which he called the real problem in the
budget.  Needed Changes  “Get in the room and make the changes that are needed,”
he said.  The best strategy for Republicans might be to let the tax
rates on top earners expire, Senator Bob Corker, a Tennessee
Republican, said today on “Fox News Sunday.”  “There’s a growing group of folks looking at this and
realizing that we don’t have a lot of cards,” he said. “Go
ahead and give the president this 2 percent increase and all of
a sudden the shift goes back to entitlements and maybe that puts
us in a place where we can do something.”  If no deal is reached, Republicans will “own” the
recession that will inevitably follow, Senator Richard Durbin of
 Illinois , the second-ranking Democrat in the Senate, said while
appearing with McCarthy on the NBC program.  Senator Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma  and Representative Jeb Hensarling of  Texas , both Republicans, said on ABC’s “This Week
with George Stephanopoulos” that Democrats needed to accept
significant changes in entitlement programs.  ‘Almost Irrelevant’  “This talk of taxes is almost irrelevant to the trillions
and trillions of debt,” said Hensarling, who will become
chairman of the House Financial Services Committee in January.  Durbin said he was open to charging high-income retirees
more money for Medicare to help reduce spending. He said he is
less willing to consider increasing the eligibility age for
Medicare to 67 from 65.  “What happens to that early retiree?” he asked. “What
about that gap in coverage between their workplace and
Medicare?”  Obama, who has called for higher rates on income of
individuals above $200,000 and married couples above $250,000,
wants $1.6 trillion in additional revenue, double what
Republicans have offered. He said in a Bloomberg Television
interview Dec. 4 that limits on tax breaks could generate only
$300 billion to $400 billion.  Arguments’ Gaps  Each side’s argument on tax rates has gaps. Obama’s own
budget calls for more than $750 billion in revenue from top
earners without raising rates, and he said last year that
achieving $1.2 trillion without higher rates was possible.  Higher rates are necessary, Durbin said.  “The American people spoke on this issue in the
election,” he said.  Republicans, meanwhile, haven’t specified which tax breaks
they would limit. The costliest breaks are among the most
popular, such as those for mortgage interest, charitable
contributions, capital gains and employer-provided health
insurance.  If Congress doesn’t act by the end of the year, income
taxes at all levels will go up, and the top tax rate will reach
39.6 percent, up from 35 percent now.  Automatic spending cuts, half in defense programs, will
begin taking effect. The Congressional Budget Office estimates
that inaction would lead to a recession in the first half of
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  