-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose on Automobile Demand
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-12-09T05:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-on-automobile-demand.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably rose
in November as the holiday shopping season got under way and
demand for automobiles rebounded after superstorm Sandy,
economists said before a report this week.  The projected 0.4 percent gain would follow a 0.3 percent
drop in October, according to the  median  forecast of 60
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before Dec. 13 figures from the
Commerce Department. Other reports may show a gain in industrial
production, while cheaper gasoline helped push down the cost of
living.  Vehicle sales last month jumped to the fastest pace since
February 2008 after slowing in the wake of Sandy’s destruction
along the eastern seaboard. While job gains are helping sustain
consumer spending, fiscal tightening slated for early next year
threatens growth and may set back employment, one reason Federal
Reserve policy makers will weigh increasing stimulus when they
meet this week.  “A good holiday shopping season could be mitigated to some
extent by the weakness observed early in the month,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in New
York. “The path of economic activity is suggestive to us that
the Fed will continue to upsize” its stimulus programs.  Cars and light trucks  sold  in November at a 15.5 million
annual rate, up from 14.2 million a month earlier when Sandy
kept East Coast shoppers away during auto dealers’ busiest time
of the month, according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  deliveries of cars and light trucks climbed 6.4 percent and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  sales gained 3.4 percent, the companies said
Dec. 3.  Same-Store Sales  Other retailers may have had less success in bouncing back
from early-month weakness related to Sandy. Same-store sales for
the more than 20 companies tracked by Swampscott, Massachusetts-
based Retail Metrics Inc. rose 1.6 percent, excluding
drugstores, trailing the estimate for a 3.5 percent gain, the
firm said Nov. 29. That followed a 5 percent increase in
October.  Sales at  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-
store company, fell 0.7 percent, compared with the average
projection for a 2.5 percent gain from analysts surveyed by the
researcher Retail Metrics.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  of Menomonee Falls,
 Wisconsin , said same-store sales fell 5.6 percent, trailing
estimates for a 2.1 percent gain and prompting its biggest stock
decline in two decades.  Building materials may have climbed in November amid
rebuilding efforts along the East Coast, helping underpin
overall retail sales. At the same time, cheaper gasoline may
have held back service station receipts.  Cheaper Fuel  Lower fuel costs helped push down the November consumer
price index by 0.2 percent, the most in six months, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey before the Labor
Department’s report on Dec. 14.  The average price of a gallon of gasoline was $3.44 in
November, down from $3.70 in October, according to data from
AAA, the largest U.S. motoring organization.  “The decline in gasoline prices is a notable positive for
consumer spending,” said Dean Maki, chief U.S. economist in New
York for Barclays Plc. “This is one of the ways in which the
U.S. growth tends to remain resilient in the face of foreign
recessions.”  While household spending is holding up, factories are
struggling with limited corporate investment and slower overseas
economies. Industrial production climbed 0.2 percent in
November, failing to make up for the 0.4 percent drop the
previous month, according to the median projection in a
Bloomberg survey before the Fed’s Dec. 14 report.  Trade Deficit  Weaker overseas sales may have led to a wider U.S. trade
deficit in October, economists project a Dec. 11 Commerce
Department report to show.  Companies such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  indicate failure by
lawmakers to avert the fiscal cliff of tax increases and
spending cuts poses a threat to consumer spending.  “I think we’re highly, highly sensitive to the seismic
change that could result in  consumer confidence  and consumer
behavior by the unintended consequences that could happen as a
result of the Congress and the administration not reaching a
compromise and a long-term agreement,” Howard Schultz, chief
executive officer of Starbucks, said at a Dec. 5 conference.  At the same time, Fed policy makers will consider at their
two-day meeting this week whether more monetary stimulus is
needed to provide a bigger boost the economy.  Fed officials will consider whether to supplement their $40
billion a month of mortgage bond purchases with Treasury buying,
following the month-end expiration of the Operation Twist
program to replace $667 billion of short-term debt with the same
amount of longer-term bonds.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  