-- Romania’s Ponta Vows New Cabinet by Year-End on Victory
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-12-10T16:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/romania-s-ponta-vows-new-cabinet-by-year-end-on-victory.html
Romanian Prime Minister Victor Ponta
vowed to form a new government by the end of the year and build
a super majority in Parliament after his ruling coalition won
yesterday’s general elections.  The ruling Social Liberal Union, or USL, got 58.6 percent,
the  Central Electoral Commission  said today in Bucharest, with
99.6 percent of votes counted. The opposition Right Romania
Alliance, aligned with President Traian Basescu, got 16.5
percent. The  People’s Party  of media owner Dan Diaconescu
received 14 percent of the votes, while the ethnic Hungarian
party got 5.15 percent, according to the partial results.  “I take the responsibility for leading a new government
and we plan to have a Cabinet in place by the end of this
year,” Ponta said last night. “We will negotiate with the
ethnic Hungarians to get their backing for a constitutional
majority. We will concentrate on creating jobs and securing the
country’s fiscal stability.”  Ponta, who took power in May, persuaded voters to help him
secure his first election victory with promises to undo wage
cuts and tax increases passed by the opposition in 2010 to
counter  Europe ’s debt crisis. He must now convince Basescu, a
rival who survived Ponta’s effort to impeach him July, to
designate him again for the top government job, sharpening a
feud between the two leaders.  Leu Impact  The turmoil boosted borrowing costs and pushed the leu to a
record low of 4.6520 against the euro on Aug. 3. It weakened 0.4
percent last week ahead of the elections, one of the worst-
performing currencies in the region. The leu strengthened as
much as 0.4 percent before trading little changed at 4.5337 per
euro by 6 p.m. in Bucharest.  “Taking into consideration the bitter rivalry between
Basescu and Ponta, there is a risk that the president will not
name Ponta as prime minister and this could trigger political
volatility, with implications on financial-market
developments,” Florentina Cozmanca, a Bucharest-based economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s Romanian unit, said in a
note today.  The ruling USL got about 62 percent of the seats in
Parliament, while the opposition alliance got 22 percent of the
seats, according to  a forecast  by private television Romania TV
yesterday. Under Romania’s voting system based on constituencies
and party representation, USL may get a higher percentage of
seats than indicated in their vote total because of distribution
rules.  Turnout at yesterday’s ballot was 41.8 percent, according
to the electoral commission. The commission will probably
announce final data tomorrow around 2 p.m. in Bucharest,
spokesman Marian Muhulet said today.  Growing Tension  “We expect a couple of weeks of negotiations and it is
quite likely that the tensions between President Basescu and
Ponta will lead to some surprises on the appointments,” said
 Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in  London . “We expect the National Bank of Romania to continue
to manage the leu, supporting a stable trend.”  Romania earlier this year was engulfed in a power struggle
between Ponta and Basescu that culminated in a 52-day suspension
for the president, followed by an invalidated nationwide
impeachment vote on July 29. Basescu returned to office at the
end of August.  Market Relief  “Although we will need to wait for the official individual
party results, there is likely to be a sense of relief that the
exit polls for the alliances are in line with opinion polls,”
said Simon Quijano-Evans, ING Groep NV’s London-based head of
emerging-market research for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa .  Three other polling companies, including Geopol and CCSB
showed similar results for USL’s score, while the opposition ARD
gained between 15 percent to 18 percent of the votes.  Under the  constitution , the party that wins more than 50
percent of parliamentary seats is entitled to negotiate the
nomination of prime minister with the president. If no party has
a majority, the president chooses a premier after consulting
with all the parties.  “I voted for a change and I hope things will get better,
though I doubt they can be worse than now after this terrible
period of uncertainty and political struggle,” said Oana
Hoarda, a 35-year-old accountant.  Premier Designate  After the failed impeachment attempt, Basescu said he won’t
designate Ponta as prime minister again. He has since declined
to repeat that statement in public. Ponta said he is the only
candidate for prime minister should his political alliance win.  The premier-designate has 10 days to draw up a governing
program and pick his ministers before seeking a confidence vote
in Parliament.  Ponta and Basescu agree that  Romania  needs to reach a deal
with the IMF and the EU next year, once the current 5 billion-
euro ($6.5 billion) precautionary accord, signed in 2011, ends.
The nation has drawn no money from the facility. Romania also
got a 20 billion-euro bailout from the IMF and the EU in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  