-- Romanian Coalition Wins Parliament Vote, Exit Polls Show
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-12-09T20:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/romanian-coalition-wins-parliament-vote-exit-polls-show.html
Romania ’s ruling coalition won
elections, exit polls show, helping Premier Victor Ponta
dominate Parliament and giving him a stronger hand as he
negotiates a new Cabinet with rival President Traian Basescu.  The Social Liberal Union, or USL, took 57 percent, with
voter turnout capped at 41.7 percent by heavy snowfall and rain,
according to exit polls by Avangarde and CURS published by
national television TVR. The opposition Right Romania Alliance,
aligned with Basescu, got 18.12 percent, while the party of
media entrepreneur Dan Diaconescu had 13 percent. Official
results will be released tomorrow starting at 10 a.m. Bucharest
time, the  Central Electoral Commission  said.  Ponta, who took power in May, persuaded voters to help him
secure his first election victory with promises to undo wage
cuts and tax increases passed by the opposition in 2010 to
counter  Europe ’s debt crisis. He must now convince Basescu to
designate him again for the top government job, after a failed
impeachment referendum on July 29 against the president
sharpened a feud between the two leaders.  “I take the responsibility of leading a new government and
we plan to have a Cabinet in place by the end of this year,”
Ponta said in a televised speech from Targu-Jiu, in southwestern
Romania. “We will negotiate with the ethnic Hungarians to get
their backing for a constitutional majority. We will concentrate
on creating jobs and securing the country’s fiscal stability.”  The ethnic Hungarians got about 5 percent of the votes,
according to the exit polls.  Power Struggle  Romania was earlier this year engulfed in a power struggle
between Ponta and Basescu that culminated in a 52-day suspension
for the president, followed by an invalidated nationwide
impeachment vote on July 29. Basescu returned to office at the
end of August.  Three other polling companies, including Geopol and CCSB
showed similar results for USL’s score, while the opposition ARD
gained between 15 percent to 18 percent of the votes.  Under the  constitution , the party that wins more than 50
percent of parliamentary seats is entitled to negotiate the
nomination of prime minister with the president. If no party has
a majority, the president chooses a premier after consulting
with all the parties.  “The formation of the new government may still prove
tricky,” Morgan Stanley economists Pasquale Diana and Jaroslaw
Strzalkowski said in a note before the exit polls were released.
The relationship between Ponta and Basescu “remains tense after
USL tried to impeach Basescu this summer.”  Premier Talks  After the failed impeachment attempt, Basescu said he won’t
designate Ponta as prime minister again. He has since declined
to repeat that statement in public. Ponta said he is the only
candidate for prime minister should his political alliance win.  The premier-designate has 10 days to draw up a governing
program and pick his ministers before seeking a confidence vote
in Parliament.  Ponta and Basescu agree that Romania needs to reach a deal
with the IMF and the EU next year, once the current 5 billion-
euro ($6.5 billion) precautionary accord, signed in 2011, ends.
The nation has drawn no money from the facility. Romania also
got a 20 billion-euro bailout from the IMF and the EU in 2009.  Ponta’s coalition pledged to undo a valued-added tax
increase of 5 percentage points and cut an income tax for low
earners in four years. The opposition Right Romania Alliance
says it will cut income taxes beginning next year and lower some
social-security contributions.  Austerity Measures  The Democrat-Liberal Party, now part of the opposition
alliance, lowered state wages by 25 percent and raised the  sales
tax  in 2010 to narrow a  budget deficit  and meet pledges to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union. Former Prime
Minister Emil Boc, an ally of Basescu, stepped down on Feb. 6 to
ease political and social pressure stemming from nationwide
anti-austerity street protests.  “I voted because I am convinced that this alliance will
consolidate cooperation between the right and the left in the
benefit of the country and things will change for the better,”
said Pavel Istode, a 63-year-old retiree. “Basescu has become a
dictator and needs to be stopped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  