-- Romanians Go to Polls as Premier Vows to Ease Austerity
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-12-09T17:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/romanians-go-to-polls-as-premier-vows-to-ease-austerity.html
Romanians cast votes for
parliamentary lawmakers, with Prime Minister Victor Ponta poised
to win on pledges to overturn austerity measures passed by a
previous government and spur the economy.  Voting stations will close at 9 p.m. Bucharest time, when
exit polls will be released. Turnout at 6 p.m. was 36.54
percent. Official results will be published tomorrow beginning
at 10 a.m., according to the Central Electoral Commission.
Ponta’s Social Liberal Union, or USL, may win an outright
majority, according to recent opinion polls.  Ponta, running for the first time as head of government,
has worked to diffuse the kind of voter anger that is sweeping
 Europe  over budget cuts and tax increases that sparked mass
protests, eroded salaries and wiped out thousands of jobs. Ponta
is locked in a dispute with President Traian Basescu, an
opposition ally who survived an impeachment effort by Ponta in
July, as the nation slips back toward a new recession.  Ponta’s Cabinet “will have a legitimate majority, which
cannot be challenged by Basescu or by any other European
leader,” said Adrian Moraru, an analyst at the Institute for
 Public Policies in Bucharest , in a phone interview. “The
tensions may continue, but I think Ponta will be reappointed in
the end. Otherwise, Basescu will face suspension again and this
time he will probably be ousted.”  European Anger  Ponta is using popular opposition to austerity to intensify
his political war with Basescu, said analysts including Daniel
Lenz at DZ Bank AG. Voter acrimony over austerity during the
three-year-old sovereign-debt crisis has resulted in the ouster
of leaders in countries including Ireland,  Portugal ,  Greece ,
 Italy , the Netherlands,  Spain , Slovenia, Slovakia and  Finland .  Borrowing costs have risen and the leu fell to a record
4.6520 against the euro on Aug. 3. The leu has declined 0.4
percent so far this week, making the currency one of the worst-
performers in the region. Credit-default swaps, which measure
the cost of insuring Romanian debt against non-payment for five
years, traded at 222 points today, after hitting 206 points on
Oct. 17, which was the lowest in at least two years.  Ponta’s USL, in power since May and the third Cabinet this
year, had 57 percent in the last poll before elections, compared
with about 19 percent for the opposition alliance, according to
a Dec. 3 to Dec. 5 survey of 1,234 people by Bucharest-based
Public Affairs.  Easing Austerity  The opposition alliance is aligned with President Traian Basescu, who has the right to choose the next premier. The
survey had a margin of error of 2.8 percentage points. Earlier
polls showed similar outcomes.  “I voted against Basescu and his crew because the quality
of our life significantly deteriorated when they were in
power,” said Alexandrina Majernik, a 60-year-old retired women
said after casting her vote in Bucharest. “The medical system
has crashed and if we have a problem we have to pay for
everything, including basic services that used to be free.”  Ponta’s coalition pledged to undo a valued-added tax
increase of 5 percentage points and cut an income tax for low
earners in four years. The opposition Right Romania Alliance
says it will cut income taxes beginning next year and lower some
social-security contributions.  The Democrat-Liberal Party, now part of the opposition
alliance, lowered state wages by 25 percent and raised the  sales
tax  in 2010 to narrow a  budget deficit  and meet pledges to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union. Former Prime
Minister Emil Boc, an ally of Basescu, stepped down on Feb. 6 to
ease political and social pressure stemming from nationwide
anti-austerity street protests.  Power Struggle  Romania was earlier this year engulfed in a power struggle
between Ponta and Basescu that culminated in a 52-day suspension
for the president, followed by an invalidated nationwide
impeachment vote on July 29. Basescu returned to office at the
end of August.  “While the expected comfortable victory of USL means
elevated chances to form a new government, the smoothness of the
process to voting the new Cabinet depends on the candidate to
the premiership designated by the president,” Raiffeisen Bank
economists, including Ionut Dumitru and Ana-Maria Morarescu,
said in a note. “The tensioned relation between President
Basescu and the USL alliance does not bode well for a smooth
process.”  Premier Negotiations  Under the  constitution , the party that wins more than 50
percent of parliamentary seats is entitled to negotiate the
nomination of prime minister with the president. If no party has
a majority, the president chooses a premier after consulting
with all the parties.  “I’m skeptical that a union between the right and the left
will work, especially under the current economic situation,”
said Constantin Jelescu, a 47-year-old engineer, after casting
his vote in a Bucharest neighborhood. “We need strong state
institutions and it’s good to have someone defending them. They
don’t have to all be subordinated to the Parliament, especially
the judiciary.”  Failed Impeachment  After the failed impeachment attempt, Basescu said he won’t
designate Ponta as prime minister again. He has since declined
to repeat that statement in public. Ponta said he is the only
candidate for prime minister should his political alliance win.  “The results of the elections aren’t difficult to
anticipate in my opinion, but their consequences are,” said
Alexandru Cumpanasu, a Bucharest-based political analyst at the
 Association for Implementing Democracy , in a phone interview.
“I’m not convinced that Basescu will nominate Ponta again. He
may try to buy some time to break the USL apart.”  The premier-designate has 10 days to draw up a governing
program and pick his ministers before seeking a confidence vote
in Parliament.  Ponta and Basescu agree that  Romania  needs to reach a deal
with the IMF and the EU next year, once the current 5 billion-
euro ($6.5 billion) precautionary accord, signed in 2011, ends.
The nation has drawn no money from the facility. Romania also
got a 20 billion-euro bailout from the IMF and the EU in 2009.  Falling Investment  Skepticism about the government’s ability to deliver on
promises has exacerbated concern about a faltering economy.
Gross domestic product contracted a seasonally adjusted 0.5
percent in the third quarter, wiping off a 0.1 percent gain in
the previous three months, according to revised data from the
statistics office.  Foreign direct investment  plunged to 1.1
billion euros in the first nine months from a record 9.5 billion
euros in 2008.  The country of about 19 million, the second-largest in the
EU’s east after  Poland , has slipped to 72nd of 183 nations in
the  World Bank ’s 2012  Ease of Doing Business survey , below
neighboring Bulgaria and  Hungary .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  