-- Saudi Arabia Says Aramco Cyberattack Came From Foreign States
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-12-09T15:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/saudi-arabia-says-aramco-cyberattack-came-from-foreign-states.html
Saudi Arabia  blamed unidentified
people based outside the kingdom for a cyberattack against
state-owned Saudi Arabian Oil Co. that aimed at disrupting
production from the world’s largest exporter of crude.  More than 30,000 computers were compromised or affected by
a so-called “spear-phishing” attack from Aug. 15, raising
concerns about the threat hackers may pose to output at the
company known as Saudi Aramco, Abdullah al-Saadan, vice
president for corporate planning, said today at a news
conference in the eastern city of Dhahran.  Major General Mansour Al-Turki, a spokesman for the
 Interior Ministry , declined to identify any of the “several
foreign countries” from which the attack originated because the
investigation is still in progress. “The attack failed to reach
its ultimate goal, which was to stop the flow of Saudi oil,” he
said at the conference.  Saudi Arabia is the largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, which supplies 40 percent of the
world’s crude. The kingdom has accused Shiite-led  Iran , a fellow
OPEC member, of interfering in the affairs of Arab countries in
the  Persian Gulf , home to three-fifths of the world’s proven oil
reserves. Iran denies the charge and accuses Sunni Muslim rulers
in  Bahrain  and Saudi Arabia of discriminating against Shiites.  Panetta’s Warning  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and other American
officials have suggested that the Aramco attack is evidence of a
brewing global cyber war, one in which countries including Iran
are improving their ability to target companies and governments.
The virus destroyed data on servers and erased hard-drives on
individual computers.  Aramco has purged the computer virus from its network and
taken steps to prevent further security breaches, al-Turki said.
Al-Saadan said none of the company’s employees or contractors
were complicit in the attack, which had no effect on output of
crude oil or refined products.  “The fact that not a single drop of oil stopped during the
attack is an assurance to global markets that Saudi production
is safe,” al-Saadan said. Saudi Arabia pumped 9.7 million
barrels a day of crude in November and has an estimated
production capacity of 12.5 million barrels, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Circumstantial Evidence  Aramco said on Sept. 10 that its entire computer network
was operating normally after the virus arrived through an e-
mail. The percentage of computers damaged was small relative to
the size of the network, al-Saadan said.  Two U.S. intelligence officials said in interviews that the
evidence implicating Iran in the Aramco attack is largely
circumstantial, though they said the breach does fit a pattern
of increased Iranian cyber warfare activity since 2010, after a
sophisticated virus known as Stuxnet attacked Iran’s main
uranium enrichment facilities.  “ Saudi Aramco  faced thousands of cyberattacks before, and
it will face similar attacks in future,” al-Saadan said. “We
will continue taking measures and enhance our security.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Dhahran at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  