-- HSBC Sees Recovery in Gulf State-Linked Bond Sales: Arab Credit
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-12-10T11:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/hsbc-sees-recovery-in-gulf-state-linked-bond-sales-arab-credit.html
The  Middle East ’s biggest debt
underwriter said bond sales by government-related companies in
the  Persian Gulf   will pick up at the start of 2013 to support
more than $1 trillion in planned spending.  There’s reason to be “optimistic” for sales by
government-related enterprises at the start of next year, said
Georges Elhedery, head of global markets for the Middle East and
North Africa at  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  Issuance this year by so-
called GREs fell to about $9.9 billion from about $13 billion in
2011 and compared with $8 billion a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The first quarter of 2013 is going to be busy,” he said
in an interview at his office in Dubai on Dec. 4. “It’s
difficult to see beyond that.”  This year’s record $41 billion of debt sales in the six-
nation Gulf Cooperation Council masked a decrease in sales by
GREs, which “held back” from offering bonds, Elhedery said.
The region’s corporate borrowing costs tumbled more than
emerging-market peers this year, boosting the allure of debt
amid state plans to build airports, sports facilities,
refineries and museums.  Spending Spree  The yield drop enabled government issuers in  Saudi Arabia 
and Qatar to raise $4 billion each in this year’s largest global
offerings of Islamic bonds, which pay returns to comply with the
religion’s ban on interest. The Saudi aviation authority sought
the funds for an airport as the kingdom pursues more than $500
billion of investments. Qatar plans to spend $130 billion before
hosting the soccer  World Cup  in 2022.  Abu Dhabi , which holds most of the United Arab Emirates’
oil reserves, wants to reduce its reliance on crude sales by
investing in metals and chemicals, as well as a cultural center
with branches of the Guggenheim and Louvre. These spending
programs will spur sales by GREs, which “haven’t issued the way
they did last year and the year before,” Elhedery said.  Energy investor International Petroleum Investment Co.,
known as IPIC, raised $2.9 billion last month in the region’s
biggest corporate offering this year. The Abu Dhabi-based
company priced a euro-denominated tranche of notes to yield
2.375 percent, compared with 4.875 percent at a sale of similar
maturities in 2011.  Yields Tumble  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , the company known as Taqa
which last month bought  BP Plc (BP/) ’s stakes in North Sea fields for
$1.1 billion, raised $2 billion of dollar-denominated debt last
week.  The average yield on GCC company bonds tumbled 175 basis
points, or 1.75 percentage points, in 2012 to 3.47 percent on
Dec. 7, according to HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai’s GCC Conventional
Corporate U.S. Dollar Bond Index. That compares with a 123
basis-point decline to 4.06 percent for JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
Corporate EMBI High-Grade Blended Yield index.  Private businesses in the Gulf may also turn to the  bond
market  in greater numbers, Elhedery said. Majid Al Futtaim
Holding LLC, a family-held operator of malls and hotels, raised
$500 million from the sale of non-Islamic bonds in June,
following a $400 million sukuk issuance five months earlier.  “Smaller privately owned corporates with strong, growing
businesses and a story they can sell,” he said.  Bank Expansion  Another driver next year will be the region’s banks, which
are trying to increase regulatory capital for expansion,
Elhedery added.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (ADIB)  PJSC last month raised $1
billion from the world’s first dollar-denominated Islamic bonds
that don’t mature to lift its Tier-1 capital ratio, which helps
protect depositors against unexpected losses.  Lenders including  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the Middle
East’s biggest, more than quadrupled bond sales this year to
almost $14 billion as they seek to keep up with loan growth to
private businesses of 14 percent in Qatar in August and 15
percent in Saudi Arabia in October, the highest in almost four
years.  “Most banks are well capitalized, the difference is that
many of these banks also have demanding growth targets,”
Elhedery said. “If they want to pursue these targets, they have
to address their  capital structure .”  Aerospace, Art  Still, state spending will be the key catalyst behind next
year’s debt sales. The Abu Dhabi government, which aims to
invest $500 billion through 2030, operates investment company
Mubadala Development Co., which is investing in technology,
health care and aerospace industries to acquire technical
expertise and create jobs.  Tourism Development & Investment Co. plans to start the
construction of the Louvre in the first quarter, before opening
the museum in 2015, followed by the Guggenheim two years later.
The yield on TDIC’s 4.949 percent Islamic notes due October 2014
declined 101 basis points this year to 1.84 percent today.  “We’re still optimistic on the pipeline,” Elhedery said.
“There’s still growth and there’s still infrastructure
investment so that’s naturally going to require debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  