-- Schwartzel Wins Thailand Golf Title; Victory for Senior
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-12-09T16:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/schwartzel-wins-thailand-golf-title-senior-victory-in-australia.html
South Africa’s Charl Schwartzel
scored a final-round 65, 7-under par, to clinch his first
victory in 20 months at the  Thailand  Golf Championship  The 11-shot win at Chonburi was his first title since the
2011 Masters Tournament at Augusta,  Georgia . He finished 25-
under overall, after eight birdies in his final round.  Bubba Watson of the U.S. and Thitiphun Chuayprakong of
Thailand were tied for second, with Spain’s Sergio Garcia two
shots further back in fourth.  “Winning is not as easy as everyone makes it out to be,”
Schwartzel told reporters. “It’s been quite hard work and it’s
been a difficult year, especially in the middle. It’s nice to
put things in place and get the win I’ve been looking for.”  At age 53, Peter Senior became the oldest winner of the
Australian Open with a one-stroke victory, scoring a final-round
par-72 for a 4-under total at The Lakes in wind-swept Sydney.
Fellow Australians Brendan Jones and Cameron Percy were second
and third, one and two shots back, respectively.  “It doesn’t get any better than this,” Senior said. “I
really thought these days were over. Golf is such a funny game,
one minute you think you’re down, next minute you’re up.”  England ’s Justin Rose and Australians Kim Felton and Kieran
Pratt finished on 287.  Scott Jamieson of  Scotland  won the inaugural Nelson Mandela
Championship in Durban, South Africa, after a playoff with
England’s Steve Webster and Spain’s Eduardo de la Riva. They’d
all finished on 7-under.  The tournament, the first event of the new European Tour
season, was reduced to 36 holes and a par of 65 after heavy rain
saturated the fairways. Jamieson had a final round of 57,
although it won’t count as a record because of the altered
course conditions.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 