-- Sony Loses Science Talent as Student Resumes Go to Dairies: Tech
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-12-10T10:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/sony-loses-science-talent-as-student-resumes-go-to-dairies-tech.html
Japan ’s science students are
eschewing traditional high-powered employers such as  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  to help make ice cream and yogurt.  They are applying to dairies. That says quite a bit about
the current state of Japan -- and, some say, its future.  Sony, the Walkman inventor that once topped the rankings
among the most-coveted jobs for graduating science majors, may
drop further in popularity after it fell to fourth place from
second in a survey this year of science students who’ll enter
the job market in April, said Takuya Kurita, a researcher at
Tokyo-based Mynavi Corp. Sony, trying to end four years of
 losses , is hiring the fewest recruits in 23 years.  “I’ve read about their huge losses in the newspaper,”
Asuka Okamoto, a physics graduate student at  Waseda University 
in  Tokyo , said of the electronics makers. “I’d rather work
somewhere else if workers seem worried at those companies.”  As Japan’s biggest companies kick off their annual campus
recruitment drives this month, science students are increasingly
favoring companies like  Meiji Holdings Co. (2269) , a Tokyo-based dairy
maker. For the once-dominant electronics makers, a loss of
market share to  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Apple Inc. also
means they’re losing future engineers and scientists needed to
come up with hit products that can revive their brands.  “The gap between Japanese companies and Samsung, LG, and
Chinese or Taiwanese competitors may only widen if the Japanese
can’t hire excellent young talent,” said Yoshihisa Toyosaki, an
analyst at Architect Grand Design, an electronics research and
consulting company in Tokyo. “New products can only be born
from new brains.”  Food Makers  Two of the three most popular employers for science
students entering the job market next year are food
manufacturers, according to Mynavi, an operator of job-hunting
websites, which collected data from 16,451 students in the three
months ended February.  Meiji topped the rankings, followed by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , which
makes products ranging from personal computers to nuclear
reactors.  Kagome Co. (2811) , a maker of sauces and condiments, was
third.  “Japan’s top manufacturers are being replaced by food
makers in the rankings because the food business is considered
stable,” Mynavi’s Kurita said. Science students, he said,
“care about building a career at a stable company where they
can work as researcher for a long time.”  Meiji, Kagome  In Japan, where many students accept job offers from large
companies six months before graduating and may stay with the
same employer until retirement, the nation’s unprofitable
consumer-electronics makers are seen as volatile, said Yoshihide
Suzuki, an administrative director at the career center at
Waseda, a 130-year-old private school where Sony’s co-founder
Masaru Ibuka studied engineering in the 1930s. That has made
them less attractive to young job-seekers whose priorities
include stability, he said.  Meiji shares have gained 15 percent this year, and its net
income more than doubled to 5.2 billion yen ($63 million) in the
six months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Kagome, maker of ketchup and tomato juice, has risen 7.8
percent as its net income gained 88 percent to 5.7 billion yen
in the same period.  Fewer Recruits  Meiji, which traces its history to 1906, has been
profitable since its creation by a 2009 merger. The Tokyo-based
company has expanded its workforce by 8 percent since 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company is receiving a “very large number of
applicants” this season, Emiko Kurokawa, a spokeswoman for
Meiji, said in an e-mail, without giving details.  The maker of Aya ice cream and Bulgaria Yogurt is hiring
engineers for its plants and scientists for research and
development. The  company  also makes pharmaceuticals, veterinary
drugs and agricultural chemicals.  Sony, Panasonic and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  are recruiting fewer young
people as they shrink their workforce. The three companies have
announced a total of more than 29,800 job cuts for the year
ending March 31 as they try to recover from 1.6 trillion yen in
combined net losses last fiscal year.  Sony, which used to hire as many as 1,000 people from
universities each year, plans to give jobs to 180 in April, said
 George Boyd , a spokesman. That’s down 35 percent from a year
earlier and the lowest since 1990, he said. The number of
engineers being hired will drop to 150 from 205 this year.  Campus Seminars  The Tokyo-based maker of Bravia TVs, which posted a 457
billion-yen loss for the year ended March 31, was the most-
popular destination for science students for 10 straight years
until 2003, according to Mynavi.  “Students don’t seem to believe entering Sony will secure
anything for their lives,” said Waseda’s Suzuki.  Sony is holding recruiting events at universities and
elsewhere and offers students opportunities to visit development
sites and talk to company engineers, Boyd said.  Sony  fell  0.9 percent to 820 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trade in Tokyo, extending its decline to 41 percent this year.  Panasonic plans to hire 350 people from universities next
year, compared with 1,400 in 1992, said Chieko Gyobu, a
spokeswoman. The Osaka-based company, which posted a 772
billion-yen loss last fiscal year, tumbled to 15th in Mynavi’s
latest rankings, released in March, from the No. 1 spot a year
earlier.  Panasonic is holding seminars on campuses and at its own
offices “to secure applications from talented students” and is
also strengthening its design, development and marketing
operations overseas, Gyobu said.  ‘Material Doubt’  “Although it’s true we’re facing difficulties after a big
loss, we’re not going to continue declining,” Panasonic Vice
Chairman Masayuki Matsushita said in a Nov. 26 interview.
“Joining us now can actually be an opportunity to succeed.”  Sharp, the Osaka-based company that posted a 376 billion-
yen loss last fiscal year and said Nov. 1 there was “material
doubt” about its ability to survive, plans to hire 130 workers,
compared with 240 last year, said  Miyuki Nakayama , a
spokeswoman. Sharp, which fell to 23rd from 16th in Mynavi’s
latest ranking, is also recruiting on campuses, Nakayama said.  Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of TVs and mobile
phones, doesn’t disclose its hiring practices.  Samsung Group ,
its parent company, plans to hire 9,000 university graduates
this year, according to a Feb. 29 statement.  Most students in Japan start job hunting Dec. 1, or about
16 months prior to graduation. Companies can start contacting
students that day under guidelines issued by the Keidanren,
Japan’s largest business lobby.  Starting Pay  Of university graduates who sought to start working in
April this year, about 94 percent found an employer, up from 91
percent a year earlier, Japan’s labor ministry  said  in a
statement May 15.  Japan’s  jobless  rate fell to 4.2 percent in October from
4.4 percent a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s lower than the 7.7 percent rate in the U.S.
and 6.9 percent in  Germany . Unemployment was 3 percent in  South
Korea , and the rate for  China  in September was 4.1 percent.  Sony paid a salary of 242,500 yen a month for new recruits
who obtained a master’s degree in 2012, and 210,000 yen for
those with a bachelor’s degree, according to the company’s
website. Panasonic and Sharp each paid 228,500 yen for new hires
who got a master’s degree that year, according to the companies.  Meiji’s pharmaceuticals unit paid 240,000 yen for recruits
with a master’s degree this year, while  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
Japan’s biggest carmaker, paid 225,000 yen, according to the
companies’ websites.  Yuki Okuyama, a 23-year-old physics student at the Tokyo
Institute of Technology, said he’s interested in working with
chipmaking equipment or infrastructure.  “I’ll probably check consumer electronics makers as well,
though they seem to be troubled,” he said. Sony, Panasonic and
Sharp “relied on a limited area of businesses and stumbled,”
he said. “It would have been better if they had diversified.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  