-- SouFun Tops Jump to 1-Month High on U.S.: China Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/soufun-tops-jump-to-1-month-high-on-u-s-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  rose last week in
New York, pushing the benchmark index to a one-month high, as
improving U.S. economic data bolsters the outlook for China’s
second-biggest export market.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 1.3 percent to 93.98, the
highest level since Nov. 6.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s
biggest real estate website owner, led weekly gains as new home
prices in the nation rose for a six month.  Huaneng Power
International Inc. (HNP)  soared to an almost five-year high as coal
prices fell.  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP) ’s weekly slump was the worst
on record after Apple Inc. declined.  Ten-day volatility  on the China-US gauge sank to the lowest
in a month Dec. 7, as the U.S. Labor Department said payrolls
rose more than economists expected in November and the jobless
rate in the world’s largest economy sank to the lowest in almost
four years. The U.S. is the second-biggest consumer of Chinese
exports after  Europe , accounting for 17 percent of the nation’s
overseas shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  “It’s a sudden renewed bet on a pickup on exports,”
Michael Gayed, a manager of the ATAC Inflation Rotation Fund,
said by phone in New York on Dec. 7. “Any kind of recovery in
Europe or the U.S. benefits  China . Now there’s some comfort with
taking more risk in those areas that would benefit in a period
of growth.”  ETF Jumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rallied 3.4 percent last week
to $38.41, the highest level in almost nine months. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.1 percent to 1,418.07.  “You have a global economy that, at least in the U.S., no
longer appears to be getting worse, and as a major export
destination for China that helps,” Jim Oberweis, who oversees
$700 million as president of Oberweis Asset Management Inc. in
Lisle,  Illinois , said by phone Dec. 7. “From a macro
standpoint, it appears that the worst is probably behind us.”  SouFun, climbed 8.5 percent to $23.39 in a third straight
week of gains. Chinese new home prices rose in November from
October, a sixth month of advances, Beijing-based SouFun said in
an e-mailed statement on Dec. 3, based on its survey of 100
cities.  Beijing-based electricity producer Huaneng Power jumped 8.2
percent to $36.89 in the week, the highest close since January
2008. China’s benchmark price for thermal coal fell for a second
week to the lowest level since the end of September as
inventories at the port of Qinhuangdao increased, industry data
released last week showed.  Following Apple  AutoNavi, a Chaoyang, China-based company that provides map
content to Apple, tumbled 19 percent to $9.87. Apple slumped 8.9
percent last week, the most since May 2010, after  China Mobile
Ltd. (CHL)  Chief Executive Officer Li Yue said he wouldn’t add the
iPhone to the world’s largest wireless network without a deal
that’s favorable for his company.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  rallied in New York on
Dec. 7 after solar manufacturer  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS)  said its
Swiss unit would get as much as $1 billion in Chinese state aid.
JinkoSolar’s agreement with China Development Bank Corp. is part
of the government’s effort to provide support for selected
manufacturers it thinks are most likely to survive, the
company’s Chairman Li Xiande said to reporters in Zug,
Switzerland last week.  Jiangxi, China-based JinkoSolar jumped 14 percent to $4.68
in New York, capping a 10 percent gain last week. Xinyu-based
LDK, the world’s second biggest maker of wafers for solar
panels, climbed 11 percent to $1, trimming a 15 percent weekly
decline, while Trina, China’s third-largest maker of solar
panels, based in Changzhou, added 10 percent to $3.10,
completing an 8 percent advance in the week.  Buyout Concerns  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , the advertising company subject
to a $3.5 billion buyout offer, sank 2.6 percent to $24.12 on
Dec. 7 after after Dow Jones Newswires reported CDH Investments
Fund Management Co. is withdrawing from the group bid to take
the company private.  CDH was to invest about $200 million in the buyout and
dropped out because it felt returns on the investment weren’t
sufficient, Dow Jones Newswires reported, citing a person it
didn’t identify with knowledge of the deal.  CDH and Jing Lu, responsible for Focus Media’s investor and
media relations, didn’t reply to e-mails sent after business
hours in Beijing on Dec. 7. The buyer consortium includes
Washington-based  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , whose spokesman Chris Ullman
declined to comment on the report.  ‘Scared Investors’  “The market was already kind-of skeptical on this take-
private” deal, Sachin Shah, a special-situations and merger-
arbitrage strategist at Tullet Prebon Plc, said by phone from
Jersey City, New Jersey on Dec. 7. “With that backdrop, you
basically have one of the investors saying, ‘we don’t think it
may be attractive.’ Not only has it scared investors, this is
what the shorts and skeptics are looking for.”  Shanghai-based Focus Media has been targeted by short
seller Muddy Waters LLC, which said last November that the
company exaggerated its advertising network. Focus said the
allegations lacked merit.  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , China’s biggest online video company,
plunged 7 percent to a record-low $13.94 on Dec. 7. The shares
sank 18 percent last week.  Youku Tudou’s mobile application was dropped from the Apple
Inc. app Store, according to a Dec. 5  report  on TechWeb.com, and
the company may not realize the gains in market share that it
anticipated when Youku and Tudou Holdings Ltd. merged in March,
Echo He, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC who rates the stock hold,
said by phone in New York.  Auditor Probe  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) , a Beijing-
based education services provider, fell 13 percent to $17.56
last week, the biggest slump since July.  The Securities and Exchange Commission accused the Chinese
units of the Big Four accounting firms last week of blocking
fraud investigations into nine China-based companies by
withholding documents.  New Oriental tumbled 11 percent on Dec. 4 as Wells Fargo &
Co. said in a note that concern that the disagreement between
the U.S. and China over auditor oversight will spur delistings
may weigh on the company’s valuation. The bank later clarified
the note to state they weren’t implying New Oriental was under
investigation by the U.S. regulator.  The company isn’t one of the nine being probed by the SEC,
New Oriental’s President Louis Hsieh said in a Dec. 5 interview.
SEC spokesman John Nestor declined to state which companies are
being investigated when contacted by phone on Dec. 6.  Melco Purchase  The Wells Fargo note, by analyst Trace Urdan, also referred
to  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) , which slipped 1.8 percent last
week to $2.80.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  climbed 2.2 percent to
$15.12 on Dec. 7 after the Macau casino operator announced it
was buying a 93.1 percent stake in Laguna, Philippines-based
 Manchester International Holdings Unlimited Corp. (MIH)  The stock was
down 0.9 percent last week and traded at a 2.2 percent  premium 
to its Hong Kong shares.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  added 0.5 percent to
10,919.24 on Dec. 7, capping a 2.8 percent advance in the week,
while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares gained 1.6
percent to 2,061.79, the highest level since Nov. 12. The
measure rose 4.1 percent last week, the most since October 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  