-- Speculators Cut Bullish Bets on Fiscal Cliff Talks: Commodities
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-12-10T22:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/speculators-cut-bullish-bets-as-u-s-talks-stall-commodities.html
Investors cut bullish commodity bets
for the first time in three weeks as U.S. lawmakers appeared no
closer to an agreement to avert more than $600 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts and  Europe  cut its
growth outlook.  Speculators and money managers decreased net-long positions
across 18 U.S. futures and options by 3.4 percent to 898,380
 contracts  in the week ended Dec. 4, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. Gold holdings fell 25 percent, the
biggest drop since March, as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the
longest winning streak in at least nine decades will peak next
year. Wheat bets fell for the second time in three weeks.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
tumbled 2.6 percent last week, the most since September. U.S.
House Speaker  John Boehner  said Dec. 7 that it had been a
“wasted week” in talks with President  Barack Obama  to avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff. The  European Central Bank  said a day
earlier that it’s now expecting a contraction instead of growth
next year, and President  Mario Draghi  said the region won’t
start to emerge from the slump until the second half of 2013.  “There’s an overriding fear of the fiscal cliff,” said
Jeffrey Sica, who helps oversee more than $1 billion of assets
as the president and chief investment officer at Sica Wealth
Management LLC in Morristown,  New Jersey . “One of the main
causes for the sell-off is we have this incredible discrepancy
regarding growth in general. Not only growth in the U.S., but
also growth in Europe and  Asia .”  2012 Loss  The S&P GSCI fell 2.1 percent this year, heading for the
first annual loss since 2008. The MSCI All-Country World Index
of  equities  jumped 12 percent, and the dollar gained 0.2 percent
against a basket of six major trading partners. As of Dec. 7,
Treasuries returned 2.6 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  Confidence among U.S. consumers fell more than forecast in
December to a four-month low as the looming fiscal cliff damped
optimism and Americans grew concerned that taxes will increase
next year, a Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index showed
Dec. 7. The  Congressional Budget Office  says the U.S. will
probably tumble back into a recession should lawmakers fail to
resolve their standoff.  The ECB said Dec. 6 the 17-nation euro area’s economy will
shrink 0.5 percent this year, more than the 0.4 percent
contraction it predicted in September. The bank cut its 2013
forecast to a contraction of 0.3 percent from 0.5 percent
growth. German industrial production unexpectedly dropped in
October, the  Economy Ministry  said Dec. 7.  Stimulus Efforts  Central bank stimulus will help revive growth and demand
for raw materials, said Dan Denbow, a  fund manager  at the $2.1
billion USAA Precious Metals & Minerals Fund in  San Antonio .  Federal Reserve policy makers may consider additional
stimulus measures when they meet Dec. 11-12. In September, the
bank pledged to buy $40 billion in monthly mortgage debt in a
third round of bond purchases aimed at reducing unemployment and
stimulating growth. U.S. payrolls rose more than anticipated in
November, and the jobless rate fell to an almost four-year low,
the Labor Department said Dec. 7.  Progress may be made on averting the fiscal cliff. Obama
and Boehner met yesterday at the White House to discuss the
dispute, representatives of both said. No details of the
conversation would be provided “but the lines of communication
remain open,” they said.  Goldman Sachs said investors should be “overweight” in
commodities because prices will gain 7 percent in 12 months on
improving global economic growth. Rising consumption may limit
immediate supplies and raise near-term prices above longer-dated
contracts, New York-based  Jeffrey Currie , the bank’s head of
commodity research, said in a report Dec. 5.  ‘Printing Presses’  “Globally, we’re going to have to keep the printing
presses running, and that’s going to lead to the devaluation of
global currencies,” Denbow said. “That’s going to be
supportive of  gold prices ” and commodities in general, he said.  Money managers added a net $388.14 million to commodity
funds in the week ended Dec. 5, according to  Brad Durham , a
managing director for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks money flows. Gold and precious-metal funds
inflows totaled $542.8 million.  Heating Oil  Wagers on a heating-oil rally fell 7.8 percent to 21,435
contracts, the CFTC data show. That’s the seventh straight week
of declines, the longest streak since June. This year will
probably overtake 1998 to become the warmest year on record in
the U.S., the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
said in its monthly climate report Dec. 6.  Bets on higher crude-oil prices surged 12 percent to the
highest since October. Prices fell 3.4 percent last week in  New
York  trading. The funds switched to betting on a decline in
natural gas prices for the first time in three weeks.  Bullish  gold  holdings dropped to 126,073 contracts, the
lowest since Aug. 21. Goldman lowered its 12-month estimate by
7.2 percent to $1,800 an ounce on Dec. 5 and said the metal
would average $1,750 in 2014. Gold for immediate delivery closed
at $1,704.05 on Dec. 7, and rose 0.5 percent to $1,712.95 today.
Fourteen of 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
rise this week, 10 were bearish and seven were neutral, making
the proportion of bulls the lowest since Oct. 19.  A  measure  of net-longs for 11 U.S. farm goods rose 10
percent to 535,463 contracts, the CFTC data show. Investors
became bullish on cotton for the first time in five weeks,
holding 650 net-long bets compared with a net-short wager of
9,862 contracts a week earlier.  Wheat Holdings  Wheat holdings dropped 20 percent to 34,429 contracts and
are down 57 percent from this year’s peak in August. From June 1
to Nov. 29, U.S. exporters shipped 12.1 million metric tons, 12
percent less than a year earlier, government data show.  “Aggregate demand for raw materials is bad, and that’s why
we’re seeing a backwash” in prices, said  Stanley Crouch , who
helps oversee $2 billion as chief investment officer at New
York-based Aegis Capital Corp. “The whole world is based on
consumption, and now consumption has been artificially
enhanced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  