-- Syrian Rebel Fighting Closes Damascus-Jordan Highway
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-12-09T23:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/syrian-rebels-seize-base-as-fighting-closes-damascus-jordan-road.html
Syrian rebels seized a military base
in the north of the country while heavy fighting with government
forces closed a highway connecting Damascus with  Jordan .  Rebels and Arab fighters from Jabhat al-Nusra, designated a
terrorist group by the U.S., overcame three brigades and a
command center of the 111th regiment west of Aleppo yesterday,
the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said on its
Facebook page.  President Bashar al-Assad’s military has failed to prevent
rebels from overrunning army bases, taking heavy weapons and
seizing oilfields across the country. Fighters struggling to
topple the government in Damascus have control of mainly Sunni
Muslim towns and suburbs stretching from the northeastern
outskirts of the capital to the southwest of the city.  The 20-month conflict, sparked by protests across the Arab
world that led to the fall of leaders in Tunisia,  Egypt  and
 Libya , has claimed at least 40,000 deaths, according to the
Observatory. More than 30 people died in  Syria  yesterday.  The situation “is bad and getting worse,” United Nations
Special Envoy on Syria Lakhdar Brahimi said yesterday in Geneva,
where he held talks with U.S. Undersecretary of State  William Burns  and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov.  New Command  The rebels’ Free Syrian Army elected a new military command
yesterday, replacing Colonel Riad al-Asaad with Brigadier
General Salim Idris, al-Arabiya television reported.  Idris told al-Arabiya in a telephone interview that the new
command was elected by hundreds of rebels because “we are the
real fighters on the ground, they decided to choose who leads
them in the battle against Bashar al-Assad.”  Throughout the country, 95 people were killed yesterday,
including 30 in or around Damascus, the opposition Local
Coordination Committees said in an e-mailed statement.  In Syria-related violence, fighting between Lebanese Sunnis
supporting the revolution and Shiites who back Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad escalated yesterday in Tripoli where both sides
began using rockets to target each other, al-Jazeera television
reported.  While the U.S.’s call for a change of leadership in
Damascus has long been at odds with  Russia ’s support of Assad’s
regime, their positions are now more aligned, Qatar’s Prime
Minister Hamad Bin Jassim Bin Jabr Al Thani told reporters
yesterday in Doha. The fall of the regime is “imminent” and
the Syrian people will only accept a change of government, he
said.  Political Asylum  Numair Ghanem, the Syrian ambassador to  Algeria , is seeking
political asylum in  France ,  Al-Arabiya  television reported,
citing activists. An unidentified Syrian government official
denied the defection.  Ghanem would be one of the most senior officials to defect
since August, when Prime Minister Riad Hijab fled to Jordan and
denounced Assad’s regime as the “enemy of God.” Assad has
struggled to maintain the cohesion of the government as the
violent conflict drags on, destabilizing the economy.  Fighters ousted government forces from the command center
at Sheikh Sleiman yesterday after clashes overnight, the Syrian
Observatory said. Two rebels and one soldier died, while 140
government soldiers fled to another base in the area, the group
said. Fighting stopped traffic on the road running from the
Jordanian border to Damascus, Al Arabiya said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  