-- U.S. Equity Futures, Oil Gain as China’s Factory Output Climbs
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2012-12-09T23:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/u-s-equity-futures-oil-gain-as-china-s-factory-output-climbs.html
U.S. equity futures and oil rose
after  China ’s factory output and retail sales topped forecasts,
a sign that the economic recovery is accelerating.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures climbed 0.1 percent to
1,417.60 as of 8:09 a.m. in Tokyo. Oil increased 0.2 percent to
$86.47 a barrel in New York. The euro weakened for a fourth day,
slipping 0.2 percent to $1.2904.  China’s industrial production climbed 10.1 percent in
November from a year earlier and retail sales growth accelerated
to 14.9 percent, while inflation was 2 percent, the statistics
bureau said yesterday. Greece is near to reaching its
target in a buyback of sovereign debt that will unlock aid from
the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union,
according to a Greek government official.  The amount offered in the buyback of Greece’s bonds is
close to 30 billion euros, the official at the  Finance Ministry 
said on condition of anonymity, referring to the face value of
the securities. The transaction went “very well,” Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras told reporters in Munich late yesterday
after meeting leaders of the German state of Bavaria.  China’s economic revival and inflation running at half the
pace of this year’s target may help the Communist Party’s new
leadership maintain public support after a once-a-decade power
transition. Challenges for the nation’s next president,  Xi Jinping , include a wealth gap that the same household survey
indicates is 50 percent higher than the level that risks
triggering social unrest.  Economic reports later this week may show sales at U.S.
retailers rose in November as the  holiday shopping season  got
under way and demand for U.S. automobiles rebounded after
superstorm Sandy.  U.S. stocks advanced last week, giving the  S&P 500  its
longest winning streak since August, as employment growth topped
forecasts and investors weighed prospects for a budget agreement
in Washington. The S&P 500 increased 0.1 percent to 1,418.07 for
the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  