-- Mursi Edict Decision Fails to Halt Egypt Opposition Plans
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-12-10T00:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/mursi-reversal-of-powers-fails-to-halt-egypt-opposition-rallies.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi’s
decision to withdraw a decree broadening his powers failed to
appease opponents who vowed to keep up protests against a draft
constitution.  Hundreds of Egyptians marched to the presidential palace
after dark last night to protest the charter, which is due to go
to a referendum on Dec. 15. Opponents say the document, written
by an Islamist-dominated panel, infringes on freedoms and fails
to protect the rights of women and minorities. The Muslim
Brotherhood also held counter-rallies yesterday outside the
group’s headquarters to support Mursi.  The decision to revoke the president’s Nov. 22 decree
“offered nothing new and is an attempt to dodge” opposition
demands, Heba Yaseen, a spokeswoman for the Popular Current
opposition movement, said by phone yesterday. The decisions of
the president “don’t come close to meeting our demands or
goals.”  The now-abandoned edict and a decision to refer the charter
to a referendum prompted thousands of people to protest in the
most serious challenge to Mursi’s rule since he took office in
June. Weeks of demonstrations and deadly clashes between Mursi’s
supporters and opponents have threatened to derail Egypt’s
efforts to establish a democracy after last year’s uprising
against  Hosni Mubarak . The economy has foundered as the upheaval
keeps investors and tourists away.  Market Reaction  The benchmark EGX 30 Index gained 4.4 percent at the 2:30
p.m. close in Cairo.  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil called for an end to all sit-
ins and urged Egyptians to head to the polls on Dec. 15 to
express their views through the ballot box, MENA reported.  “The new constitutional decree has sided with the will of
the people,” presidential spokesman Yasser Ali wrote on
Twitter. “I hope, as we move toward the referendum, that
everyone submits to the will of the people, whatever their
choice may be.”  The reversal of the November decree, which had exempted
Mursi’s decisions from judicial review, was announced in a
statement read on state television early Dec. 8.  The referendum won’t be postponed, according to the
statement. If the document is rejected, a new committee will be
asked to draft a new constitution. Opposition groups have said
that they want the referendum shelved and a new constitution-
writing panel formed that has wider representation.  The head of  Egypt ’s lawyers’ association, Sameh Ashour,
speaking on behalf of the National Salvation Front during a
televised news conference yesterday, called for protests against
the constitution on Dec. 11  ‘Real Revolution’  “We are now in a real revolution to topple the rule of
Muslim Brotherhood,” he said.  The Egyptian Islamists Coalition called on its supporters
to also rally on Dec. 11 to support Mursi’s new decree and the
referendum on the constitution, Al-Jazeera television reported.  Near the presidential palace after dark, a group of
protesters banged on drums, singing “leave” as members of the
Republican Guard, some perched on tanks, looked on. The nearby
compound walls were covered in anti-Mursi graffiti.  “Power will not protect you from accountability in the
afterlife,” read one message. A banner strung between power
poles called on Mursi to “hold back your thugs.” In one
corner, two strangers debated whether to boycott the referendum
or vote no. A low turnout could divide an opposition that put
aside its differences to unite against Mursi.  ‘This Game’  “Now that blood has been shed, we cannot take part in this
game,” said Nancy Attia, 27, who is arguing for a boycott. “I
no longer recognize this president, how can I vote on a
constitution he put to a vote?”  Ahmed Safwat, 45, who is calling for others to vote against
the charter, said, “We must go to the polls and organize
ourselves just like they do,” referring to the Brotherhood.  “If we boycott, the constitution will pass and will gain
legitimacy,” he said.  Vice President Mahmoud Mekki said the army has been
mobilized to maintain security, in a statement televised by Al
Arabiya television. Egypt’s Cabinet approved a measure allowing
the army to use the force “necessary to perform their duty” to
maintain security and protect vital state institutions, Cairo-
based Al Ahram newspaper said yesterday. Police in anti-riot
gear stood behind barbed wire on one of the roads leading to the
palace yesterday.  The government delayed yesterday’s scheduled start of
voting in the referendum by expatriate Egyptians to Dec. 12,
according to Ahram Online.  Mohammed Badie, the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood’s leader,
called yesterday for voters to decide on the referendum.  “Why not use the ballot as the referee?” he said at a
press conference
in Cairo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at   mfam@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  