-- Vietnam Detains Protestors Opposing China Islands Claim
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-09T07:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-09/vietnam-detains-protestors-opposing-china-islands-claim.html
Vietnam  detained about 20 protesters
who marched through downtown  Hanoi  to oppose  China ’s claims to
disputed territories in the South China Sea.  About 100 demonstrators gathered outside Hanoi’s Opera
House today, where they were watched over by dozens of uniformed
and plainclothes police. Police shoved protestors who were
holding banners and leading chants into a city-operated bus
after they refused to obey orders to disperse.  Le Dung, who was among those detained, said demonstrators
were being taken to Loc Ha detention center outside of Hanoi.
Nguyen Duc Chung, director of Hanoi police, said he wasn’t able
to comment when contacted on his mobile phone.  The protest comes after China said last week that the
actions of its fishing boats in a disputed part of the  South
China Sea  were “completely justified,” following a diplomatic
complaint from Vietnam that Chinese fishing vessels had
intentionally blocked one of its seismic survey ships.  Demonstrators unfurled home-made signs and banners that
proclaimed Vietnam’s sovereignty over the Spratly and Paracel
islands and chanted “Oppose China!”  “Vietnam needs to take a stronger stance against China to
protect our borders and sea,” said Le Thien Nhan, one of the
protestors. “We want to show the Vietnamese people that we are
not afraid to speak out to protect the country and they
shouldn’t be afraid either.”  Vietnam lodged a protest with China last week after it said
two Chinese fishing boats obstructed a seismic survey ship, the
Binh Minh 2, in waters within Vietnam’s exclusive economic zone
on Nov. 30. China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, said
Dec. 6 that the actions of the Chinese ships were “completely
justified” and that they were carrying out fishing activities.  A meeting of foreign vice-ministers from Vietnam,
 Philippines ,  Malaysia  and Brunei to discuss South China Sea
disputes won’t take place as planned on Dec. 12, Philippine
Foreign Affairs spokesman Raul Hernandez said Dec. 7.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at +84-4-3938-8940 or
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  