-- Abu Dhabi Fund Buys 31 Accor-Branded Hotels in Australian Cities
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-09-11T02:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/abu-dhabi-fund-buys-31-accor-branded-hotels-in-australian-cities.html
Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, one
of the world’s biggest sovereign wealth funds, bought
 Australia ’s largest owner of hotels,  Tourism Asset Holdings
Ltd. , gaining ownership of 31 properties in major cities.  A subsidiary of the Abu Dhabi fund has signed a conditional
contract to buy the closely held hotel owner, the Sydney-based
company said in an e-mailed statement without disclosing a
value. The hotels will continue to be operated by Paris-based
 Accor SA (AC) , Tourism Asset Holdings said.  Foreign investors seeking higher yields than in other
markets are attracted to Australian hotel income returns, which
beat the average for Australian commercial properties.  South
Korea ’s Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. in August agreed to
buy Sydney’s Four Seasons Hotel for A$340 million ($316
million).  “The mood particularly from offshore purchasers is strong
for hotel assets,” said Rob Cross, regional director for hotels
at CBRE Group Inc. “They are seeing Australia as a very
transparent and secure property market. The operational side of
hotels in Australia’s corporate market is very strong.”  A unit of Abu Dhabi Investment authority is part of a
consortium that in April agreed to pay A$5.07 billion to lease
two Australian ports. The fund has about $627 billion of assets,
according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.  “We chose to run a discrete, targeted sale process and we
were very pleased with the response we received,” Tourism Asset
Holdings Chief Executive Office Matthew Eady said in the
statement. The company started in 1993, listed on the Australian
Stock Exchange in 1996 and was taken private in 2002.  Hotel Sales  The transaction was valued at about A$800 million, the
Australian newspaper and the Australian Financial Review
newspapers reported today, without saying where they got the
information.  Hotel sales in Australia are expected to reach about A$2
billion in 2013, surpassing the previous record set in 2007, an
August report from Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.’s hotels unit said.
Asian groups will continue to invest while investors from the
 United Arab Emirates  will also become active, the broker
forecast then.  Australian hotels delivered an average income return of
more than 8 percent as of June 30, compared with about 7 percent
for retail and office properties, according to the  Property
Council/IPD Australia All Property Index .  Capital values of hotels in Australian city centers are
expected to rise 1.5 percent in the next 12 months and 2.7
percent over the next two years, a second-quarter survey of real
estate professionals by National Australia Bank Ltd. showed.
This will be the strongest performance of all commercial
property classes in the country, according to the survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  