-- Ackermann Resigns From Siemens, Denying Suicide Influence
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b ,   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-09-12T16:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/ackermann-said-to-plan-resignation-from-siemens-board.html
Josef Ackermann  will step down from
 Siemens AG (SIE) ’s supervisory board, two weeks after he resigned as
chairman of  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  following his naming in
the suicide note of finance chief Pierre Wauthier.  The decision of the former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer to quit as Siemens deputy chairman is not connected to
Zurich Insurance and was made “quite independently and for
completely different reasons,” Ackermann told reporters in
Berlin at the presention of his biography. The move was prompted
by disagreements over the ousting of former Siemens CEO  Peter Loescher , according to a person familiar with the situation.  Siemens, Europe’s largest engineering company, in July
ousted Loescher, following a fifth profit forecast cut in his
six years and replaced him with finance chief Joe Kaeser.
Ackermann opposed the move, which was driven by Chairman Gerhard Cromme, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  “As I’ve made clear, I react emotionally when principles of
fairness are violated,” Ackermann said today.  While other German industrial champions have prospered
during the European credit crisis thanks to their strength in
exports outside  Europe , Siemens has floundered.  Stock Underperformance  Since Loescher, who was recruited by Cromme, took over in
July 2007, the shares have declined 15 percent.  Germany ’s DAX
index gained 7 percent in that period. Today, the stock dropped
0.9 percent in Frankfurt trading, valuing Siemens at 77 billion
euros ($102 billion).  Ackermann also decided to step down after his own attempt
to become Siemens chairman and replace Cromme failed in July, 
according to two people familiar with the matter. The
executive also had lost the support of most Siemens supervisory 
board members following his power struggle with Cromme and as 
public pressure mounted amid questions about his role at Zurich
Insurance, according to one of the people. Ackermann denied that
he tried to replace Cromme. Siemens declined to comment.  Ackermann’s position at Siemens is a relic of the post-war
corporate landscape known as Germany Inc., where the interests
of lenders and major corporations were intertwined through
cross-holdings and companies resorted to banks for loans rather
than the stock market.  Former Siemens CEO and Chairman Heinrich von Pierer wrote
in his 2011 autobiography that it was an “old tradition” for
Siemens heads to sit on the Deutsche Bank supervisory board.
Loescher is still a member of the lender’s supervisory board.  ‘Internal Conflict’  As the former German government under  Gerhard Schroeder 
decided to exempt profits on sales of cross-holdings from taxes,
Deutsche Bank started to reduce its holdings and sold stakes in
companies such as carmaker Daimler, insurance company Allianz,
retailer Karstadt and tire maker Continental.  Deutsche Bank currently has a stake of about 1.1 percent in
Siemens, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, making it one
of the 10 biggest shareholders in the Munich-based company.  “Ackermann was a very competent member of the board and
from that perspective it’s a shame that he’s leaving,” said
Commerzbank AG analyst Ingo-Martin Schachel. “There have been
many reports about conflicts between him and other members of
Siemens’s supervisory board. Having a lower level of internal
conflict potential at Siemens would be a good thing.”  Ackermann didn’t inform Siemens’s board or senior
management before quitting his post at Zurich Insurance, a
person with knowledge of the matter said last month.  ‘No Link’  Wauthier, found dead on Aug. 26 at his home near Zug,
 Switzerland , mentioned Ackermann in a suicide note. The 65-year-old Swiss native quit as Zurich Insurance chairman three days
later and called the allegations “unfounded.”  The CFO’s suicide sparked fresh doubts about Zurich
Insurance’s financial health after it missed analysts’ profit
estimates in three of the past four quarters and announced a
surprise write-off in October. That prompted CEO Martin Senn to
tell analysts on a conference call on Aug. 30 that there’s no
link between Wauthier’s death and the company’s business.  Ackermann said today that while the need for action at
Zurich Insurance was “considerable,” his discussions with
Wauthier were marked by respect.  Zurich Insurance has said it’s looking into whether undue
pressure was placed on the CFO. The Swiss company yesterday
confirmed that Tom de Swaan, who had become chairman on an
interim basis after Ackermann’s departure, would assume the role
permanently.  Other Posts  While carrying out tasks at the Swiss insurer had become
impossible, Ackermann said today he will remain in other posts.
He is a board member of oil producer  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
 Investor AB (INVEB) , the publicly traded company of  Sweden ’s billionaire
Wallenberg family.  As CEO of Deutsche Bank, Ackermann helped transform a
German-focused institution into Europe’s largest investment
bank, steering the company through the global financial turmoil
of 2008 and ensuing euro-region fiscal crisis. In May 2012, he
ended his 10-year career at the helm of the Frankfurt-based
lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  