-- AGF CEO Goldring Sees Rebound on Institutional Flows
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-09-11T14:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/agf-ceo-goldring-sees-rebound-on-institutional-flows.html
AGF Management Ltd. (AGF/B)  Chief Executive
Officer Blake Goldring said  Canada ’s third-largest independent
investment manager by market value plans to reverse a 35 percent
plunge in assets by doubling business from institutional clients
and introducing new products.  “I see our company, five years out, being significantly
larger than it is today,” Goldring, 54, said in an interview
yesterday in Toronto where the company is based.  AGF climbed 30 percent this year through yesterday, the
fifth-best performance among 45 members of the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Financials Index, as the company won institutional
business and investors rotated into equities from bonds. That’s
a reversal from a 75 percent slump from May 2007 through the end
of 2012. The company’s assets under management slid to C$36.4
billion ($35.2 billion) as of Aug. 31 from a pre-recession high
of C$55.8 billion in May 2007.  AGF won mandates from Canadian and U.K. institutions that
will add C$636 million in assets in the third quarter, the
company  said  in its second-quarter report, declining to name the
investors. It managed C$17.5 billion in institutional, sub-advisory and high-net-worth assets, accounting for 48 percent of
its business as of Aug. 31.  Institutional business, including pension funds, sovereign
wealth funds, endowments and foundations “will continue to grow
internationally and of course here in Canada,” Goldring said.
“I could see it two to three times bigger in five years’
time.”  Equity Exposure  AGF shares rose 0.8 percent to C$13.01 at 10:09 a.m. in
Toronto today for a market value of C$1.14 billion. AGF has not
reported a year-over-year monthly increase in assets since
January 2012, according to data on the company’s website and was
the worst performing financial stock in Canada in 2012.  With about 85 percent of its holdings in domestic and
international equities, AGF is well-positioned to benefit from a
potential “Great Rotation” into stocks from fixed-income
products as bond yields rise amid a rallying  U.S. economy ,
Goldring said.  The U.S. economy is projected to grow 2.7 percent in 2014
and 3 percent in 2015, higher than the 1.6 percent forecast for
2013, according to the median estimates of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “With this rotation and innovative products for our
clients, we will do very well,” Goldring said. “We’re moving
into the sweet spot for our firm.”  Alternative Strategies  Kash Pashootan, a portfolio manager with First Avenue
Advisory of Raymond James Ltd. in Ottawa, holds shares of AGF as
an income investment. He manages about C$125 million.  “I like the fact they’re recognizing that the mutual fund
industry is changing and they are doing different things, being
proactive and not sitting back in the stale mutual fund
structure,” Pashootan said by phone Sept. 6.  AGF is considering an alternative strategies product, a
first for the company, which it may announce before the end of
2013, Goldring said, declining to give details.  The company on Aug. 19 also introduced the AGF U.S.
AlphaSector Class fund in partnership with Wellesley, Mass.-
based F-Squared Investments Inc. The product is an example of
AGF developing products to meet changing consumer demands,
Pashootan said.  The mutual fund invests in exchange-traded funds in the
U.S. and seeks to avoid market peaks and valleys, Howard Present, chief executive officer with F-Squared, said in the
interview.  One Buy  AGF struggled with poor fund performance and the departure
of high-profile portfolio managers in recent years, said  John Aiken , financial services analyst with Barclays Plc.  Patricia Perez-Coutts, an award-winning  fund manager  who
was responsible for AGF’s emerging market strategies for 11
years, left the company with two associates in 2012 to work for
Dallas-based  Westwood Holdings Group Inc. (WHG)   Aiken is the only  analyst  among 11 surveyed by Bloomberg
with the equivalent a buy rating on AGF. The firm has seven
holds and three sells. Aiken has a 12-month price target of
C$12, ahead of the consensus estimate of C$11.18 based on 10
forecasts.  “Their cash position is solid and their dividend is stable
and sustainable,” Aiken said in a phone interview in Toronto on
Sept. 5. “Even if AGF is able to improve its operations it will
likely trade at a premium yield for some time.”  Dividend Yield  AGF currently pays a quarterly dividend of 27 Canadian
cents for an annual  yield  of 8.4 percent, more than double the
3.8 percent yield of the S&P/TSX Financials Index. Aiken
estimates if AGF shares climb to about C$14, the yield would
fall to about 7.5 percent.  “We’re not making the argument it’s the best operator in
the group, we view it as a value play,” Aiken said. “There’s
lots of value in the dividend and it’s quite safe.”  AGF is comfortable with its dividend at current levels, and
has repurchased about 9 percent of its stock in the past four
quarters, Goldring said.  “We have C$360 million on the balance sheet, we have more
than enough money,” he said. “This business doesn’t cost a lot
to run. We want to return cash to shareholders. I’m the biggest
single non-voting shareholder. It’s important to reward
shareholders.”  Goldring Capital Corp., the family holding company,  owns  14
percent of AGF’s Class B stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sector Challenges  Andrew Pyle , a fund manager with ScotiaMcLeod Inc. in
Peterborough, Ontario who manages about C$210 million, sold his
position in AGF more than six months ago.  “Our view on that sector is it’s a place that will come
under pressure as more regulations come into the industry,”
Pyle said. “More transparency will be a negative. It’s still a
sector with some challenges.”  In December, the Canadian Securities Administrators
 proposed  new rules for Canadian mutual fund companies including
a cap on adviser commissions and adding a statutory duty that
advisers who sell financial products act in the best interest of
their clients. The regulations are similar to those introduced
in the U.K. and  Australia  in the past few years.  Goldring, who in February advocated a national mandatory
savings program as a way for Canadians to pull back from record
personal debt levels, said he supports more transparency for
clients.  Securities Regulation  “As long as there’s a close working relationship with
regulators, that nothing is imposed unilaterally, then it will
be better for the investing public,” Goldring said. “We
believe in making sure clients understand what they’re
investing.”  First Avenue’s Pashootan said the regulations, if
introduced, will affect all fund providers equally and therefore
will not have a “material” impact on the business.  “As long as they can generate the revenues they have been,
the dividend will be safe and for an income-seeking client this
fits their portfolio,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  