-- Taiwan’s Ruling Party Expels Legislative Speaker Over Ethics
-- B y   A r g i n   C h a n g   a n d   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-09-11T16:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/taiwan-legislative-speaker-faces-probe-over-alleged-interference.html
Taiwan’s governing Kuomintang Party
removed the speaker of parliament over influence-peddling
allegations, as President Ma Ying-jeou seeks to refocus
attention on his policy agenda after a series of scandals.  A disciplinary committee yesterday expelled Wang Jin-pyng,
72, saying he damaged the party’s reputation when he allegedly
told prosecutors not to appeal a not-guilty verdict in an
opposition lawmaker’s breach-of-trust case. Ma, who beat out
Wang for the party chairmanship in 2005, said the speaker was no
longer fit to lead.  Ma is seeking to push his agenda -- including lower trade
barriers with  China  and finishing a nuclear power plant --
through a parliament where Wang had acceded to opposition
efforts to slow the process. By removing Wang, a politician who
oversaw parliament for 14 years, Ma’s plan may have backfired,
according to Liao I-ming, a professor of government and law at
 National University  of Kaohsiung.  “‘Ma was trying to win the public over by showing
strength, integrity and wielding a large stick in his pledge to
reform,’’ Liao said. ‘‘The biggest victim in all of this is Ma
as a large swath of people including his enemies will strike
back.’’  Taiwan dollar forwards fell 0.5 percent, the most since
June 20. Ma is battling record low approval ratings of 13
percent and seeking to quicken growth in an economy that
expanded 1.32 percent in 2012, the slowest pace in three years.  Wang Apology  Wang apologized for ‘‘creating this situation’’ and urged
Kuomintang members to remain unified and carry on with the work
of the legislature, according to comments carried on television
network CtiTV. He denied the allegations against him, saying in
a statement to the party yesterday he made the phone calls to
remind justice officials not to abuse the appeals process.  It wasn’t immediately clear who will replace Wang.
Candidates for speaker need the support of one-third of
lawmakers to be nominated, and two-thirds of those present to be
elected. Vice Speaker Hung Hsiu-chu will be acting speaker,
according to parliamentary rules.  Wang was recorded on a tapped mobile phone line in June
telling opposition Democratic Progressive Party whip Ker Chien-ming that prosecutors wouldn’t appeal a not-guilty verdict on
him, according to a Supreme Prosecutors Office  statement  on
Sept. 6. Ker had been accused of breach of trust in a commercial
case.  Transcripts released by investigators showed Wang had told
Ker that the appeal was dropped after intervention from then
Justice Minister Tseng Yung-fu. Tseng resigned on Sept. 6
without admitting wrongdoing.  Take Stand  That was the latest in a series of resignations. Defense
Minister Kao Hua-chu stepped down last month following criticism
over the military’s handling of the death of an army conscript.
His successor, Andrew Yang, resigned just six days after taking
office amid allegations of plagiarism.  Premier Sean Chen resigned in January for family and health
reasons following opposition demands that he be held accountable
for the economy’s slow growth. Expansion lagged growth in the
 Philippines  and  Indonesia , both of which expanded by more than 6
percent last year.  ‘‘I have no choice but to take a stand,” Ma said of Wang’s
case at a conference broadcast live by Taiwan television
networks. He said Wang’s disregard for judicial independence is
unacceptable.  Trade Pact  Ma is seeking parliamentary approval for a trade pact with
China, which would allow companies to take controlling stakes in
joint ventures across the Taiwan strait, as well as ease
restrictions on Taiwanese businesses looking to set up in China.
In June, Wang agreed to opposition demands for a detailed review
of the pact.  Ma’s administration has sought a popular vote on the fate
of an almost-completed fourth nuclear power plant that has cost
$8.9 billion so far. Tens of thousands of people protested in
March against using nuclear power, which accounts for one-fifth
of the island’s energy supply.  “If the services trade pact is delayed in the following
session, it may have some impact on financials and non-tech
industries due to previous expectation,” said Chung Hsu, a
Credit Suisse Group analyst. “It adds uncertainties to the
stock market in the short term.”  According to an opinion poll conducted in April by cable
news network TVBS, Wang, who served as legislative speaker under
three presidents over 14 years, enjoyed a 45 percent approval
rating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Argin Chang in Taipei at 
 achang153@bloomberg.net ;
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  