-- Alcoa Says LME Proposed Warehouse Rules Will Damage Industry
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-09-11T18:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/alcoa-says-lme-proposed-warehouse-rules-will-damage-industry.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, said proposed changes in rules governing
warehouses will damage producers without helping consumers
complaining about difficulty obtaining metal.  The proposed changes “constitute a major market
intervention that will aggravate the lack of transparency,”
that has damaged producers and consumers, Alcoa said in a letter
to the exchange dated yesterday.  On July 1, the London Metal Exchange proposed a rule to
remedy warehouse withdrawal delays which beer makers have blamed
for $3 billion in added costs. The rule, which requires some
warehouses to deliver out more metal than they take in, will
take effect on April 1 if it is approved, the exchange said. A
public comment period ends Sept. 30.  Changes “will do nothing to help our customers manage
their exposure to aluminum pricing,” Alcoa Chief Executive
Officer Klaus Kleinfeld said in an e-mailed statement today.
Alcoa has asked that the LME adopt a system similar to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and create a contract to
hedge premiums.  Aluminum producers and consumers have both opposed the
rule, which would require warehouses to allow withdrawals from
stockpiles equal to deposits in warehouses where waiting times
exceed 100 days. United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum
producer, and  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) ,  Europe ’s third-largest producer,
have called for the LME to reveal more about who holds metal
contracts.  LME Warehouses  The LME has more than 700 warehouses worldwide, the
exchange’s website shows. Hong Kong Exchanges & clearing Ltd.
bought the LME for $2.2 billion last year.  Under the proposal, all metals loaded into warehouses would
be measured over three months. For waits of more than 100 days,
daily deliveries out of warehouses that are now mandated at
3,000 metric tons would have to exceed inbound shipments by at
least 1,500 tons. Sites with queues below 100 calendar days
would be unaffected, Matthew Chamberlain, the LME’s head of
strategy and implementation, said at a press conference in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  