-- Male Sex Drive Depends on Both Estrogen and Testosterone
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-09-12T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/male-sex-drive-depends-on-both-estrogen-and-testosterone.html
Estrogen, the main sex hormone in
women, plays a bigger role in male libido than previously
thought, according to research that may guide development of
sex-drive treatments.  The study found that reducing estrogen in men undergoing
treatment for low testosterone resulted in a drop in libido and
an increase in body fat, even as testosterone levels improved.
The research is published in the  New England Journal of
Medicine .  The finding surprised researchers, who have believed the
 testosterone  caused men to have stronger sex drives than women,
said Joel Finkelstein, a study author and endocrinologist at
 Massachusetts General Hospital . While it’s known that the body
converts some testosterone into estrogen and that the hormone
declines in men with low testosterone, researchers didn’t fully
understand estrogen’s role in male sexual desire.  “What will surprise many people is that loss of sexual
desire in men with low testosterone is due to lack of
estrogen,” Finkelstein said. “People think estrogen in men
makes them very effeminate; they think of it as a female
hormone, they think it is testosterone that gives men their
sexual desire.”  While there have been clues that estrogen as well as
testosterone influence male sex drive there have been few
definitive studies until now, Finkelstein said.  Previous Findings  Researchers have found a drop in libido in mice by cutting
their estrogen. There also have been anecdotal reports of men
undergoing sex changes who see an increase in libido when they
start estrogen therapy. In women, it may be the opposite, where
testosterone plays a bigger role than estrogen in their sex
drive.  “Both sexes require the opposite gender hormone to have
adequate libido,” he said.  In the study, researchers looked at more than 300 men ages
20 to 50 that were given treatments to suppress production of
all reproductive hormones. Half the men were then given a
testosterone-boosting gel or a placebo. The other half received
the testosterone gel along with a drug that lowered the
production of estrogen.  The researchers found that testosterone was the main
hormone involved in lean body mass and muscle strength. Estrogen
played a bigger role in fat accumulation. While low testosterone
did cause a decline in sexual desire, those getting the
estrogen-suppressing drug saw a greater drop-off.  Testosterone Treatments  The finding shouldn’t mean a change in treatment for men
with low testosterone. Since the body is able to convert most
commercially available testosterone replacement therapies to
estrogen, raising testosterone will in turn boost estrogen
levels as well. It should, however, discourage drugmakers from
trying to develop new forms of testosterone replacements that
aren’t able to be converted to estrogen, Finkelstein said.  The U.S. market for testosterone replacement therapies,
such as  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Axiron and  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) ’s Angrogel, is
almost $2 billion with as many as 13.8 million men older than 45
in the U.S. having low levels of testosterone, according to a
2006 study in the International Journal of Clinical Practice.
Lower-than-normal levels can lead to a loss of libido, a
decrease in bone and muscle mass, and depression.  Despite, testosterone products being available for decades,
Finkelstein said more research is needed into the health
benefits and side effects of testosterone, especially in men
over 50.  “It is amazing what we don’t know,” said Finkelstein.
“Even the most basic things we don’t understand about this drug
that has been around for almost 80 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  