-- Ambac Falls 4.7% on Exposure to Puerto Rico Debt: New York Mover
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-09-11T19:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/ambac-falls-4-7-on-exposure-to-puerto-rico-debt-new-york-mover.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. (AMBC)  fell to
the lowest level since its stock began trading again in May as
investors try to estimate its vulnerability to  Puerto Rico ,
whose economy contracted 5 percent this year.  Ambac, the parent company of Ambac Assurance Corp. that
insures $170.3 million of Detroit’s unsecured debt,  declined  4.7
percent to $18.88 as of 3:24 p.m. in  New York .  Shares of the New York-based company have declined more
than 13 percent this week as investors wary of claims in Detroit
look for other municipalities that may struggle to pay their
bills. Ambac’s stock is at the lowest price since it re-listed
on the Nasdaq Composite Index in May after completing a
bankruptcy reorganization. The insurer filed for Chapter 11
protection in November 2010 to reschedule payments on more than
$1 billion of bonds and other claims.  The stock sell-off has been mainly driven by “overblown
concerns about the company’s exposure to Puerto Rico,”  Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York, wrote today in a
post on BTIG’s website. Ambac had total gross exposure of $2.58
billion to Puerto Rico as of March 31, according to BTIG.  Michael Fitzgerald , a spokesman for Ambac, didn’t
immediately return a telephone message and e-mail seeking
comment.  The Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico said
yesterday it expects to reduce its financing plans and meet with
investors. The economy of the commonwealth, which had about $70
billion of public-sector debt as of March 31, contracted 5
percent in the year through July, according to the GDB.  Detroit Bankruptcy  Puerto Rico general-obligation bonds maturing in July 2040
and rated one step above junk traded this week to yield 10.08
percent, the highest this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The average yield was almost five percentage points above
benchmark munis, twice the level on Aug. 6.  The commonwealth’s debt is suffering in part from higher
borrowing costs marketwide after  Detroit  filed a record
bankruptcy filing in July, according to the GDB, which handles
the island’s capital-market transactions. The statement comes
less than two weeks after the bank said it had closed two short-term loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  