-- Hammerson Targets Paris Mall as French Expansion Gains Pace
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-09-12T07:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/hammerson-targets-paris-mall-as-french-expansion-gathers-steam.html
Hammerson Plc (HMSO)  plans to add to its
retail assets in  France  and may buy a shopping center near the
Eiffel Tower as the company anticipates a pickup in  consumer
spending , Chief Executive Officer David Atkins said.  “It’s easy to be caught in the immediacy of recession: low
productivity, low growth,” Atkins said in a Sept. 6 interview
in Paris. “My job is to look further ahead.”  Hammerson, based in London, also plans to expand some of
the eight malls it already owns in France, the CEO said. The
company’s Italie 2 shopping center in Paris is due to open today
after a 30-million-euro ($40-million) refurbishment.  A recovery in spending, combined with rising exports,
helped the French economy to grow 0.5 percent in the second
quarter, the most since President  Francois Hollande  came to
power in May 2012, the national statistics office Insee said
Aug. 14. Rents for tenants in French malls are linked to retail
sales, construction costs and product prices, reducing the risk
to revenue for property owners.  Hammerson is considering a bid for a mall in downtown Paris
called Beaugrenelle that was built by  Gecina SA (GFC)  and its
partners. Gecina plans to sell the mall in the medium term,
Chief Executive Officer Philippe Depoux said in a July call with
analysts.  Rare Opportunity  “It comes down to price and our overall evaluation,”
Atkins said. “It’s a large new shopping center in central Paris
and these opportunities don’t come along too often.”  The real estate investment trust is also looking for sites
to develop malls in the country. The company will open a  465-million-euro shopping center  in Marseille next year that’s about
90 percent leased to retailers including Printemps in advance of
completion. Hammerson also plans to spend as much as 100 million
pounds ($158 million) expanding malls in the U.K. and France in
2014, Atkins said.  “From a personal indebtedness point of view, France
doesn’t have a problem. The French have never borrowed
personally, they’re a cautious lot,” Atkins said. Economic
recovery, when it comes, “could be very quick and could be
quite a bounceback.”  Croydon Project  In the U.K., Hammerson and Sydney-based  Westfield Group (WDC) 
have sought preliminary approval to develop about 1 billion
pounds of homes, shops and leisure facilities in the English
town of Croydon, ending a tussle over the development.  “The pragmatic and sensible business decision was to come
together,” Atkins said. Croydon borough council is due to
decide if the project will be approved later this year.  The developer will increase the amount of leisure space at
its malls to as much as 20 percent from 10 percent to 15
percent. That will include adding restaurants and cinemas in
France, Atkins said.  Hammerson plans to boost revenue by 25 percent within three
years and “that will flow through into a growing dividend,” he
said.  Mike Prew , a London-based analyst at Jefferies Group LLC,
is more skeptical. “The retail market, despite what Hammerson
and Intu say, has to be repriced by Amazon,” he said. “Many
shopping centers in this country are fundamentally too big. We
don’t know how much trade will be lost from the physical market
to the Internet.”  Atkins said Hammerson is considering investing in Value
Retail’s Chinese unit as the luxury outlet-mall operator expands
in the country through 2015.  “We will continue to evaluate whether we should actually
put our own capital into that opportunity,” he said. Value
Retail Chairman Scott Malkin “runs his business based on
relationships. If he’s looking for capital, the first thing he
does is approaches current investors so, whether you have formal
pre-emption or not, you’re offered the opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  