-- AMR, US Airways Defend Merger as Beneficial to Consumers
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-09-11T15:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/amr-us-airways-defend-merger-as-beneficial-to-consumers.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ)  and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  defended their proposed merger against a U.S.
antitrust lawsuit, saying the combination would generate more
than $500 million a year in benefits to consumers.  The combined airline will create an effective competitor to
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and United Continental Holdings Inc., the
airlines said in filings yesterday in federal court in
Washington arguing that the U.S. effort to stop the deal should
be denied.  “It is the complaint -- by interposing the heavy hand of
federal and state regulation -- which will lessen competition by
precluding the market from creating new and competitive flight
options for passengers,” Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways said.  The U.S. Justice Department, joined by seven states and the
 District of Columbia , are suing American parent AMR Corp. and  US
Airways  to block the merger, arguing the tie-up would reduce
competition and hurt consumers. U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly has scheduled the case to go to trial beginning
Nov. 25.  The U.S. and the  attorneys general  argue the proposed
merger, by reducing the number of legacy carriers from four to
three, would increase the likelihood of coordinated behavior
among the airlines, leading to higher fares and fees and
diminished service. American and US Airways can compete
effectively on their own, the government has said.  Service Cuts  The main issue in the case is whether the merger would lead
to cuts in service and increases in domestic fares, said Allen Grunes, a lawyer with GeyerGorey LLP in Washington who formerly
worked in the  Justice Department ’s antitrust division.  “The American and U.S. Airways answers paint a picture of
the merger as some kind of silver bullet that will miraculously
transform the two companies into the greatest thing since sliced
bread,” he said. “That’s more than a little optimistic, and
it’s going to be tough for them to prove it.”  The merger, which would create the world’s largest airline,
forms the basis for American’s plan to exit  bankruptcy
protection  and pay creditors. Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR filed
for bankruptcy in November 2011 and reached the merger agreement
with US Airways in February.  “We believe this merger would result in consumers paying
more for airfares and receiving less service,”  Gina Talamona , a
spokeswoman for the Justice Department’s antitrust division,
said in an e-mail. “The department’s lawsuit seeks to maintain
competition in the  airline industry .”  More Competition  American said in its court filing that the deal with US
Airways would create a more competitive airline industry that
would give passengers more choices.  The U.S. complaint “concocts an imaginary narrative where
airlines tacitly collude and where prices are higher than in the
past, but the real facts are just the opposite,” American said.  US Airways said the U.S. complaint improperly focuses on
maintaining the number of legacy carriers, “those airlines
that, prior to 1978, endured the well-documented failure of
federal regulation of routes and fares.” Those carriers are by
most relevant measures the least financially successful
companies in the industry, US Airways said.  Low-Cost Competition  The U.S. ignores the effect on the airline industry of low-cost carriers including  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and  JetBlue
Airways Corp. (JBLU) , according to the filing. The success of those
airlines is the “most meaningful competitive development” in
the industry since deregulation, US Airways said.  During the past 12 years, American lost $10.3 billion and
US Airways lost $3.4 billion, according to the filing by US
Airways. US Airways has been in bankruptcy twice in that period.  “Blocking the merger will not sharpen competition -- it
will prolong this cycle of crisis to the detriment of
passengers, the employees of American and US Airways, and the
communities the airlines serve,” US Airways said.  The case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in Washington at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  