-- Manuela Hoelterhoff: Putin’s Pals, Doomed Birds, Poe
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2013-09-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/manuela-hoelterhoff-putin-s-pals-doomed-birds-poe.html
Time to ponder the fall season I
realized as I fed apples to my pigs Hamlette, Venus and Mimi.  It doesn’t look like any of their namesakes are singing
locally this fall.  But here’s a list of operas, musicals, plays, exhibitions
and one recycling station that will see me in the next few
months.  September  “The Glass Menagerie” at the  Booth . The transcendent
Cherry Jones dons a dowdy lavender sweater as Amanda Wingfield
in Tennessee Williams’s first masterpiece. In previews.  “Big Fish” at the  Neil Simon . Who better to capture the
boundless world of the giant, witch and werewolf than director-choreographer Susan Stroman and composer-lyricist Andrew Lippa
(“The  Addams Family ”)? In previews.  “Chagall: Love, War and Exile” at the Jewish Museum. He
enchanted me as a kid with floating cows and soothed me many a
night at the Metropolitan Opera where those gigantic murals loom
over the bar and restaurant. Sept. 15.  “Eugene Onegin” at the  Met ropolitan Opera. Love the piece
and really love the timing! The new production features
conductor Valery Gergiev and diva  Anna Netrebko , close pals of
Putin whose thugs would cheerfully torment any modern day
Tchaikovsky. Opens the season on Sept. 23.  Cool Enigmas  “Balthus: Cats and Girls” at the  Metropolitan Museum .
Great combination by a painter who suspended both in a hypnotic
space inaccessible to puritans. Sept. 25.  “Magritte: The Mystery of the Ordinary, 1926-1938” at the
Museum of  Modern Art . All the knockoffs haven’t dimmed the
mysteries of his cool enigmas. Sept. 28.  Jeanine Tesori’s “Fun Home’’ at the  Public Theater . Having
just been charmed by a revival of “Violet,” I’ll be at the
world premiere of her new show based on the graphic novel by
Alison Bechdel. Sept. 30.  October  “Betrayal” at the  Barrymore  with  Daniel Craig  and  Rachel Weisz . Pinter’s story of deceit among friends hasn’t lost its
power. Expect lots of sitting on sofas staring into space in
total disbelief, just like in real life. Oct. 1 (Previews).  Claire Chase at The Kitchen. The elfin star flutist,
MacArthur fellow and leader of ICE, is celebrating the release
of her third solo album: “Density.” Oct. 3.  “Edgar Allan Poe: Terror of the Soul” at the Morgan
Library and Museum. Help me! Let me out! Time to reread “The
Cask of Amontillado,” in which the storyteller walls up a
friend who offended him and enjoys remembering his screams for
years on end. Oct. 4.  Mark Rylance  at the  Belasco . The brilliant actor alternates
as Shakespeare’s deliciously twisted monarch and dazedly love-struck Olivia in all-male productions of “Richard III” and
“Twelfth Night.” Oct. 15 (Previews).  Julie Taymor  at the  Theatre for a New Audience  (Polonsky
Shakespeare Center). Seven years haven’t dimmed the memory of
her glistening staging of “Grendel’’ by her partner Elliot Goldenthal. I can’t think of a better duo to take us into the
fairytale world of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.’’ The
show opens TFNA’s new theater in downtown Brooklyn. Oct 19
(Previews).  “Baden-Baden 1927” produced by  Gotham Chamber Opera  at
the Gerald Lynch Theater. It’s a surprising recreation of a
program that included  Kurt Weill ’s first version of
“Mahagonny” with a set by  Georg Baselitz . Oct 23.  Fancy Dump  “Snow Geese” at the  Samuel J. Friedman . Sharr White’s
Chekhovian hat tip about the matriarch (Mary-Louise Parker) of
an upstate  New York  family at the start of hunting season as WWI
engulfs Europe. Oct. 1 (Previews).  “The Seagull” at the  Culture Project . The original doomed
bird appears as Trudie Styler takes time off from organic
farming and Sting to play Arkadina in this resetting of
Chekhov’s sad comedy into Ireland. Oct. 3 (Previews).  “Vasily Kandinsky: From Blaue Reiter to the Bauhaus” at
the Neue Galerie. We look for any excuse to drop in at the cafe.
Oct. 3.  Nico Muhly ’s “Two Boys” at the Met. About Internet-obsessed misfits. Hopefully better than “Dark Sisters,” which
managed to make Mormons boring. Oct. 21.  “Vermeer, Rembrandt and Hals: Masterpieces from the
Mauritshuis” at the Frick Collection. I’m never again going to
get to this elegant 17th century mansion in The Hague. Still,
should paintings of such fragility really travel?
Oct. 22.  Scary Birds  “Sleeping Beauty” at City Center. Staged by Matthew Bourne
of the unforgettably strange “ Swan Lake ” with the scary black
birds. Oct. 23.  “White Light Festival” at  Lincoln Center . Jane Moss’s
programming is ceaselessly inventive, exotic and fascinating. I
await the chanting Manganiyars and the seductive-sounding “Era
la Notte” (It Was the Night) with the adventurous soprano Anna
Maria Antonacci. Oct 24.  The Sims Recycling Station at the South Brooklyn Marine
Terminal. Classy architect Annabelle Selldorf has taken time out
from serving the princes of art and commerce to do something
useful. October.  November  The Minnesota Orchestra visits  Carnegie Hall  (maybe) with
my favorite Sibelius symphonies and their music director Osmo
Vanska, who keeps threatening to quit as the year-long standoff
continues between the suicidal musicians and the obnoxiously
obdurate board. Nov. 2.  Roomful of Teeth at  Poisson Rouge . Engaging composer
Caroline Shaw presents her Pulitzer Prize-winning “Partita” in
a place we love for its eclectic programming and happy slogan:
Serving Art and Alcohol. Nov. 4.  “Rigoletto” at the Met. Last year’s hit production by
director  Michael Mayer  returns with a charismatic new conductor,
Pablo Heras-Casado, and Dmitri Hvorostovsky as the singing sad-sack. Nov. 11.  “The Power of Poison” at the  American Museum of Natural
History . Promises a venomous live yellow frog (who can resist?),
plus crime scene recreations and walk-through dioramas. Nov. 16.  December  “The Life and Death of  Marina Abramovic ” at the Park
Avenue Armory. She is so strangely compelling and enigmatic.
Dec. 12.  Wagner’s “Ring” cycle as staged by the Salzburg
Marionette Theater at the Metropolitan Museum. This two-hour
version cuts out all the boring parts. Thank Limor Tomer, the
director of the museum’s concerts and lectures series. Dec. 13.  “Die Fledermaus” at the  Metropolitan Opera . The
infinitely clever Jeremy Sams wrote the new text, which might
make me forget how much I dislike operettas, especially this one
with its stomach-turning Watch Duet. New Year’s Eve.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News .)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining  and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer of this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Billy at 
 dbilly@bloomberg.net . 