-- ARM Adds $1 Billion on Apple IPhone Royalty Boost: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-11T16:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/arm-holdings-gains-on-apple-iphone-royalty-boost-london-mover.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the chip designer
whose products power  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPhones, gained the most
in almost five months on predictions it will generate increased
royalties from the use of its latest technology.  The  shares  advanced 4.8 percent to 986.5 pence, the biggest
gain since April and the highest price since May 31. The stock
rose the most among companies in the  FTSE 100 Index (ASX) , adding
637 million pounds ($1 billion) to ARM’s market capitalization.  The iPhone 5S will use ARM’s latest 64-bit technology,
Apple said yesterday. The new processor carries a higher royalty
rate and a higher chip value than current 32-bit technology,
 Andrew Dunn , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in a note.  “The iPhone 5S will represent a greater royalty
opportunity for ARM,” Dunn said. “Should this mark the
beginning of 64-bit in smartphones, this should help underpin
ARM’s upward trajectory in overall royalty rate following a
decade of declines.”  The adoption of the new chip as well as ARM technology in
Apple’s new motion coprocessor chip will add as much as 10 U.S.
cents in royalties for each iPhone 5S compared with the iPhone
5, taking the total to 50 cents to 60 cents per device, UBS
analyst Gareth Jenkins said in a note today.  “We see Apple’s earlier-than-expected adoption as a strong
positive for the ARM investment case,” Deutsche Bank AG analyst
Johannes Schaller said in a note.  Imagination, Gemalto  Among other suppliers,  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG) 
rose 1.3 percent in London, while  Gemalto NV (GTO)  fell 6.4
percent in Amsterdam after analysts said Cupertino, California-based Apple hasn’t yet incorporated its NFC chip technology.  Apple unveiled two new models yesterday. The high-end
iPhone 5S with fingerprint-security features, a speedier
processor and better camera will cost $199 to $399 and be
available in three colors. The iPhone 5C will cost $99 to $199
with a wireless contract and comes in five different colors.  The 64-bit chip in the iPhone 5S will make the device work
twice as fast as the iPhone 5, according to Apple. The new
phones will be available in stores on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at  dlytle@bloomberg.net  