-- Mas Saying Catalonia Headed For Statehood Backs Off Independence
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-09-11T10:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/mas-saying-catalonia-headed-for-statehood-backs-off-independence.html
Catalan leader Artur Mas said he’ll
call a referendum on the future of Catalonia next year while
tempering his push for independence from  Spain .  Mas told reporters at a briefing in Barcelona today that
Spain’s biggest regional economy is “on track” to become a
“state” and he’ll set a date for the vote by the end of the
year. He hasn’t decided yet whether such a state should be
independent from Spain.  “I’m calling for Catalonia to have its own state, we will
see in due course whether that state will be independent or
not,” he said today.  The Catalan President, who made a push for independence the
focus of elections he called last year, is trying to dodge a
collision with Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  without losing the
support of separatists in his governing coalition. Should Rajoy
block an official referendum, Mas said he’ll make the next
regional election another vote on Catalonia’s status.  “The breakdown in relations with Spain has become so
serious that the only solution is a referendum,” Mas said at an
event to mark Catalan National Day, as people wearing Catalan
flags gathered in the rain outside the regional government
building ahead of a pro-independence demonstration planned for
later today.  Historic Complaint  The region’s leaders say that Spain has forced them to cut
more spending than other regions, adding to their historic
complaint that Catalans contribute more to the Spanish state
than they get back in public spending. Catalonia is one of nine
regions tapping the treasury’s bailout fund after being shut out
of financial markets.  Catalan Finance Minister Andreu Mas-Colell said today that
returning to bond markets is not a priority for the region and
he is “comfortable” financing the government through the
Spanish Treasury. The priority is to limit borrowing costs, he
added.  The prospect of independence for Catalonia, like  Scotland ,
which will hold a referendum in 2015, has spurred a debate on
the whether potential new nations would retain membership of the
European Union and its institutions such as the  European Central
Bank . While Mas and Scotland’s First Minister  Alex Salmond  say
they would remain part of the bloc, Rajoy last year said
Catalans risk being excluded.  Mas called early elections in the region last year to seek
democratic support for a referendum. Pro-independence parties
won 87 out of 135 seats in the regional assembly and the
 coalition agreement  Mas signed with the Catalan Republican Left
committed him to calling a vote on “the possibility that
Catalonia may become a state within the European framework.”  “In the  Europe  I believe in, there is no independence in
the classical sense,” he said today. “I would like to see
states have less power than they have now, because Europe itself
is stronger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Barcelona at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  