-- Maserati On Track to Hit Sales Target on Ghibli Demand
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-09-11T10:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/maserati-on-track-to-hit-sales-target-on-ghibli-demand.html
Maserati SpA is on schedule to
boost sales eightfold in three years on orders for the new
Ghibli sedan and plans to add its first sport-utility vehicle.  Maserati, which is owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , will start series
production of the Levante SUV by the second quarter of 2015 at
Fiat’s main Mirafiori plant in Turin,  Italy , Harald Wester, the
brand’s chief, told reporters today at the International Auto
Show in Frankfurt. Maserati will build as many as 25,000 of the
SUV a year.  “Our business plan for the SUV is conservative, with the
break-even level at lower volumes,” Wester said. Maserati may
have some positive surprises with the SUV, he said.  Fiat SpA is expanding  Maserati’s lineup with an SUV as
part of a strategy to add upscale models in Italy and end losses
in Europe. Maserati wants to boost deliveries to 50,000 in 2015
from about 6,200 last year. Sales will rise more than double
this year from 2012, according to a  slide presentation  posted
yesterday on Fiat’s website.  The Italian carmaker, which controls Chrysler Group LLC,
will extend layoffs for 5,300 workers to retool the Mirafiori
plant for the Levante SUV, unions said last week.  Bolstering Maserati’s global appeal is key to Fiat Chief
Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne’s effort to end losses in
Europe, which totaled more than 700 million euros ($929 million)
last year. Fiat is counting on overseas demand for higher-margin
luxury cars to keep workers at under-used Italian factories
busy. To back its expansion, the brand will invest 600 million
euros next year to develop new models.  Order Backlog  Maserati has more than 20,000 orders on its backlog at the
end of August, Wester said. The Grugliasco plant, where Maserati
builds its Ghibli and Quattroporte models, will deliver 3,000
cars a month starting in September, Wester said today.  While investing in upscale vehicles, Marchionne has scaled
back spending on mainstream models for Europe. Fiat narrowed its
first-half operating loss in the region by 48 percent to 185
million euros by cutting costs and reducing spending on
developing new cars.  Marchionne skipped the  Frankfurt  show because of
“unforeseen business commitments,” the automaker said. The CEO
didn’t attend the show to prepare for the listing of CNH
Industrial NV in New York, a person familiar with the plan said
this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  