-- Asian Stocks Advance as Obama Calls for Syria Pause
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-09-11T10:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/asian-stocks-advance-for-10th-day-as-syria-tensions-ease.html
Asian  stocks  gained, extending the
longest rally in the benchmark index this year, after President
 Barack Obama  pulled the U.S. from the brink of a military strike
against  Syria .  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, rose
1.2 percent in Sydney after metal futures climbed. Yangzijiang
Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. jumped 6.1 percent in  Singapore  after
Credit Suisse Group AG and DBS Group Holdings Ltd. raised their
ratings for the Chinese shipbuilder. Inpex Corp.,  Japan ’s
biggest energy explorer, sank 3.4 percent after crude oil fell.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.3 percent to 137.48 as
of 7:45 p.m. in  Tokyo , having swung between gains of as much as
0.4 percent and losses of 0.2 percent. About five shares rose
for every four that fell on the measure, which advanced 6.2
percent in the past nine days. The rally drove the gauge’s 14-day relative strength index, an indicator of trading momentum,
to 66 yesterday, near a threshold of 70 that signals to analyst
shares may have risen too far.  “Markets probably won’t shoot much higher unless we have
more positive catalysts,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , Tokyo-based
chief fund manager at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $6.5 billion. “Syria’s situation was much more
unclear last week and investors couldn’t take a position, but
now things have turned and they are willing to take more risks.
But uncertainties around Syria do remain.”  ‘Cautiously Optimistic’  Obama said in a live broadcast from  Washington  that he had
asked Congress to delay a vote authorizing the use of military
force while pursuing a diplomatic solution that would have Syria
surrender its chemical weapons.  “We’re still cautiously optimistic,”  Daphne Roth ,
Singapore-based head of Asian equity research at ABN Amro
Private Banking, which oversees about $207 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “Asia is very polarized and I prefer
countries that are running current account surpluses such as
 China . Liquidity will be withdrawn out of Asia as Fed tapering
materializes. That will have a big impact.”  The Federal Reserve has said any reduction in stimulus will
be tied to a sustained recovery in U.S. employment. The central
bank will decide to cut its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases this month, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 9-13. The Federal Open Market
Committee holds a two-day meeting on Sept. 17-18.  Regional Gauges  China’s Shanghai Composite Index added 0.2 percent to close
at its highest since June 6.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose
0.6 percent to the highest level in more than five years, as the
nation’s  consumer confidence  index climbed to the strongest
reading since December 2010. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index added
0.2 percent and South Korea’s Kospi index gained 0.5 percent.  Japan’s Topix index slipped 0.1 percent, erasing gains of
as much as 0.8 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex index was little changed
and Singapore’s Straits Times Index dropped 0.5 percent.  The Topix surged 38 percent this year, with Japanese
equities performing the best among developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg. Shares have jumped amid optimism Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe and the Bank of Japan can lead the country out of
deflation with stimulus and reforms.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong dropped 0.6 percent, erasing gains
of as much as 0.8 percent. The gauge yesterday climbed 21
percent from a June 25 low, entering what some investors
consider a bull market. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.2
percent.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell less than
0.1 percent today. The equity gauge advanced 0.7 percent in New
York yesterday, extending gains for a sixth day, as reports
showed China’s economy is improving and amid signs of easing
tensions over Syria.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 6 percent this year
through yesterday. Shares on the Asia-Pacific gauge traded at
13.4 times estimated earnings, compared with 15.2 times for the
S&P 500 Index and 14.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Miners advanced after copper, platinum and silver futures
increased. BHP Billiton rose 1.2 percent to A$36.33 in Sydney.
 Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-largest mining company,
climbed 2 percent to A$64.15. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s
biggest producer of the metal, added 1.1 percent to HK$16.50 in
Hong Kong.  Glencore Xstrata Plc, the global commodity trader and
metals producer run by billionaire Ivan Glasenberg, jumped 3.3
percent to HK$40.20 in Hong Kong. The company raised its
estimate of savings from the takeover of Xstrata Plc to at least
four times the initial forecast.  Yangzijiang, BYD  Yangzijiang Shipbuilding climbed 6.1 percent to S$1.04 in
Singapore, its biggest advance since October 2011. Credit Suisse
raised its rating to outperform from neutral, saying the company
will benefit from a recovery in shipbuilding orders because of
its low production cost. DBS raised its rating to buy from hold.  BYD Co. (1211) , the Chinese automaker that counts  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. as an investor, jumped 9.6 percent to
HK$34.35 in Hong Kong. BYD is developing a new electric vehicle
that can accelerate to about 62 miles per hour in 3.9 seconds,
challenging Tesla Motors Inc., Sina.com reported yesterday,
citing founder  Wang Chuanfu . Tesla’s Model S sedan can reach a
speed of 60 miles per hour in 5.4 seconds, according to the
company’s website.  Energy producers declined as crude oil futures headed for a
third day of decline. Inpex sank 3.4 percent to 451,500 yen in
Tokyo.  PetroChina Co. (857) , China’s biggest energy company, slipped
2.6 percent to HK$8.60 in Hong Kong.  Apple Inc. suppliers dropped after the world’s biggest
handset maker announced the introduction of a cheaper iPhone.
Largan Precision Co., which sells camera lenses to Apple, sank
6.4 percent to NT$945 in Taipei.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) ,
an assembler of iPhones and iPads, lost 1.3 percent to NT$76.
AAC Technologies Holdings Inc., a supplier of acoustic
components, slid 4.2 percent to HK$36.75 in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  