-- Aspen Expects Higher Earnings on Purchases From Glaxo, Merck
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-09-11T15:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/aspen-expects-higher-earnings-on-purchases-from-glaxo-merck-1-.html
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN) ,
Africa’s largest generic-drugs maker, said it expects the
purchase of manufacturing sites from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and
 Merck & Co. (MRK)  to boost earnings this year.  Growth will be “strongly supplemented by contributions to
the international and Asia-Pacific territories” from the
transactions, particularly in the second half of the current
fiscal year, which began in July, the Durban, South Africa-based
company said today in a statement.  Net income climbed 25 percent to 3.52 billion rand ($354
million) in the year through June as sales from international
businesses rose, Aspen said. Revenue increased 27 percent to
19.3 billion rand, beating the 19.2 billion-rand estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Aspen, which supplies medicines in more than 150 countries,
agreed to a $1 billion deal in June to buy pharmaceutical assets
from Merck. It has offered to buy heart medicines Arixtra and
Fraxiparine from Glaxo, as well as a related manufacturing site
in  France , for about 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion).  “We recognize that debt levels may breach Aspen’s self-imposed limits in the short-term, but as long as this is
followed by cash flow from these acquisitions quickly
thereafter, that’s fine,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Saad
said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg.  International Banks  Gearing, which increased to 33 percent at the end of the
year, from 29 percent a year earlier “is expected to reduce
quite rapidly through strong operational cash flows,” the
company said today.  Aspen has raised the bulk of the $3.4 billion debt needed
for acquisitions from banks with which it currently has
relationships, Saad said. The company is now in the second phase
of debt-raising with a wider group of international banks. These
lenders are due to submit their interests by the end of
September, he said.  “Our basket of debt is more heavily weighted to U.S.
dollar debt, which is the cheapest,” Saad said. “The cost of
debt is in the 4 percent to 5 percent range for the total basket
on a weighted basis.” The company is not actively searching for
further acquisitions, he said.  The Asia Pacific region took over from South  Africa  to
become Aspen’s largest contributor to sales in the fiscal year,
accounting for 37 percent of total revenue. The region will
remain Aspen’s largest business in the 2014 fiscal year, Saad
said. Aspen expects to be adding to its Japanese portfolio this
year, he said.  The  shares  rose for a fifth day, adding 4.3 percent to
254.42 rand by the close in Johannesburg, the highest price
since at least December 1990. The stock has gained 51 percent
this year.  Aspen maintained its  dividend  at 157 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  