-- S&P 500 Halts 7-Day Rally While Gold Drops, Oil Advances
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-09-12T20:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/australian-index-futures-rise-as-kiwi-gains-oil-rebounds.html
U.S. stocks fell, halting a seven-day rally in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, while gold slid
the most since July and Treasuries erased early gains as
investors weighed prospects for Federal Reserve stimulus. Oil
climbed ahead of U.S.-Russian talks on  Syria .  The  S&P 500  lost 0.3 percent to 1,683.42 at 4 p.m. in  New
York , retreating from the highest level in almost a month. Gold
for December delivery dropped 2.4 percent to $1,330.60 an ounce,
while oil rose 1 percent. Treasury 10-year note yields were
little changed at 2.91 percent, after dropping five basis points
earlier, and German bund rates slid five basis points to 2.00
percent.  Japan ’s currency climbed 0.4 percent to 99.45 per
dollar. The Australian dollar fell for the first time in a week
and the nation’s bonds rallied after unemployment rose.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  will press for a
timeline for Syria to surrender its chemical weapons, an
American official said, as  Russia ’s leader urged the U.S. to
steer clear of a Middle East military clash. The Federal Open 
Market Committee will probably taper its monthly bond buying 
by $10 billion at its Sept. 17-18 meeting to $75 billion, based 
on the median of 34 economists’ estimates collected by Bloomberg 
News.  “While the markets will continue to closely watch
developments regarding Syria unfold, it shouldn’t be too
surprising to see a modest pullback after the strong moves we’ve
seen so far this month,”  Ryan Larson , the Chicago-based head of
U.S. equity trading at RBC Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc.,
said in an interview. His firm oversees $290 billion. “With
data light over the next several sessions, potential headlines
regarding Syria and the much anticipated FOMC meeting next week
will garner much of the attention.”  Market Movers  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  retreated after a seven-day rally pushed the
index to a four-week high. The gauge is up 18 percent this year
and had rallied 3.1 percent so far this month.  Commodity, financial and industrial shares led declines
among the 10 main industry groups in the S&P 500 today, with
only telephone shares advancing.  Barrick Gold Corp. dropped 5.5 percent as the precious
metal slumped. Newmont Mining Corp., the largest U.S. gold
producer, lost 4.2 percent. Lululemon Athletica Inc. tumbled 5.4
percent after cutting its earnings forecast. Pandora Media Inc.
jumped 12 percent after naming digital-advertising veteran Brian
McAndrews as its new chief executive officer.  Walt Disney Co. jumped 2.4 percent for the biggest gain in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  on plans to buy back as much as
$8 billion in stock.  Economic Data  A report today showed U.S. jobless claims declined last
week to the lowest level since April 2006 as upgrades to
computer systems in two states caused those employment agencies
to report fewer applications. An agency spokesman said that the
upgrades played a major role in the drop in claims.  Labor Department data last week showed payrolls in the U.S.
climbed less than projected in August and gains for the prior
two months were revised down.  About three shares fell for every two that rose in the
Stoxx 600, with trading volume 6.4 percent greater than the 30-day average. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the world’s largest
jewelry maker, fell 2.3 percent in Zurich after sales growth
missed estimates.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  jumped 5.4 percent to a
two-year high as the U.K. retailer reported second-quarter sales
that exceeded projections. William Morrison Supermarkets Plc
rallied 1.8 percent after saying it plans to cut capital
expenditure.  Euro-area industrial output shrank more than economists
forecast in July as manufacturers struggled to shake off the
legacy of the region’s recession. Factory production fell 1.5
percent from June, the European Union’s statistics office said
today. That’s more than the 0.3 percent contraction forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Unemployment held at a record
12.1 percent in July.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped 0.2 percent after a
six-day rally. The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.6 percent
after Premier  Li Keqiang  said he would accelerate financial
reform.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex decreased 1.1 percent, falling
for the first time in six days, and Russia’s Micex Index slipped
0.3 percent.  The yen rose after Japan’s machinery orders stagnated in
July and amid concern a sales-tax increase will hamper growth,
boosting demand for the currency as a haven. The euro was down
0.1 percent at $1.3300 after earlier weakening as much as 0.4
percent.  Australia ’s dollar fell against 15 of its 16 major
counterparts after the statistics bureau said the number of
people employed in the country fell 10,800 last month, following
a decline of 11,400 in July. Economists predicted a 10,000
increase in August. Australia’s currency dropped 0.7 percent to
92.66 U.S. cents.  Kiwi, Commodities  New Zealand ’s dollar rose for a fifth day, appreciating 0.8
percent to 81.43 U.S. cents, after the  Reserve Bank  said
interest-rate increases “will likely be required next year” as
the economy strengthens and inflation picks up.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities increased 0.7 percent as
gains in energy overshadowed declines in metals. Silver dropped
4.4 percent, the most in nine weeks, and copper declined 1.4
percent to a five-week low of $3.21 a pound.  Corn futures tumbled 1.3 percent to $4.6625 a bushel and
wheat fell after the U.S. government said domestic and world
inventories will be bigger than forecast. Wheat also slid.  Corn Supplies  U.S. corn reserves on Aug. 31, 2014, will total 1.855
billion bushels, up from 1.837 billion forecast in August, after
farmers harvest a record crop this year, the Department of
Agriculture said. Global inventories will jump 24 percent to a
12-year high. World wheat production will gain 8.2 percent to a
record 708.9 million metric tons, boosting inventories 1.4
percent next year, the agency said.  West Texas Intermediate crude rose 1 percent to $108.60 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Demand for crude from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will be 29.2 million barrels a day or 1.3
million a day lower than the group’s current production levels,
the  International Energy Agency  said today in its monthly market
report.  Saudi Arabia ’s Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said the
kingdom will meet additional demand as geopolitical concerns
dominate the market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  