-- Avianca Weighs U.S. Sale as Efromovich Says Stock Too Cheap
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-09-11T15:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/avianca-may-seek-u-s-sale-as-efromovich-says-bogota-stock-cheap.html
Avianca Holdings SA is considering
selling shares in  New York  as the Colombian airline seeks a
higher price than in Bogota, where controller German Efromovich
says the stock trades at least 36 percent below its fair value.  “It’s at a totally unjust price, if you have a company
that meets all its goals, that distributes generous dividends,
in a complicated sector where it’s one of the few profitable
airlines in the world,” Efromovich, 63, said yesterday in an
interview in his office at the company’s Bogota headquarters.
The shares should fetch 6,000 pesos to 7,000 pesos, compared
with yesterday’s close of 3,870 pesos.  Avianca said yesterday it was studying filing a
registration form with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission as part of a possible offering of American depositary
receipts. Bolivian-born Efromovich, along with his brother Jose,
controls about 70 percent of Avianca’s voting shares through
their closely-held Synergy Aerospace Corp., according to a
 prospectus  for the company’s May bond sale.  “It’s part of the company dream but like any goal it has
to happen at the right moment, and that could be tomorrow or a
month from now or it could be a year from now,” Efromovich
said. “We need to decide to pull the trigger.”  The Wall Street Journal reported Sept. 9 that Avianca was
planning to announce a sale of shares in New York this week.
Efromovich declined to comment on the report.  The shares gained 0.3 percent to 3,880 pesos today at 10:06
a.m. in Bogota.  Shares Fell  Avianca  shares  have fallen 14 percent this year, leaving
the stock priced at 3.3 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the fourth-lowest of 15 airlines
based in the Americas with a market value of at least $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The initial
public offering price in 2011 was 5,000 pesos.  The company is  Colombia ’s biggest airline with 151 aircraft
at the end of June after taking delivery of two Airbus A320s in
the second quarter, according to a report on its website.  Chief Executive Officer Fabio Villegas said in May that
Avianca will spend at least $4 billion through 2019 as it buys
more than 100 planes to meet rising passenger traffic in  Latin
America . Avianca will expand available seat-kilometers -- a
measure of passenger capacity -- by about 8 percent to 9 percent
per year over the next five years, Villegas said. Capacity
growth was 10 percent last year.  Adjusted net income surged 14-fold in the second quarter to
$72.2 million as sales climbed 12 percent to $1.1 billion. The
company’s seat occupancy rate, or  load factor , fell to 78.2
percent from 80.8 percent in the first three months of the year.  TAP Bid  Efromovich, who’s based in  Brazil , obtained Polish
citizenship last year as he sought to acquire state-owned
Portuguese airline TAP SA, to meet a European Union rule that
limits outside ownership of the region’s airlines. Efromovich
said his parents were from the eastern European country and fled
to  Bolivia  after World War II.  Portugal  last year suspended the sale of TAP after
rejecting Synergy’s offer, and the company may have found more
attractive opportunities, Efromovich said. Portugal said in July
that it was seeking to restart the sale process this year.  “The window of interest from our company is possibly
closing, if it didn’t already close,” Efromovich said. “It may
not be our first choice for our expansion plans in  Europe .”  Avianca is considering adding Chilean domestic flights by
starting its own operations or through an acquisition,
Efromovich said. Targets may include Sky Airline SA, he said.  “Chile is an interesting market,” he said. “We’re
looking very seriously but there’s no serious conversation to
buy anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  