-- Bangladesh Factory-Victim Compensation Talks Start in Geneva
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-09-11T09:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/bangladesh-factory-victim-compensation-talks-start-in-geneva.html
A meeting of retailers, labor
unions and non-governmental organizations starts today in Geneva
to discuss compensation for those killed and injured in two
factory disasters in  Bangladesh .  Today’s talks are focused on the Tazreen factory blaze that
took place in November, said Jenny Holdcroft, policy director at
IndustriALL, a Geneva-based union federation representing
workers in 140 countries. The meeting tomorrow will focus on the
Rana Plaza factory collapse, the nation’s worst industrial
accident, which killed more than 1,000 people.  “This is a specific discussion of the actual money that
the companies will provide,” Holdcroft said. “We hope that the
outcome of the meetings will be specific commitments of dollar
amounts by the brands of what they will contribute to the
compensation.”  C&A Group and  Spain ’s El Corte Ingles SA are among five
retailers who have confirmed they’re attending the meeting
today, while the meeting tomorrow will be attended by at least
11 retailers, including  Inditex SA (ITX)  and Primark, according to
IndustriALL.  IndustriALL has previously estimated long-term compensation
for Rana Plaza will be more than $71 million while its estimate
for Tazreen was $5.7 million.  “Obviously there is a discussion about how much the brands
contribute vis-a-vis the factory owners, the government in
Bangladesh and the employers’ federation,” Holdcroft said.  The meetings, overseen by the International Labour
Organization, aren’t part of the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and
Building Safety, an agreement set up by retailers and labor
unions in July.  The talks were initially planned for Aug. 11 and 12 in
Dhaka and got postponed. Representatives of  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , Walt Disney Co. and  Carrefour SA (CA)  are among those who have
said they won’t attend, according to IndustriALL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  