-- Bank of Cyprus Investors Pick Russian Deputy Chairman for Board
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2013-09-11T14:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/bank-of-cyprus-investors-pick-russian-deputy-chairman-for-board.html
Shareholders in  Bank of Cyprus Pcl ,
the lender forced to seize deposits as part of the nation’s
financial rescue this year, elected a new board, giving sizable
representation to Russian investors.  Christis Hassapis, a professor of economics at the
University of Cyprus, was named chairman and Vladimir Strzhalkovsky, the former chief executive officer of MMC Norilsk
Nickel OJSC, was elected as deputy chairman, the Nicosia-based
bank said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday. The two were
chosen by a new 16-member board at the bank’s first shareholder
meeting since June 2012.  Six non-Cypriots were voted onto the board yesterday,
reflecting the losses foreign investors, primarily Russians,
took in the “bail-in” of savers with more than 100,000 euros
($133,000) at Bank of Cyprus and Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the
nation’s No. 2 bank. Popular was folded into Bank of Cyprus as
part of a 10 billion-euro deal with the euro area and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Cyprus’s government secured the funds in March in return
for measures including a tax on  bank deposits  demanded by
creditors in a bid to shrink the country’s banking industry. The
measures have led to the Mediterranean island needing to impose
 capital controls  as it wound down Cyprus Popular.  Bank of Cyprus  exited resolution after the central bank
approved a deposit levy of 47.5 percent on July 30. That is 10
percentage points more than what was originally taken from
uninsured deposits at Cyprus’s biggest lender in April as part
of the bailout. Depositors received bank shares in return.  Members of the new board include Igor Lojevsky, a Deutsche
Bank AG executive and former head of Deutsche’s Russian unit.  Euro-area finance ministers and the IMF are expected to
discuss Cyprus’s first review this month and approval would
allow the disbursement of 1.5 billion euros by the European
Stability Mechanism and about 86 million euros by the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  