-- Batali Raises Minimum Wages, Maximum Prices at Del Posto
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-09-11T20:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/batali-raises-minimum-wages-maximum-prices-at-del-posto.html
Del Posto, the priciest restaurant
in the  New York  branch of chef  Mario Batali ’s empire, is
boosting wages for some staff and prices on its high-end dinner
menus.  The Michelin-starred Italian spot in  Manhattan ’s West
Chelsea district will raise its minimum wage for non-tipped
employees to $10 an hour beginning in October, general manager
Jeff Katz said in a telephone interview.  Because of the higher labor costs, Katz said, as well as
rising food costs,  Del Posto  will raise the price of its five-course dinner menu to $126, up from $115, and its tasting menu
to $179, a $14 hike. Lunch will remain at $39.  “If you have a dishwasher who’s making eight bucks, that
guy’s going to see a $2 increase,” Katz said, adding that the
raise will be “sizable for a lot of the people it’s going to
affect.”  The new minimum will mainly benefit dishwashers, porters,
prep cooks, butchers and those who handle linens, Katz said.  “We hope it can help us reward some of the staff that had
been with us for a long time and just get closer to the living
wage.”  The new minimum does not apply to tipped workers at  Del
Posto , who already “do quite well,” according to Katz.  Pay Data  Individual restaurants don’t typically release pay data for
competitive reasons, but Katz’s remarks generally fall in line
with figures calculated by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau
of Labor statistics.  The bureau  estimates  that dishwashers in the New York
metropolitan area earn a mean hourly wage of $9.59 an hour, or
$19,950 per year. Barbacks, table setters and those who pour
water or replenish condiments are  estimated  to earn a mean
hourly wage of $10.14 an hour, or $21,080 yearly.  Del Posto’s move to publicly raise wages arrives at a time
of increased scrutiny of compensation for hospitality-industry
workers. Last September, Batali and his partners  agreed to
pay  $1.15 million to 31 workers at Del Posto to settle a 2010
labor dispute. The settlement resolved claims alleging racial
discrimination, misappropriation of tips and lost minimum wages
and overtime.  Obama Request  In his  State of the Union  address in January, President
 Barack Obama  asked Congress to raise the federal minimum wage to
$9 an hour. Some municipalities already have minimums exceeding
that. Workers in Washington state make at least $9.19 an hour,
while  San Francisco  has the country’s highest minimum wage at
$10.55. New York State sets its minimum at $7.25, the federal
minimum.  Sushi Yasuda and Per Se, two high-profile New York City
restaurants, have adopted European-style policies where prices
are reflective of service, which can reduce the wage disparity
between tipped employees like waiters, and non-tipped employees
like cooks, who typically are excluded from gratuity pools.  Katz, in an e-mail, wrote that Del Posto has “thought
about” service-included or service-added models, but that it’s
a “huge change from the staff’s perspective and the guest’s
perspective.”  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com.)  Muse highlights include  books  and  technology .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 