-- Billionaire Steinmetz’s Home Said to Be Raided by Police
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-09-12T15:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/billionaire-steinmetz-s-home-said-to-be-raided-by-swiss-police.html
The Geneva home of Beny Steinmetz,
the billionaire natural-resources investor who is  Israel ’s
richest person, was raided by Swiss police, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The raid was ordered by Geneva’s public prosecutor
following a request by the government of Guinea and occurred
within the last two weeks, said the person, who was briefed on
the matter and asked not to be identified as the investigation
is confidential. No documents were taken away, the person said.  Steinmetz, who has a net worth of $7.4 billion, according
to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, offered to collaborate with
Swiss Authorities and is co-operating fully, his lawyer Marc
Bonnant said in an e-mailed statement. Steinmetz is undeterred,
according to Bonnant, who described the actions of  Guinea  as a
“campaign of intimidation and malicious lies, which are an
attempt to damage his impeccable reputation.”  BSG Resources Ltd., Steinmetz’s mining company, owns a 49
percent stake in a venture that controls half of the giant
Simandou iron ore deposit in Guinea. The West African country is
reviewing mining licenses including Simandou’s, once described
as the largest untapped deposit of the steel-making raw material
in the world. In April, a U.S. grand jury investigation began
into claims that bribes were paid by BSG Resources for mining
rights in Guinea.  Henri Della Casa, a spokesman for the prosecutor’s office
in Geneva, declined to comment on the raid. No one answered the
phone at the public relations offices of the Geneva police.  Diamond Fortune  Geneva’s public prosecutor said last month it opened an
investigation into Onyx Financial Advisors U.K. at the request
of Guinea. Swiss police last month raided the Geneva offices of
Onyx, a London-based company whose chief executive officer, Dag Cramer, is a director of BSG Resources.  Onyx “provided the Swiss authorities with information
following a request to  Switzerland  by the Government of
Guinea,” it said in an Aug. 29 statement.  Guinea’s actions in requesting assistance from Swiss
authorities is part of ongoing attempts to “expropriate
illegally” mining rights over Simandou held by BSGR, the
company said today in an e-mailed statement that included
Bonnant’s comments.  BSGR said in March that Guinea was preparing to remove
mining rights from its joint venture with  Brazil ’s Vale SA,
which planned a $10 billion operation. Steinmetz’s company
gained control of half of the Simandou ground, split into four
blocks, after Rio Tinto Group was ordered by the government in
2008 to hand over the northern half to BSGR.  $2.5 Billion Sale  In April 2010, Vale agreed to pay BSGR as much as $2.5
billion for a 51 percent stake in deposits in the country
including Rio’s confiscated blocks. The Simandou blocks 1 and 2
were legally stripped from Rio because the company failed to
proceed with development, BSGR said last month.  Frederic Cilins, a French citizen who says he has worked
for BSGR in Guinea, was denied bail in July while awaiting trial
on charges he interfered with the U.S. grand jury probe. He’s
charged with witness tampering, obstructing a criminal
investigation and destruction of evidence in a federal
investigation. The witness-tampering and record-destruction
charges carry maximum prison terms of 20 years.  “BSGR is seemingly being punished for refusing to engage
in bribery or corruption and for focusing singularly on trying
to bring development to the country,” Bonnant, Steinmetz’s
lawyer, said today.  ‘Malicious Allegations’  Cilins said he was arrested after trying to stop an
extortion attempt by the government’s main witness. He has
pleaded not guilty. Guinea hasn’t provided any evidence to
support “false and malicious allegations” against both
Steinmetz and BSGR, Bonnant said.  Steinmetz amassed his fortune initially in the diamond
trade, according to his personal  website . Working from a base in
Antwerp,  Belgium , in the 1980s and 1990s, he joined forces with
his brother Daniel Steinmetz to conduct business deals in  South
Africa ,  Namibia ,  Botswana  and  India . Beny Steinmetz and his
family moved to Geneva in 2010, according to the website.  In addition to diamonds, mining and mineral assets, the
Steinmetz family also holds interests in real estate, financing
and the oil and gas sector.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  