-- Billionaires Halt Mining Deals on Rupee Erosion: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-12T11:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/billionaires-halt-mining-deals-on-rupee-erosion-corporate-india.html
Indian billionaires led by Kumar Mangalam Birla are stalling purchases of mines overseas as the
rupee’s 13 percent drop this year inflates the cost of deals.  The  Aditya Birla Group , which runs the nation’s second-biggest copper and aluminum maker, has put acquisition plans on
hold, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  JSW
Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , controlled by the billionaire Jindal family, would
prefer to wait, Commercial Director Jayant Acharya said.  “It won’t be easy to make decisions on merger and
acquisitions in such a volatile environment,” Acharya said in
an interview. “Calls need to be made in a measured manner.”  Indian companies spent $12.7 million on mining assets
abroad this year, the lowest amount since at least 2008, as the
rupee’s tumble made it  Asia ’s second-worst performer. Companies
that have refrained from overseas purchases risk facing higher
import costs for raw materials should the rupee weaken further
because of  India ’s record  current-account deficit .  JSW, India’s third-largest steelmaker, was looking to buy
coking coal mines overseas to feed its annual 14 million metric
ton capacity in the country, Chairman Sajjan Jindal said in May.
The company in July got shareholder approval to raise its
borrowing limit to 400 billion rupees ($6.3 billion) from 250
billion rupees to fund expansion and acquisitions.  Aborted Efforts  The Aditya Birla Group, which is scouting for  iron ore ,
coal and copper ore assets outside India, had bid through
wholly-owned unit Essel Mining Ltd. for  Northern Iron Ltd. (NFE) , an
Australian miner of iron ore. Essel later ended the effort,
Northern Iron said in a statement in November.  The group had also sought to buy Australian coal producer
 New Hope  Corp., two people with direct knowledge of the matter
said in December 2011. New Hope ended the sale process after
talks with potential buyers didn’t fetch an offer reflecting the
company’s value, Chairman Robert Millner said March 2012.  Aditya Birla Group spokeswoman Pragnya Ram declined to
comment on the pace of overseas acquisitions.  “Deals could slow down further as assets have become more
expensive,” said Ketan Shaah,  executive director  and head of
 investment banking  at Daiwa Capital Markets India Pvt. in
Mumbai. “Financing has also become more difficult.”  Average dollar debt costs for Indian companies jumped to a
19-month high of 6.32 percent on Aug. 22 from a record low of
3.76 percent, indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc show.  ‘Big Risk’  A weaker rupee is weighing on producers of electricity,
coal and metal as shrinking  industrial output  squeezes profit
margins and strains finances. India’s gross domestic product
grew 4.4 percent in the three months through June 30 from a year
earlier, after increasing 5 percent in the year to March 31, the
smallest gain since 2003.  Any “external shock” could sink the rupee past 70, Arvind
Virmani, an adviser on the  Reserve Bank  of India’s panel on
monetary policy, said on Sept. 3. The rupee touched an
unprecedented low of 68.845 a dollar on Aug. 28 and has
rebounded about 9 percent since.  The fall in the currency in “such a short time is a big
risk” and companies in the middle of talks “will have to
recalculate their economics,” said Prasun Kumar Mukherjee,
executive director at billionaire Anil Agarwal-controlled  Sesa
Goa (SESA)  Ltd.  Cash Flow  The weakening rupee has exacerbated hurdles in the way of
mining acquisitions including falling commodity prices and
court-ordered bans and restrictions.  Cash flows of some mining-related companies have dwindled
by about 50 percent, impeding their ability to raise loans, said
Ravi Shankar, managing director and head of investment banking
in India at UBS AG.  Revenue from the iron ore business at Sesa Goa, which was
India’s biggest exporter till mining and shipments were banned
in the western state of Goa where it produced more than 80
percent of the commodity, fell after sales plunged to 3.1
million metric tons in the year ended March 31, the least since
Agarwal bought the company in 2007. Sales at state-owned  NMDC
Ltd. (NMDC) , the nation’s biggest miner of the ore, may decline for a
third consecutive fiscal year, according to the median estimate
of 35 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “Where there’s so much uncertainty in the operations,
relying on that  cash flow  to take a loan and fund equity of a
mine abroad becomes that much difficult,” Shankar said.  Expensive Imports  Shares of NMDC have plunged 25 percent, while that of Sesa
declined 6 percent this year. Sesa  shares  climbed 41 percent
since close of trade on Aug. 16 after saying it absorbed
Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd., another unit of the London-listed Vedanta that produces aluminum and copper. The benchmark
S&P BSE Sensex has gained 1.8 percent this year.  Indian power utilities including  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) , Tata Power Co.
and Adani Power Ltd., are increasing imports of coal, which
fuels about 60 percent of the country’s electricity generation.
A decline in the rupee is making these imports more expensive.  More than 10,000 megawatts of new capacity in India is
lying idle, according to the Association of Power Producers, and
generators including Reliance Power Ltd., Adani Power and NTPC
have halted some 50,000 megawatts of projects combined, citing
fuel constraints.  Rupee Volatility  Spot  iron ore  at Tianjin port in  China  rose 41 percent in
the past year to $135.2 a ton on Sept. 10. Prices rose more than
67 percent in the first five months, followed by a 31 percent
decline in the next three before recovering 25 percent,
according to a  price index  compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.,
owned by McGraw-Hill Financial Inc. The  100-day volatility  at 33
in January was the highest level since September 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
surged 508 basis points this quarter, or 5.08 percentage points,
the most since the three months through September 2011. The rate
touched 22.4 percent on Sept. 4, the highest since December
2008.  “The rupee continues to face challenges,” said Devendra Pant, chief economist at India Ratings & Research, the local
unit of  Fitch Ratings . “Only if it is a good asset at a really
low price, there may be interest from India.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  