-- Billionaire Birla Seeks More Purchases After Buying Cement Plant
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-09-12T07:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/billionaire-birla-s-ultratech-to-buy-f1-builder-s-cement-unit.html
Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla is
seeking to purchase more cement plants in  India  and overseas
after agreeing to buy  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA) ’s Gujarat unit.  Birla’s  UltraTech Cement Ltd. (UTCEM) , India’s biggest maker of the
construction material, yesterday said it will buy Jaiprakash’s
factory in western India for an enterprise value of 38 billion
rupees ($599 million). The purchase will give UltraTech access
to limestone reserves, a thermal power plant and a jetty, the
company said in a statement.  The billionaire’s biggest acquisition in more than two
years will help UltraTech raise capacity and boost market share
as rivals including  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  expand in Asia’s third-largest
economy. Birla, who took over as chairman of the group in 1995,
seeks to expand revenue by 63 percent to $65 billion by 2015.  “We have the balance sheet, the wherewithal, the cash
flows and knowhow of running a cement unit,” Birla said in an
interview with Bloomberg TV India, referring to expansion
including through acquisitions. “Therefore, it is extremely
attractive for us to expand in this market.”  UltraTech will assume 36.50 billion rupees of  debt  from
Jaiprakash’s Gujarat unit, Birla said at a briefing in Mumbai
yesterday. UltraTech will also pay as much as 1.5 billion rupees
in shares to Jaiprakash, the builder of India’s only Formula One
track, once the deal is completed in nine months.  UltraTech, including units, had 33.1 billion rupees in cash
and short-term investments as of March 31, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The company will borrow and use its
profit to fund the purchase, Birla said.  Economic Cycle  The biggest advantage for a conglomerate such as Birla’s is
that they have resources that allows them to build businesses
even toward the end of an economic cycle, said Saurabh Mukherjea, chief executive officer for institutional equities at
Mumbai-based Ambit Capital Pvt. “When everyone else is debt
laden and trying to come up for air, the Birlas can swim that
much deeper with their tank of oxygen.”  The sale will help Jaiprakash reduce its debt, of about 230
billion rupees, by 15 percent, Chairman Manoj Gaur said in New
Delhi yesterday.  “Debt is not a curse,” Gaur said. “But when the economy
falls from 9 percent to 4 percent, it must be reduced.”  Jaiprakash, which has risen 24 percent in the past month,
 dropped  6.1 percent to 40.75 rupees as of 12:51 p.m. in Mumbai.
UltraTech fell 0.4 percent to 1,741.55 rupees.  UltraTech plans to revamp the debt after the purchase,
Birla said. It will assume 20 billion rupees of loans, and pay
16.5 billion rupees of the remaining debt to Jaiprakash, he
said. The plan to refinance the liabilities will help lower
borrowing costs by 300 basis points, Birla said.  Deal Value  The deal values capacity at Jaiprakash’s Gujarat unit at
7,936 rupees a ton, according to Birla. That compares with 7,847
rupees a ton that Holcim’s Ambuja Cement Ltd.’s is estimated to
be paying for a stake in unit ACC Ltd., according to Sudeep Anand, an analyst at IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd.  UltraTech had offered about 43 billion rupees for the
Gujarat unit, two people familiar with the process said in
November. The valuation has since fallen because of concerns
about one of Jaiprakash’s mines, the people said.  UltraTech has an installed capacity of 54 million tons a
year, according to the  company’s website . With this acquisition
and additional capacity planned, the total will rise to 70
million tons by early 2016, Birla said.  Birla,  India’s seventh richest  man, is ranked 143 in
Bloomberg Billionaires Index with a net worth of $8.4 billion.  Cement consumption may expand at a compounded average
growth rate of 7.9 percent in the three years to 2016 led by
demand from power and road projects, according to a research by
Mumbai-based Credit Analysis & Research. Demand grew 5.6 percent
in the three years to March 31, data show.  The transaction will be accretive in the next three years,
Birla said. Standard Chartered Plc advised both UltraTech and
Jaiprakash on the deal.  “This is a good deal for the buyer as it’s cheaper than
building cement capacity of this size,” said Amit K Srivastava,
analyst at Nirmal Bang International Equities. “The asset will
have cash flow and it also comes with mines and all regulatory
approvals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  