-- BOE’s Miles Says 7% Threshold Still Some Way Off
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-12T07:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/boe-s-miles-says-7-threshold-still-some-way-off.html
Bank of England  policy maker  David Miles  said he’s skeptical that the recent strength of the
recovery will translate into a sharp drop in unemployment toward
the level that may trigger a rate increase.  The  U.K. jobless rate  fell to 7.7 percent in the three
months through July, moving closer to the point that the BOE has
said will prompt it to reassess its policy stance. The central
bank’s benchmark interest rate is at a record-low 0.5 percent.  “People may interpret that good news as implying that we
might reach the 7 percent threshold relatively quickly,” Miles
said at an event in London yesterday. “That may turn out to be
the case, I rather doubt it myself.”  The 7 percent level is part of the forward guidance
introduced last month by BOE Governor  Mark Carney , who will
testify to U.K. lawmakers on the plan today. Policy makers
forecast that the threshold won’t be reached until late 2016,
and Miles said that productivity will improve along with the
overall economy, limiting the pace of hiring.  “Once growth and demand pick up more strongly for a
sustained period, productivity will itself move up rather
sharply,” he said. “That would mean unemployment might move
down less than would normally be the case given the strength in
demand and economic activity.”  Rate Outlook  Miles also said that policy “can become more expansionary
if it’s judged that’s what is needed.” The BOE kept its
 benchmark rate  unchanged this month and left its bond-purchase
program on hold.  Market yields suggest investors think the BOE will have to
raise borrowing costs before the 2016 horizon indicated. Short-sterling futures have dropped, indicating investors are adding
to bets on higher rates. The implied yield on the contract
expiring in December 2014 is 0.96 percent, up from 0.68 percent
on Aug. 1. The June 2015 yield has risen 46 basis points to 1.28
percent in that period.  Miles said it’s too early to give a full assessment of
guidance and that it’s aim is to give Britons’ confidence that
rates won’t rise anytime soon.  “What are we, four weeks, five weeks since the bank
explained what forward guidance meant?” he said. “So to talk
about the failure of forward guidance is ridiculously
premature.”  Carney Testimony  Carney, along with Miles and policy makers  Paul Fisher  and
 Ian McCafferty , will give evidence in Parliament in London from
10 a.m. It’s the first time the governor will face questions
from lawmakers on guidance and the jobless threshold since the
policy was introduced.  “We expect them to emphasize the importance that
households and businesses take on board the message that
 interest rates  are likely to remain low for a long time, and to
observe that early indications are that this message has got
through,” said  Simon Hayes , an economist at Barclays Plc in
London. “From that perspective they would deem forward guidance
to have been worthwhile.”  The  unemployment rate  in May-July is the lowest since the
September-November 2012 period. It was last at 7 percent or
lower in the quarter through February 2009. The labor-market
statistics published yesterday also showed that  jobless claims 
fell 32,600 in August, more than economists had forecast. The
total decline in claims in July and August was the biggest two-month drop since 1997.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  