-- BofA Cuts Newcastle Coal Forecast as European Prices Set to Fall
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-09-11T10:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/bofa-cuts-newcastle-coal-forecast-as-european-prices-set-to-fall.html
Bank of America Corp. cut its
forecast for Newcastle thermal coal prices this year and said it
expects the fuel to extend declines in  Europe  this year.  The bank reduced its estimate for coal exported from the
Australian port by 12 percent to $74 a metric ton in the fourth
quarter and said prices will average $82 in 2014, 9.9 percent
below its previous forecast, Sabine Schels, an analyst at the
bank in  London , said in the report dated today. European coal
for 2014 will fall to $79 a ton by the end of this year,
according to the bank, 5.8 percent less than today’s price.  Workers at Drummond Co. last week accepted a pay offer
after more than six weeks of strike, indicating  Colombia ’s
second-largest coal producer may restart output. Exports from
the South American nation will probably rebound while Chinese
support of its domestic coal industry means it’s unlikely to buy
excess seaborne cargoes and a weakening of  India ’s currency
potentially reduces its appetite for coal imports, according to
Bank of America.  “Mine ramp-ups, weaker producer currencies and a contango
market structure suggest countries like  Australia  will remain
slow at curtailing output,” Schels said, referring to a market
where near-term prices are lower than later-dated contracts.
“More than 20 percent of seaborne coal producers are not
covering cash costs at current 2014 Newcastle coal prices.”  Coal for 2014 delivery in the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp
region, the European benchmark, has plummeted 18 percent this
year. The contract fell as much as 0.4 percent today to $83.55 a
ton, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bloomberg tracks broker data from ICAP Plc, GFI Group Inc.,
Marex Spectron Group Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG, IHS
McCloskey, Tradition Financial Services and Tullett Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  