-- BofA’s Fixed-Income Trading Co-Head Seebacher Said to Leave
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-09-11T21:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/bofa-s-fixed-income-trading-co-head-seebacher-said-to-leave-1-.html
Gerhard Seebacher, co-head of
global fixed-income, currency and commodities trading at  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , is leaving after 18 years at the firm, said two
people briefed on the matter.  Seebacher led the business withDavid Sobotka, who will
remain as sole head of the unit, according to the people, who
asked not to be identified because the change hasn’t been
announced publicly. Seebacher will retire at the end of this
month “to pursue other opportunities in the industry as it
continues to evolve,” co-Chief Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag said today in a staff memo obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The change leaves Sobotka, a former Merrill Lynch & Co.
commodities trader who ran Bank of America’s proprietary trading
desk, atop a business that generated 13 percent of the lender’s
 revenue  in 2012. FICC includes buying and selling products from
 government bonds  to credit-default swaps.  “There are fewer and fewer legacy Bank of America managers
left in the investment bank, it’s Merrill guys who are running
things now,” said Richard Lipstein, managing director of New
York-based recruiting firm Gilbert Tweed International. “A good
number of these co-head arrangements are made with the goal of
eventually finding a winner to run the business.”  Bank of America named Seebacher co-head of FICC trading in
November 2011, after the firm’s worst fixed-income trading
quarter since the financial crisis. The lender, amid concerns
about the  European debt crisis  and a downgrade of the U.S.
credit rating, generated $553 million of FICC revenue in the
third quarter of 2011, about half that of rivals and $2 billion
less than the previous quarter.  Revenue Rebound  In 2012, Seebacher and Sobotka led a rebound, as fixed-income revenue jumped 36 percent for the year to $11 billion,
the biggest advance among the five largest Wall Street banks.
This year, Bank of America posted a 21 percent first-half drop,
compared with a 1 percent decline at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and a 5 percent gain at Citigroup Inc. Bank of America ranks
second by assets among U.S. lenders.  Previously, Seebacher ran Bank of America teams including
global rates, foreign exchange and structured credit trading,
and global credit products, Montag wrote. Seebacher helped
integrate the firm’s markets platform after the 2009 acquisition
of Merrill Lynch and is on the board of the International Swaps
& Derivatives Association, according to the note.  Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment and Seebacher didn’t
respond to a telephone inquiry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  