-- Verizon Said to Delay Europe Investor Meetings After U.S. Deal
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-11T15:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/borrowing-costs-approach-year-high-in-europe-before-verizon-deal.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
postponed a meeting with investors in  Europe  as it markets an
unprecedented $49 billion of bonds in the U.S. European
corporate bond risk fell for a fourth day.  The meetings in Europe, which were scheduled to begin
tomorrow, were arranged to discuss Verizon’s acquisition of
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 45 percent stake in  Verizon Wireless ,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified because they’re not authorized to speak about it.
The cost of insuring European company debt against losses fell
1.2 basis points to 98 basis points at 4:13 p.m. in  London , the
lowest in four weeks.  The second-biggest U.S. telephone carrier is seeking to
finance the $130 billion purchase of the most profitable U.S.
wireless carrier. It plans to raise more than one third of that
amount by selling bonds in dollars, in a deal set to be almost
triple Apple Inc.’s record $17 billion issue in April.  “We are surprised that the company has been able to
complete the entire financing in one go but if the cash is
available it makes sense to get it done now,” Aengus McMahon, a
London-based analyst at ING Groep NV, wrote in a client note.  Jim Gerace, a Verizon spokesman, declined to comment on the
meetings in Europe.  In credit markets today, Telefonica SA is debuting hybrid
bonds to help fund its acquisition of a controlling stake in
Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus German wireless unit.  Spain ’s biggest
phone company will issue two portions of notes in euros through
its  Telefonica Europe BV (TEF)  unit, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Telefonica Hybrid  Madrid-based Telefonica plans to sell 1.125 billion euros
($1.5 billion) of undated bonds that can be bought back by the
company in September 2018 and will yield 6.5 percent, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because they’re not
authorized to speak about the sale. It also plans to issue 625
million euros of notes to yield 7.625 percent that can be called
in September 2021.  “Telefonica’s new hybrid instruments provide some new
issue concession,” said Umang Vithlani, head of credit at
Fideuram Asset Management in Dublin, which oversees 3 billion
euros. “The funding window recently opened and investor
appetite is there after a very quiet summer and volatility in
June.”  Hybrid securities, including notes from KPN and  Telekom
Austria AG (TKA) , yield an average 6 percent, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch  index  data show. Non-financial companies have sold a
record 23.5 billion euros of the bonds combining elements of
debt and equity in Europe this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Polish Television  The notes allow companies to borrow without putting their
credit grade at risk because ratings firms typically count 50
percent of the bonds as equity, reducing their view of a
company’s indebtedness.  Telefonica’s hybrid bonds have been rated Ba1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, one step below investment grade.  French carmaker  Renault SA (RNO)  sold 600 million euros of five-year bonds to yield 225 basis points more than the mid-swap
rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Polish Television Holding BV, the owner of the nation’s
second-largest television network, plans to price 300 million
euros of payment-in-kind toggle notes yielding 11 percent. PIK
toggle notes give the borrower the option of paying coupons with
cash or more debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  