-- BP Poisoned Neighbors in Toxin Release, Texas Jury Told
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-09-11T18:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/bp-poisoned-neighbors-in-toxin-release-texas-jury-told.html
BP Plc (BP/)  deliberately exposed
neighbors of a Texas refinery to tons of cancer-causing gases
for weeks without warning in 2010, a lawyer told a Texas jury.  The lawsuits by four residents are the first of almost
48,000 toxic-exposure claims to come to trial. The plaintiffs
seek as much as $200,000 each in actual damages, plus
$10 billion in punitive damages which, they said in court
papers, they would donate to charity.  “Profits over the environment, profits over safety,
profits over people, that’s what this case is about,”  Tony
Buzbee , the residents’ lead attorney, told the state-court jury
in Galveston during opening statements today. The trial is
expected to last five weeks.  BP intentionally vented at least 500,000 pounds (227,000
kilograms) of toxic chemicals, including  benzene , from a faulty
refinery unit in  Texas City  to a flare the company knew was
incapable of destroying the toxins, Buzbee said in an interview
before the trial. He claims London-based BP would have lost more
than $20 million if it had shut the unit down during repairs.  “This case is not an attack on refineries, not an attack
on  oil companies ,” he told the jury today. “This case is about
a company that flouts the rules, that does what it chooses and
darn the consequences.”  BP denies anyone was injured by emissions from the
refinery, which was later sold.  ‘Huge Difference’  The refinery’s flare was highly efficient during the
incident and destroyed or dispersed virtually all toxins vented
to it, Damond Mace, one of BP’s trial attorneys told jurors
today. There is “a huge difference” between what is pumped out
of the top of the stack and what “if anything, comes down to
the ground,” he said.  Fence-line and community air monitors showed no elevated
readings of any hazardous gasses during April and May of 2010,
and no regulatory air standards were violated, he said.  “Your job is to decide if the ground-level air
concentrations that reached these four plaintiffs on these days
from the flaring of that hydrocarbon stream caused them any
injury,” Mace told jurors.  Kenneth Tekell, another BP attorney, told the jury of 10
women and six men, including four alternates, that the residents
at trial suffered from “ordinary diseases of life,” like itchy
eyes, runny noses and temporary respiratory or stomach ailments.  ‘Sore Throat’  “He’d have had that sore throat and swollen gland whether
BP was flaring or not,” Tekell said of one plaintiff, who BP
said it believes had a throat infection at the time.  Buzbee said each plaintiff showed symptoms “absolutely
consistent with chemical exposure” that may cause them serious
health problems in the future.  “What value do you place on someone breathing these
chemicals that were purposely released” for more than 40 days?
Buzbee asked the jury. “No one’s missing a leg and no one’s
dead. But this ain’t right. This should never happen again
anywhere, and BP still has refineries in the U.S.”  BP was slow to inform state regulators of the leak and
underreported the volume of toxins released during the 40-day
incident, Buzbee told jurors.  “The wanton poisoning of an entire community is not an
acceptable business practice,” Buzbee said in court papers. He
asked the jury today to punish BP for its conduct.  Gulf Spill  The Texas City emissions incident overlapped the start of
the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, which began when a rig
exploded while drilling a BP well off the Louisiana coast. BP
has paid more than $30 billion in spill-related cleanup costs,
damages and fines, with thousands of damages claims remaining to
be resolved in a separate proceeding in federal court in  New
Orleans .  BP Products North America sold the Texas City refinery to
 Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  in a transaction announced last
October. The site was the scene of a 2005 explosion that killed
15 workers and resulted in payments of $2.1 billion to local
residents and businesses harmed by the blast.  The company agreed in 2011 to pay Texas $50 million to
settle air-pollution violations at the plant from 2005 through
2011, including the release of about 500,000 pounds of harmful
chemicals during the 2010 flaring incident.  The case is In re MDL Litigation Regarding Texas City
Refinery Ultracracker Emission Event Litigation, 10-UC-0001,
Texas 56th Judicial District Court (Galveston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  