-- Brazil May Make Own Network Equipment as Spying Defense
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-09-12T14:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/brazil-may-make-own-network-equipment-as-spying-defense.html
Brazil’s government is considering
developing locally made network equipment that phone companies
would be required to use as a defense against foreign spies,
Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said.  The measure would be designed to protect information
privacy, in response to allegations that the U.S. National
Security Agency used software to access communications between
Brazil President  Dilma Rousseff  and staff members, Bernardo said
yesterday in an interview in Brasilia.  “We could require the whole Brazilian market to use this
equipment,” Bernardo said. “This would apply to businesses,
communication networks and telecommunication companies that
operate in Brazil.”  The plan would create a challenge to companies such as
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  that have identified Brazil as a market ripe
for expansion. Brazil follows  Germany  in calling for a homegrown
industry to avoid U.S. surveillance.  The spying allegations were made earlier this month on
 Brazil ’s most-watched TV newsmagazine, Fantastico, by American
journalist Glenn Greenwald.  Developing sophisticated network technology within five
years is “feasible but not necessarily probable,” said John
Butler, a senior telecommunications services and equipment
analyst with Bloomberg Industries. Proprietary routers and
switches would be very difficult for Brazil to design and
manufacture, and many of the hardware-based functions in these
systems are now slowly being replaced with software, Butler
said.  ‘Right Talent’  “It would be hard to rip out all the routers and switches
in the public telecom network and replace them with proprietary
government gear,” he said. “It depends on how dedicated they
are, but it could be done with the right talent and resources in
place.”  Cisco, based in  San Jose ,  California , declined to comment
in an e-mailed statement. “We do not know the details of the
project so we cannot assess what would be the implications for
the industry,” the company said.  Telecommunications regulator Anatel said last week that
it’s investigating contracts between Brazilian operators and
foreign companies. The focus is on the “main companies with the
largest client bases,” the agency said.  Strict Accordance  Brazil’s largest phone companies include Rio de Janeiro-based Oi SA and the local units of Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
Mexico City-based America Movil SAB and Milan-based  Telecom
Italia SpA. (TIT)  Oi has said it acts strictly in accordance with
Brazilian laws on privacy. A press official at the company
declined to comment yesterday, as did one from Telefonica.
 America Movil  and Telecom Italia had no immediate response.  Brazil’s national telecommunications union, known as
SindiTelebrasil, said in a statement that Brazilian carriers
follow the law and don’t share private information with
foreigners.  Rousseff has asked for legislation to increase penalties
for companies that worked with the security agency. This could
include fines or even revoking licenses to operate in Brazil,
Bernardo said yesterday.  “Espionage is illegal, regardless of who does it,”
Bernardo said. “We’re discussing the possibility of penalizing
companies that collaborate in this kind of spying scheme, which
could be included in the legislation.”  Yesterday, Rousseff marked Internet privacy legislation
currently in the lower house as urgent, to be voted on within 45
days.  Personal Responsibility  Thomas Shannon, the U.S. ambassador to Brazil, had denied a
report on spying allegations by newspaper O Globo in July,
telling officials that the U.S. didn’t spy on Brazilian citizens
and only collects records of phone calls or e-mail messages
abroad to pursue suspected terrorists.  “It’s clear that the information we received from the
Americans was false,” Bernardo said. “That conversation was
all lies.”  After meeting with  Barack Obama  last week, Rousseff said
the U.S. president took personal responsibility for the spying
allegations. The two leaders met informally at the G-20 summit
in  St. Petersburg . Rousseff is still deciding whether to go
through with a scheduled state visit to  Washington  in October.  “The truth is we see this as an affront to our
constitution,” Bernardo said. “We have to make it clear how we
will respond.”  U.S. National Security Adviser  Susan Rice  met yesterday in
Washington with Brazil Foreign Minister Luiz Figueiredo to
discuss “intelligence collection activities,” according to a
White House statement.  “The  United States  understands that recent disclosures in
the press –- some of which have distorted our activities and
some of which raise legitimate questions for our friends and
allies about how these capabilities are employed -- have created
tensions,” the White House said in the  statement . It pledged to
work with Brazil to address the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  