-- Bulgaria to End ‘Umbrella Murder’ Probe After 35 Years
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-09-11T12:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/bulgaria-to-end-umbrella-murder-probe-after-35-years.html
Bulgaria  will close its
investigation of the murder of dissident Georgi Markov in  London 
more than three decades ago, one of the most infamous unsolved
assassinations of the  Cold War .  Markov was attacked in  London  on Sept. 7, 1978, and died
four days later. The 30-year statute of limitations ended in
2008 and was extended by five years at the request of U.K.
authorities. No evidence has ever been tied to a suspect,
Rumiana Arnaudova, a spokeswoman for Bulgaria’s Chief
Prosecutor’s office in the capital Sofia, said in a phone
interview today.  “There is no action taking place that would justify
continuing the investigation,” Arnaudova said. “The
perpetrator has not been established.”  Markov was a novelist and playwright who defected in 1969
and became an outspoken critic of Bulgaria’s communist regime,
which collapsed in 1989 during popular democratic revolutions
across much of communist eastern  Europe .  He was attacked on London’s Waterloo Bridge by someone who
stabbed his leg with the tip of an umbrella, delivering a pellet
laced with the poison ricin into his blood stream. He died at
the age of 49.  Markov worked for the London-based  BBC World Service . He
broadcast 137 weekly “In Absentia Reports” between 1975 and
1978 on the U.S.-funded  Radio Free Europe  and condemned one of
the world’s most repressive totalitarian systems. His writings
were banned from Bulgarian libraries and bookstores, and he
wasn’t named in official media until 1989.  ‘Umbrella Murder’  Dubbed the “Umbrella Murder,” the crime prompted cross
accusations. Western governments and media blamed the  Soviet
Union ’s KGB and the Bulgarian secret police. The Bulgarians, who
joined the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  in 2004 and the EU
in 2007, said the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency did it to
frame the Bulgarian communists, supposedly after discovering
that Markov was a double agent.  “The prosecution will examine the investigator’s
conclusions and will close the case in the next few days,”
Arnaudova said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  