-- California Crackdown on ‘Revenge Porn’ in Brown’s Hands
-- B y   M a r k   M e l n i c o e
-- 2013-09-11T18:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/california-crackdown-on-revenge-porn-in-brown-s-hands.html
People who humiliate ex-lovers by
posting indecent photos or videos online could face charges
under a bill approved by  California  lawmakers.  The measure targeting “revenge porn,” approved by the
Senate last month, cleared the Assembly on a unanimous vote. The
bill returns to the Senate to reconcile changes before going to
Governor  Jerry Brown , a 75-year-old Democrat, who hasn’t
indicated whether he’ll sign it into law.  California, a center of Internet technology, would become
the second U.S. state to criminalize the act, though as a
misdemeanor.  New Jersey  considers it a felony.  “People who post or text pictures that are meant to be
private as a way to seek revenge are reprehensible,” Senator
Anthony Cannella, a Ceres Republican who wrote the bill, said in
a statement in June. “Too many have had their lives upended
because of an action of another that they trusted.”  Under the measure, distributing sexual images “with the
intent to cause serious emotional distress” would carry a fine
of as much as $1,000 and as long as six months in jail -- even
if the pictures were originally taken with consent.  Some revenge porn is an outgrowth of the increase in self-photographs sent by mobile phones, webcams or other devices. One
exemplar of the trend is  New York ’s Anthony Weiner, whose online
exchanges with women led to his June 2011 resignation from
Congress and in July cost him the lead in polls for the
Democratic nomination for mayor.  Self-Photos  The California bill would ban only images taken by the
person posting them, meaning that self-photos aren’t protected.  Numerous websites have been created for ex-lovers to
publicize images of former partners.  Holly Jacobs, a graduate student in Florida, became a
symbol of the movement to criminalize revenge porn after her
nude photos showed up online after she broke up with her
boyfriend.  “It’s not OK that people are doing this and exploiting you
just because you trusted somebody and because you shared
intimate photographs in an intimate relationship,” Jacobs said
May 3 on NBC’s “Today” show.  Florida  rejected a push to make such distribution illegal,
according to the Orlando Sentinel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Melnicoe in Sacramento at 
 mmelnicoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  