-- Call to Change Obama’s Health Law Opens Rift With Labor
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-09-12T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/call-to-change-obama-s-health-law-opens-rift-with-labor.html
The AFL-CIO is asking for changes
to the Affordable Care Act, President  Barack Obama ’s landmark
health-care overhaul, potentially opening fissures between the
White House and one of its staunch political allies.  The largest U.S. labor federation approved a resolution
yesterday urging amendments to the law in a voice vote on the
final day of its quadrennial convention in Los Angeles.  The action by the AFL-CIO, which endorsed the law when it
passed in 2010, adds to the political challenges facing the
Obama administration as it implements the law. Republicans have
vowed to block the union-backed changes, making it unlikely they
could get through Congress.  “If the Affordable Care Act is not fixed and it destroys
the health and welfare funds that we have all fought for and
stand for, then I believe it needs to be repealed,” Terry O’Sullivan, general president of the Laborer’s International
Union of North America, said on the convention floor. “We can’t
have the unintended consequences for the proud men and women
that we represent to be collateral damage in the health care
fight in this country.”  Labor groups were among the strongest proponents of the
health-care law when it was being debated by Congress, and the
Obama administration is trying to maintain their support as it
rolls out new insurance programs this fall. Two top
administration officials, White House senior adviser Valerie Jarrett and Labor Secretary Thomas Perez, were in Los Angeles
this week to reassure union officials that the White House is
open to weighing changes.  Treasury Commitment  “We are committed to making the law work to make health
care more effective and affordable for all Americans, including
those covered by multi-employer plans,” Sabrina Siddiqui, a
Treasury Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Larry Cohen, president of the Communications Workers of
America, said the resolution is only the first step in the bid
to fix the health-care law.  “Realistically there’ll be no progressive legislative
fixes with the Republican House,” Cohen said in an interview.
“All they want to do is eliminate health care and put people on
their own. I don’t think this is going to get fixed in a
meaningful way in the weeks ahead.”  The AFL-CIO’s resolution calls for changes to several
provisions in the law. The union group wants multi-employer
health plans run by labor organizations classified in a way that
would make their members eligible for federal subsidies. It said
it strongly opposes the law’s requirement that health plans,
including union plans, pay a reinsurance fee of about $63 per
member next year to the government.  More Employers  The resolution also urges expanding health care under the
law to more employers, such as construction companies with five
or more employees.  Debate on the resolution included pleas for amendments to
the law and calls for union members to take a stand.  “This resolution is the make or break for a lot of unions
in this room,” said Joseph Nigro, general president of the
Sheet Metal Workers International Association. “This is our
opportunity as a real labor organization to stand up and be
counted.”  The 2010 law established public exchanges, through which
individuals can buy insurance, which are set to open Oct. 1.  Without the subsidies that individuals using the exchanges
are entitled to, some employers may stop offering group plans
that many union members are currently enrolled in, according to
Timothy Jost, a professor at  Washington  and Lee University
School of Law in Lexington,  Virginia . That will force those
employees into the exchanges, which may cost more than their
current health plans.  ‘Devastating Impact’  The law as written “can have a devastating impact on our
ability to provide health insurance,” O’Sullivan said.  About 42 percent of Americans remain opposed to the law,
compared with 37 percent who support it, according to an August
poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation. About 44 percent of those
polled said they’re unaware whether the Affordable Care Act is
still law.  Senator Orrin Hatch, a Republican from  Utah , and
Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican, questioned the
legality of the changes being sought by the unions. Republicans
opposed the 2010 law and have sought a repeal.  “We will do whatever is within our power to ensure that
the administration does not once again provide a special
exemption to unions at the expense of American taxpayers,” the
lawmakers said in a letter to Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew.  Thune Proposal  U.S. Senator John Thune, a South Dakota Republican, this
week introduced legislation that would make it illegal to
provide subsides for certain existing health care plans.  The average subsidy per eligible enrollee buying insurance
through exchanges mandated by the law is projected to be $5,300
in 2014, according to the Congressional Budget Office.  Republicans will use labor opposition to the law to
continue their attacks, Jost said. Unions, which represented
11.3 percent of workers in 2012, helped Obama’s campaign in 2008
and 2012 by getting Democratic voters out to the polls.  Richard Trumka, president of the AFL-CIO, the federation of
57 labor unions with 12 million members, supported the law when
it was passed though has called for changes to a provision that
defines a full-time workweek as 30 hours instead of the
traditional 40. It has led some employers to create jobs with 29
1/2 hours of work a week to avoid paying for health care.  “The labor movement is engaging in an ongoing dialog with
a number of federal agencies regarding implementation of the
Affordable Care Act,” Trumka said. “The issues involved are
ones of fundamental fairness.”  Perez, in an address to the convention on Sept. 10, thanked
union leaders for supporting the health-care law.  “Though challenges remain -- as should be expected when
working to solve any problem so big -- we are committed to
continuing to sit down in good faith to work through
solutions,” Perez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in Los Angeles at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  