-- Calpers Invests in New-Home Project as Land Values Rise
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/calpers-invests-in-new-home-project-as-land-values-rise.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. pension fund, invested in a
new-home community two years after it reduced its involvement in
similar projects following losses in the housing bust.  Calpers is one of three investors in a new development
phase at Rancho Mission Viejo in Orange County, California,
according to Robert Goodman, chief executive officer of Resmark
Cos., a Los Angeles-based firm that invests in real estate for
Calpers and the California State Teachers’ Retirement System.  “This is new money,” Goodman said in a telephone
interview. “It’s absolutely superior real estate with superb,
top-notch management, and we think it’s a good time in the
housing cycle.”  Calpers, which had $266.1 billion under management as of
Sept. 10, pared its new-housing investments and shifted its
focus to income-producing property after the fund’s real estate
portfolio had annualized losses of 27 percent in the three years
through June 2010, according to a 2011 report. Now, U.S.
residential land values are rebounding as homebuilders face a
growing shortage of lots, especially in markets like  Southern
California , where projects can take years to win government
approval.  The total investment in the Rancho Mission Viejo project is
about $100 million, about a third of which comes from Calpers
through Resmark, according to two people with knowledge of the
deal, who asked not to be named because the transaction is
private.  New Projects  Resmark managed $366 million of Calpers $22.4 billion in
real estate holdings as of March 31, the most recent figures
available. Calpers extended its long-term agreement with Resmark
last year, allowing it to put funds into new projects rather
than give back unspent capital, according to Goodman.  “They are free to invest that capital per the strategy of
the original partnership agreement,” Joe DeAnda, a Calpers
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The money will be used to build roads and other
infrastructure for a community with about 2,400 houses and 300
apartments on 860 acres (348 hectares), according to Don Vodra,
chief operating officer of Rancho Mission Viejo, a 23,000-acre
ranch about 60 miles (97 kilometers) south of  Los Angeles . The
project would open to residents in 2015, he said.  Other investors in the new phase of Rancho Mission Viejo
are the Lewis Group of Companies, an Upland, California-based
developer, and J.F. Shea Co., a builder, contractor and
developer based in Walnut, California. Randall Lewis, executive
vice president of Lewis Group, and Bert Selva, CEO of Shea,
didn’t reply to telephone messages seeking comment yesterday.  Newhall Ranch  Calpers wrote off almost $1 billion from investments in
Newhall Ranch, a master-planned community north of Los Angeles,
that filed for bankruptcy in 2008. In January 2012, the pension
fund sold its interest in 28 projects with 16,300 home sites run
by Newland Real Estate Group LLC, a San Diego-based developer.  Under a plan adopted in 2011, the fund cut its
“opportunistic” investments, including money in new
developments, to a maximum 15 percent of its real estate
portfolio from a previous maximum of 40 percent. Calpers is
scheduled to review its investment targets in December.  Residents began moving this month into Rancho Mission
Viejo’s first community, Sendero, which is approved for 941
homes and 286 apartments, according to Vodra. Prices start in
the low $300,000s for townhomes and the high $500,000s for
single-family houses, according to the Sendero website.  The median price of an existing home in Orange County rose
to $675,000 in July, up 22.5 percent from a year earlier,
according to the  California  Association of Realtors. The price
peaked at $747,260 in April 2007.  Stephen J. Duffy, managing director for real estate
investment at Moss Adams Capital LLC, represented Rancho Mission
Viejo in the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  