-- Cameron Gets Warning Lecture on EU Politics From Barroso
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-09-11T13:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/cameron-gets-warning-lecture-on-eu-politics-from-barroso.html
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative
Party  risks losing 2014 legislative elections in Europe as it
gets outflanked by Britain’s nationalist party.  Barroso told Martin Callanan, a Tory member of the European
Parliament and head of its Conservatives and Reformists group,
that he faced the threat of defeat at the hands of the U.K.
Independence Party. UKIP’s leader is Nigel Farage, a prominent
opponent of the EU.  “Increasingly your party and your group is looking like
the UKIP,” Barroso told Callanan during a debate in the 28-nation legislature today in Strasbourg, France. “I start to
have some doubts that you are going to be elected yourself in
Britain, if it’s not UKIP that is going to be the first force in
the British elections.”  The sniping follows Cameron’s decision this year to open
the door to a possible U.K. departure from the EU, a step that
would be unprecedented. In January, seeking to stave off growing
anti-EU voices within the Tory party, Cameron promised to win
back powers from European institutions and put continued
membership in the bloc to a popular vote.  Farage, who is also a member of the EU Parliament, said at
the time that it was UKIP’s “greatest achievement to date.”  “When it comes to be against  Europe , the people, between
the original and the copy, they prefer the original,” said
Barroso, who is a former Portuguese prime minister. “That’s
probably why they are going to vote more for Mr. Farage than for
Mr. Callanan.”  The Tories have 27 of the U.K.’s 73 seats in the 766-seat
EU Parliament. UKIP has 11 seats in the European assembly.  Callanan responded to the remarks by Barroso, who was
appointed by EU governments in 2004 to head the Brussels-based
commission, the EU’s executive arm, with a jibe of his own.  “It’s a bit rich for the unelected head of the European
Commission to give us electoral advice,” Callanan said on the
EU Parliament plenary floor, prompting a smile from Barroso.
“But I suppose that’s typical of him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France , at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  