-- Canada Says Quebec Rail Crash Crude Not Properly Labeled
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-09-11T18:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/canada-transport-board-seeks-better-labels-for-dangerous-goods.html
Canada’s transportation safety
authority said the crude carried on a train that crashed in
 Quebec , killing 47 people, should have been labeled as being
more dangerous.  An unattended Montreal Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd. train
with 72 tankers of crude crashed in the Quebec town of Lac-Megantic in July, causing the worst Canadian rail disaster in
more than a century. The Transportation Safety Board said in a
statement from Ottawa today the oil was labeled as a “lower
hazard, less volatile flammable liquid.”  “Test results indicate that the level of hazard posed by
the petroleum crude oil transported in the tank cars on the
accident train was not accurately documented,” the agency said.  The TSB said it sent  letters  to U.S. and Canadian
regulators asking them to review processes for identifying and
labeling dangerous goods. The agency has already asked Canadian
regulators to impose stricter rules on securing unattended
trains and staffing of trains carrying dangerous goods.  “I have directed my officials at  Transport Canada  to
examine this recommendation as quickly as possible,” said
Transport Minister Lisa Raitt in an e-mailed statement. “If a
company does not properly classify its goods, they can be
prosecuted under the Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act.”  The receiver of the shipment, Irving Oil Corp., was
responsible for labeling the content of the train cars, Ed
Belkaloul, the agency’s manager for operations in Quebec, told
reporters today at a news conference near Ottawa. The train was
carrying crude to Irving Oil’s refinery in Saint John,  New
Brunswick  from  North Dakota ’s Bakken region.  Bakken Blitz  Carolyn Van der Veen, a spokeswoman with Irving Oil, didn’t
respond to a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Last month, U.S. railroad regulators announced a Bakken
inspection “blitz” aimed at ensuring crude oil being hauled
from the region in tank cars is labeled accurately. The Federal
Railroad Administration and Pipeline and Hazardous Materials
Safety Administration began planning for increased inspections
of tank cars carrying Bakken crude in March, four months before
the July 6 Lac-Megantic crash, the heads of the two agencies
told reporters Aug. 29. U.S. regulators had noticed
“inconsistencies with crude oil classification,” PHMSA has
said.  The Bakken inspection blitz is still going on, Kevin
Thompson, a spokesman for the U.S. Federal Railroad
Administration, said in an e-mail.  Tanker Cars  Canada ’s main opposition party called on the government to
do more spot checks and inspections of dangerous goods. As well,
“the dangerous DOT-111A tanker cars have to be retired or
upgraded immediately,” said Olivia Chow, spokeswoman for
transportation issues with the  New Democratic Party .  The crash “brings into question the adequacy of Class 111
tanks cars for use in transporting large quantities of low flash
flammable liquids,” the Canadian regulator said in the
statement.  There are three categories of dangerous goods within class
3, which involves flammable liquids. The TSB said samples from
cars involved in the Quebec crash had characteristics of a
category 2 shipment, which is more explosive than the category 3
that appeared on the labels.  “We share the TSB’s concern,” said National
Transportation Safety Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman  in a
statement from  Washington . “Clearly understanding the hazardous
characteristics of what is being transported is one of the keys
to safe transportation.”  Jeannie Layson, a spokeswoman for PHMSA, had no immediate
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  