-- Canada Stocks Erase Losses as REITs, Oil Offset BlackBerry Drop
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-09-11T20:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/canada-stocks-fall-as-blackberry-slumps-metals-rise-on-china.html
Canadian  stocks  erased earlier
losses as real estate companies gained and oil advanced,
offsetting declines among gold companies after tensions eased on
 Syria  and economists forecast further losses in the metal.  Dundee Real Estate Investment Trust and Boardwalk REIT
gained at least 1.1 percent. Suncor Energy Inc. added 0.7
percent as oil rose for the first time in three days.  Dollarama (DOL) 
Inc. jumped 7 percent after second-quarter earnings beat
estimates as same-store sales climbed. Rio Alto Mining Ltd.
declined 5.8 percent as gold touched a three-week low. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said the metal will extend losses to 2014.
 BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  dropped 5.2 percent on concern a domestic buyout
of the smartphone maker will not happen.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 0.94 point,
or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,825.42 at 4 p.m. in Toronto,
erasing earlier losses of as much as 0.5 percent. The benchmark
Canadian equity gauge has risen 3.2 percent this year.  “People are still biding time a little bit to see what’s
happening in Syria and with tapering,” said  Ian Nakamoto ,
director of research with MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc.
in Toronto. The firm manages about $4 billion. “I just don’t
think there’s a lot of conviction.”  Gold for December delivery was little changed, after
earlier slipping to as low as $1,356. Gold, which has slumped 19
percent this year after a 12-year rally, will extend losses into
2014 as the U.S. Federal Reserve tapers stimulus, Goldman Sachs
analysts including  Jeffrey Currie  and Damien Courvalin said in a
report today.  Goldman Forecast  Goldman’s economists expect Fed policy makers to curb
quantitative easing at their Sept. 17-18 meeting as the economy
improves, the report said. The stimulus has helped the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rally as much as 153 percent since the
beginning of the  bull market  in March 2009.  Rio Alto Mining slumped 5.8 percent to C$2.29 as raw-materials stocks fell 0.2 percent as a group.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  asked Congress to delay a vote
on U.S. military action against Syria, saying in a speech
yesterday he would prefer a peaceful solution to the conflict
and saw “encouraging signs” of diplomacy ending the
confrontation.  Dundee REIT rose 1.8 percent to C$29.98 and Boardwalk REIT
added 1.1 percent to C$56.95 as the S&P/TSX Capped REIT Index
rose to a three-week high. REITs have advanced for three days,
the longest streak in a month.  Canadian Tire Corp., the country’s largest sporting goods
retailer, said yesterday it plans to raise about C$260 million
in an initial public offering for its REIT, according to two
people familiar with the sale.  Dollarama Soars  Dollarama surged 7 percent to C$79.30, a record high, after
posting adjusted earnings of 82 Canadian cents a share, ahead of
analysts’ estimates for 78 cents. The dollar-store operator’s
same-store sales increased 6.2 percent, compared with 3.7
percent in the first quarter.  Ithaca Energy Inc. soared 15 percent to C$2.35, the biggest
gain in 15 months, after reporting positive drilling results at
its Stella oil field in the  North Sea .  “Ithaca’s operating update confirms that the Stella
development project is continuing as planned,” said James Hosie, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in a note to clients
today. “The project is central to Ithaca’s outlook.”  Suncor added 0.7 percent to C$36.68 as crude rose in  New
York . Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , tumbled to the lowest
level since February 2012.  BlackBerry retreated 5.2 percent to C$10.74. The Waterloo,
Ontario-based company has registered to meet with Canadian
lawmakers to discuss the Investment Canada Act, which sets rules
for foreign acquisitions of local companies, according to
federal lobbying documents.  “It’s a difficult situation for Ottawa. They may be
thinking of a Chinese buyer. What other country would need that
kind of lobbying?” Nakamoto said. “You wouldn’t need this for
a U.S. buyer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  