-- Canadian Dollar Rises on Stronger Economic Outlook Versus U.S.
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-11T21:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/canadian-dollar-rises-on-stronger-economic-outlook-versus-u-s-.html
Canada ’s dollar rose for a fourth
day, the longest stretch of gains since July, as traders re-evaluated bets the nation’s economy would trail the U.S.’s in
light of recent data that’s shown stronger-than-forecast growth.  The currency touched an almost four-week high versus its
U.S. peer as President  Barack Obama  postponed a decision on
military strikes against  Syria  to pursue a diplomatic solution
to that country’s alleged chemical-weapons use, boosting riskier
assets. Canada’s dollar strengthened past its 100-day moving
average after data last week showed the economy created triple
the jobs analysts forecast in August while U.S. payroll growth
was less than projected.  “It looks like the path of least resistance, at least for
the loonie, is to the upside,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in
 Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a phone interview. “We had that
blockbuster jobs report out of Canada last week, and that’s
really been echoed in some of the other surveys we’ve seen
across Canada. So, yeah, I think the fundamental picture has
also shown signs of improvement.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.3 percent to
C$1.0319 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching
C$1.0314, the strongest level since Aug. 16. One Canadian dollar
buys 96.91 U.S. cents.  It breached the 100-day moving average at C$1.0333, a
signal to some traders a move has momentum to continue.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bond  rose, with
yields rising three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
2.79 percent after touching 2.83 percent, the highest since July
2011. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 gained 27
cents to C$89.16  The  Bank of Canada  auctioned C$400 million ($387 million)
of inflation linked notes maturing Dec. 2044 at an average
accepted yield of 1.368 percent, the highest level since May
2010.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, added 0.3
percent to $107.74 per barrel in  New York  and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks rose 0.3 percent.  Bets by  hedge funds  and other large speculators that the
Canadian dollar will decline against its U.S. peer reached the
most since June 14 last week, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of wagers on a decline in the loonie compared with those
on a gain --  net shorts  -- was 34,639 on Sept. 3, compared with
net shorts of 24,959 a week earlier, data Sept 6 showed.  ‘Squeezing’ Bears  “That bearish story was really well priced in,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a senior currency strategist at Societe Generale
SA, by phone from New York. Positive developments in Syria and
with Canada’s economy showed sentiment had grown too negative on
the Canadian dollar, he said, and “now basically we’re
squeezing these bears.”  Implied volatility for three-month options on Canada’s
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart rose from its lowest in seven
weeks, to 6.76 percent. Earlier it fell to 6.64 percent, the
lowest since July 23. The average for this year is 6.8 percent.
The measure is used to set option prices and gauge the expected
pace of currency swings.  The loonie has dropped 0.6 percent this year against nine
developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian, Japanese and
Norwegian currencies are the only other decliners this year,
while the  U.S. dollar  has gained 3.8 percent.  “We’ve seen quite positive fundamentals coming out of
Canada,” Eimear Daly, a currency-market analyst at Monex Europe
Ltd., said by phone from  London . “There was a lot of talk that
temporary factors in the Canadian economy would see a meatier
bottom-out, but that actually hasn’t come through in data, and
it looks like for now there could be quite a rebound already.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  