-- CBS Outshines Other Major Media Stocks
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e ,   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-09-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/cbs-outshines-other-major-media-stocks.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , which last week won
higher programming fees from Time Warner Cable Inc., is proving
the best investment among major media companies.  The most-watched TV network in the U.S., CBS produced the
highest risk-adjusted return for the past three years of the 16
companies listed in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Media Index,
according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. The stock
 more than tripled  in the period, making up for above-average
volatility, as media companies rebounded from the 2007-2009
economic crisis.  Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  has led broadcasters
toward an economic model more like the cable industry’s, drawing
subscription as well as advertising revenue. Large audiences for
“NCIS,” “The Big Bang Theory,” and National Football League
games have given New York-based CBS the clout, like ESPN and  Fox
News , to demand higher fees from pay-TV services such as Time
Warner Cable while allowing the company to sell digital rights
to distributors including Amazon.com Inc.  “CBS has done one of the best jobs managing the digital
transition,”  Alan Gould , an analyst with Evercore Partners in
 New York , said in an e-mail.  The company also is winning over stockholders by increasing
dividends, repurchasing shares and taking steps to get out of
the outdoor advertising business, said  Edward Atorino , an
analyst at Benchmark Co. in New York.  Prime Time  Bloomberg’s risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing
total return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The
returns aren’t annualized.  CBS had a total return of 262 percent, best among all
stocks in the ranking, and a volatility of 33, for a risk-adjusted gain of 7.8 percent in the three years ended yesterday.
NBCUniversal owner  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , with the third-highest
absolute gain and lower-than-par price swings, ranked second
with a risk-adjusted return of 6.2 percent.  Three years ago, CBS was trading at about $15 a share and
investors were concerned that a shrinking prime-time audience
would erode the broadcast television business as viewers
defected permanently to the Web.  As ad sales have been hurt by the audience decline,
broadcasters such as CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , have developed two new sources of revenue:
retransmission fees and online services. CBS has harnessed
Amazon, Netflix Inc. and other Internet video services to find
new revenue outlets for its shows. The company sold exclusive
online subscription rights this year to the hit show “Under the
Dome” to Amazon.com in a deal that enables streaming four days
after episodes air.  Selling Content  To maximize revenue, companies are pushing to get viewers
counted whether they watch live, later on DVR or online.  “As we look toward the future, it becomes more and more
important to have the ability to sell your content to Netflix,
to Amazon,  Hulu Plus , any other entrants in the field,” Moonves
said in a Sept. 4 interview with Bloomberg Television.  Television station owners also have been able to charge
pay-TV systems to retransmit their signals, even though they’re
available to homes for free over government-owned airwaves.
Networks like CBS and Fox, now part of  Rupert Murdoch ’s  21st
Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) , sought the fees for stations they owned, and
grabbed a cut of the money going to their affiliates.  Thriving ‘Dinosaurs’  “People wrongly believed they were dinosaurs,” said  Brian Wieser , an analyst at Pivotal Research Group who recommends
buying CBS stock. “Many had argued the death of television for
a very long time. And sentiment around it reflected that. This
medium isn’t dying, it’s thriving.”  Retransmission fees at CBS may double to $1 billion by 2016
from an estimated $500 million this year, said Wieser.  “You have a lot of engines driving real  cash flow ,”
Wieser said. “That’s sustainable.”  For the industry, retransmission fees are expected to at
least double to more than $6 billion by 2018 from $3 billion
this year, according to research firm SNL Kagan. In the most
recent quarter, CBS reported an 18 percent gain in affiliate and
subscription revenue, which includes the fees. The company
didn’t specify how much retransmission revenue grew alone. It
jumped 62 percent in the previous period.  CBS rose 0.9 percent to $54.05 yesterday in New York
trading. The shares have  advanced 42 percent  this year, topping
the 27 percent return for the S&P 500 Media Index.  Online Rights  In CBS’s negotiations with Time Warner Cable, Moonves
fought successfully to maintain the network’s right to sell most
of its content to online distributors. That field could expand
as Sony Corp.,  Intel Corp ., Apple Inc. and Google Inc. are
seeking to develop pay-TV systems that would deliver traditional
TV programming packages over the Internet.  The monthlong stalemate with Time Warner Cable left more
than 3 million viewers without access to CBS shows or sports
events including U.S. Open Tennis. In the end, the cable company
agreed to pay a significant increase for the right to carry CBS,
though still below $2 per subscriber per month, according to
people with knowledge of the situation who asked not to be
identified because the terms are private.  “We certainly didn’t get everything we wanted,” Time
Warner Cable CEO Glenn Britt said in a statement last week.  Next up is Walt Disney Co., owner of ESPN and the ABC
network, which is discussing renewal of its deal with satellite
TV-provider Dish Network Corp. that ends this month.  Government Intervention  More negotiations that result in protracted outages could
lead to government intervention at some point and threaten the
broadcasters’ ability to charge fees.  During Time Warner Cable’s dispute with CBS, Britt called
on Congress and the U.S Federal Communications Commission to
reassess the 1992 retransmission consent rules that allow
broadcasters such as CBS to charge cable companies for their
signals.  While the FCC didn’t take action, the CBS dispute with Time
Warner Cable may have planted the seeds for an update of the
rules, according to  Rich Greenfield , an analyst with BTIG LLC in
New York.  “The disequilibrium that currently exists is not
sustainable,” Greenfield said. “We expect change.”  Another potential threat to CBS and its peers comes from
Aereo Inc., a startup backed by billionaire  Barry Diller  that
gives users access to broadcast networks over the Internet
starting at $8 per month.  ‘Not Bashful’  Aereo, which essentially rents the use of tiny antennas
located in remote facilities in areas where it is available,
pays nothing to broadcasters. CBS and the others have alleged
copyright infringement and continue to appeal after losing
recent court battles to stop Aereo.  CBS’s stock isn’t as cheap as it once was, after five years
of gains that have brought it close to its all-time high from
2000. Still, the company is benefiting from smart scheduling and
aggressive negotiating for broadcast rights, said Benchmark’s
Atorino.  “If the economy doesn’t crater, broadcasting should defy
all the skeptics out there,” he said. “CBS is not bashful
about asking for more money. They’re in pretty good shape.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  