-- CFR Agrees to $1.3 Billion Purchase of S. Africa’s Adcock Ingram
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-09-11T15:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/cfr-agrees-to-1-3-billion-purchase-of-s-africa-s-adcock-ingram.html
CFR Pharmaceuticals SA (CFR) , Chile’s
largest drugmaker, agreed to pay 12.6 billion rand ($1.3
billion) in cash and shares for  Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP)  as
it seeks to expand in  emerging markets .  CFR will settle 51 percent to 64.3 percent of the purchase
through cash and the balance through new CFR shares, the
companies said in a joint statement today. The transaction
equates to 73.51 rand an Adcock share, they said.  The deal “will create a uniquely diversified emerging
markets pharmaceuticals company with listings in Santiago and
Johannesburg, targeting a market of over two billion patients
across Latin America,  Africa , South East Asia and India,” the
companies said in the statement.  CFR fended off competition from London-based private equity
firm Actis LLP and  Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT) , a Johannesburg-based food
and car sales company, in agreeing to buy Adcock, the maker of
drugs including Panado painkillers. CFR, which listed stock in
Santiago in 2011, bought Laboratorio Franco Colombiano Lafrancol
SAS in December for $560 million, giving it the biggest share of
the Colombian market.  The transaction will allow CFR to make cost savings worth
at least $440 million, according to the statement. Adcock Ingram
will generate as much as 40 percent of the group’s combined
revenue. Adcock will be delisted from the Johannesburg exchange
and CFR plans a secondary listing on the bourse, they said.  CFR will transfer “manufacturing capacity to  South Africa ,
preserving and growing jobs and maintaining Adcock Ingram’s
commitment to broad-based black economic empowerment,” it said,
referring to South African laws that require companies to sell
at stakes in their local operations to black citizens, with
transactions that benefit workers,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  