-- China Money Rate Drops First Time in Four Days as PBOC Adds Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-11T03:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/china-money-rate-drops-first-time-in-four-days-as-pboc-adds-cash.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell for the first time in four days on speculation cash supply
will improve as the central bank adds funds to the financial
system.  The People’s Bank of China injected 10 billion  yuan  ($1.6
billion) yesterday via seven-day reverse-repurchase agreements
at 3.9 percent, according to a statement on its website. The
PBOC asked lenders to submit orders today for 14-day reverse
repos and 28-day repo contracts, and gauged demand for 91-day
bills, according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid
at the auctions.  “It’s extremely unlikely for China to have another
interbank liquidity crunch in the near future,” Zhi Xiaojia and
Lu Ting, Hong Kong-based economists at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, wrote in a report. “Interbank rates may inch up in the
second half of September, but most likely the PBOC will do
whatever it can to prevent a possible liquidity squeeze.”  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the banking system, declined 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage
point, to 3.48 percent as of 10:44 a.m. in Shanghai, a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center
showed. Chinese markets will be shut during Sept. 19-20 for the
mid-Autumn festival and Oct. 1-7 for the National Day holidays.  The cost of one-year interest rate swap contracts, the
fixed payment to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, was
unchanged at 4.16 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China may accelerate the opening of its capital account to
achieve sustainable economic growth, according to a commentary
in China Securities Journal by reporter Ren Xiao.  The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent bonds due August
2023 increased six basis points to 4.15 percent, according to
prices from the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  