-- Marriott, Starwood Rise as Wang Seeks to Buy Hotel Chains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-11T22:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/china-s-richest-man-wang-hunts-hotel-management-companies.html
Shares of  Marriott (MAR)  International
Inc. and  Starwood (HOT)  Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. climbed in
U.S. trading after China’s richest man Wang Jianlin said he has
hired two investment banks to buy hotel management companies.  Marriott gained 3.2 percent, the biggest increase in three
weeks, and Starwood advanced 1.4 percent in trading on the  New
York  Stock Exchange yesterday.  Wang’s  Dalian Wanda Group  wants to build hotels in as many
as 10 major cities around the world including projects planned
for  London  and New York, Wang said in an interview with
 Bloomberg News  at the  World Economic Forum  in Dalian yesterday.
He didn’t name the investment banks or targets, and said he had
been in talks with “several” companies over the past year.  “It’s a slow process. Those companies we liked, they might
not be willing to sell,” Wang said. “Those willing to be
bought, we might sometimes feel the brand isn’t as good. For
those open to a sale and at the right price, the negotiations
can also sometimes be very tough.”  Wang said he is also in talks with overseas movie theater
chains following his $2.6 billion purchase of the second-largest
U.S. cinema operator AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. last year.
At the time, it was the biggest acquisition of a U.S.
corporation by a Chinese company.  Wang’s closely held Dalian Wanda Group develops property
and shopping malls and runs department stores, luxury hotels and
movie theaters. Over two decades, he has built 72 shopping
centers throughout  China  called “Wanda Plazas,” anchored by
his company’s department stores, office buildings and cinemas.  Luxury Hotels  He said he wants to build five-star hotels at a rate of 15
per year. Wanda has 40 hotels.  “Wanda is looking at hotels as this is an important
business, and hotels are the biggest luxury item globally, even
bigger and more expensive than yachts and planes,” he said.  Dalian Wanda’s revenue will exceed $100 billion by 2020
with least 20 percent of sales coming from outside of China, he
said. Wang is accelerating acquisitions overseas as the real
estate market in China is overheating.  China’s property market is “definitely” in a bubble, Wang
said. At the same time, it is “controllable, not big.”  The Dalian Wanda conglomerate is owned by Wang and his son
Wang Sicong. The 58-year-old has a net worth of $13.7 billion,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Wang said he plans to go forward with plans to sell shares
in AMC overseas. Last month, AMC disclosed plans for a U.S.
initial public offering, seeking $400 million. The chain may use
proceeds to fuel expansion and repay debt, according a
regulatory filing. The company had about $2.1 billion of long-term debt on June 30.  British Interests  He acquired a stake in Sunseeker International Ltd., a
U.K.-based maker of luxury yachts used in the  James Bond movies ,
for $1.6 billion in June. Wang said he also plans to spend more
than $1 billion to build a luxury residential complex along the
banks of London’s Thames river.  The billionaire is the oldest of five brothers born to a
military family in western China’s Sichuan province, near the
border with  Tibet . His father fought for Mao Zedong’s Red Army
during the Long March campaign in the 1930s, and later against
the Japanese in World War II.  Wang joined the  People’s Liberation Army  as a teenager and
served for 16 years before he was honorably discharged as an
officer. He later landed a job at an indebted residential
developer affiliated with the Northern port city of Dalian,
changed the company’s name to Dalian Wanda and became the
general manager in 1992. He took control in 1998.  When asked if he believed his company would become as large
as it is today, Wang laughed.  “No, I didn’t dare to dream so big then. Then, the
thinking was we’d strive for 100 million  yuan  and that would be
enough,” Wang said. “My initial thinking was that I would make
some money and provide my family with a better life. But as we
expanded, the goal kept changing and kept increasing.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  