-- Coeure Says ECB Needs Global Derivatives Data for Bank Oversight
-- B y   P a u l   G o r d o n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-09-11T12:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/coeure-says-ecb-needs-global-derivatives-data-for-bank-oversight.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said the ECB will need better access
to international data on over-the-counter derivatives when it
starts to supervise euro-area lenders.  Access to derivatives data relating to a European bank’s
overseas operations “is key to assessing the overall risk
exposure of a given banking group,” Coeure said at an event in
Paris today. “We need to remove barriers to access and provide
a mechanism to aggregate data across trade repositories and
jurisdictions in order to be able to have a comprehensive
overview of the risks in OTC derivatives markets.”  Nations are trying to bolster and align rules for the  $633
trillion  market for swaps and other OTC derivatives. The
instruments became a target for reinforced oversight after the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the rescue of
American International Group Inc., two of the largest traders in
credit-default swaps. Global plans include boosting the use of
clearinghouses, pushing activity onto regulated markets and
requiring banks to put up more collateral.  Coeure said authorities must monitor the impact of
regulatory changes and mandatory clearing requirements on risk
management at the central clearinghouses. That’s because some
market participants won’t be able to access central
counterparties directly but will have to go “via a direct
clearing member.”  “The systemic risk concentration in a small number of
global financial institutions is further increased,” he said.
“This aggravates the risk that these financial institutions may
act as contagion channels for financial disturbances and may
become or be perceived to be ‘too big to fail’.”  The EU Parliament is scheduled to vote tomorrow on the euro
area’s Single Supervisory Mechanism. That will give the ECB
bank-oversight duties in a bid to help quell the  European debt
crisis  by separating the financial woes of governments and
lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Gordon in Frankfurt at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  