-- Companies Forego New Buildings for Renovations: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-09-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/companies-forego-new-buildings-for-renovations-ecopulse.html
Many American businesses are
choosing to save money by renovating existing buildings instead
of constructing new ones, a sign that caution persists even as
the economic recovery enters its fifth year.  Major alteration projects -- those costing more than
$100,000 -- climbed as a share of total nonresidential
construction as the recession began and haven’t yet come down,
breaking from historical patterns, according to Robert Murray,
vice president of economic affairs at McGraw Hill Construction.  That’s unusual for this stage of an expansion because
remodeling or retrofitting historically rises during a
construction downturn, then recedes as the economy picks up and
investment in new construction follows, he said.  Upgrades generally are viewed by companies as a “less
risky investment” than building new structures and “the still
cautious environment for development is contributing to the
continued high share of alteration work,” Murray said.  Updates to commercial, manufacturing and institutional
structures made up 26.7 percent of total nonresidential building
starts in the first eight months of 2013, little changed from
the 26.3 percent average in 2010-2012 following the 18-month
recession that ended in 2009, based on figures from the
forecasting unit of McGraw Hill Construction of  New York . That
compares with 18.8 percent in the prior decade.  UN, Vegas  Alterations are forecast to grow 2 percent this year to
$41.9 billion, Murray said. The $100 million restoration of the
United Nations General Assembly Hall in New York and the $165
million renovation of Gansevoort Las Vegas Hotel are among
projects that reached the construction stage between January and
July, based on information from McGraw Hill Construction.  In a low-growth environment, many companies haven’t been
able to justify adding or expanding to their facilities, said
Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $221.2 billion as chief
portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in  Menomonee
Falls ,  Wisconsin . Instead, business leaders are trying to make
better use of existing structures to minimize costs, he said.  U.S. gross domestic product has expanded by an average
annualized rate of about 2.2 percent each quarter since the
downturn ended, compared with an average 2.8 percent in the four
years preceding the recession, Commerce Department data show.  Tax Breaks  Amid sluggish demand, energy-efficient upgrades -- such as
replacing lighting or heating, ventilation and air conditioning
systems -- offer both cost savings and potential tax breaks for
companies, Jacobsen said. These incentives have helped to buoy
demand for retrofitting work in lieu of new construction, he
said.  In addition, a “more rigorous environment” for obtaining
financing has inhibited some companies from building new
structures, Murray said.  Even with such factors helping to spur activity, it’s still
surprising that the share of retrofitting work, relative to new
construction, hasn’t fallen yet, said Kermit Baker, chief
economist for the  American Institute of Architects . While it’s
encouraging that business leaders are willing to invest in their
structures, the broader economic benefit is lower because new
construction usually spurs greater activity than renovations, he
said.  Hedging Bets  Investors can take advantage of the increase in alteration-related projects, while still hedging in case new construction
starts to increase again, Jacobsen said. That’s why he favors
industries that benefit from growth in both types of building
activity, he said.  Lighting systems are “ripe for renovation” and companies
specializing in these products offer investment opportunities,
said Scotty McConnaughey, senior vice president of U.S. equities
at Standard Life Investments in  Boston , which oversees about
$271 billion. “Executives are trying to do less with more,”
making work that provides a “good return on capital”
particularly attractive, she said.  Lighting expenses make up about 30 percent of total energy
costs for a typical commercial building, so there are
“significant” potential cost savings within 12 months to 24
months of an upgrade, she said.  Acuity Brands Inc. (AYI) , which
provides indoor and outdoor systems, is one company that will
particularly benefit from increased demand, McConnaughey said.  Two Ponds  The Atlanta-based company experienced “continued growth
for larger renovation projects” in the three months ended May
31, Chief Executive Officer Vernon Nagel said on a July 2
conference call. Acuity is “really learning how to fish in two
ponds” -- new construction and retrofitting -- and forecasts
that the lighting industry will experience “significant
growth” in the next decade, driven by energy and environmental
concerns, he said.  “While we expect the economic environment to continue to
be challenging, we anticipate that businesses and consumers in
 North America  will accelerate their investments as uncertainties
over U.S. fiscal issues dissipate and the economy continues to
improve,” Nagel said.  Even so, Wells Fargo’s Jacobsen said, tax incentives that
have helped buoy renovation work could be at risk in the
upcoming budget debate in Congress. “Some of the tax areas that
could’ve been beneficial to businesses may be jeopardized,” he
said.  Renovation’s Limitations  There also are limitations to the usefulness of renovation
versus new construction, Jacobsen said. Retrofitting doesn’t
always make sense if a company is expanding production and
structures used in some industries, such as agriculture, aren’t
as well suited to renovations as office buildings, for example,
he said.  While there’s been a big pickup in the share of alteration
work for some project types, such as retail and offices, others
have yet to show significant increases, Murray said.  Still, if history is a precedent, the share of
nonresidential construction starts that are renovation-related
will decline as business leaders become more confident about
investing in new facilities, Murray said.  Sentiment among chief executive officers weakened in August
to the lowest level since March, as the Chief Executive magazine
confidence index fell to 5.82 from 5.84 the prior month, based
on an e-mail survey conducted by the  magazine . The  Federal
Reserve  noted in its Sept. 4 Beige Book survey that companies
have “lowered their expectations somewhat regarding hiring and
capital spending plans” since the last survey conducted in
July.  Notwithstanding the “pronounced steep downturn” in
building activity related to the recession, Baker of the
architects institute said he’s been surprised by the sluggish
recovery in new construction. Until leaders are more confident
in their demand environment, the share of retrofitting relative
to starts could remain elevated, he said.  “Companies are trying to get by with a little overtime or
by retooling their existing facility,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  