-- Copper Leads Industrial-Metal Gains as Syria Concerns Ease
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-11T02:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/copper-leads-industrial-metal-gains-as-syria-concerns-ease.html
Copper climbed, pacing other
industrial metals, on reduced concern that a conflict in  Syria 
would hurt a global recovery after U.S. President  Barack Obama 
called for a pause in authorizing military strikes.  Metal for delivery in three months advanced as much as 0.6
percent to $7,210 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange and
was at $7,199.50 at 10:39 a.m. in  Shanghai . The price touched
$7,243 on Sept. 9, the highest intra-day level since Sept. 4.
Aluminum rose 0.3 percent and zinc gained 0.4 percent.  Obama asked Congress to delay a vote on military action
while he pursues a diplomatic solution for Syria in light of
Russia’s proposal for international control of the regime’s
chemical weapons, he said in a speech to the nation yesterday.
The U.S. said Syria used the weapons last month against
civilians and had threatened a punitive strike in response.  “Everyone in the market now should feel a bit relieved
about the Middle East tension,” said Li Ye, an analyst with
Shenyin & Wanguo Futures Co. “People will switch their focus to
a possible U.S. tapering and  China ’s economic recovery.”  Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said major August economic
indicators have shown trends of recovery, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday. He also said that monetary
easing, macroeconomic policies adjustment and deficit increase
may have impact in the short run, the report said. Li will
address a  World Economic Forum  meeting in Dalian today.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C.
Dudley speaks tomorrow amid forecasts that policy makers will
announce a slowing in bond purchases next week.  Copper for delivery in December climbed 0.3 percent to
52,130  yuan  ($8,519) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.
Metal for delivery in December was up 0.5 percent at $3.2785 a
pound on the Comex in New York.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  