-- Corzine Seeks Dismissal of CFTC Lawsuit Over MF Global
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-09-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/corzine-seeks-dismissal-of-cftc-lawsuit-over-mf-global.html
Jon Corzine , former chief executive
officer of bankrupt MF Global Holdings Ltd., asked that a
lawsuit against him by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
be dismissed.  The CFTC sued Corzine in June for failing to oversee the
brokerage company properly while it spiraled toward failure in
2011 as $1.6 billion in customer funds went missing. After
“exhaustive investigations lasting 19 months,” the CFTC hasn’t
produced evidence to support its claims, Corzine said in a
filing yesterday in federal court in  New York .  The CFTC’s complaint “relies on irrelevant allegations
calculated to sully Mr. Corzine’s character, as well as rambling
hindsight criticisms of complex management decisions, many of
which were made during times of extreme stress,” Corzine said
in the filing.  MF Global’s collapse on Oct. 31, 2011, a year and half
after Corzine joined the firm, was the eighth-biggest bankruptcy
in U.S. history. Wrong-way $6.3 billion trades on bonds of some
of  Europe ’s most-indebted nations helped destroy the firm and
its brokerage unit, which listed assets of $41 billion and debt
of $39.7 billion in its Chapter 11 filing.  Corzine, who is also a former U.S. senator and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-chairman, came to MF Global in March 2010
intent on turning the commodity brokerage firm into a global
investment bank that generated substantial revenue from
proprietary trading, the CFTC said in the complaint. His plans
included making larger and riskier investments from the
company’s funds, according to the complaint.  Customer Funds  The CFTC alleges Corzine did nothing about inadequate
controls over misuse of customer funds, that he was aware of the
New York-based firm’s extreme shortage of cash and that he
didn’t ask any questions about where the money was coming from
to make transfers he ordered.  Corzine has previously argued that he never ordered any
misuse of customer funds to help his firm stay afloat as it
dealt with margin calls on bad bets. He testified to Congress
under subpoena and under oath that he asked that overdrafts with
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  be corrected, and that he never gave any
instruction to misuse customer funds.  He also said he didn’t believe anything he said could
reasonably have been interpreted as an instruction to misuse
customer funds.  Dennis Holden, a CFTC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
after regular business hours yesterday to a phone call seeking
comment on the filing. Chad Silverman, a lawyer representing the
CFTC, also didn’t immediately respond after regular business
hours to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. MF
Global Inc., 13-cv-04463 and 11-cv-07866, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  