-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Verizon Issues $49 Billion in Bonds
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-11T21:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-verizon-prepares-49-billion-deal.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
declined as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  completed a record
corporate-bond offering.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.8
basis points to a mid-price of 76.2 basis points as of 4:17 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure typically falls as investor confidence improves and
climbs as it deteriorates.  Investors watched the second-largest U.S. phone carrier’s
$49 billion, eight-part bond sale today to see how the market
would react to the issuance, according to Marc Pinto, head of
corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna International Group LLP
in New York. After Verizon’s offering, which was more than
double  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s $17 billion transaction in April, the
company’s swaps declined to the lowest level in a week.  “Everybody is focusing on Verizon,” Pinto said in a
telephone interview before the deal priced. “It’s the most
important thing that’s happening today and everything feeds out
of that one sale.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Verizon Offering  Proceeds from the offering will help the New York-based
company purchase  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 45 percent stake in
 Verizon Wireless  for $130 billion.  Five-year credit swaps tied to Verizon debt fell 14 basis
points to 87.5 basis points as of 3:47 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Earlier this week, swaps for the company climbed to as high
as 111.7, the highest intraday level since May 2010.  Defaults on global  junk bonds  fell last month, according to
a report dated yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service.  The trailing 12-month global speculative-grade default rate
was 2.9 percent in August, down from 3 percent in July,
according to the rating company.  U.S. Defaults  The U.S. speculative-grade default rate dropped to 2.8
percent last month from 2.9 percent in July. Moody’s forecasts
the global rate to climb to 3.1 percent at the end of this year.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 7.5 basis points to 368.3, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 1 basis point to 133.5 basis
points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade,
or junk-rated, debt widened 4.7 basis points to 600.2.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  