-- Crude Rises First Time in Three Days on Cushing Supply
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-09-11T19:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/crude-rises-first-time-in-three-days-on-inventories.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
for the first time in three days as stockpiles at Cushing,
 Oklahoma , tumbled to the lowest level since February 2012 and
refinery utilization climbed.  Prices advanced 17 cents. Inventories at Cushing, the
delivery point for New York-traded futures, slid for a 10th
week, the longest stretch in two years, according to data from
the Energy Information Administration. Refineries ran at 92.5
percent of capacity, the highest level for this time of year
since 2006. Futures fell earlier as President  Barack Obama 
postponed a decision on military strikes against Syria.  “It’s a good sign that Cushing oil is making its way to
outside markets,” said Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-based commodity analyst at energy management firm Schneider
Electric Professional Services. “The refinery runs are very
high and should be supportive. There is further uncertainty as
to whether or not a strike will be launched.”  WTI for October delivery settled at $107.56 a barrel on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange. The volume of all futures traded
was 14 percent below the 100-day average at 3:48 p.m. Prices
have advanced 17 percent this year.  Brent for October settlement gained 25 cents, or 0.2
percent, to end the session at $111.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 15 percent above
the 100-day average. The European benchmark crude was at a
premium of $3.94 to WTI. It shrank to $3.86 yesterday, the
narrowest level on a settlement basis since Aug. 19.  Cushing Supplies  Inventories at Cushing have tumbled 31 percent since June
as improved pipeline networks and shipments by rail eased a
North American supply glut created by rising oil production from
shale formations.  They slipped 639,000 barrels last week to 34.1 million, the
EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, reported. Domestic
production increased to 7.75 million barrels a day, the highest
level since May 1989.  U.S. refineries boosted their operating rate for a fourth
week, gaining 0.8 percentage point to an eight-week high. The
rate has increased 3.1 percentage points since Aug. 9.  Rising refinery utilization “increases the demand for
crude oil, which has translated into a drawing of Cushing
inventories,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  ‘High Gear’  “U.S. refineries continue to kick into high gear,” said
Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “It’s huge for this time of year and the market is
reflecting that fact.”  Total crude inventories decreased 219,000 barrels last week
to 360 million, the EIA said. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast a drop of 2.1 million. Supplies slipped for the ninth
time in 11 weeks.  Gasoline stockpiles rose 1.66 million barrels to 217.6
million, and distillate fuels, which include diesel and heating
oil, gained 2.59 million barrels to 132.2 million, the EIA said.
Analysts had expected a drop of 1 million barrels in gasoline
and a gain of 600,000 barrels in distillates.  “The crude draw is less than expected,” said Tariq Zahir,
a New York-based commodity fund manager at Tyche Capital
Advisors. “Crude probably should move lower.”  Obama said yesterday that he would pursue a Russian
proposal to have  Syria  surrender its stockpiles of chemical arms
to international authorities.  Threatened Strike  The president announced 10 days ago that he would ask
Congress to authorize a military strike against Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s regime for allegedly using chemical weapons
against civilians. Obama said he would give the Russian proposal
a chance in a nationally televised address yesterday.  Assad’s government has agreed to the plan to give up the
weapons, the Interfax news agency yesterday cited Syrian Foreign
Minister Walid al-Muallem as saying. France said it will submit
a plan to the United Nations to confiscate the country’s
chemical weapons.  Worries that an escalation of the conflict in Syria may
disrupt regional oil supplies pushed prices to a two-year high
on Aug. 28.  The Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global oil
production in the first quarter of this year, according to the
International Energy Agency. Syria borders  Iraq  and is near
 Iran , countries that together hold almost a fifth of the output
capacity from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
Bloomberg estimates show.  Implied Volatility  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 22.1 percent, down from 25.1 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 475,416
contracts as of 3:48 p.m. It totaled 672,581 contracts
yesterday, 6.3 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.9 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  