-- Dahabshiil Vows to Comply With Barclays’s Rules to Keep Account
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-09-11T11:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/dahabshiil-vows-to-comply-with-barclays-s-rules-to-keep-account.html
Dahabshiil Holdings Ltd., the
Somali money-transfer operator, said it will comply with any new
banking rules as humanitarian organizations lobbied to stop
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  from closing the company’s bank account.  “Tell us what we should do and we will do it,” Chief
Executive Officer Abdirashid Duale told a conference in the
Kenyan capital, Nairobi, today.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, said in
May it will close the account that  Dahabshiil  uses to send money
back to Somalia on July 10, citing its lack of “strong anti-money laundering governance structures.” That date was moved to
Aug. 12 and postponed again to Sept. 30.  As much as $500 million of the $1.5 billion sent home
annually by those living abroad to Somalia is handled by London-based Barclays, Duale said. Dubai-based Dahabshiil has 24,000
outlets spread across 150 nations, including the U.K.  The United Nation’s resident and humanitarian coordinator
for  Somalia , Philippe Lazzarini, and non-governmental
organizations including Oxfam Somalia and Nairobi-based African
Development Solutions, or  Adeso , called on Barclays to postpone
closing money-transfer operators’ bank accounts for a year to
allow time to find a “sustainable solution.”  “Remittances are more and more the backbone of the  Somali
economy ,” said Degan Ali, Adeso’s executive director. “It is
much larger than humanitarian assistance and investment
combined.”  The humanitarian agencies are lobbying both the U.K.
government and lenders to find an alternative solution to
address what they call “fears and perception” of risk involved
in money transfer to Somalia.  Possible solutions include asking the money-transfer
operators and lenders to develop a biometric database of the
Somali population because the Somalia government doesn’t have a
formal identification system, said Ed Pomfret, acting country
director of Oxfam Somalia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  