-- Daimler to Add Renault-Nissan Fuso Vans to Global Cooperation
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-09-11T12:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/daimler-to-add-renault-nissan-fuso-vans-to-global-cooperation.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Renault SA (RNO)  are
expanding their global cooperation to include commercial vans
made in Japan as the manufacturers continue to identify new
projects together.  Renault’s alliance partner  Nissan Motor Corp. (7201)  will supply
Daimler with the NV350 Urvan to be sold under its Mitsubishi
Fuso brand in selected export markets, the companies said today
at the International Auto Show in Frankfurt.  “We will continue to seek out new projects together that
make sense for all partners,” Daimler Chief Executive Officer
 Dieter Zetsche  said at a news conference.  The manufacturers have gradually added projects to their
three-year-old cooperation, which was originally focused on
Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler’s Smart city cars and Mercedes-Benz delivery vans. Last year, the companies agreed to jointly
develop a four-cylinder gasoline engine and to license Mercedes
transmissions for Nissan’s Infiniti luxury brand to be made in
Mexico.  “There’s no limit to the cooperation, there’s no taboo,”
 Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer at both Renault and
Nissan, said at the event.  Tennessee Production  The ramp up of a joint engine production in Decherd,
Tennessee is on track for production start in mid-2014, Ghosn
said. The engines will be used in the mid-sized Mercedes-Benz C-Class and new Nissan Infiniti cars.  Mercedes and Infiniti are not competing for the same
customers, said Ghosn. “Cross-shopping between the two brands
is limited.”  The two partners will also look into a possible cooperation
in the large van segment even as talks haven’t started yet,
Zetsche said. A Daimler contract to rebadge the Mercedes
Sprinter for  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  will cease at the end of 2016,
Daimler said last week. The decision to end production for
Volkswagen was independent of any possible cooperation with
Renault-Nissan, Zetsche said.  Daimler and Renault, which is based in the Paris suburb of
Boulogne-Billancourt, cooperate on Daimler’s smaller Citan
delivery van, which the German company adapted from Renault’s
Kangoo.  The manufacturers are also considering teaming up on future
compact car models. The review continues and no decision on a
possible joint production in  Mexico  has been made, Ghosn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  