-- De Blasio Leads Thompson in NYC Democratic Mayoral Primary
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-09-11T04:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/de-blasio-leads-democrats-for-nyc-mayoral-bid-poll-results-show.html
New York Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, who wants to boost taxes on the wealthy, led former city
Comptroller  William Thompson  in the race for the  Democratic
Party ’s nomination for mayor, according to unofficial results.  With 96 percent of precincts reporting, de Blasio had 40.2
percent to Thompson’s 26.2 percent and City Council Speaker
Christine Quinn’s 15.2 percent, the  Associated Press  reported.  “What we have achieved here tonight, and what we will do
in the next round of this campaign, won’t just change the view
of how things look inside  City Hall , but will change the
policies that have left behind so many of our fellow New Yorkers
outside of City Hall,” de Blasio told supporters at a party in
Brooklyn.  While de Blasio needed 40 percent to avoid an Oct. 1
runoff, Thompson said he wouldn’t leave the race. The winner
will face Republican Joseph Lhota, 58, a deputy to former Mayor
 Rudolph Giuliani , in a Nov. 5 general election. Lhota defeated
supermarket billionaire  John Catsimatidis  and George McDonald,
founder of the nonprofit Doe Fund for the homeless, with 52.5
percent of the vote in that party’s primary, according to the
AP.  Second Again  De Blasio, 52, seized the lead over Quinn in most polls
during the past month campaigning against police stop-and-frisk
tactics and what he said were Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s policies
favoring the rich. A former City Council member, de Blasio
proposed increasing the municipal tax on income above $500,000
to raise $532 million to pay for all-day pre-kindergarten and
after-school activities for adolescents. The measure would have
to be approved by the legislature.  “You made this campaign a cause,” he told supporters.  Thompson, 60, the only black candidate, had support from
unions representing teachers and law-enforcement officers. As
the party’s mayoral nominee in 2009, Thompson lost to Bloomberg
by 4.3 percentage points as the mayor spent more than $100
million to win a third term.  Speaking to supporters at a Midtown hotel last night,
Thompson offered no concession.  “This race is still incredibly close and there are still
tens of thousands of votes that need to be counted,” he told
supporters.  “This is far from over,” he said.  The mayor, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP is legally barred from a fourth term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  