-- De Blasio Leads in New York Democratic Mayoral Primary
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-09-11T16:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/de-blasio-gets-most-votes-in-new-york-democratic-mayoral-primary.html
New York  City Public Advocate Bill de Blasio won the most votes in the Democratic mayoral primary,
after campaigning against the police department’s stop-and-frisk
tactics and what he said were Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s policies
favoring the rich.  Whether he is the outright winner or must face the second-place finisher, former city Comptroller  William Thompson , in an
Oct. 1 runoff won’t be known until next week, said Valerie
Vazquez, a spokeswoman for the Board of Elections. The agency’s
staff will collect votes from malfunctioning lever machines
starting on Sept. 13 and begin counting at least 19,000 paper
absentee ballots and affidavit votes on Sept. 16.  “Realistically, I don’t think we could complete it on
Monday,” Vazquez, referring to an official count, said by
telephone today.  De Blasio, 52, elected four years ago to the citywide
watchdog post, had 40.2 percent of the unofficial voting-machine
tally with 98 percent of precincts reporting, according to the
 Associated Press . Thompson finished second, with 26.1 percent.  A total above 40 percent would allow de Blasio to avoid a
runoff. Thompson didn’t concede and said he’d fight on.  ‘Left Behind’  “What we have achieved here tonight and what we will do in
the next round of this campaign won’t just change the view of
how things look inside  City Hall , but will change the policies
that have left behind so many of our fellow New Yorkers outside
of City Hall,” de Blasio told supporters at a party last night
in  Brooklyn .  The Democratic winner will face Republican Joseph Lhota,
58, who served eight years as a top aide to former Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani , in the Nov. 5 general election. Lhota, former chairman
of the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , won 52 percent
against two rivals, supermarket billionaire  John Catsimatidis 
and George McDonald, founder of the nonprofit Doe Fund.  Democrats outnumber Republicans more than 6-to-1 in the
most populous U.S. city, where Democratic President  Barack Obama 
got 80 percent of the vote last year. Yet for the past two
decades City Hall has been occupied by Giuliani, a Republican,
and Bloomberg, who ran in 2001 and 2005 as a Republican and in
2009 as an independent.  During that span, crime rates and welfare rolls plummeted
and parks, stadiums, shopping, tourism, luxury apartments and
office towers rose.  ’Two Cities’  De Blasio built his Democratic support by speaking of a
“Tale of Two Cities,” where almost half of New York residents
are poor or struggling amid the luxury.  “Pretty soon you’re going to have to be rich to live in
 Manhattan ,” said Kay Logan, 68, a retired teacher, as she
waited to vote at 125th Street and Adam Clayton Powell Boulevard
in Harlem. “De Blasio really spoke to those issues for
communities of color.”  The next mayor will confront expired labor contracts with
almost all the city’s workforce of 300,000. Municipal unions
have insisted that wage increases include retroactive pay for
the years worked without a contract, a proposition Bloomberg has
rejected, saying it would cost as much as 10 percent of the
city’s $70 billion annual budget.  Back Pay  De Blasio said he’s open to the possibility of granting
back pay.  A former city council member from Brooklyn, de Blasio
proposed increasing the municipal tax on income above $500,000
to raise $532 million to pay for all-day pre-kindergarten and
after-school activities for adolescents. The measure would have
to be approved by the state legislature.  Bloomberg attacked de Blasio’s proposal in a  New York
magazine  interview published during the weekend before the
election, in which the mayor called the public advocate’s
campaign “class warfare.”  “This helped de Blasio among Democratic primary voters who
are more liberal and were looking for a change,” said  Robert Shapiro , a Columbia University political science professor.  In addition to proposing a tax increase, de Blasio may seek
to address economic inequality by “asking businesses to help,”
Howard Cure, director of municipal research for Evercore Wealth
Management LLC in New York, said by e-mail today.  Key Questions  While “selective” New York City bonds remain “a key
holding,” Cure said, “investing in New York City debt will
become more difficult in this environment. Potential changes in
business practices through legislation could result in mandatory
paid sick leave for all small businesses, a ‘living-wage’
requirement for retailers” and “curtailed development
subsidies,” Cure said.  Many of those initiatives “will require the approval of
the city council as well as approval from the Albany
legislature,” said Cure, whose firm oversees $4.7 billion in
assets, including muni debt. “What impact these changes will
have on the trajectory of the city’s economic growth remains a
key question.”  Among transactions of $1 million or more, New York City
general obligations maturing in August 2028 traded today at
11:10 a.m. in New York with an average yield of about 4.21
percent, down from 4.28 percent Sept. 6, the highest yield this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ’Dante Effect’  De Blasio, who is white, has also highlighted his
opposition to police stop-and-frisk tactics, which affect mostly
young black and Latino men. His wife, Chirlane McCray, who is
black, is a frequent companion at campaign events. In a
 television commercial , their 15-year-old son, Dante, sporting a
large Afro, praises de Blasio as the only candidate likely to
rein in stop-and-frisk. He then reveals that de Blasio is his
dad.  Pollster  Lee Miringoff , director of the Poughkeepsie, New
York Marist Institute of  Public Opinion , said the ad created
“the Dante effect.”  “Clearly that’s when things changed for him in a dramatic
way,” he said.  For de Blasio, the victory marked a stark turnaround. He
was in fourth place with just 10 percent support in a June 26
Quinnipiac poll. The ad featuring his son began Aug. 9; de
Blasio seized his first lead in an Aug. 14 survey.  “It’s a testament to a campaign that peaked at the right
time,” Miringoff said. “It reflects the fact that following a
three-term mayor, voters want to move in a different
direction.”  Three-Term Vote  The defining issue of the campaign may have been the 2008
City Council vote, led by candidate and Council Speaker
Christine Quinn, to allow third terms for Bloomberg and most
council members, which abrogated two previous referendum votes
limiting local officials to two four-year terms, said Douglas Muzzio, professor of urban politics at Manhattan’s  Baruch
College .  “Quinn suffered on account of it,” Muzzio said.  Quinn, 47, finished third with 15.5 percent of the
Democratic vote. Among the other candidates, former U.S.
Representative Anthony Weiner received 4.9 percent; city
Comptroller  John Liu , 7 percent, and former City Councilman Sal
Albanese, 0.9 percent, according to the AP.  Weiner, 48, entered the race May 22 and seized a lead from
Quinn in several polls, only to lose support in July with
revelations that he used the alias “Carlos Danger” to send sex
texts and lewd photos of himself to a woman over the Internet
last year -- behavior similar to that which forced him to resign
from Congress in 2011.  Stop-And-Frisk  De Blasio benefited most from Weiner’s demise, persuading
Democrats that he was the most progressive candidate with a
chance to win, Muzzio said.  “De Blasio offered the most consistent, clear critique of
the Bloomberg administration, raising issues of inequality of
wealth and inequality of treatment, as with the stop-and-frisk
issue,” Muzzio said. “He was able to portray himself as the
change candidate and offered at least the appearance of being
most unlike Bloomberg.”  The same issues that led to de Blasio’s strong showing
among Democrats may create challenges in a general election,
said Shapiro, the Columbia University political scientist.  “While the Democratic primary electorate may not be
enamored of Bloomberg, other voters may appreciate the ways he’s
been effective and be wary of de Blasio being beholden to labor
unions and other groups,” Shapiro said. “Lhota may find
support from voters who aren’t happy with all the Bloomberg
bashing.”  Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  