-- Dell Said to Set Rate on $5.5 Billion of Term Loans for Buyout
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2013-09-11T19:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/dell-said-to-set-rate-on-5-5-billion-of-term-loans-for-buyout.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , the computer maker that
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management
LLC are buying for $24.9 billion, set the rate on $5.5 billion
of loans it’s seeking to support the acquisition, according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction.  A $4 billion, 6 1/2-year  term loan  will pay interest at
3.75 percentage points more than the London interbank offered
rate, with a 1 percent minimum on the lending benchmark, said
the person who asked not to be identified because the terms
aren’t set. The loan will be offered to lenders at 99 cents on
the dollar.  Dell is proposing to pay interest at 2.75 percentage points
to 3 percentage points more than Libor, with a 1 percent floor
on a $1.5 billion term piece that matures in five years, the
person said. That portion will be offered to lenders at 99.5
cents.  The loans are part of a $13.8 billion financing commitment
Dell obtained in February to back the deal, which is the biggest
leveraged buyout since Energy Future Holdings Corp. was
purchased by KKR & Co. and Texas Pacific Group in 2007.
Billionaire financier  Carl Icahn  gave up battling for control of
Round Rock, Texas-based Dell on Sept. 9, ending months of
opposition that impeded the buyout from being completed.  The covenant-light financing, meaning there are no
financial-maintenance requirements, is being arranged by Bank of
America Corp., Credit Suisse Group AG, Barclays Plc, Royal Bank
of  Canada  and UBS AG, the person said. Lenders must let the
banks know on Sept. 23 whether they will participate in the
deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 