-- Detroit Retirees Say Bankruptcy Law Unconstitutional
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-09-11T13:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/detroit-retirees-say-bankruptcy-law-unconstitutional.html
Detroit ’s retired workers joined
city unions in attacking the city’s record-setting $18 billion
bankruptcy, claiming the law that lets cities seek court
protection from creditors violates the U.S. Constitution.  A court-approved committee for retired workers filed papers
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit last night saying Emergency
Manager Kevyn Orr filed the case in July with the intention of
cutting pensions for retired city workers.  Those workers aren’t eligible for federal Social Security
benefits, “rendering their entire economic existence dependent
upon retirement compensation promised by the city,” the
committee said in its objection.  In an effort to have the case thrown out at a hearing next
month, the retirees and unions plan to question  Michigan 
Governor  Rick Snyder  under oath about his role in authorizing
the bankruptcy. The groups point to a line in the Michigan
Constitution that says public worker pensions are a contractual
right that cannot be undone.  They argue that Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
cannot overrule a state constitution. The groups asked U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to find either that the filing
doesn’t meet the tests set out in Chapter 9, or that Chapter 9
itself violates the U.S. Constitution because it interferes with
“Michigan’s sovereignty and the right of the people of Michigan
to define and control the acts of their elected and appointed
officials.”  Powers Upheld  In business cases, federal courts have routinely upheld the
power of bankruptcy judges to impair or cancel contractual
rights, even those protected by state laws.  Next month, Rhodes will hold two hearings to give major
creditors, including the unions and retirees, the chance to
argue that Detroit should be thrown out of bankruptcy.  Under Chapter 9, cities and counties must prove they are
eligible to stay in bankruptcy after filing for court
protection, unlike companies and individuals.  The city must show that it can’t pay its bills as they come
due, intends to file a plan to adjust its debts, and either
tried to negotiate with creditors or was unable to do so before
the filing.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  