-- Deutsche Bank Structured Notes Link Telecom Debt Amid M&A Spree
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-09-11T09:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/deutsche-bank-structured-notes-link-telecom-debt-amid-m-a-spree.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  sold the largest
credit-linked notes tied to European phone companies in three
months as the busiest period for mergers and acquisitions since
2007 focuses investor attention on telecoms debt.  Germany ’s biggest bank issued 50 million euros ($66.2
million) of five-year structured notes linked to Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA, Royal KPN NV,  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
and  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Investors in the securities will receive three percentage points
more than the three-month euro interbank offered rate and will
suffer losses if either the bank or the phone companies default.  Nick Bone, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank in  London ,
declined to comment on the bank’s structured notes.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s $130 billion buyout of
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s stake in its wireless venture is leading
more than $250 billion of tech and telecoms takeovers in the
third quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Telefonica, which is debuting hybrid bonds to help buy a
controlling stake in Royal KPN’s E-Plus German wireless unit, is
among companies looking to consolidate as data use demands more
expensive networks and regulators restrict fees.  A bond sale of as much as $49 billion from Verizon for the
Vodafone deal saw U.S. telecoms bonds lose an average 2.7
percent this month as investors make room for the eight-part
offering, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Telecommunications Index. European phone company debt is proving
more resilient, losing  0.7 percent  in the period, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporate Index.  Under Pressure  “The reason that European telecoms spreads have been less
impacted than U.S. credits is that the European telecoms sector
is more evenly distributed across issuers whereas the U.S.
market is far more concentrated,” said Sam Morton, a credit
analyst at Mizuho International Plc in London. “It seems likely
that European telecoms spreads will come under pressure if
Verizon attempts to issue a sizable transaction in the euro
market.”  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and Telefonica, the two largest
constituents in the 27-member Bank of America Merrill Lynch Euro
Telecommunications Index, together comprise 25.73 percent,
whereas the comparative U.S.  index , which also has 27 members,
is dominated by bonds of Verizon and  AT&T Inc. (T) , which make up
35.7 percent of the gauge.  Telecom debt yields an average 2.63 percent in  Europe , the
highest since August 2012, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money. Derivatives are contracts whose value is based on stocks,
bonds, currencies and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  