-- Discount IPhone $28 Cheaper in Australia Than Original
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-09-11T03:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/discount-iphone-28-cheaper-in-australia-than-original.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPhone 5c, aimed
at a broader range of customers with a lower price, will cost
almost as much in  Australia  as the iPhone 5 amid a 10 percent
fall in the local currency that’s lifting the cost of imports.  The brightly-colored 5c model will sell for A$869 ($808)
with 32 gigabytes of memory when it makes its global debut in
Australian stores Sept. 20, according to an e-mailed statement
from the Cupertino, California-based company today. The iPhone 5
 cost A$899  with the same memory capacity in Australia when it
went on sale for the first time last September.  The so-called Aussie has fallen about 10 percent in 2013 as
a waning resources boom cuts investment in mines and petroleum
projects, while the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s attempts to
stoke a slowing economy by reducing  interest rates  to a record-low 2.5 percent have weakened appetite for Australian dollar
debt. In the U.S., the 32-gigabyte iPhone 5c will cost  $649 off
contract , about $100 less than the  $749 price  of the iPhone 5.  The weaker dollar is “bad for the Australian consumer,”
said Alex Joiner, an economist at  Bank of America  Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit in  Melbourne . “Retail prices can only go one
way. Shopping online gets more expensive, going overseas gets
more expensive.”  Alex Waldron, a Sydney-based Apple spokesman, declined to
comment on pricing.  Squeeze Profits  Australian retailers face a 5 percent increase in the cost
of imported goods after the Australian dollar fell below 90 U.S.
cents on July 31 for the first time since 2010, according to
Merrill Lynch. That may squeeze profits amid weak  consumer
spending , according to the bank.  The price of electronic goods fell particularly sharply
when the Aussie was above parity with the  U.S. dollar , Joiner
said, helping constrain inflation as prices of flat-screen
televisions dropped by more than 20 percent. “That’s not going
to happen if the currency stays where it is,” he said.  Apple’s Australian managing director Tony King was summoned
to testify before a parliamentary panel in March as part of an
inquiry into the cost of software and hardware products in the
country.  He blamed licensing and performance rights issues for
higher prices in Apple’s Australian iTunes store, where
Rihanna’s “Unapologetic” album was retailing for about 50
percent more than in the U.S. version of the store at the time
of the inquiry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  