-- Distressed Debt Buyers Seek Australian Loans as Mining Struggles
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-09-11T04:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/distressed-debt-buyers-seek-australian-loans-as-mining-struggles.html
Distressed debt investors in
Australia expect more financial pressures in industries from
mining services to manufacturing as they seek to buy the soured
loans of small- to mid-size companies.  Investors are starting to buy debt positions in smaller
Australian firms instead of pursuing larger, more competitive
opportunities such as the sale of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s
local loan-book, according to Mick Calder, an executive director
of restructuring adviser 333 Management Ltd. Mining companies
and the firms that service them are expected to face the most
pressure in the next year, a survey released today by 333 and
Turnaround Management Association Australia found.  “We continue to see incumbent lenders willing to entertain
the notion of selling their debt positions,” Calder said today.
“While the large debt trading and loan portfolio sales have
been well-publicized and sought after, it’s in the mid-cap space
that opportunities may arise in fiscal 2014.”  Distressed debt buyers are seeking opportunities as demands
on working capital, low margins and large project risks are
expected to create challenges for mining services companies in
the next 12 months, according to the survey. In the last year,
debt trading by investors such as  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) ,
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and Centerbridge Capital Partners
LLC have precluded restructurings of companies including Nine
Entertainment Group Ltd and Billabong International Ltd.  ‘Creative Sector’  A trust managed by Sankaty Advisors LLC agreed to buy a
A$371 million portfolio of loan assets from Lloyds last month,
as Britain’s biggest mortgage lender offloads assets it no
longer considers essential. Westpac Banking Corp. and National
Australia Bank Ltd. are among lenders that made preliminary bids
for its Australian assets, people familiar with the matter said
last month.  Investors are seeking to acquire bad loans which are
sitting on local banks’ balance sheets, according to Calder.
“There is a more creative sector that’s moving down into mid-sized companies to acquire debt positions,” he said.  Some 41 percent of survey respondents expect a decline in
 Australia ’s manufacturing industry over the next year. The
nation’s retail and consumer goods companies are also expected
to endure more financial distress, even after some significant
restructuring in the previous four years, the survey said.  The survey’s 129 respondents included equity investors,
lawyers, lenders and turnaround and insolvency advisers. It was
released ahead of the Turnaround Management Association
Australia conference in Melbourne tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  