-- Yen Advances for Second Day as Machinery Orders Stagnate
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-09-12T21:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/dollar-stays-lower-as-traders-weigh-taper-odds-before-jobs-data.html
The yen strengthened for a second
day against the dollar after Japan’s machinery orders stagnated
in July and amid concern a  sales-tax  increase will hamper
economic growth, boosting demand for the currency as a haven.  The euro fluctuated against the U.S. currency after
weakening on a report that showed industrial output in the 17-nation region contracted in July. Australia’s currency weakened
against all its major counterparts after a government report
showed employers unexpectedly cut payrolls for a second month.
The  New Zealand dollar  advanced as the central bank signaled it
may raise  interest rates  next year from a record low.  “The stronger yen stems partly from the potential of
further stimulus measures being introduced by the Japanese
administration,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
RBS Securities unit, said in a telephone interview. “The future
of  Japan ’s fiscal policy is driving the yen today.”  Japan’s currency rose 0.4 percent to 99.54 per dollar at 5
p.m. in New York after depreciating to 100.61 yesterday, the
weakest level since July 22. The yen advanced 0.4 percent to
132.38 per euro after strengthening 0.2 percent yesterday. The
dollar increased 0.1 percent to $1.3299 per euro.  Rand, Aussie  South Africa’s rand declined versus most of its peers even
after  mining production  in the country expanded 0.6 percent in
July, exceeding the median estimate of a 6.1 percent
contraction, according to a Bloomberg  survey . Production
declined 6.2 percent the previous month. The currency slipped 1
percent to 9.9708 per dollar.  The Australian dollar slid after data showed the nation’s
payrolls unexpectedly fell and unemployment climbed to a four-year high. The currency decreased 0.6 percent to 92.72 U.S.
cents after earlier falling 1.1 percent, the biggest drop since
Aug. 21.  “You can see this as a genuinely soft employment report,”
said Ray Attrill, global co-head of currency strategy at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “The fallback in the
Aussie is justified.”  New Zealand’s dollar advanced against all 16 of its most-traded peers as the country’s central bank signaled it may raise
interest rates next year from a record low. The so-called kiwi
climbed 0.7 percent to 81.38 U.S. cents after touching its
strongest level since Aug. 19.  Central Bank  “The RBNZ’s Monetary Policy Statement this morning was
more hawkish than we had expected,”  Imre Speizer , a market
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland, wrote in a note
to clients. “The initial market reactions should persist
throughout the day.”  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will announce Japan will raise
the sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent in April as planned,
the Yomiuri newspaper reported without saying where it got the
information. Abe will detail a 5 trillion-yen stimulus package
along with the tax increase, the paper said.  Japanese  machinery orders  were unchanged in July from the
previous month when they fell 2.7 percent, the Cabinet Office
said in Tokyo. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted
an increase of 2.4 percent.  The yen “just ran out of steam,”  Fabian Eliasson , head of
U.S. currency sales in New York at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,
said in a phone interview. “Everybody knows that there’s still
a lot of work to be done in Japan. While we have seen it going
their way in the last couple of weeks here, they’re certainly
not out of the woods yet.”  Yearly View  The yen has slumped 10.9 percent this year, the worst
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 3.8 percent and
the euro advanced 4.7 percent.  Japan’s currency may weaken to “infinity” as the
country’s central bank policy diverges from that of its U.S.
counterpart,  Axel Merk , who oversees about $635 million of
currencies as founder and president of Palo Alto, California-based Merk Investments, said in an interview on  Bloomberg
Radio ’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee .  The euro weakened earlier after the European Union’s
statistics office said factory production in the 17-nation
region declined 1.5 percent from June, when it gained 0.6
percent.  Economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict euro-area
growth will slow to 0.1 percent in the third quarter after a 0.3
percent expansion in the three months through June.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $19.4 billion, compared with $26 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $5.2 billion, the
largest share of trades at 27 percent. Options on the greenback- yuan  rate totaled $2 billion, or 10 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 1.5 percent less than the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. U.S. currency versus yuan
options trading was about 74 percent more than average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  