-- Dominion Wins U.S. Approval for Cove Point Gas-Export Hub
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-09-11T21:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/dominion-wins-u-s-approval-for-cove-point-gas-export-terminal.html
Dominion Resources Inc. won U.S.
Energy Department approval to export liquefied natural gas from
an existing import terminal in Maryland, the fourth such project
authorized by the agency amid a natural-gas glut.  The project to modify the terminal, which may cost as much
as $3.8 billion, was approved pending environmental reviews,
according to a statement today. Richmond, Virginia-based
Dominion closed at $58.62, up less than 1 percent  in trading on
the  New York  Stock Exchange.  Dominion still requires approval from the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  to start construction at the facility at
Cove Point, on the shores of the Chesapeake Bay, Dan Donovan, a
spokesman for the company, said today in an interview.  “We have financing and we’re fully subscribed by customers
for capacity,” Donovan said. Final regulatory approval could
come in the first quarter next year, he said.  Advances in natural-gas drilling techniques, including
hydraulic fracturing, have led to increased U.S. production,
prompting companies to seek export authority to markets
including Japan and India. The Energy Department must approve
before natural gas can be exported to nations that lack a free-trade agreement with the U.S.  ‘Enormous Opportunity’  “This demonstrates progress toward an enormous opportunity
for the administration to bolster  job creation  and economic
growth,” Erik Milito, director of the American Petroleum
Institute’s upstream and industry operations, said in a
statement. The Washington-based industry group for oil and gas
companies said the agency’s approval may be a signal that it’s
speeding applications to export natural gas.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and chairman of the
Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said the agency may now
need to justify further exports of natural gas.  “With today’s approval, the United States is now squarely
in the range that experts are saying is the most likely level of
U.S. natural gas exports,” Wyden said in a statement. If the
agency approves additional overseas sales, it must “prove to
American families and manufacturers that these exports will not
have a significant impact on domestic prices, and in turn on
 energy security , growth and employment,” he said.  Shipments for Cove Point are under contract for 20 years
with affiliates of Tokyo-based  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  and  GAIL India
Ltd. (GAIL) , based in New Delhi, Dominion announced April 1. It hired
IHI E&C International Corp of Houston and Kiewit Corp. of Omaha,
Nebraska, to build the complex.  Fracking Pace  Environmental groups including Earthjustice, the Chesapeake
Climate Action Network and the  Sierra Club  criticized the Energy
Department’s approval of Dominion’s facility.  The Cove Point terminal “would transform a sleepy natural
gas import facility on the Chesapeake Bay into a massive export
hub and hasten the already hectic pace of fracking for natural
gas in the nearby Marcellus and Utica shale regions,” San
Francisco-based Earthjustice said in a statement.  The Energy Department on Aug. 7 granted Lake Charles
Exports LLC the authority to ship natural gas from its terminal
in Louisiana. The company is a jointly owned subsidiary of  BG
Group Plc (BG/)  based in London and Southern Union Co., which was
acquired in 2012 by Dallas-based  Energy Transfer Equity LP (ETE)  for
$5.4 billion.  The U.S. has previously approved liquefied natural gas
exports from  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) ’s Sabine Pass LNG terminal in
Cameron Parish, Louisiana, and the Freeport LNG Terminal in
Quintana Island, Texas. About 18 applications are pending at the
department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  