-- Duane Morris, Lowenstein, Linklaters: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/duane-morris-lowenstein-linklaters-business-of-law.html
Duane Morris LLP opened the first
office of a U.S.-based  law firm  in Myanmar, slated to advise
clients on investment and matters including tax, licensing,
regulations, market entry, reporting requirements and U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act issues.  The Yangon-based office is a branch of Duane Morris &
Selvam LLP, a joint law venture the Philadelphia-based firm
formed with Singapore-based Selvam LLC in 2010.  Krishna Ramachandra, managing director of Duane Morris &
Selvam in  Singapore , will be the managing partner of the office.
Benjamin Kheng, an associate director of Duane Morris & Selvam
in Singapore, will serve as a resident partner. The office will
be staffed with 10 additional lawyers.  “Our launch in Yangon, the country’s commercial center, is
driven primarily by client interest, which has intensified
significantly in recent years, as well as by the country’s
projected long-term economic outlook,” Ramachandra said in a
statement. “In addition, our team has built a strong
relationship with Myanmar and its government, as a result of
working closely with the attorney general’s office for many
years.”  Myanmar President U Thein Sein signed a Foreign Investment
Law in November, allowing overseas firms to fully own ventures
and offering tax breaks. In the first quarter of 2013, Myanmar
received a total of $810 million in foreign investment from 11
countries, Duane Morris said in the statement.  The alliance follows the firm’s 2011 partnership in  Mexico 
City with law firm Miranda & Estavillo. In March, the firm
started its first office in the  Middle East  through a joint
venture with the Al Mashaikhi Law Firm, a multi-practice law
firm in Muscat, Oman.  The new office gives Duane Morris, which has more than 700
attorneys, 26 offices in the U.S.,  Europe ,  Asia  and the Middle
East.  News  Thomas Bach Elected to Head International Olympic Committee  German lawyer Thomas Bach was elected president of the
 International Olympic Committee , replacing  Jacques Rogge  as the
head of one of sport’s most powerful groups.  Bach was elected in the second round of voting after
international boxing association head Ching-Kuo Wu was
eliminated in the opening voting, leaving five candidates for
the final ballot. Bach got 49 votes, besting the closest
candidate, Richard Carrion of  Puerto Rico , by 20.  Rogge, a 71-year-old who stabilized the IOC for 12 years as
it recovered from corruption scandals, is retiring, and a record
number of candidates vied to replace him at the 125th annual
meeting yesterday in  Buenos Aires . The new head for the
Lausanne, Switzerland-based body may influence decisions for
events through 2040, according to Michael Payne, who oversaw the
IOC’s marketing from 1983 to 2004.  “I would like to thank from the bottom of my heart all my
friends and colleagues who voted for me -- this is really an
overwhelming sign of trust,” Bach said. “I will work with you
in the coming years and repay your confidence. I know about the
great responsibility of an IOC president.”  The potential power attracted the biggest field of
candidates in the IOC’s history. Bach, an Olympic gold-medalist
fencer, was labeled the frontrunner by some IOC members
including Dick Pound of  Canada .  For more, click here.  Moves  Former Health-Care Fraud Chief Rejoins Lowenstein Sandler  Lowenstein Sandler LLP announced that Maureen A. Ruane
rejoined the firm to lead its new health-care litigation,
investigations and compliance practice. Ruane most recently
spent three years as chief of the health care and government
fraud unit at the U.S. Attorney’s Office in  New Jersey .  Ruane was previously a partner at Lowenstein Sandler and
co-chairwoman of the firm’s appellate litigation practice from
2006 to 2010. The new practice will help the firm’s health-care
and life-science clients strengthen their regulatory and
compliance programs, as well as defend corporate and individual
clients who become the subjects or targets of government
investigations or enforcement actions, the firm said.  U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman recruited Ruane in 2010 to
create and lead the office’s first standalone health-care and
government-fraud unit.  As chief, she directed and supervised the office’s criminal
and civil investigations and prosecutions of health care fraud
offenses, as well as its criminal investigations and
prosecutions under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other
statutes, the firm said.  She also supervised and directed the successful prosecution
of more than 70 health-care fraud cases, and the conviction of
more than 150 defendants for health-care fraud and other
offenses. Since the creation of the unit, it has recovered more
than $510 million in settlements, judgments, fines, restitution,
and forfeitures, according to the firm.  “Maureen strengthens our core white collar and litigation
practices and adds a valuable new dimension to the services
Lowenstein Sandler can provide to its many clients in the life
sciences,” Michael B. Himmel, chairman of Lowenstein Sandler’s
litigation department and white collar criminal defense
practice, said in a statement.  Lowenstein Sandler has close to 300 lawyers at offices in
 New York , New Jersey and  California .  Former Goldman Banking Chairman and State Treasurer Joins Manatt  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP said Kathleen L. Brown joined
the firm as a partner based in the Los Angeles office. She was
most recently chairman for  investment banking  in the Midwest
region at Goldman Sachs & Co.  Brown will focus her practice on business counseling,
government and regulatory affairs -- particularly in relation to
the health-care, energy and financial-services industries, the
firm said in a statement.  “Her leadership for one of the world’s largest financial
services firms and the country’s largest state gives her a deep
understanding of business and government and the interplay of
the two with the health-care, energy and banking sectors -- all
areas where Manatt excels,” William T. Quicksilver, Manatt’s
chief executive officer and managing partner, said in a
statement.  At Goldman Sachs, from which she retired in June, Brown
spent more than 12 years in senior leadership positions. Before
her Midwest post, Brown was managing director and head of the
firm’s Western region public sector and infrastructure group.
From 1995 to 2001, she worked in senior positions with Bank of
America Corp., including as president of the Private Bank.  She was California State Treasurer from 1991 through 1995,
responsible for managing a $25 billion bond portfolio and
overseeing a $32 billion cash-management fund, the firm said.  Manatt has nine offices in the U.S. and Mexico.  Haynes & Boone Adds Corporate Partner Rima Moawad  Rima Moawad, a corporate lawyer with a background in
private equity and public M&A transactions, joined the New York
office of Haynes & Boone LLP as a partner in the mergers and
acquisitions practice group. She was previously at Proskauer
Rose LLP.  “Rima’s arrival marks another significant hire as we
continue growing our New York office,” Ken Bezozo, the firm’s
New York managing partner, said in a statement. “Her experience
and talent bolster the firm’s national corporate and M&A
capabilities as we expand services for our clients’ more
sophisticated transactions.”  Moawad’s practice focuses on representing public
companies, private-equity firms and management groups in
domestic and cross-border mergers and acquisitions,
restructurings, going-private and other corporate transactions.  Her representations included advising  Neuberger Berman  on
its buyback of the equity stake in the firm owned by Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. She also advised Grifols SA in its $4
billion acquisition of Talecris Biotherapeutics Inc.  Haynes & Boone has more than 525 lawyers at 12 offices in
the Americas.  Powell Gilbert Bolsters Team With Two IP Solicitors  London  boutique Powell Gilbert LLP hired Adam Gamsa and
Dennis Waller as solicitors on its intellectual property team.  Gamsa joins from IP and media firm Field Fisher Waterhouse,
where his experience included work on patent disputes in the
pharmaceutical sector, anti-counterfeiting campaigns involving
customs seizure, and advising on data protection issues.  Waller joins from Hogan Lovells LLP with experience in
patent litigation, in particular within the pharmaceutical and
telecommunications industries.  These new hires bring the total number of fee-earners at
Powell Gilbert to 38, representing almost a fourfold increase
since its founding in 2007.  Linklaters Extends Asia Litigation Practice With Partner Hire  Linklaters LLP said Gavin Lewis will join the firm as a
partner in the litigation practice in  Hong Kong . He was
previously at Herbert Smith Freehills.  Gavin “increases the senior capability of the team and
will provide valuable support for clients in respect of their
contentious issues,” Marc Harvey, global head of Linklaters’
litigation practice, said in a statement.  He joins a litigation team led by three partners in
Linklaters’ Hong Kong office: Marc Harvey, Jelita Pandjaitan and
Melvin Sng.  Linklaters has lawyers at 28 offices worldwide.  Corporate and Securities Lawyer Joins Baker & McKenzie  Michael A. Smith joined Baker & McKenzie LLP’s corporate
and securities practice as a partner. Smith, who was most
recently at Kaye Scholer LLP, will split his time between the
Toronto and New York offices, advising clients in both
jurisdictions.  Smith advises U.S., Canadian and other entities on U.S.
securities and corporate law in connection with international
financings, as well as cross-border M&A and unregistered fund
formation, the firm said. He advises issuers and underwriters in
both public and private-equity and debt offerings. He also
advises boards of directors and senior management on U.S.
corporate governance matters, including Sarbanes-Oxley Act
compliance issues.  “Few lawyers have Michael’s depth of experience in
advising clients on matters involving the Toronto, New York and
London stock exchanges,” Amar Budaparu, chairman of the firm’s
North American corporate and securities practice and its global
capital markets practice, said in a statement.  Baker & McKenzie  has more than 4,100 lawyers in 74 offices
in 46 countries.  Mintz Levin Expands New York Bankruptcy Practice with John Bae  Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo PC expanded its
bankruptcy, restructuring and commercial law practice in New
York with the addition of John Bae, who joins as a member from
Greenberg Traurig LLP.  Bae has represented multinational companies in financial
restructuring, cross-border insolvencies, commercial litigation
and product-liability matters. His clients have included
debtors, creditors and other constituencies in bankruptcy cases.  “John brings a wealth of global experience handling major
restructuring matters,” said Richard E. Mikels, chairman of
Mintz Levin’s bankruptcy, restructuring and commercial law
practice. “He will make a very important contribution to the
growth of our New York practice and will be a welcome addition
to our national team of bankruptcy and restructuring
attorneys.”  Mintz Levin has 500 lawyers in eight offices in the U.S.
and London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 