-- Dubai’s Biggest Broker Doubling Staff as Trading Surges on Syria
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-12T15:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/dubai-s-biggest-broker-doubling-staff-as-trading-surges-on-syria.html
Dubai’s biggest brokerage plans to
almost double staff over the next year, counting on growing
demand for the emirate’s equities, as trading in the world’s
most-volatile stock market climbs to a three-year high.  Mena Corp Financial Services LLC , which traded the most
shares in Dubai since April among 48 brokerages tracked by the
exchange, will boost the number of employees to 50 from 27,
Managing Director Nabil Al Rantisi said by phone Sept. 10. The
100-day moving average of stocks traded in the emirate surged to
696 million dirhams ($189 million) today, the highest level
since February 2010,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  The DFM General Index tumbled 13 percent in two weeks from
a five-year high reached Aug. 25 on mounting concern the U.S.
would carry out a strike on  Syria  and hurt Dubai’s economy,
which is dependent on revenue from tourism and trade. The gauge
jumped 9.2 percent in three days, bringing this year’s gain to
56 percent, as U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he would pursue
a proposal by  Russia  to have Syria surrender its chemical arms.
The swings made Dubai’s index the most volatile in the world in
the past month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “People still believe that Dubai is a safe haven,”
Rantisi, 36, said by phone. “We are still in hiring mode. The
market looks good in the medium to long-term.”  Trading Momentum  The DFM’s advance this year, the biggest among gauges in
the world’s 50 largest equity markets, has been helped by  MSCI
Inc. (MSCI) ’s June decision to raise the  United Arab Emirates  to
emerging-market status and an improving economy. Gross domestic
product will grow 4.6 percent, on average, between 2012 and
2015, more than twice as fast as the previous four years,
government forecasts show.  The reclassification of benchmark indexes in the U.A.E., a
federation of seven emirates including Dubai, stoked bets
foreign investors would channel more money into the local
exchange. MSCI, whose equity indexes are tracked by investors
with about $7 trillion in assets, will upgrade the gauges from
frontier status in May following five years of review.  “There has been an increase in western institutional
interest,”  Julian Bruce , the head of institutional trading at
EFG-Hermes Brokerage UAE LLC, said by e-mail Sept. 10. “Renewed
confidence has not only brought new buyers into the market,” it
has pulled in investors who were on the sidelines, he said.  Higher Volatility  Before Dubai’s index tumbled in August, stocks were trading
at the highest estimated price-to-earnings ratio since 2008. The
level rose to almost 15 on Aug. 28, before dropping to 13.6
today, exceeding a multiple of 11.4 for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index.  The gauge’s  30-day volatility , a measure of price
fluctuations, was at 41.6, near the highest since January 2010
and the most among 72 indexes tracked by Bloomberg. That’s more
than 10 points above benchmark measures in  Japan  and the
 Philippines . The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  advanced 0.3 percent to
2,538.56 at the close in Dubai, compared with a decline of 0.1
percent for the MSCI Frontier Markets Index.  Dubai’s gauge  swung  between gains of as much as 1.9 percent
and a loss of 2.1 percent before closing 0.4 percent higher
yesterday as Syria rebels counting on a U.S. strike warned of an
escalation in violence in the absence of more support. While
Obama said Sept. 10 that he’s prepared to pursue a diplomatic
solution with Russia, he also repeated his arguments justifying
the use of force to deter any future use of chemical weapons.  “If we see a diffusing of the Syrian situation it will be
welcomed by all and clearly confidence will return,” EFG-Hermes’ Bruce said. “Any further upside will be governed by
events such as the third-quarter results to see if this recovery
is sustainable and can be maintained.”  Reaping Rewards  Some of the U.A.E.’s 48 brokerages have reaped the benefit
of higher volumes. Mena Corp reported a  profit  of 8.7 million
dirhams in the six months through June, compared with a loss of
2.8 million dirhams a year earlier. Half-year  net income  at Al
Ramz Securities LLC, the second-biggest brokerage by trading
value, jumped to 17.6 million dirhams from about 120,000 dirhams
in the period.  This year’s average daily trading  value  has more than
doubled from 2012 to about 530 million dirhams. That compares
with a record 1.5 billion dirhams in 2007, before Dubai’s
housing market crashed, with  home prices  tumbling more than 60
percent from a 2008 peak during the global financial crisis.  Investor Confidence  Property prices in Dubai, home to the world’s tallest tower
and artificial islands, have risen almost 40 percent over the
past year, according to  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  estimates. The
emirate’s growing population, improving economy and status as a
haven amid regional political uprisings are driving the rebound,
the bank said in a report on Sept. 4.  Second-quarter profit at  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , Dubai’s
biggest publicly traded company, rose 10 percent, beating
analysts’ estimates and helping drive a 53 percent surge in the
stock this year.  “Equity markets move in cycles and the market went through
a very tough down-cycle during the crisis,” Mohammed Ali Yasin,
managing director at Abu Dhabi-based NBAD Securities, said by
phone yesterday. Trading volume on Sept. 10, which was almost
four times the 12-month daily average, “confirms the confidence
of investors in the viability of our equity markets,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  