-- EADS Sees Simplified Defense Portfolio Through Corporate Revamp
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-11T10:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/eads-sees-simplified-defense-portfolio-through-corporate-revamp.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. will streamline its military and space product lineup
as it integrates activities as part of a company revamp that
will adopt the Airbus name across the group.  “You are going to see, over time, probably a slight
simplification and rationalization of the portfolio,” Christian Scherer, head of strategy at the Cassidian defense unit, said
today in  London . “The Cassidian portfolio is extremely complex
and could benefit from simplification.”  Cassidian, with more than 1,000 products, may cease some
activities and focus principally on aerospace, which may lead to
the restructuring of maritime offerings, he said. Cyber
activities will remain part of the business, Scherer said.  EADS Chief Executive Officer Tom Enders announced in July
the company would adopt the name of its commercial aircraft unit
Airbus for the entire group and merge defense and space
activities to help weather shrinking demand. The Airbus name is
also supposed to help drive exports by increasing market
recognition.  Cassidian and Astrium, the two units being combined in
Airbus Defence & Space, are already undergoing portfolio reviews
to determine what can be abolished, Scherer said. Those are
independent of the larger restructuring and will be rolled out
over time, he said.  Tight Timeline  The merger of defense and space activities should be
completed by mid-2014, Scherer said, adding that the timeline is
tight given the complexities. The management lineup should be
settled this year so operations from January will begin to be
focused around the new structure, he said. Eliminating some
positions will help yield cost cuts, he said.  The combination of defense and space assets is not a
precursor to revive merger efforts with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Scherer
said. The two companies attempted a combination last year to
create a stronger rival to  Boeing Co. (BA)  in a deal that failed amid
German government opposition.  The U.S. remains a target for defense sales growth for the
integrated company, Scherer said. Opportunities include sales of
the A400M military transport, and also of Airbus A330-based
refueling planes, he said.  The U.S. has opted for the Boeing 767-based tanker offering
after a long-fought competition that EADS had won at one point.
The Boeing plane leaves the U.S. with some areas in the Pacific
where it can’t provide refueling capacity, which the A330
version could plug, he said.  Airbus will not pursue an emerging U.S. Air Force effort to
provide a new Air Force One aircraft to transport the president.  “We do not anticipate bidding for Air Force One,” EADS
North America spokesman  Guy Hicks  said by e-mail. “Our
strategic intent when we bid on our major programs is to
industrialize in the U.S. to support production.  The likely
number of aircraft involved with the Air Force One program would
not support our strategic model for growth in the U.S.”  EADS has said previously it also would not pursue a program
to provide the U.S. Marine Corps with a helicopter used to
transport the president. A team involving  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s
AgustaWestland won a previous bid before the chopper contract
was canceled because of rising costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  