-- Meat Industry Groups Lose Bid to Delay Labeling Rule
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-09-11T17:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/meat-industry-groups-lose-bid-to-delay-labeling-rule.html
U.S. and Canadian meat industry
groups lost a bid in federal court to temporarily block
enforcement of U.S. country-of-origin food labeling rules.  The industry groups argued that the rules, issued by the
 Department of Agriculture , violate the U.S. Constitution by
compelling speech in the form of costly and detailed labels on
meat products that will confuse consumers and raise prices. U.S.
District Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson in  Washington  disagreed in
a ruling dated today.  “It is well established that, when the compelled speech is
commercial and purely factual in nature, the speaker’s First
Amendment rights are not unduly burdened ‘as long as the
disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the
government’s interest in preventing deception to consumers,’”
Jackson said in the decision.  The judge also said that arguments on the merits of the
case favor the government.  “We disagree strongly with the court’s decision and
believe that several aspects of the ruling are susceptible to
challenge,” J. Patrick Boyle, the American Meat Institute’s
chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
intend to pursue them on appeal.”  Muscle Cuts  The regulations, adopted in May, require producers to
specify where an animal was born, raised and slaughtered. Retail
packages can’t mix muscle cuts from different countries under a
general label.  The rules are more stringent than a set of regulations that
came into effect in 2009 in response to the discovery of bovine
spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, in a
Canadian animal in 2003. Canada and  Mexico  told the  World Trade
Organization  that the earlier rules discriminated against their
products.  The Canadian livestock industry lost about $617 million
annually under the old rules and would lose even more under the
revised ones, Travis Toews, a past president of the Canadian
Cattlemen’s Association, said in an interview in July, when the
association, the Meat Institute and seven other industry groups
sued to block the new regulations.  Today’s decision “ensures that U.S. consumers are provided
with more detailed and accurate origin information for muscle
cut meats to allow them to make informed purchasing decisions,”
Sam Jones, a U.S. Agriculture Department spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The case is American Meat Institute v.  U.S. Department of
Agriculture , 13-cv-01033, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  