-- Egypt Yields Fall to 3-Month Low as Military Plan Gains Momentum
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-09-11T14:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/egypt-yields-fall-to-3-month-low-as-military-plan-gains-momentum.html
Yields on  Egypt ’s benchmark
Eurobonds fell to the lowest in more than three months as the
military’s road map gained momentum 10 weeks after the overthrow
of President Mohamed Mursi.  The 5.75 percent notes due April 2020 rose for a fifth day,
pushing the yield down 14 basis points, or 0.14 of a percentage
point, to 8.24 percent at 3:55 p.m. in Cairo, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That takes the drop since Mursi’s ouster
July 3 to 253 basis points.  Egyptian bond yields are bucking the rising trend of  Middle
East  and emerging-market sovereigns this month as the country
moved closer to parliamentary elections by starting to amend its
constitution. The vote is schedule to take place in the first
quarter of next year despite violence that has claimed the lives
of more than 1,000 people in the aftermath of Mursi’s ouster.  “As long as Egypt remains off the global TV screen, the
bonds will do well because people get more confidence that there
will be a stable solution to the political crisis,” Gabriel Sterne, senior economist at London-based Exotix Ltd., said by
phone. “But you still have to wonder how any real vote that
reflects the will of the Egyptian people can get around the
popularity of the Islamists.”  Islamists won more than 70 percent of seats in the
country’s 2012 parliament. The Muslim Brotherhood, the country’s
biggest Islamist group and the main supporters of Mursi, has
remained defiant of the military government despite a violent
crackdown by security forces and arrests of its top leaders. It
has rejected the military’s plan and vowed to continue street
demonstrations until Mursi is restored to office.  Sovereigns Increase  The yield on Egypt’s 2020 notes is down 64 basis points
this month. That compares with a seven basis-point increase for
the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East Conventional Sovereign US
Dollar Bond Index to 5.53 percent yesterday.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s  Emerging Markets  Bond Index, reflecting sovereign yields,
rose four basis points in the same period to 6.2 percent.  The Egyptian pound was little changed at 6.8953 a dollar in
interbank trading, according to BNP Paribas MENA prices, after
the central bank sold $38.8 million at a currency sale. The
regulator received 6.8853 pounds for dollars compared with
6.8855 pounds on Sept. 9, according to its data on Bloomberg.  The pound is up 1.3 percent over the past week following
the central bank’s record $1.3 billion auction, paring the
currency’s decline since the start of the sales in December to
10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  