-- Emerging Stocks Seen Overbought as Jump Spurs Brazil Bull
-- B y   A s h   K u m a r ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-09-12T15:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/emerging-stocks-seen-overbought-as-jump-makes-brazil-bull-market.html
The biggest rally in developing-nation stocks in a year is showing signs of reversing to
analysts following technical indicators.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 6.2 percent in the
last six days, the most for the period since September 2012, as
prospects for an imminent U.S. strike on  Syria  eased and
economic data improved in  China . The relative strength index for
the gauge touched 70 -- the  threshold  that signals a security is
poised to decline -- for the first time since Jan. 14. That
level preceded an 18 percent slump in five months.  While developing-nation shares advanced 12 percent from
their 2013 low in June and Brazil’s Ibovespa entered a  bull
market  this week, stocks are still down 6 percent this year. The
MSCI gauge is headed to its biggest annual underperformance
since 1998 versus the developed-nation index, which is up 15
percent in 2013. Emerging-market stocks  traded  at 10.6 times
estimated earnings on Sept. 10, the highest since May.  “Investors are pausing for a breather,” Joseph Dayan, the
London-based head of markets at BCS Financial Group, the biggest
trader of stocks in the Moscow Exchange, said by e-mail. “There
is not much more than that at this point.”  The MSCI Emerging Market Index breached the upper boundary
of its Bollinger band on Sept. 10, another technical indicator
signaling it could be due for a reversal, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The developing-nations gauge fell less than 0.1
percent to 991.52 at 11:24 a.m. in  New York .  ‘Some Correction’  Declines provided an opportunity for “profit taking” for
“short term players who bought in the last week or so,” Julian Mayo, who helps manage $2.5 billion in emerging-market assets as
the co-chief investment officer at  Charlemagne Capital Ltd. (CCAP)  in
 London , said by e-mail. “After a 5 to 10 percent gain in some
emerging markets in such a short time, some correction is always
likely.”  The latest economic data from China to Brazil point to
improved growth conditions in developing economies and should
help bolster demand for emerging-market assets, according to
Regis Chatellier, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in London.  China’s factory production rose 10.4 percent from a year
earlier, while the country’s exports climbed more than estimated
in August and inflation stayed below a government target,
helping Premier Li Keqiang sustain a rebound in the second-largest economy from a two-quarter slowdown.  Brazil GDP  Brazil ’s gross domestic product expanded 1.5 percent during
the April to June period, or an annualized 6 percent, the
national statistics agency said on Aug. 30. That was the most
since the first quarter of 2010 and more than all 44 forecasts
from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median estimate was
0.9 percent.  “Until recently, the U.S. was clearly leading the way on
the growth front, with little signs that the backdrop in EM was
improving,” Chatellier said in an e-mail yesterday. “This is
still early days, but this has changed.”  Even as Chinese economic fundamentals improve, boosting the
outlook for the country’s stock market, emerging-market
volatility should remain high as the Federal Reserve scales back
monetary stimulus, according to Saharat Chudsuwan, the Bangkok-based senior vice president at Tisco Asset Management Co., which
has about $4.7 billion of assets. The MSCI Emerging Market
Index’s 90-day  volatility  reached 17.5 yesterday, the highest
level in about a year.  Fed Stimulus  “Emerging-market equities will still have high volatility
in the next few months,” Chudsuwan said by phone on Sept. 11.
“I am still overweight shares of developed markets such as the
U.S. and  Japan , where the economies show sustainable growth and
monetary policies facilitate domestic consumption.”  The MSCI index has lost 5.4 percent since May 22, when the
Fed signaled its asset-buying program could be trimmed if the
 U.S. economy  showed a sustained recovery. Investors withdrew
about $44 billion from emerging-market stock and bond funds
since the end of May, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks money flows, said Aug. 23.  In  India  alone, foreign funds pulled $3.7 billion from the
stock market in the three months to August, the most since the
global financial crisis in 2008.  Standard & Poor’s  reiterated
last week it may cut India’s BBB- credit rating to junk because
of the government’s failure to tackle its fiscal and current-account deficits.  More Stress  Fed policy makers will resume a debate on when to pare $85
billion in monthly bond purchases on their Sept. 17-18 meeting.
The U.S. central bank is likely to reduce asset purchases to $75
billion this month, according to a Bloomberg survey of 34
economists.  Even after their tumble this year, emerging-market stocks
still aren’t more attractive than equities in developed nations,
according Marc Desmidt, the head of alpha strategies for Asia
Pacific at BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager.  “It’s a reality that some of these markets have been
oversold, probably pessimism does look a little bit high,”
Desmidt said in a Sept. 11 interview on Bloomberg Television in
 Hong Kong . “It’s not surprising to see some bounces there. But
more generally I think there is probably more stress for EM.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Ash Kumar in London at 
 akumar314@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  