-- Emerging Stocks Rise on Syria While Apple Suppliers Sink
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-09-11T21:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/emerging-stocks-fall-from-3-month-high-as-china-mobile-declines.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced to
a three-month high after President  Barack Obama  delayed a
decision on military action against Syria.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Asian
suppliers paced declines among technology companies.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.1 percent to
991.94. Philippine stocks led gains among developing-nation
stocks, while benchmark gauges in Egypt and Dubai rose.  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the Taiwan-based assembler of iPhones,
slid after Apple unveiled a cheaper version of the device.
Brazil’s Ibovespa extended a two-day decline to 1.3 percent.  President Obama asked Congress to delay a vote authorizing
the use of military force while the administration pursues a
proposal that would have Syria surrender its chemical arms. A
measure of technology companies in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index declined as Apple extended a two-day plunge to 7.6
percent. The Cupertino, california-based company announced
yesterday two new iPhones, including a cheaper $99 version.  “The issue with Syria was primarily about uncertainty and
the market has no appetite for uncertainty,”  David Sowerby , who
helps oversee about $190 billion at Loomis Sayles & Co. in
Bloomfield Hills,  Michigan , said in a phone interview. “At
least some of that was removed.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the developing-nation ETF, climbed 0.1 percent to $41.37.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 3.2 percent to 25.05.  Brazil, Russia  Brazil’s Ibovespa dropped 0.8 percent as homebuilder PDG
Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes led lossed among
companies that sell domestically.  Russian stocks extended their longest winning streak in
more than three years to an eighth day after crude oil rose. OAO
Novatek climbed after Chinese banks agreed to finance its Yamal
LNG project. Benchmark gauges in Hungary, Poland and the  Czech
Republic  advanced more than 0.5 percent. Turkish shares were
little changed.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index capped a four-day rally. Dubai’s DFM
General Index extended a two-day gain to 8.9 percent.  Most Indian equities climbed after foreigners boosted
holdings of local shares by the most since May as the rupee had
its best run in almost a year.  State Bank of India  rose to a
one-month high, sending a gauge of 13 lenders to a six-week
high. The rupee rose 0.8 percent. The Philippine Stock Exchange
Index rose the most since Aug. 30  The Shanghai Composite Index rose to the highest level
since June 6. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., also known as
Chalco, surged 9.9 percent, driving a gauge of material stocks
to the biggest gain among industry groups. Apple’s Asian
supplier Hon Hai Precision slid 1.3 percent in Taipei, while  LG
Display Co. (034220)  sank 3.1 percent in  Seoul .  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 343 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  