-- Men's Wearhouse Drops After Cutting Profit Forecast
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/men-s-wearhouse-drops-after-after-cutting-profit-forecast.html
Men’s Wearhouse Inc. (MW) , the clothing
retailer that ousted its founder in June, slumped after it cut
its full-year profit forecast, citing a “difficult economic
climate” as customer traffic fell in the second quarter.  The shares dropped 14 percent to $33.26 in extended trading
yesterday after slipping 0.6 percent to $38.77 at the close in
New York. They had gained 24 percent this year.  Adjusted earnings were $1.01 per share in the quarter ended
Aug. 3, the Houston-based company said in a statement after the
close yesterday. That’s less than the average analysts’ estimate
of $1.14 a share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
retailer lowered its annual profit forecast to as much as $2.50 
a share from as much as $2.80 a share.  “We are being cautious as we face macro-economic
headwinds,” Chief Executive Officer Doug Ewert said in the
statement. The company also cut its estimates for same-store
sales growth for the year by about 2 percent.  Retailers from  Macy’s Inc. (M)  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  have
reported results that trailed expectations for their most recent
quarters. Macy’s posted its first sales drop since 2010 and its
profit trailed analysts’ estimates for the first time since
2007. Wal-Mart said earnings for the rest of the year would be
less than it previously expected as consumers were hesitant to
make discretionary purchases.  Men’s Wearhouse’s board removed founder George Zimmer as
executive chairman over strategy disagreements on June 19. In
July, it agreed to buy the Joseph Abboud clothing brand for
$97.5 million in cash as a way to offer exclusive brands. The
purchase of the brand’s parent JA Holding Inc. from funds
affiliated with J.W. Childs Associates LP completed on Aug. 6,
the company said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  