-- Merck’s Shingles Vaccine Not Reaching Enough U.S. Adults
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-09-11T18:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/merck-s-shingles-vaccine-not-reaching-enough-u-s-adults.html
Too few American adults have been
vaccinated for shingles, the painful sibling to chicken pox,
according to research that calls for efforts to increase the
U.S.-recommended inoculation.  Fewer than 2 of 10 Americans ages 60 and older have been
vaccinated, while the rate is less than half that for those in
their 50s, according to a study presented today at the annual
 Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy 
in Denver.  Almost one-third of Americans will get shingles in their
lifetime, with about 1 million cases in the U.S. each year, the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  said . The vaccine
Zostavax, from  Merck & Co. (MRK) , was cleared for sale in 2006 for
people 60 and older, and for use by those in their 50s in 2011.
Still, too few people take advantage of it, doctors said.  “It’s a good idea if you’re older than 50 to go to your
doctor and have that discussion about when you should receive
your vaccine,” Melissa Johnson, an associate professor at Duke
University Medical Center in Durham,  North Carolina , said today
in a presentation at the conference. “This is a conversation we
should all be having with our family members.”  Shingles is caused by the same virus as chicken pox; it can
remain in the body after a chicken pox infection and become
active again years later. It’s characterized by a painful rash
that generally clears within a month and can be accompanied by
fever, stomach ache and chills.  A more problematic lasting side effect is postherpetic
neuralgia, a burning nerve pain that can be severe enough to
disrupt sleep and affect appetite, according to the  Mayo Clinic .
Good treatments for the pain don’t exist, Johnson said.  High Cost  Shingles costs the U.S. health system at least $1 billion
each year, through a combination of doctor visits, medications
and missed work, she said.  “This is a potential area where we can do cost
avoidance,” Johnson said. Patients can “get Zostavax as part
of routine coverage.”  Shingles becomes more prevalent with age; about half of
infections occur in those 60 and older, according to the CDC.
Yet just 16 percent of Americans in that age group had been
vaccinated in 2011, the study of almost 30,000 people found.
That compares with 4.3 percent of U.S. adults in their 50s.  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved the vaccine in
the younger set after research showed it helped reduce the risk
of shingles by 70 percent compared with placebo, according to an
agency statement.  Zostavax Revenue  Zostavax generated $651 million in 2012  revenue  for the
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based drugmaker, up 96 percent
from $332 million the year before, according to the company’s
 annual report . Analysts estimate it will generate more than $1
billion in 2014.  Merck focuses on getting the vaccine to those 60 and older,
following guidelines from CDC’s Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices, Pam Eisele, a company spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail. Increased availability of the vaccine in
pharmacies could help with accessibility, Eisele said.  The vaccine is generally covered by insurers for people 60
and older, researchers said today. For younger people whose
insurance doesn’t cover it, the vaccine may cost about $200 out
of pocket, Johnson said.  “We feel that the cost of the vaccine is justified by
preventing all the complications that occur if you do develop
shingles,” she said.  “I’d eliminate my coffee in the morning to afford that,”
said Michael Schmidt, professor and vice chairman of
microbiology and immunology at  Medical University of South
Carolina , who moderated Johnson’s presentation. “This is one of
these high-value topics. At $200, it’s cheap at twice the
price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  