-- Tesla Challenges BMW on Home Turf as Germans Go Green
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-09-12T13:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/tesla-challenges-bmw-on-home-turf-as-germans-go-green.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-vehicle maker led by billionaire Elon Musk, is pushing beyond
the friendly confines of  California  to take on the world’s
biggest luxury-car brands in their home market.  Tesla will have six stores in  Germany  after adding
locations in the coming months in Berlin and Stuttgart, home to
Mercedes-Benz parent Daimler AG. The start-up already has sales
centers in  Frankfurt , Dusseldorf, Hamburg and Munich,  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s hometown.  Tesla is hitting the autobahn just as the German Goliaths
start selling their own electrics from dealer networks with
hundreds of stores. Musk will also need to win over buyers who
traditionally have been loyal to homegrown brands.  “The European home turf belongs to the likes of Daimler,
BMW and Audi,” said Bryan Batista, Tesla’s European sales
director. “We’re confident that we have a product that stacks
up very well.”  At the International Auto Show in Frankfurt this week, BMW
presented its i8 plug-in hybrid supercar and is featuring the
battery-powered i3 city car.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi debuted a
plug-in hybrid version of the A3 hatchback that can travel 50
kilometers (31 miles) on electric power and VW’s Porsche brand
unveiled the $845,000 918 Spyder hybrid. Mercedes displayed an
electric version of the SLS gull-wing sports car and plans to
roll out an electric B-Class compact next year.  No Legacy  The German offerings will test the sustainability of
Tesla’s buzz. The  Palo Alto , California-based company’s  share
price  has surged almost fivefold this year, giving it a market
value of $20.1 billion -- more than a quarter that of BMW, which
this year will manufacture almost 90 times as many cars. Tesla
also trades at 267 times estimated earnings, compared with 10
times for BMW, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tesla says its newcomer status is an advantage as it
expands across  Europe . The company plans to open 15 stores and
service centers in the region by year end, bringing its total to
more than 20.  At traditional carmakers, “there’s been a reluctance to
change, to leave internal combustion engine technology, which
has been and still is the bread and butter of these companies,”
Batista said. “We don’t have that legacy.”  Tesla’s entrance has caught the Germans’ attention.
Daimler, which owns a  4 percent  stake in the company, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, will use Tesla’s batteries and
motors for the electric B-Class.  Tesla Inside  “We like to call it Tesla inside - like Intel inside -
because Tesla now is quite cool,” Daimler Chief Executive
Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said today at the Frankfurt show. “We’re
very happy that they are successful.”  VW bought three Tesla cars to examine how they worked. Axle
positioning and battery- management systems impressed the
carmaker’s engineers, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn 
said in interview at  the Frankfurt auto show .  The Model S is “made intelligently,” Winterkorn said. The
vehicles deserve respect “especially considering that they
don’t have vast experience in building cars.”  Tesla’s store in Frankfurt, near the city’s famed opera
house, is a small, low-ceilinged boutique displaying the chassis
of a Model S in the window to show the battery frame. Color and
trim options adorn the back wall, where a large screen shows the
model. There’s no car in the showroom, a sharp contrast to the
sprawling dealerships of BMW, Mercedes and Audi, where dozens of
autos crowd the aisles and lots.  BMW i3  The Model S is a low-slung four-door sedan that seats as
many as seven, including two fold-out rear-facing seats for
children. It accelerates to 100 kilometers (62 miles) per hour
in 6.2 seconds, matching the performance of the gasoline-powered
base version of the BMW 5-Series sedan.  The Tesla costs 71,400 euros, versus 39,900 euros for the
cheapest 5-Series. BMW’s smaller i3, which seats four and is
about the size of the company’s Mini hatchback, will start just
under 35,000 euros when it hits showrooms in November.  Electric-car makers must combat customer worries that their
vehicles will run out of battery power before they reach their
destination. To ease that, BMW is offering buyers of the i3 --
with a range of as much as 160 kilometers -- the option of a
conventional-car loaner for longer trips. Tesla offers bigger
power packs that can extend the range to as far as 480
kilometers per charge, enough to drive from Munich to Frankfurt.  Tesla is also trying to ensure its customers can always
plug in. In  Norway , the company opened a network of fast-charging stations, covering the main highways, where Tesla
owners can recharge a Model S to 50 percent capacity in about 20
minutes for free.  Carlos Ghosn  Tesla and BMW have both teamed up with a Munich startup
company called The Mobility House to install home and public
charging stations.  Unlike its German rivals, Tesla is totally dependent on
increased demand for electrics, a segment that has failed to
live up to expectations.  Carlos Ghosn  -- the chief executive
officer of  Renault SA (RNO)  and Nissan, the global leaders in
electrics -- said in a Bloomberg interview last week that the
two companies won’t reach a 2016 target of selling a cumulative
total of 1.5 million electric vehicles.  “Tesla has a positive image but is an absolute niche
player,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of
Automotive Management at the University of Applied Sciences in
 Bergisch Gladbach , Germany. The company “still has to prove
itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  