-- Messi Helps Lift Argentina Into World Cup for 11th Straight Time
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-11T04:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/messi-helps-lift-argentina-into-world-cup-for-11th-straight-time.html
Lionel Messi  scored twice as
Argentina won 5-2 at Paraguay to qualify for next year’s soccer
World Cup with two matches to spare.  World player of the year Messi converted two penalty kicks
in Asuncion last night, while  Sergio Aguero , Angel  Di Maria  and
 Maxi Rodriguez  added goals as the two-time world champions moved
to 29 points atop South America’s nine-team group.  The victory guaranteed Argentina a top-four place and an
11th straight berth at soccer’s four-yearly showpiece. The top
four nations in the South American  standings  after 16 matches
advance to the 32-team tournament in Brazil, with the fifth-placed country playing off for another spot against Jordan, the
winner of Asia’s qualifying playoff.  Second-place Colombia, which could have sealed a World Cup
berth by avoiding defeat against Uruguay last night, lost 2-0 in
Montevideo. Goals in the last 13 minutes from Edinson Cavani and
Cristian Stuani kept Uruguay in fifth place ahead of Venezuela,
which beat Peru 3-2. Ecuador is fourth following a 1-1 draw in
Bolivia.  Argentina joins Australia,  Costa Rica , Iran, Italy, Japan,
South Korea, the Netherlands and the U.S. in securing World Cup
berths. Record five-time champion Brazil automatically qualifies
as host.  In the Asian playoff, Jordan beat Uzbekistan 9-8 on penalty
kicks in Tashkent after the teams drew 1-1 for the second
straight week to send their two-game series into a shootout.  Jordan, seeking its first appearance at the four-yearly
championship, will host South America’s No. 5 team on Nov. 13 or
14 in the opener of the intercontinental playoff, with the
return game scheduled for Nov. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  