-- EU Parliament Seeks 6% Cap on Crop-Based Biofuels in Transport
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-09-11T11:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/eu-parliament-seeks-6-cap-on-crop-based-biofuels-in-transport.html
The European Parliament voted to
curb the transport industry’s consumption of biofuels that come
from crops in a bid to ease competition with  food production .  The European Union assembly fixed a 6 percent limit on the
use of crop-based biofuels in ground transport, seeking to spur
the development of clean fuels from non-food sources.  The vote today in Strasbourg, France, sets the stage for
talks among EU governments on the issue. Any differences with
the Parliament would have to be ironed out in negotiations that
could add months to the process for reaching a final accord.  The EU wants to prevent a requirement that at least 10
percent of energy for road and rail transport in 2020 come from
renewable sources from causing side-effects that undermine the
battle against global warming.  Made primarily from crops such as rapeseed, wheat, corn and
sugar, biofuels including ethanol and biodiesel are the main
renewable energy for transport and offer the prospect of
reducing the use of fossil fuels blamed for  climate change .  A risk exists that biofuels themselves could lead to
greater greenhouse-gas emissions by causing indirect land-use
change. In displacing food production, biofuels threaten to spur
the conversion of forest and peatland, which store carbon
dioxide, into land for food crops. CO2 is the main greenhouse
gas.  The 6 percent limit on crop-based biofuels endorsed today
by the EU Parliament amends a 5 percent cap proposed last year
by the European Commission, the 28-nation bloc’s regulatory arm
in Brussels.  In its vote, the Parliament also said a second generation
of biofuels from non-food sources like farm and industry waste
should account for at least 2.5 percent of energy for road and
rail transport in 2020.  The EU requirement that at least 10 percent of land-transport energy in each member country come from renewable
sources as of 2020 dates to 2008. It is part of a goal of more
than doubling the overall share of renewable energy in the EU to
an average 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  