-- EU Talks on Carbon-Fix Mandate Postponed as Nations Stay Divided
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-09-11T15:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/eu-talks-on-carbon-fix-mandate-postponed-as-nations-stay-divided.html
Representatives of European Union
member states failed to agree on a mandate to start talks with
the European Parliament about a draft measure to help boost
carbon prices, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Countries including  Poland  and Cyprus were against the
proposal, while nations such as  Germany  and Spain remained
undecided during a meeting today in Brussels of ambassadors to
the EU, according to the people, who declined to be identified,
citing policy. The Parliament approved an amended version of the
measure, known as backloading, in July after carbon prices
slumped to a record low in April.  The emergency fix, which would temporarily alleviate
oversupply in the European emissions-trading system by delaying
auctions of some permits, needs both approval by the Parliament
and qualified-majority support from EU governments to be
enacted. Lithuania, which holds the EU rotating presidency in
the second half of this year, suggested countries accept the
Parliament’s amendment with no other changes, according to a
statement.  Today’s talks showed nations need “more time to finalize”
a position on the measure, according to the statement. “At the
request of the member states, the presidency has decided to
postpone the discussion on the issue.”  Backloading  EU carbon permits for December erased earlier gains on the
delay, dropping from a high of 5.25 euros per metric ton to 5.15
euros as of 3:37 p.m. in  London  on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract has lost more than 80 percent in the past
five years as an economic recession and debt crisis hurt
industrial output, cutting into demand for pollution rights and
helping inflate the glut of permits to a record 2 billion tons
last year.  The cost of pollution is too low to encourage the
investment in clean technologies that Europe needs to shift to a
low-carbon economy, according to the European Commission.  To temporarily boost prices, the commission, the EU
regulatory arm, proposed last year to postpone auctions of 900
million allowances from 2013-2015 to 2019-2020. The proposal has
divided member states and industry, with Poland,  Greece  and
Cyprus objecting to the planned market intervention.  In Germany, Economy Minister Philipp Roesler opposes
backloading, while Environment Minister Peter Altmaier advocates
a move to help prices rebound.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in
May she hoped that Europe’s biggest economy would be able to
tackle the plan soon after elections on Sept. 22. Other
undecided countries include Spain and the Czech Republic.  “The failure to get a mandate is not a surprise, as it was
always going to require the backing of countries which are still
officially undecided, notably Germany,” said Konrad Hanschmidt,
an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  