-- European Stocks Climb to Five-Year High Amid Syria Delay
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-09-11T16:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/european-stock-futures-little-changed-after-syria-delay.html
European stocks rose to the highest
level in more than five years as U.S. President  Barack Obama 
postponed a decision on military action against Syria.  ARM Holdings Plc, which designs chips for Apple Inc.’s
iPhones, rallied the most in four months after the U.S. company
unveiled two new models of the device. EON SE and RWE AG surged
more than 4 percent, leading a gauge of utilities higher.
Kingfisher Plc retreated 2.7 percent after first-half pretax
profit missed analysts’ estimates.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.4 percent to 310.88 at
the close of trading, the highest level since June 2008. The
benchmark gauge extended gains in the final minutes of trading,
surpassing the 310.59-point closing high it reached in May. The
measure has advanced 4.6 percent in September as Chinese
manufacturing, industrial production and retail sales increased.  “Equity markets have had a good run so far this month,”
Stewart Richardson, who helps oversee about $100 million as
chief investment officer at RMG Wealth Management LLP said by
phone. “The recent run of upward closes has been helped by good
Chinese data and the lessening of the threat in  Syria . Markets
need a new catalyst, and may drift sideways towards the Federal
Reserve meeting next week.”  The Stoxx 600 has rallied 11 percent this year as central
banks around the world maintained stimulus measures and the
global economy showed signs of recovery. The index  had declined 
11 percent from May 22 through June 24 after the Fed said it may
start reducing the pace of asset purchases if the economy
improves in line with its forecasts. Federal Open Market
Committee officials hold their next meeting on Sept. 17-18.  Volume Gains  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600-listed
companies was 23 percent higher than the 30-day average today,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Obama said yesterday in an address from  Washington  that he
will pursue a proposal by  Russia  to have Syria surrender its
stockpiles of chemical weapons to international authorities. He
had previously said he would ask Congress to authorize the use
of military force against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
following an Aug. 21 chemical attack that the U.S. says killed
more than 1,400 people.  “It’s too early to tell whether this offer will succeed,
and any agreement must verify that the Assad regime keeps its
commitments,” Obama said in remarks from the White House. The
initiative “has the potential to remove the threat of chemical
weapons without the use of force, particularly because Russia is
one of Assad’s strongest allies.”  National benchmark indexes gained in 13 of the 18 western
European markets today. Germany’s DAX added 0.6 percent, while
the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  and  France ’s CAC 40 each rose 0.1 percent.  ARM Advances  ARM jumped 4.8 percent to 986.5 pence, the biggest advance
since April 23. Apple said late yesterday it will introduce two
new iPhones, including a cheaper $99 version in bright colors
and a high-end device.  The more expensive iPhone 5S will use ARM’s latest 64-bit
technology, which carries a higher royalty rate and a greater
chip value than current 32-bit technology, Andrew Dunn, an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets, wrote in a report.  Nokia Oyj gained 3.9 percent to 4.42 euros after Berenberg
Bank raised its recommendation on the Finnish phone maker to buy
from sell, citing a stronger infrastructure business and an
undervalued patent portfolio.  A  gauge of utilities  was the best performer among 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600. EON,  Germany ’s largest
utility, advanced 4.8 percent to 13.45 euros and RWE, the
second-biggest, climbed 6.6 percent to 25.06 euros.  Banco de Sabadell SA, Spain’s fifth-largest bank, surged
9.7 percent to 2 euros. That was the biggest gain in a month and
the largest advance in the Stoxx 600 today.  Kingfisher, SSAB  Kingfisher dropped 2.7 percent to 408.5 pence after
Europe’s biggest home-improvement retailer said first-half
adjusted pretax profit fell 1.6 percent to 365 million pounds
($574 million). That missed the 367 million-pound average
forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gemalto NV, which provides near-field communications
technology solutions that enable contactless payment for mobile
phones, sank 6.4 percent to 78.65 euros for the biggest drop in
two years. Apple yesterday refrained from incorporating such so-called NFC technology in its latest iPhone versions. The Dutch
company has still surged 35 percent from its May 10 low.  “The rally in Gemalto was overdone,” said Hedy Talens, a
trader at Waerdeveldt BV in Amsterdam. “It was disappointing
that Apple didn’t have a big surprise and didn’t present NFC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  