-- Texas Instruments Narrows Sales, Profit Forecast Ranges
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-09-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/texas-instruments-narrows-sales-profit-forecast-ranges.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
analog-chip maker, gave third-quarter sales and profit forecasts
that were in line with estimates as demand for automotive and
industrial parts helps counter a personal-computer slump.  Revenue will be $3.15 billion to $3.29 billion, the Dallas-based company said yesterday in a statement. On average,
analysts had projected sales of $3.23 billion, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings will be 51 cents to 55 cents a
share, compared with estimates for 53 cents. In July, the
company predicted sales of $3.09 billion to $3.35 billion.  Texas Instruments’ chips are used in almost every type of
electronic device that needs a semiconductor, making its
earnings a proxy for demand across the industry. While revenue
is still poised to  drop  from a year ago, the company said its
automotive and industrial businesses are doing well, and growth
is returning to the handset, game-console and notebook markets.  “We had expected that the first-half growth we had seen in
the industrial and automotive markets would continue into the
third quarter, and in fact it has,”  Ron Slaymaker , vice
president of  investor relations , said on a conference call.  Texas Instruments  shares  rose 1.4 percent to $40.31 at
yesterday’s close in  New York . They slipped to $40.02 in
extended trading after the midquarter update. The stock has
gained 30 percent this year, compared with a 28 percent increase
in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  Under Chief Executive Officer Richard Templeton, Texas
Instruments is exiting the market for digital chips used in
smartphones and tablets. Cutting that division has been limiting
revenue since last year.  While the shift has eased the company’s dependence on the
mobile-device market, Texas Instruments supplies cheaper
components such as power-regulation chips and audio processors
for phones. Its products are also used as power regulators in
PCs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  