-- Exxon Says S. African Oil-Law Changes to Deter Investment
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-09-11T15:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/exxon-says-s-african-oil-law-changes-to-deter-investment.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and other energy companies operating in  South Africa 
said planned changes to mineral and energy laws lack clarity and
will deter investment in the continent’s largest economy.  Changes to the 2002 Mineral and Petroleum Resources
Development Act, being processed by parliament, would give the
state an unspecified free stake in all new  oil  and gas ventures
and the right to name two directors to their boards. The state
would be able to force mine operators to process some output
locally and declare some minerals strategic to secure supplies.  The changes “may significantly impact on the ability of
investors to continue exploration in South Africa,” Russ
Berkoben, president of Exxon’s local unit, told lawmakers in
 Cape Town  today. The government “is sending a message to
investors that their high-risk investment will have a much lower
reward. A lot of work has to be done.”  South Africa, closed to foreign investment until apartheid
ended in 1994, is seeking to develop its oil resources to boost
and diversify an economy with a 25.6 percent  unemployment  rate.
While Irving, Texas-based Exxon and Shell have stakes in
offshore blocks, extraction is yet to take off. The country
imports 70 percent of its oil needs, processing the remainder of
its fuels from coal and gas.  Excessive Discretion  Parliament’s  mineral resources  committee began four days of
public hearings on the draft bill today. On July 30, officials
from the Department of Mineral Resources told lawmakers they
were winning over business to the new laws and they didn’t
expect the regulations to hurt investment.  Shell said the proposed bill gives the mineral resources
minister excessive regulatory discretion and doesn’t clarify the
size of stake the state intends to take in new energy ventures.  “For a country to attract investment in the exploration of
oil and gas, the financial risks need to be balanced with stable
and transparent legislation that provides benefits to investors
and meets the country’s aspirations,” The Hague-based Shell
said in its submission. The bill’s deficiencies “could lead to
significant delays in planned investment.”  Marek Ranoszek, managing director of  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC) ’s South African unit, told lawmakers the draft law failed
to protect the rights and expectations of mineral permit holders
and may lead investors to reconsider plans for oil and gas
exploration.  Wider Deficit  “The potential costs to the country in terms of  job
creation ,  energy security , energy diversification and revenue to
the fiscus will be in the order of billions of rands,” Ranoszek
said. Johannesburg-based  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the world’s largest
producer of motor fuel from coal, several other energy companies
and business lobby groups also rejected the bill on the grounds
that it’s unclear and would hamper investment.  South Africa relies on foreign capital to fund its  current-account deficit , which widened to 6.5 percent of gross domestic
product last quarter as a weaker rand failed to damp imports and
boost exports.  The draft law has also drawn objections from mining
companies.  Anglo American Plc, the largest investor in South African
mining, and  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s second-largest platinum producer, said in written submissions that the
bill introduced legislative uncertainty and would fail to
achieve its aims of encouraging local processing.  Legal Obligations  The measures may also flout South Africa’s international
legal obligations, said London-based Anglo American, which is
due to address the committee on Sept. 18.  Fund-management companies Allan Gray Ltd. and Sanlam
Investment Management, both based in Cape Town, said many of the
law’s provisions would discourage investment in mining and
energy at a time when resources companies are struggling
worldwide.  Stagnating economies have eroded demand for commodities
from metals to fuels, sending the Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Spot
Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 raw materials down 4.8 percent in the past 12
months.  Provisions in the bill aimed at encouraging local mineral
processing may lead to the construction of unviable plants,
while restraints on exports would undermine businesses’ ability
to reap maximum revenue,  Allan Gray  said in its submission.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the state power company, said coal
should be declared a strategic mineral and exports of some
grades should only be permitted after being offered to domestic
energy producers at a cost that provided for “fair returns.”  Eskom also urged lawmakers to ensure it and other domestic
utilities were consulted prior to the awarding, granting and
renewal of coal exploration and mining licenses, and they had
first right of refusal on forfeited exploration rights.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net 
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  