-- Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg Meets With Chinese Internet Regulator
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-11T06:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/facebook-s-sheryl-sandberg-meets-with-chinese-internet-regulator.html
Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  Chief Operating
Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  met with the government agency that
oversees controls on the Internet in  China , where access to the
company’s social networking website is blocked.  Sandberg met with Cai Mingzhao, head of China’s State
Council Information Office, yesterday and discussed issues
including the “important role” Facebook plays in helping
Chinese companies expand overseas and cooperation, according to
a statement posted to the agency’s  website  today. The statement
didn’t say what cooperation was discussed.  Facebook has since 2009 only been accessible in China with
so-called proxy services that sidestep government censorship.
The company said in the prospectus for its 2012 listing that
China, home to the world’s largest number of Web users, had
“substantial legal and regulatory complexities” preventing its
entry. China censors the web by blocking sites with pornography,
gambling and content critical of the ruling Communist Party.  “I would be very surprised if it means that the position
on Facebook has changed,” said  Bill Bishop , an independent
technology industry consultant in Beijing. “The reality is that
to comply with Chinese laws and regulations, they would have to
have limited or no contact with the rest of Facebook so what’s
the competitive advantage? I think they’re kind of stuck.”  Sandberg declined to answer questions about Facebook’s
plans for the Chinese market when speaking at the Cheung Kong
Graduate School of Business in Beijing yesterday. She is
attending a conference organized by the  World Economic Forum  in
the Chinese port city of Dalian today.  In addition to the SCIO, Cai is also director of the
International Communication Office of the Communist Party’s
 Central Committee  as well as deputy head of the Communist
Party’s Publicity Department, formerly called the propaganda
department.  The SCIO functions as the nation’s Internet regulator
through the State Internet Information Office. The director of
the Internet office, Lu Wei, is also a deputy head of the SCIO.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  