-- Fired Deutsche Bank Euribor Traders Win Labor Court Case
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-09-11T11:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/fired-deutsche-bank-euribor-traders-win-labor-court-case-1-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  lost a lawsuit
filed by four traders fired as part of the lender’s probe of the
rigging of interest-rate benchmarks.  Presiding Judge Annika Gey at the Frankfurt Labor Court
today said the bank must give them their jobs back and pay their
salaries. Three of the employees made submissions for Euribor
and one for Swiss Franc Libor.  Regulators from  Canada  to Switzerland are investigating
whether more than a dozen lenders, including Deutsche Bank,
colluded to rig benchmark  interest rates  including the London
and Euro-area interbank offered rates for profit or to mask
their true cost of borrowing.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc have paid a total of about $2.5
billion in fines after admitting wrongdoing.  “The bank didn’t have adequate internal rules and controls
in place and didn’t see to it that rate submitting and
derivative trading was adequately separated,” Gey said in the
ruling.  Deutsche Bank has fired at least seven employees over
suspected misconduct in connection with rates. The bank,
continental  Europe ’s largest by assets, said in February that
while it would fire or suspend workers that acted
inappropriately, it wouldn’t identify individuals.  Another banker, who was the most junior of the group
involved in today’s case, reached a settlement with the bank,
two people familiar with the matter said in July.  Deutsche Bank justified the dismissal of the employees by
saying they had inappropriate communication with a trader the
bank fired at the end of 2011 for trying to rig rates, one of
the people familiar with the matter said in July.  The traders were based in Frankfurt and included two
managing directors, two directors and a vice president, two
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time. Submitting
euro interbank offered rates was part of their responsibilities,
the people said.  A mediation hearing in April didn’t yield any results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in  Frankfurt  via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 