-- Five Least Bad Reasons for the Fed to Taper Now
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-09-11T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/five-least-bad-reasons-for-the-fed-to-taper-now.html
There is no time like the present.
That’s what my mother and father always told me, and that’s
something the  Federal Reserve  should keep in mind when policy
makers gather next week to consider tapering asset purchases.  That doesn’t sound like a good reason to start tapering?
It’s not. So bear with me.  Let’s start with the premise that the Fed is anxious to get
out of the unconventional-policy business and get back to
basics. Of course, that’s hard to do when the basics involve
adjusting the benchmark overnight interest rate, something the
Fed has no intention of doing anytime soon. Various  studies  and
official comments seem to acknowledge the diminishing returns
from the third round of quantitative easing, which consisted of
the purchase of $85 billion in Treasury and mortgage-backed
securities a month, compared with the first two rounds.  Given the Fed’s predilection for tapering, the  time frame
outlined  by Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  in June (“later this
year”), and the expectation that the end of asset purchases
would coincide with a 7 percent  unemployment rate , next week
seems like the best time to start.  What’s the urgency? The  U.S. economy  has been growing at
the subpar pace of 2.1 percent since the recession ended in June
2009. The unemployment rate has fallen largely because Americans
have dropped out of the labor force. So why now?  First off, consider the Fed’s view of how QE works.  Carpe Diem  “Quantitative easing typically refers to policies that
seek to have effects by changing the quantity of bank reserves,
a channel which seems relatively weak, at least in the U.S.
context,” Bernanke said in a November 2010  speech  at a banking
conference in  Frankfurt . “In contrast, securities purchases
work by affecting the yields on the acquired securities and, via
substitution effects in investors’ portfolios, on a wider range
of assets.”  If there is no longer a positive effect on the yields of
acquired securities and other assets, then there is little point
in continuing the current pace of purchases. A  delay in tapering 
is not going to reduce long-term  interest rates  because everyone
knows it’s coming -- and soon.  Besides, the difference between the  predicted effect ,
derived from an econometric model, of $85 billion in monthly
purchases and $70 billion, a likely first step, is infinitesimal
and overwhelmed by other market forces.  Absent a monetarist framework, QE becomes more of a
constraint than a solution.  A second not-very-good reason for tapering now is that a
better opportunity may not present itself in the next couple of
months. August’s disappointing employment report injected some
caution into calls for tapering. Nonfarm payrolls rose by
169,000, below the 12-month average. Of greater concern was the
downward revision, for the second consecutive month, of job
growth in previous months. Data revisions tend to reflect the
trend. So when additional information -- in this case, a more
complete survey sample of businesses -- reduces the head count,
it’s a worrisome sign.  The  labor force participation rate  fell to a 35-year low of
63.2 percent in August. The  unemployment rate  declined to 7.3
percent for the wrong reason. As in almost every month for the
last five years, the number of unemployed workers leaving the
 labor force   exceeded  the number who found a job.  In the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of this
year, employment growth was running ahead of what was implied by
real gross domestic product growth. Now GDP and employment seem
to be in better alignment. A monthly increase of 169,000 jobs
may be as good as it gets until economic growth accelerates.  The packed fall calendar is a third reason to consider
tapering now. The Fed’s subsequent meeting on Oct. 29-30 could
very well coincide with negotiations over an increase in the
debt ceiling and the announcement of the next Fed chairman.  Supply Constraints  “This would not be an ideal moment for the central bank to
experiment with a potentially disruptive operational change,”
Credit Suisse Group AG economists Neal Soss and  Dana Saporta 
wrote in the bank’s Sept. 6 U.S. Economic Digest.  In addition to calendar constraints, Soss and Saporta argue
that a desire to avoid market disruptions in the face of reduced
mortgage and Treasury issuances is “the best and least-tortured
reason for tapering.” That makes four.  Throw in an indefinite delay in a U.S. response to  Syria ’s
use of chemical weapons, and you have the five least bad reasons
for the Fed to take its first baby tapering steps next week.
That’s not to say it isn’t a close call. The economic
justification -- a substantial improvement in the outlook for
the labor market -- is still lacking, even though the
unemployment rate is close to where the Fed expected it to be in
mid-2014.  Soss and Saporta expect the Fed to “sugarcoat” the
message that tapering is not tightening -- is there anyone who
missed it? -- and perhaps spell out plans to let assets mature
rather than sell them when the time comes.  At this point, I have to believe that tapering is fully
priced into the market. Isn’t that what forward guidance is all
about?  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 