-- Ford Didn’t Breach Truck Dealer Contracts, Ohio Jury Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   H a r l a n   S p e c t o r
-- 2013-09-11T21:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/ford-didn-t-breach-truck-dealer-contracts-ohio-jury-says.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  didn’t breach
pricing contracts with commercial truck dealers, a Cleveland
jury found in the retrial of a case that previously resulted in
a $2 billion judgment against the automaker.  The plaintiffs claimed Ford offered secret discounts to
some dealers even though it was obligated by sales and service
agreements to publish all prices. The suing dealers said those
excluded from discounts wound up paying more for vehicles,
hurting their  profits .  Ford denied committing any breaches or overcharging
dealers, contending a program that offered some discounts wasn’t
barred by the contract. The state court jury today agreed with
Ford.  “The men and women who worked for Ford and who have been
involved in this program for three decades have been
vindicated,” James Feeney, the company’s trial lawyer, said in
an interview after the verdict. “Our view all along is that
there was no breach of this contract.”  The dealers asked the jury to award $784.7 million in
damages. Plaintiffs also sought interest to be added to any
judgment.  The dealers are considering an appeal, James Lowe, their
lawyer, said after the verdict. The jury’s decision was
“surprising,” he said. “We thought we had persuaded them that
Ford had breached the contract.”  ‘Published Prices’  The dealers sued Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford in 2002,
claiming the company broke an agreement to sell trucks at
published prices, forcing them to pay more from 1987 to 1998.  In the first trial on the claim, Cuyahoga County Judge
Peter J. Corrigan awarded $2 billion, including about $1.2
billion in interest, to a class of about 3,000 dealers in 2011.
A state appeals court ordered a new trial last year, finding
Corrigan improperly excluded evidence that might have helped the
company.  Ford used a competitive price assistance program, known as
CPA, that provided discounts to some individual dealers to help
them make sales,  Feeney , the company lawyer, said in his closing
argument at trial yesterday. The contract didn’t bar such
discounts, he said.  “CPA was a transaction-specific discount,” he said. Ford,
based on a request from the dealer, made a decision to give up
some of the company’s  profit margin  to make the sale, Feeney
told the jury. “CPA was neither a scheme nor an attempt to
control dealer profits.”  Dealer Agreement  The dealers said the agreement required Ford to publish all
price concessions that were approved for any dealer. Failing to
publish discounts given to some meant the others paid more,
according to dealers including the lead plaintiff, Youngstown,
Ohio-based  Westgate Ford Truck Sales Inc .  “If you promise a published price to the dealer, then you
have to give the dealer a published price,” Lowe told the jury
at the end of trial. The published price is “the only
protection” that ensures a dealer is “playing on a level
playing field,” he said.  Corrigan let dealers pursue claims against Ford on behalf
of a class in 2005, a decision upheld on appeal. The class
includes Ford dealers who bought from the company any 600-series
or higher truck over about 11 years starting in 1987.  The first trial was on the claims by one dealer, Westgate.
The judge found Ford liable before trial for breach of contract,
and a  Cleveland  jury in February 2011 awarded $4.5 million in
damages to Westgate.  Added Interest  Four months later, Corrigan added $6.65 million in interest
to the Westgate award and applied the damages finding to the
rest of the class, entering the $2 billion judgment.  Ford contended on appeal that the judge improperly found
Ford liable before trial and prevented the company from
defending itself on damages.  The Cleveland-based appeals court found that the contract
was ambiguous and Corrigan shouldn’t have decided the issue
before trial. It also questioned whether the evidence could
support allowing the plaintiffs to pursue class-action claims.  Ford asked Corrigan to reverse his 2005 decision allowing
the dealers to pursue their claims as a group. Corrigan rejected
the request yesterday.  The competitive price assistance program, under which
dealers would call Ford seeking discounts, allowed the company
to control the truck dealers’ profits, said Lowe, their lawyer.  ‘Ford’s Way’  The program was “Ford’s way of just taking the dealers to
the cleaners,” he said. “Ford took money out of the dealers’
pockets that belonged to the dealers.”  The Westgate contract was used at trial to evaluate the
dealers’ breach claim.  There was never a contractual price guarantee, and Westgate
Ford profited from the CPA program, Feeney said at trial
yesterday.  “Prior to the time Westgate sued Ford, there was no
evidence they disagreed with each other.”  The original $2 billion judgment was five times higher than
the largest-ever jury award against Ford in a lawsuit, according
to data compiled by  Bloomberg News . The largest jury verdict
against Ford was for $369 million in a products-defect case
awarded in  California  in 2004. That verdict was later reduced by
trial and appellate courts.  The case is Westgate Ford Truck Sales Inc. v. Ford Motor
Co., CV 02-483526, Court of Common Pleas, Cuyahoga County,  Ohio 
(Cleveland).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Harlan Spector in state court in Cleveland
at  harspector@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  