-- France to Include Carbon Levy in Fuel Tax in 2014, Minister Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-09-11T15:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/france-to-include-carbon-levy-in-fuel-tax-in-2014-minister-says.html
France  will introduce a carbon levy
on fuel as the government tries to use the tax system to cut
emissions, Environment Minister Philippe Martin said today.  The government will ensure the overall tax burden on fuel
stays at current levels next year, he said, giving no details of
how the new levy will work.  “I can confirm the introduction of a carbon component to
the consumer tax” will be included in the 2014 budget, Martin
told reporters. “It won’t affect households and companies”
next year, he said.  “The measure will allow us to have something that many
other countries have already done,” he said.  The levy will make French taxes “greener” by penalizing
pollution, according to Martin. The fact that it won’t add to
French taxes next year is part of the government’s policy to
“stabilize” the fiscal burden, he said  Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said last month that he
understands that some people are “fed up” with taxes and
promised that the government is shifting to spending cuts in its
2014 budget. Full details of the budget plans will be published
Sept. 25.  The government has no plans for a specific mechanism in the
2014 budget to bring taxes on diesel to the level of those on
gasoline, Martin said today at his first press conference in
Paris since taking over from Delphine Batho in July.  The government’s planned law for the country’s future
energy mix, which Hollande has pledged will lower dependence on
atomic reactors, is expected to be introduced in parliament next
spring, Martin said. Another to modernize the mining code is
ready, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  