-- Furniture Brands Wins Approval of Bankruptcy Financing
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-09-11T22:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/furniture-brands-wins-approval-of-bankruptcy-financing.html
Furniture Brands International
Inc., maker of the Broyhill, Lane and Thomasville home-furnishing lines, won court approval of as much as $115 million
in bankruptcy financing to help fund operations as it pursues a
sale of most of its assets to Oaktree Capital Management LP for
about $166 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  granted the
company interim approval of the loan being provided by Oaktree
at a hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware . The company will
seek approval of the full $140 million financing package at an
Oct. 2 hearing.  Oaktree’s loan and acquisition offers were modified during
a break in today’s hearing after KPS Capital Partners made an
alternative proposal, pushing Oaktree to better its terms.  “It was a productive recess,” Luc A. Despins, a lawyer
for the company, told the judge. “I think the estate is much
better off than it started this morning.”  Under the revised loan, the  interest rate  would be the
London interbank offered rate plus 3 percentage points, payable
in kind, and the fees have also been reduced, according to
Despins. About $90 million of the loan will be used to pay off
debt under an asset-based revolving credit facility.  If Oaktree is outbid at the bankruptcy auction, the loan
would become due and payable. Oaktree is “not going to finance
a reorganization for someone else to buy it,” Despins said.  Furniture Lines  While Oaktree’s offer for all of the furniture lines except
Lane remains at $166 million, it has agreed that if Lane sells
for less than $49 million it can match that offer and pay cash
to make up the difference. The $166 million offer can be
submitted as a so-called credit bid allowing it to use
forgiveness of debt to bid for the assets rather than cash.  KPS Capital Partners, which would buy Lane as well, said
that it would be active as the bankruptcy advances. “We will be
around, when we see the documents we may come forward with a
better DIP, a better APA,” said Mark Thomas, a lawyer for the
would-be lender and buyer, referring to debtor-in-possession
financing and asset purchase agreement.  The deadline for a sale to be completed as required by the
bankruptcy financing was moved up about two weeks from 135 days
after the bankruptcy was filed.  Liquidity Crunch  Furniture Brands was forced to seek  bankruptcy protection 
because the housing industry has remained depressed and that,
coupled with weak consumer discretionary spending, led to a
decline in sales and a liquidity crunch, Chief Financial Officer
Vance Johnston said in a court filing.  Sales decreased 7.8 percent in the six months ended June 29
compared with the same period a year earlier, with higher-end
brands outperforming the lower-priced furniture lines.  The company, based in  St. Louis , listed assets of $546.7
million and debt of $550.1 million in Chapter 11 documents filed
this week in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington.  Furniture Brands owes about $142 million in funded  debt ,
including about $92.3 million on an asset-based revolving
facility and $49.7 million on a  term loan , according to court
documents. The company also has about $200 million in unfunded
pension obligations and owes about $100 million to trade
creditors.  The company makes and distributes home decor in nine
countries under brands that have endured for more than 100
years, according to court documents. Furniture Brands has about
9,000 employees globally and spends about $276 million on its
roughly 5,400 U.S. employees annually.  The case is In re Furniture Brands International Inc., 13-bk-12329,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  