-- Gene Tied to Down Syndrome May Suggest Way to New Therapy
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-09-11T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/gene-tied-to-down-syndrome-may-suggest-way-to-new-therapy.html
Scientists have identified a gene
on the extra chromosome causing Down syndrome that may be
responsible for the early aging and cognitive defects in people
with the condition, a finding that could lead to new treatments.  The  gene , called Usp16, may hinder the body’s ability to
make  stem cells  needed to maintain tissues and organs, according
to research published today in the journal  Nature . That includes
development of organs such as the brain while in the uterus,
said  Michael Clarke , a senior study author.  The findings in mice and human cells are the first to help
explain why people with Down syndrome show signs of early
Alzheimer’s disease and age faster, the authors said. Further
investigation may test whether the gene might slow down these
aging effects or fight against other diseases like Alzheimer’s
and cancer, Clarke said.  “Like most regulators and stem cell functions,
understanding how those things work has potential implications
in a wide range of diseases,” Clarke, a professor of medicine
at  Stanford University  near  Palo Alto ,  California , said in a
telephone interview. “Now that we have a pathway, there might
be drugs that could be used to improve some of the problems.”  People with  Down syndrome  have three copies of chromosome
21 rather than the standard two. Usp16 is on all three copies.
The extra copy of chromosome 21 and the Usp16 gene may speed up
the rate that stem cells are used during early development,
exhausting the stem cell pools needed to regenerate tissues as
adults,  Craig Garner , a professor of psychiatry and behavioral
sciences at Stanford and a study author, said in a statement.
This could make the brains of those with the condition age
faster and increase cognitive deficits, he said.  Down Syndrome  About 400,000 people in the U.S. have Down syndrome and
about 6,000 babies are born in the U.S. each year with the
disorder, according to the  National Down Syndrome Society .  Physical issues that accompany Down syndrome include heart
defects, stomach trouble, hearing difficulties and a higher
likelihood of childhood leukemia.  Alzheimer’s disease  is also
common among patients with the disorder. It is estimated that
more than 75 percent of those ages 65 and older with Down
syndrome have Alzheimer’s, six times as many as those in the age
group without Down syndrome, according to the  Alzheimer’s
Association .  In the study, the tests in human cells also showed that an
excess of Usp16 in people without Down syndrome caused skin
cells to grow more slowly, while reducing Usp16 in skin and
nerve cells in people with Down syndrome allowed the cells to
have normal growth patterns rather than to regenerate slowly,
the authors said.  “This gene is clearly regulating processes that are
central to aging in mice and humans,” Clarke said. “Reducing
Usp16 expression gives an unambiguous rescue at the stem cell
level. The fact that it’s also involved in this human disorder
highlights how critical stems cells are to our well-being.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  