-- German Stocks Advance as Obama Postpones Syria Decision
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-11T15:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/german-stocks-advance-as-obama-postpones-syria-decision.html
German stocks  advanced, with the
benchmark  DAX (DAX)  rising to its highest level in more than three
months, as U.S. President  Barack Obama  postponed a decision on
whether to take military action against  Syria .  Commerzbank AG added 3 percent after Citibank raised its
earnings estimate for Germany’s second-largest lender.  RWE AG (RWE) 
and EON SE each rose more than 4 percent as a gauge of utilities
climbed the most of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  K+S AG (SDF)  fell 0.7 percent after BMO Capital Markets
downgraded its rating on the potash producer.  The DAX increased 0.6 percent to 8,495.73 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , for its sixth day of gains. The index
climbed 2.1 percent last week as manufacturing growth in the
U.S. and  China  beat projections. The broader HDAX Index rose 0.5
percent today.  “After the correction we saw in the second half of August,
investors are looking for an excuse to buy back into the market
and it seems relief around Syria is providing the excuse,”
Raimund Saxinger, a fund manager at Frankfurt-Trust Investment
GmbH, which oversees about $22 billion, said in a telephone
interview.  The DAX fell 4 percent from a monthly high on Aug. 14, amid
speculation the Federal Reserve will pare stimulus measures and
concern about possible U.S. military action against Syria.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 22 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Russian Proposal  Obama said yesterday in an address from  Washington  that he
will pursue a proposal by Russia to have Syria surrender its
stockpiles of chemical weapons to international authorities. He
had said that he would ask Congress to authorize the use of
military force against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime
following an Aug. 21 chemical attack that the U.S. said killed
more than 1,400 people.  Commerzbank rose 3 percent to 9.35 euros, its highest price
since Mar. 13. Citibank raised its 2014 earnings estimate by 3
percent, citing better second-quarter revenue at the lender’s
corporate and markets division.  RWE and EON gained 6.6 percent to 25.06 euros and 4.8
percent to 13.45 euros, respectively.  K+S retreated 0.7 percent to 20.94 euros. BMO Capital
Markets downgraded Europe’s biggest potash distributor to
underperform, similar to a sell recommendation, from market
perform. The financial services provider set a price target of
18 euros on the shares.  Dialog Semiconductor Plc (DLG)  slumped 7.6 percent to 14.33
euros, its largest drop since April 17. Apple Inc., the
company’s biggest customer for smartphone chips, yesterday
unveiled two new iPhone models.  “With Apple apparently focusing on margins rather than
volume, Dialog might be burdened near-term,” Deutsche Bank AG
said in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  