-- Germany’s Greens Slump, Dimming SPD Chances of Unseating Merkel
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-09-11T09:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/germany-s-greens-slump-dimming-spd-chances-of-unseating-merkel.html
Germany ’s  Greens party  plummeted to
a four-year low in a weekly poll, undermining efforts by  Peer Steinbrueck ’s Social Democrats to unseat Chancellor Angela Merkel.  The SPD-allied Greens dropped two points to 9 percent,
their lowest level since March 2009, according to a Forsa poll
published today in  Stern magazine . That offsets a two-point gain
by the SPD to 25 percent, underscoring a bounce for the party in
the week after the campaign’s only televised debate.  The poll showed Merkel has a narrow majority with her
current coalition. Her Christian Democratic-led bloc dropped a
point to 39 percent, while her Free Democratic partner gained a
point to 6 percent.  Forsa surveyed  2,500 voters Sept. 3-9 and
had a margin of error of 2.5 percentage points.  Eleven days before the Sept. 22 election, polls show the
popular chancellor still in position to lead a third government.
The decline of the Greens would buttress Merkel’s position in
coalition talks, either with the FDP or for a “grand
coalition” with the SPD. Merkel’s first government from 2005 to
2009 was a coalition with the SPD.  “Steinbrueck’s performance in the election debate was a
wake-up call for Merkel but he’s still not gaining enough
traction,”  Jan Techau , director of the Brussels office of the
Carnegie Endowment, said in a telephone interview. No other
debates are planned before Election Day. Steinbrueck will take
part in a 75-minute town hall style interview on ARD television
starting today at 8:15 p.m.  Merkel Slips  In a personal contest between Merkel and Steinbrueck, the
chancellor lost three points to 52 percent, while the SPD
candidate gained three to 26 percent, Forsa showed. This was
Forsa’s first survey taken after the Sept. 1 debate.  The drop for the Greens marks a reversal of fortune for the
environmental party compared with a surge in support following
the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster. Forsa registered a high of
28 percent for the Greens in April 2011.  Forsa’s managing director, Manfred Guellner, told Stern the
Greens’ slump is due to their campaign for social justice, which
“doesn’t fit them,” and calls for tax increases.  Merkel has also pounced on a Green proposal to mandate a
no-meat “veggie day” in school and work cafeterias, targeting
the idea in most of her election rally speeches.  “Do you need a recommendation when you’re allowed to eat
meat and when not? You won’t get that from us,” Merkel told a
campaign rally in Luebeck on Aug. 16.  In contrast, the SPD has managed to at least partially
achieve its objective of winning back voters who voted for the
party in the past, according to Guellner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  