-- Glaxo’s Drug Approvals Boost Morale as China Probe Drags
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-09-12T10:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/glaxo-s-drug-approvals-boost-morale-as-china-probe-drags.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s recent
setbacks, including a corruption probe in  China , are being
outweighed by what will probably be the highest number of new
drug approvals in the U.S. this year.  Glaxo and partner  Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s lung drug Anoro this
week won the backing of a U.S. advisory panel, which augurs
regulatory approval by December. A nod for Anoro by the Food and
Drug Administration would be Glaxo’s fifth this year. It’s
unlikely any other major drugmaker globally will come close,
said Sam Fazeli, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries in London.  The stock has  gained 22 percent  this year, even as Glaxo
faces allegations of bribery in China and the FDA proposed a
simpler route for companies seeking to copy its best-selling
medicine. The drug, Advair, had about $8 billion in revenue last
year. Glaxo’s share surge compares with a 9.3 percent decline
last year, the worst performance among the world’s 10 biggest
drugmakers.  “The morale across a lot of GSK is very strong, because
we’ve had a very exciting period of pharmaceutical innovation,”
Chief Strategy Officer David Redfern said in an interview this
week. “We’re pretty proud of what we’ve achieved.”  Approvals were granted this year for Tivicay for HIV,
Tafinlar and Mekinist for skin cancer, and Breo for respiratory
disease. The FDA review period for albiglutide, a once-daily
treatment for Type 2 diabetes, has been extended by three months
to April 15, Glaxo said last month.  Pending Trials  Analysts have also been anticipating results from clinical
trials on two experimental drugs: the cancer vaccine MAGE-A3 and
darapladib for heart disease. Glaxo said last week that MAGE-A3
failed to benefit skin-cancer patients in a late-stage trial.
Glaxo will continue to study whether the drug works in a
subgroup of patients and also in lung cancer. Results on
darapladib, a potential blockbuster, will be released this year.  Anoro and Tivicay have combined sales potential of about $7
billion, compared with slightly more than $1 billion for all
China drug revenue last year, said Mark Clark, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank in London.  “The upside vastly outweighs any short-term hiatus in
China,” Clark said in a telephone interview. “Clearly,
revenues will be under pressure for a few quarters in China, but
I’m not overly vexed about this.”  Chinese Market  The China probe has led to the detention of senior
executives and the appointment of a new China head for the
company. Glaxo is considering  withdrawing  from the China market
as it negotiates with the government on how to resolve the
bribery allegations, the U.K.’s Daily Telegraph reported last
week. The  BBC  cited the risk of accepting corporate liability in
China, resulting in large  fines in the U.K. and the U.S. , which
have anti-bribery laws that apply to foreign practices of
companies operating in those countries.  “We remain fully committed to China and to continuing to
supply our health-care products to meet the needs of patients in
the country,” Glaxo spokesman Simon Steel said by e-mail today.  Glaxo has the largest research and development presence of
any multinational drugmaker in China and is unlikely to pull
out, Clark said.  “You can’t ignore a population that large,” he said.
“They’ll take whatever punishment is coming and get on with
it.”  In July, Christophe Weber, head of Glaxo’s vaccines unit,
said the company was in discussions to form a joint venture with
a Chinese company to help with research and marketing in the
country. Spokesman David Daley declined to say whether the talks
were ongoing or have been put on hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  