-- GM Right to Add to Pensions During Bailout, Rattner Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-09-11T22:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/gm-right-to-add-to-pensions-during-bailout-rattner-says.html
The U.S. auto bailout’s leader
challenged a watchdog’s conclusion that Treasury Department
officials pressured  General Motors (GM)  Co. to increase unionized
workers’ pensions to secure support for its reorganization.  Steven Rattner , who was President  Barack Obama ’s auto czar
and is now chairman of Willet Advisors LLC, today told U.S.
lawmakers his  task force  did what would be expected of advisers
to a corporate restructuring.  His portrayal differed from that of  Christy Romero , the
special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program,
who said at a House hearing that GM officials believed “they
were not in control” during the 2009 bailout.  “The public statements Treasury made downplayed their
involvement, downplayed their role,” Romero said today at a
hearing held by the House Oversight and Government Reform
Subcommittee on Government Operations.  Four years after Obama’s administration bailed out GM and
Chrysler Group LLC, the panel is looking at how the Treasury
Department handled the process, which improved pensions for
union-represented hourly employees at auto supplier  Delphi
Automotive Plc (DLPH)  while cutting them for about 23,000 salaried
workers and retirees.  Rattner and two other members of the auto recovery task
force testified today in Washington about their involvement in
the decision to give a so-called top-off of pensions for the
United Auto Workers-represented employees at Delphi, which GM
spun off in 1999.  ‘No Involvement’  “We had no involvement in the day-to-day running of
General Motors,” Rattner, who wrote a book about the process,
told the panel, saying GM was left to decide which models to
sell and which dealerships to close. He said he insisted that GM
replace its chief executive officer as part of the deal.  Rattner’s firm is the investment arm for  New York  City
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder of and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  He said GM managers, not U.S. Treasury officials, decided
to boost pensions of hourly workers to help secure an agreement
critical to GM’s bailout.  He defended that decision as the right one in hindsight,
saying the UAW insisted on it.  “The UAW was an absolutely critical party to bring to the
negotiating table,” Rattner said in his  testimony . “They had
the power to hold up a deal in bankruptcy or to strike, either
of which could have been devastating to GM’s efforts to get back
on its feet and in turn, to the  U.S. economy .”  The decision was made by GM with union input, and not by
government officials, Rattner said.  Lacking Control  Romero said in an August  report  that government officials
led by Rattner were worried the UAW could stall GM’s bankruptcy
reorganization and pressured the automaker to reach agreement
quickly on its pension liabilities.  GM employees thought they weren’t in control of what was
going on, Romero said.  “It may be that the auto team went into their job not
intending to get so involved in the operations of the company,”
she said. “But ultimately the only one who can say whether they
felt that influence is the company themself.”  GM was facing default when the government, concerned that
it would impact the automaker’s supply chain and the U.S.
economy, agreed to intervene in late 2008.  In exchange for about $50 billion in investments, the
Treasury became GM’s majority owner with a 61 percent stake in
the company that emerged from bankruptcy in July 2009, according
to the report.  As of June 5, the government’s share was 13.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The department said it had recovered about $35 billion of
its GM investment as of July 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  