-- Goldman Sachs Hires JPMorgan’s Moge for Insurance Investing Post
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-11T16:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/goldman-sachs-hires-jpmorgan-s-moge-for-insurance-investing-post.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  hired Neil Moge from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to lead a London-based team
overseeing investments for insurers amid an expansion of asset
management in Europe.  Moge was named  executive director  and head of insurance
portfolio management for Europe, the Middle East and Africa,
according to a memo last month from Mike Siegel, global head of
Goldman Sachs’s insurance asset management unit.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by assets, and
No. 1 JPMorgan are among firms vying to manage money for
insurance companies facing pressure from low bond yields and new
regulation. New York-based Goldman Sachs manages $133 billion
for insurance clients, according to June 30 figures on the
company’s  website .  “Neil will play an integral role as we continue to expand
our insurance business in Europe and the United Kingdom,”
Siegel said in the memo. “Neil has an extensive background in
 investment management  for insurance companies.”  Moge had been an executive director at New York-based
JPMorgan’s global insurance solutions team, where he managed
client relationships. Prior to joining JPMorgan, he was an
investment director at RSA Insurance Group Plc and also held
money-management roles at Axa SA and Prudential Plc’s M&G
business, according to the memo.  He will report to John Melvin, chief investment officer of
the insurance asset management unit, and Iain Lindsay, co-head
of global fixed income portfolio management. Moge has a
bachelor’s degree in history and a master’s in medieval studies
from the  University of Bristol  in the U.K.  JPMorgan’s asset management unit in June announced the
hiring in London of Prashant Sharma from Goldman Sachs as head
of international fixed-income investments for insurance clients.
Kristen Chambers, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment on the departure. She said the company has about $90
billion in assets under management at the global insurance
solutions business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 