-- Goldman Expects Negative Return on Commodity Index in 12 Months
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-09-11T05:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/goldman-expects-negative-return-on-commodity-index-in-12-months.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its
12-month forecast for commodity returns, predicting a decline in
precious metals, agriculture and energy. The bank kept its
neutral recommendation on raw materials.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Enhanced Commodity Index will
drop 2 percent, compared with an increase of 0.1 percent
expected in July, analysts led by New York-based  Jeffrey Currie 
said in a report today. Energy, with a 73.5 percent weighting,
will probably fall 1 percent, while precious metals slide 15
percent and agriculture declines 7 percent, they said.
Industrial metals may increase 2 percent.  The gauge advanced 2.9 percent this year through Sept. 9 on
speculation the U.S. may launch a military strike on  Syria  in
retaliation for what it said was use of chemical weapons.
President  Barack Obama  has since asked Congress to postpone a
vote on military action while he pursues a diplomatic solution.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Sept. 6 it turned overweight on
commodities because of an improvement in manufacturing, better
demand and more optimism over  China .  Investors will probably make more profits buying and
rolling front-end futures, rather than purchasing one year out
and holding to maturity, the analysts said. “We expect this
strong positive carry to offset these declines, leaving returns
mostly flat over the next year. Accordingly, we are maintaining
our neutral recommendation on commodities.”  West Texas Intermediate crude climbed 17 percent this year
to $107.10 a barrel while gold for immediate delivery dropped 18
percent to $1,366.88 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  