-- Gold Falls as Haven Demand Ebbs; Syrian Tensions Subside
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-09-11T18:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/gold-fluctuates-as-obama-steps-back-from-strike-against-syria.html
Gold prices  fell to the lowest in
almost three weeks after President  Barack Obama  asked Congress
to delay a vote on U.S. military action against  Syria ,
diminishing demand for haven assets.  Obama said yesterday he would prefer a peaceful solution to
the Syrian conflict and that he saw “encouraging signs” of
diplomacy ending the confrontation. Last month, gold jumped 6.3
percent partly amid concern that political tension in the  Middle
East  would boost crude-oil prices, damping the economy and
stoking inflation.  “The likelihood of a U.S. military attack on the Syrian
regime continuing to decrease is very bearish for safe-haven
assets like gold,” Jim Wyckoff, a senior analyst at Kitco Inc.,
a research company in  Montreal , said in a report. “There is an
increase in investor risk appetite worldwide.”  Gold futures for December delivery fell less than 0.1
percent to settle at $1,363.80 at 1:37 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Earlier, the price touched $1,356, the lowest for a most-active contract since Aug. 22.  Futures have dropped 19 percent in 2013 as some investors
lost faith in the metal as a store of value amid an equity rally
and low U.S. inflation. The price will extend a slump into next
year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “Gold prices have started to decline with the declining
probability of a military intervention,” Goldman said in a
report before Obama’s address. “We continue to expect that gold
prices will decline into 2014 on the back of an acceleration in
U.S. activity and a less accommodative monetary-policy stance.”  Silver futures for December delivery rose 0.7 percent to
$23.172 an ounce on the Comex.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
October delivery fell less than 0.1 percent to $1,473.50 an
ounce. The metal dropped for the third straight day, the longest
slump in two months. Palladium futures for December delivery
declined 0.2 percent to $691.20 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  