-- Google to Rent Former Mall in Largest Silicon Valley Deal
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-11T22:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/google-to-rent-former-mall-in-largest-silicon-valley-deal.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to rent a former
shopping mall in Mountain View,  California , in the largest
Silicon Valley lease deal of the year, according to the
property’s owners.  The former mall is being renovated into an office complex,
with completion scheduled for next year, real estate investment
firm Rockwood Capital LLC said today in a statement. Rockwood,
which has offices in San Francisco and  White Plains ,  New York ,
owns the former Mayfield Mall in a venture with San Francisco-based Four Corners Properties. Once the renovation is completed,
the campus will have more than 500,000 square feet (46,500
square meters) of office space on 27.6 acres (11.2 hectares).  Office leasing by technology firms is picking up in Silicon
Valley after a slowdown at the beginning of 2013 following three
years of expansion by companies including Google and Apple Inc.
The largest Silicon Valley office lease in the first half of the
year was  InvenSense Inc. (INVN) ’s lease of 129,795 square feet in  San
Jose , according to brokerage CBRE Group Inc.  “Growth has accelerated substantially so far in the second
half of the year,” Colin Yasukochi, director of research and
analysis at CBRE in  San Francisco , said today in an interview.
“Additional demand has entered the marketplace, the vast
majority driven by tech companies.”  Rockwood didn’t disclose the lease terms, and Caroline Luz,
a spokeswoman for the company with Owen Blicksilver Public
Relations, declined to comment beyond the statement. Katelin
Jabbari, a spokeswoman for Mountain View-based Google, declined
to comment on the lease.  Planned Hotel  Mayfield Mall was the first air-conditioned, enclosed
shopping mall in Northern California and was previously occupied
by stores including J.C. Penney Co. The property, adjacent to
the San Antonio Caltrain station, is in an area with shops,
restaurants, housing and a planned hotel, Rockwood said.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular Internet search
engine, agreed in July to expand its San Francisco office space
at Morgan Stanley’s Hills Plaza building in what would be that
city’s biggest lease transaction of 2013, a person with direct
knowledge of the deal said at the time.  Google joins  Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX)  in using a former
shopping mall for office space. Rackspace, a provider of Web-based computing services, paid $32.7 million for the abandoned,
1.2 million-square-foot Windsor Park Mall in San Antonio and
converted it to offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  