-- Li Says China Rebound Not Yet on Solid Foundation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-12T02:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/li-says-china-rebound-not-yet-on-solid-foundation.html
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said the
foundations of a growth rebound aren’t solid while cautioning
that stimulus won’t help resolve deep-rooted issues in the
world’s second-largest economy.  “The foundation of an economic recovery is not solid yet
with many uncertain factors,” Li said in a speech yesterday at
the  World Economic Forum  in Dalian, China. The nation is taking
steps to stabilize  growth  and can achieve the main economic
targets this year, Li said.  Policy makers have signaled they will defend a 7.5 percent
 expansion  goal for 2013 and seek to ensure a pace of 7 percent
in the coming years. Li pledged reforms that will ripple
throughout the financial system as Communist Party leaders
prepare for a November meeting to lay out a blueprint for
sustaining long-term growth.  “An important part of economic-system reform is financial
reform,” Li said in a question-and-answer session after the
speech. “It is because it is such a complicated systematic
project, it indicates China’s reform has entered a deep-water
zone, or the most difficult phase.”  Li reiterated that China will push forward interest-rate
and exchange-rate reforms and the internationalization of the
 yuan  while promoting the currency’s convertibility under the
capital account.  Risk Cost  Government data on Sept. 10 showed  industrial production 
and aggregate financing, the nation’s broadest measure of new
credit, rose more than estimated in August, in a sign leaders
are committed to meeting economic goals even at the cost of
adding financial risks. The government has used measures from
tax cuts to extra spending on railways to respond to a growth
slowdown.  Kasper Rorsted, chief executive officer of  Henkel AG (HEN) , the
German maker of products from Right Guard deodorant to Loctite
adhesives, said in an interview today in Dalian that “we have
been and continue to be very bullish on China,” the company’s
third largest market.  “China is very focused on the long term, a long-term, high,
sustainable growth rate,” Rorsted told  Susan Li  on Bloomberg
Television’s “First Up.”  Li said China is taking “targeted measures” to address
the issue of local government debt that “people are all
concerned about.” The State Council, or cabinet, headed by Li,
awaits results from a nationwide audit of government borrowing
ordered in July.  Debt ‘Controllable’  “We can say confidently that it is safe and controllable
in general,” Li said.  Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said last week at a
Group of 20 nations summit that while China needs to strengthen
supervision of shadow banking, officials are aware that smaller
businesses need access to finance.  A government-engineered cash squeeze in June sent money-market  interest rates  to record highs and helped curb shadow
banking, reducing longer-term dangers while adding to forces
slowing economic growth. Now it appears that the crunch in
liquidity and credit is over, Wang Tao, chief China economist at
UBS AG in Hong Kong, said Sept. 10.  Adam Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington , said in Dalian that
“we’re starting to get concerned” about the levels of shadow
banking.  Savings Returns  “It’s still nothing like the size of the imbalances
financially we used to speak about in the mid-2000s in the
West,” Posen, a former Bank of England policy maker, said on
“First Up.” “Nonetheless, it is a sign that they’re not
providing enough returns on savings for your average Chinese
investor.”  Analysts at UBS, Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup Inc.
boosted growth forecasts following this week’s economic data,
which increased chances that Li will meet the goal for 7.5
percent annual expansion.  That pace would be the slowest in 23 years and follow a
decade averaging more than 10 percent a year. Growth slowed for
a second straight quarter to 7.5 percent in the April-June
period.  The sustainability of  China ’s rebound is in question and
growth may slow after November, said Gao Shanwen, chief
economist at Essence Securities Co. in Beijing. August figures
showed no significant change in government-dominated investment
in infrastructure construction, Gao said on a conference call
with clients yesterday.  Li said China has entered a phase of a “medium-high” rate
of growth, down from a high rate, yet the pace is “still a high
rate among major economies” around the world.  “It’s not easy for such a gigantic economy to realize
long-term and continuous growth,” Li said. “We must make sure
the fruits of reform and development can be shared by the
broadest range of people.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Hu Shen in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  