-- IAC Said to Be Considering Daily Beast Sale After Brown Exit
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-09-12T20:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/iac-said-to-be-considering-daily-beast-sale-after-brown-s-exit.html
IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI)  Chairman  Barry Diller  is considering selling the Daily Beast following the
departure of Tina Brown, who helped start the news website in
2008, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Brown, who served as the Daily Beast’s editor-in-chief, had
explored the idea of a sale with Diller before announcing her
departure yesterday, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the deliberations are private. The company hasn’t made
any formal moves to shop around the business, the person said.  Brown is now leaving the site to start a new venture, Tina
Brown Live Media, which will build on her Women in the World
conferences. Her exit leaves the Daily Beast without its best-known voice and follows a failed effort to integrate the site
with  Newsweek  magazine. IAC agreed to sell Newsweek to IBT Media
last month for an undisclosed sum, raising speculation that the
company would offload the Daily Beast as well.  “We’re always looking at the best options for all of our
businesses,” said Justine Sacco, a spokeswoman for New York-based IAC.  Shares of IAC , an Internet holding company that includes
Ask.com and Match.com, were little changed at $53.15 at the
close in New York. The stock has climbed 13 percent this year.  Brown, a former editor of the  New Yorker  and  Vanity Fair ,
started the Daily Beast with Diller five years ago, aiming to
create a source of breaking news and commentary for the  Internet
era . IAC then purchased Newsweek as part of an agreement with
the late  Sidney Harman  in November 2010 and combined it with the
Daily Beast. The company forged the deal to sell it to IBT Media
after struggling to make the magazine profitable.  Exit Package  Brown, 59, is now negotiating her exit package from the
Daily Beast, said the person with knowledge of the matter. John
Avlon, executive editor of the Daily Beast, is likely to replace
Brown as editor-in-chief, the person said.  Brown told Diller about a month ago that she didn’t plan on
continuing in her role through 2014, the person said. Their
relationship remains friendly, according to the person.  In her next venture, Brown is seeking both business and
editorial control of the operations, said a separate person with
knowledge of her plans. The Daily Beast’s events team led by
Kathy O’Hearn will also join Tina Brown Live Media, according to
a statement yesterday.  The business will focus on the Women in the World summit,
which Brown started in 2010. The event, which has featured
appearances by  Oprah Winfrey ,  Hillary Clinton  and  Angelina Jolie , will continue a partnership with the Daily Beast through
next year’s summit.  ‘Enormously Proud’  “Creating the Daily Beast at the original instigation of
Barry Diller in 2008 has given me some of the most exciting and
fulfilling years of my professional life,” Brown said in the
statement. “I am enormously proud of what our brilliant
editorial team has achieved at the Beast. And I am proud, too,
of what we did with Newsweek in the battle we waged to save it
from the overwhelming forces of media change.”  After announcing plans to sell Newsweek earlier this year,
Diller said that publishing a weekly magazine at a time when
news has become instantaneous was a “fool’s errand.”  “I wish I hadn’t bought Newsweek,” the 71-year-old
billionaire told Bloomberg Television in  an interview  in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  