-- Tina Brown Will Leave Daily Beast to Start New Venture
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-09-11T21:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/tina-brown-said-to-be-departing-as-editor-of-iac-s-daily-beast.html
Tina Brown is stepping down as
editor-in-chief of  IAC/InterActiveCorp’s (IACI)  Daily Beast to start a
new venture, capping a tumultuous tenure that included the
acquisition -- and sale -- of  Newsweek  magazine.  Tina Brown Live Media will build on Brown’s Women in the
World conference and include “summits, salons and flash
debates,” she said in a statement today. She wants both
business and editorial control in her next venture, according to
a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private.  Brown, a former editor of the  New Yorker  and  Vanity Fair ,
started the Daily Beast in 2008 with IAC Chairman  Barry Diller ,
aiming to create a source of breaking news and commentary for
the  Internet era . IAC acquired a stake in Newsweek in 2010 and
combined it with the Daily Beast online. After struggling to
make the magazine profitable, IAC sold Newsweek to IBT Media
last month for an undisclosed sum, keeping the Daily Beast.  “I leave The Daily Beast knowing it has never been
better,” Brown said in the statement. “I am proud, too, of
what we did with Newsweek in the battle we waged to save it from
the overwhelming forces of media change.”  Brown is negotiating her exit package from the Daily Beast,
said a person with knowledge of the discussions. John Avlon,
executive editor of the news website, is likely to replace Brown
as editor-in-chief, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the decision hasn’t yet been announced.  Diller said earlier this year that publishing a weekly
magazine at a time when news has become instantaneous was a
“fool’s errand.”  “I wish I hadn’t bought Newsweek,” the billionaire told
Bloomberg Television in  an interview  in April.  Shares of IAC , an Internet holding company that includes
Ask.com and Match.com, rose 0.8 percent to $53.16 at the close
in  New York . The stock has climbed 13 percent this year.  BuzzFeed earlier reported on Brown’s planned departure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  