-- India 10-Year Bond Yield Drops for Second Day as Rupee Rallies
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-09-11T12:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/india-s-swaps-rise-from-one-month-low-as-rupee-resumes-decline.html
India’s 10-year bond yield fell for
a second day as the rupee’s best run since October led to
speculation the central bank may reverse liquidity-tightening
measures meant to support the currency.  The rupee capped a fifth day of gains today, the longest
streak since October. It gained 6.9 percent in the period, the
biggest rally since 1973 when Bloomberg started compiling data
for the currency. Raghuram Rajan, who took charge as governor of
the  Reserve Bank  of India on Sept. 4, announced steps to boost
the supply of dollars.  The yield on the 7.16 percent notes due May 2023 slid one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.46 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. It fell
16 basis points yesterday as lower-than-forecast U.S. jobs data
prompted speculation the  Federal Reserve  may be less aggressive
in paring stimulus that drove demand for emerging-market assets.  “There’s been a dilution of the negative sentiment that
had been prevailing in the market,” said J. Moses Harding,
executive director at  Lakshmi Vilas Bank Ltd. (LVB)  in Mumbai.
“Growth is the ultimate aim and the RBI’s monetary policy would
go back to restoring that once the currency stabilizes.”  The RBI raised two  interest rates  and tightened cash supply
mid-July in an attempt to stem the rupee’s slide, aiding a
three-month surge in government bond yields.  The rupee sank to a record 68.845 per dollar on Aug. 28,
raising  inflation  concerns as India imports about 80 percent of
its oil needs. Ten-year  government bonds  slumped in each of the
past three months, the longest losing streak since August 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The RBI’s next
scheduled policy review is on Sept. 20.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose three basis
points to 9.15 percent today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  