-- India to Purchase $4.3 Billion of World Bank Bonds, Mayaram Says
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-09-11T14:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/india-to-purchase-4-3-billion-of-world-bank-bonds-mayaram-says.html
India  will use its foreign exchange
reserves to buy $4.3 billion of bonds offered by the  World Bank 
enabling the nation to tap more funds from the lender to build
highways and ports.  The proposal for the first such investment by the  Reserve
Bank  of India in International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development’s bonds will be considered for approval at a cabinet
meeting tomorrow, Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said
in  New Delhi .  “Foreign exchange reserves are deployed in investible
instruments,” Mayaram told reporters. “By subscribing to these
bonds, India will be able to leverage this to get a larger sum
of money as a loan for investing in infrastructure projects.”  The government wants to attract as much as $1 trillion in
investments in the five years through 2017 to improve the
nation’s infrastructure that is ranked worse than Kazakhstan and
Guatemala by the  World Economic Forum . RBI’s investment will
give India access to funds for new roads, utilities and ports,
helping spur  growth  in an economy that expanded 5 percent in the
year ended March, the least since 2003.  Increased foreign funding will also help check the fall in
the rupee which has tumbled 13 percent against the dollar. The
central bank is allowed to deploy foreign exchange reserves in
investible instruments and ensure returns, Mayaram said.  The rupee, which reached a record low of 68.845 per dollar
on Aug. 28, has rebounded 6.9 percent in the past five days, the
most in at least four decades. It climbed 0.8 percent today,
while the benchmark  stock index  S&P BSE Sensex was unchanged.
The yield on the 7.16 percent bond due May 2023 fell to 8.46
from 8.47 percent on Sept. 10.  “This is an investment proposal and it is not a grant to
World Bank,” said Mayaram.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  