-- Industry Ventures Files to Raise $200 Million Fund
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-09-11T20:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/industry-ventures-files-to-raise-200-million-fund.html
Industry Ventures , a San Francisco-based firm that invests in venture-capital funds and private
technology companies including Twitter Inc., filed to raise a
$200 million fund.  The Industry Ventures Special Opportunities Fund II
disclosed its plans in a document filed yesterday with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Last week, the firm said in
a filing that it’s raising a separate $400 million fund called
Industry Ventures Secondary VII.  While most venture firms invest directly in technology-related startups, Industry Ventures orchestrates so-called
secondary deals, where it buys equity from employees and early
investors. It also makes some direct investments in companies
and runs a fund of funds, which puts money into other venture
funds with less than $250 million.  Industry Ventures has acquired stakes in at least 95
companies including Twitter, Ancestry.com Inc., Chegg Inc.,
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Pandora Media Inc., according to its website.
The firm was founded in 2000 and manages more than $1 billion.  The secondary market for private-company shares took off in
2010 as Internet companies such as Facebook, LinkedIn Corp. and
Zynga Inc. grew rapidly while avoiding the public markets. Those
types of deals dried up the following year when hot Web startups
started going public and others such as Twitter and Square Inc.
took steps to bar investors from selling stock on secondary
exchanges.  Industry Ventures is still able to orchestrate secondary
deals by working directly with companies. The firm’s previous
Special Opportunities fund brought in  $155 million  in 2011.  Industry Ventures didn’t immediately return calls for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  