-- Intel Says Toshiba, Asustek Are Building Chrome Devices
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-11T20:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/intel-says-toshiba-asustek-are-building-google-chrome-devices.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, showed off four computers running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Chrome software, expanding the lineup of devices and
manufacturing partners using the operating system.  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  will introduce
Chrome-based computers running Intel’s latest Haswell
processors, executives of the chipmaker said today at a company
event in San Francisco.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Acer Inc., both
existing Chromebook partners, are also working on devices using
the new chips.  Intel is trying to expand in one of the few areas of the
personal-computer market that’s growing as tablets and
smartphones increasingly win over consumers. Haswell chips may
increase the capabilities of the low-cost Chrome computers,
which rely more on Internet-based services than traditional PC
software.  “This is showing that Intel is serious about Chrome,”
said Doug Fisher, who heads the Santa Clara, California-based
company’s software division. Intel has no idea how big the
market for the devices will be, “but if it’s big I don’t want
to get caught out,” he said.  Google plans to continue expanding the range of devices and
sees Chrome-based machines becoming more competitive, Google
Senior Vice President  Sundar Pichai  said at the conference.  “At the price point they’ll come in, I think they’ll be
hugely disruptive in the market,” he said.  Bay Trail  Intel also used the event, which is its annual developers’
forum in San Francisco, to tout the chances of another chip
redesign called Bay Trail. The product, aimed at helping Intel
break into the tablet market, will appear in Microsoft Corp.
Windows 8 tablets this year and ones running Google’s Android
mobile software from early next year.  Intel is also trying to fire up the PC market with devices
it calls two-in-ones, computers that have a detachable keyboard
that allows them to function either as laptops or tablets.  Bay Trail-based two-in-ones will retail for as little as
$349, according to Intel Senior Vice President Kirk Skaugen. The
chip will enable standard laptops to be sold at as little as
$199 and touch-screen models at $299.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ; and
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  