-- Missouri Tax Cuts Die as Lawmakers Fail to Override Nixon Veto
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/missouri-tax-cuts-die-as-lawmakers-fail-to-override-nixon-veto.html
Missouri’s Republican-controlled
legislature failed to override Democratic Governor Jay Nixon’s
veto of cuts in personal and corporate income taxes, slowing a
political prairie fire that began in neighboring  Kansas .  The vote yesterday in Jefferson City, the state capital,
fell 15 short today in the  House of Representatives , ending
months of debate over the impact of $700 million in cuts. Nixon
argued that they would hurt public schools and damage other
government services. He led a coalition of school and health-care groups against business interests and Republicans.  “This bill wrecks Missouri -- let’s sink it,” said
Democratic Representative Jill Schupp, poking at Rex Sinquefield, the St. Louis businessman who backed the effort to
cut the taxes.  The bill approved by Republican lawmakers in May, the first
reduction in the state’s income-tax rate since 1921, was
promoted as a vehicle to make Missouri more economically
competitive after Kansas reduced rates in 2012. It would have
reduced the top individual rate to 5.5 percent from 6 percent,
and dropped the corporate levy to 3.25 percent from 6.25 percent
over the next decade.  “We’ve got to do something,” said Republican
Representative Denny Hoskins, saying that business are leaving
 Missouri  for lower taxes in Kansas.  Cause Celebre  Nixon vetoed the bill June 5, calling it an “ill-conceived, fiscally irresponsible experiment that would inject
far-reaching uncertainty into our economy.”  Sinquefield, who led an unsuccessful ballot effort last
year to repeal the income tax, backed a television ad campaign
urging an override of the governor’s veto. Texas’s Republican
Governor  Rick Perry , injecting himself into the fight,
campaigned for the cut during a visit to Missouri last month.  Nixon, 57, re-elected last November with 55 percent of the
vote, responded with a campaign-style swing around the state,
saying the cuts inspired by Kansas were budget-busters.  The top Kansas income-tax bracket dropped Jan. 1 to 4.9
percent from 6.45 percent. The state also eliminated taxes on
almost 200,000 small businesses. Republican Governor  Sam Brownback  signed in June a further reduction to 3.9 percent, to
take effect by 2018. That bill also set the state sales-tax rate
at 6.15 percent, higher than the 5.7 rate that was scheduled to
take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net  