-- Italy, Argentina, U.S. Reach World Cup as 10 of 32 Spots Filled
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-11T09:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/italy-argentina-u-s-reach-world-cup-as-10-of-32-spots-filled.html
Ten of the 32 spots at the 2014
soccer World Cup are now filled after  Italy , the Netherlands,
the U.S., Costa Rica and Argentina secured berths.  The Netherlands and Italy became the first European teams
to book a place at the tournament in Brazil yesterday, when 33
qualifying matches were played. The U.S. and Costa Rica advanced
when Honduras and Panama drew in a later game, and Argentina’s
5-2 win in Paraguay made it South America’s first qualifier.  “We all wanted to win to seal this qualification, we’ve
worked hard in the past three years,” Italy coach Cesare Prandelli said in comments on the tournament’s website. “We’re
not the strongest players individually but collectively we
produce our best and this helps to raise everyone’s game.”  Also in Europe,  Germany  and Switzerland took five-point
leads in their groups heading into the final two rounds of
matches, while England and  Russia  secured one-point advantages
atop their pools. The winners of each of the nine European
groups advance, with the best eight runners-up going into a
playoff for the remaining four slots.  Robin van Persie scored goals four minutes apart early in
the second half as the Netherlands won 2-0 in Andorra to
guarantee finishing atop Group D. Italy’s 2-1 home victory
against the Czech Republic sealed first place in Group B.  Italy came from behind in Turin after Libor Kozak put the
Czechs in front in the 19th minute before Giorgio Chiellini tied
the score early in the second half.  Mario Balotelli  then gave
Italy the lead with a penalty kick in the 54th minute.  Five Points Clear  Per Mertesacker, Mesut Ozil and Thomas Mueller scored as
Germany beat the Faroe Islands 3-0 to stay five points clear in
Group C ahead of  Sweden , which won 1-0 in Kazakhstan. Fabian
Schaer got both goals in Switzerland’s 2-0 win against Norway
that moved it to 18 points in Group E.  England’s scoreless draw in Kiev was enough to lift it atop
Group H with 16 points, one more than Ukraine and Montenegro.
England hosts Montenegro and  Poland , which has 13 points, in its
final two games on Oct. 11 and 15.  Franck Ribery scored two of  France ’s four second-half goals
in its win against Belarus. The French ended a run of five
straight games without a goal and tied world and European
champion Spain, which has played one game fewer, with 14 points
in Group I.  Russia beat Israel 3-1 in St. Petersburg to lead Portugal
by a point in Group F. The Portuguese play their remaining two
games at home, while Russia finishes its campaign on the road.  South America  World player of the year Lionel Messi scored twice from the
penalty spot against  Paraguay  to help Argentina secure its 11th
straight berth at soccer’s four-yearly showpiece.  Sergio Aguero, Angel Di Maria and Maxi Rodriguez added
goals in Asuncion as the two-time world champion moved to 29
points atop South America’s nine-team group. Second-place
Colombia, which could have sealed a World Cup berth by avoiding
defeat against Uruguay last night, lost 2-0 in Montevideo.  South America’s top four nations after 16 matches qualify,
with the fifth-placed team playing off for another spot against
Jordan, the winner of Asia’s qualifying playoff.  Jordan beat Uzbekistan 9-8 on penalty kicks in Tashkent
yesterday after the teams drew 1-1 for the second straight week
to send their two-game series into a shootout.  Jordan, seeking its first World Cup berth, will host South
America’s No. 5 team on Nov. 13 or 14 in the intercontinental
playoff opener, with the return game scheduled for Nov. 20.  U.S. Qualifies  The U.S. and Costa Rica became the first two teams from the
North, Central America and Caribbean group to advance.  Goals by Eddie Johnson and Landon Donovan gave the U.S. a
2-0 win against  Mexico  and a seventh straight World Cup spot.
Costa Rica’s 1-1 draw against  Jamaica  also was enough to put it
through when  Honduras  tied Panama 2-2.  “These guys put in a lot of hard work over the past two
years and to have an opportunity in front of a crowd like this
to qualify is pretty special,” Donovan said in an interview
with ESPN after the victory in Columbus,  Ohio .  The top three teams in the  six-nation group  advance, with
the fourth-place finisher entering a two-game playoff against
Oceania group winner New Zealand for another spot.  With two rounds of games remaining, the U.S. leads the
standings with 16 points, one more than Costa Rica. Honduras is
third with 11 points, followed by Panama and Mexico with eight
each, and Jamaica, which has four points.  Australia ,  Iran ,  Japan  and South Korea had already
qualified from Asia, while five-time champion  Brazil  has an
automatic spot as host. Brazil beat Portugal 3-1 last night in
an exhibition match at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough,
 Massachusetts .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  