-- Lithuania Defends Nordic Power Pool After Price Spike
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-09-11T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/lithuania-defends-nordic-power-pool-after-price-spike.html
Lithuania  condemned Estonia’s plans
to bypass a new joint  electricity market  to protect its
consumers as members of the Nordic power exchange disagree on
the causes of price spikes earlier this year.  “The current mechanism for the distribution of capacity,
when Nord Pool Spot auction is applied to trading on the
exchange, can give a large benefit to the market players,”
Lithuanian Energy Minister Jaroslav Neverovic said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Unilateral actions that Estonia
plans, such as renewing auctions of forward capacity at the
Estonian-Latvian border, would hurt competition in the Baltic
power market.”  Estonian Economy Minister Juhan Parts said in a letter last
month the nation may revert to allocating transmission capacity
independently at the Latvian border instead of through the Nord
Pool Spot exchange.  Estonia ’s competition watchdog must look
into “abnormal” market prices, Parts said in June after day-ahead power prices in all three Baltic countries soared 61
percent.  Parts urged his Baltic counterparts in the letter to offer
all output to the exchange, similar to Estonia’s Eesti Energia
AS, to avoid price jumps.  The Baltic power exchange is hindered by the lack of
transmission links between the Baltic and Nordic countries,
Neverovic said. Completion of new lines between Estonia and
 Finland , Lithuania and  Sweden , and Poland and Lithuania in the
next two years “will bring a significant reduction of  price
fluctuations ,” he said. He urged Estonia and Latvia to lay a
new power line as quickly as possible to reduce congestion.  Connecting Baltics  In March, the Baltic grid operators agreed on terms for
managing regional flows of electricity, after a dispute
threatened to delay their final integration to the Nordic power
exchange. Connecting the Baltics to power markets and networks
in neighboring EU countries is a priority for the European
Commission.  Until  Latvia  joined the Nord Pool Spot in June, Lithuania
remained isolated as it only has cross-border connections to
Belarus and Kaliningrad,  Russia , with none to the Nordic or EU
power markets. Lithuania has relied on Russian electricity since
closing its Soviet-era Ignalina nuclear plant in late 2009 while
its gas-fired electricity plants are idled because prices are
uncompetitive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  