-- J&J Recalls Some of Schizophrenia Drug After Mold Found
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-09-11T20:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/j-j-recalls-some-of-schizophrenia-drug-after-mold-found.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  is recalling
5,000 vials of its Risperdal Consta, a long-acting drug for
patients with schizophrenia, after testing found the medicine
was no longer sterile.  Routine analysis showed one lot of the injected drug was
contaminated with alternaria alternata, a common mold found in
the environment, said Robyn Reed Frenze, a spokeswoman for the
New Brunswick, New Jersey-based company’s Janssen unit. There
haven’t been any reports of complications among patients who
received the medicine, though injection site reactions are
possible, she said.  J&J, the world’s biggest seller of health products, has
been plagued by recalls for several years. The company last week
withdrew about 200,000 bottles of concentrated Motrin Infants’
Drops and is facing thousands of lawsuits following the recall
of 93,000 ASR model hip implants in August 2010.  “The risk to patients is low,” Frenze said. “We don’t
want to create unnecessary concern,” though the company thought
it was important to provide the information to doctors and
others who may still have the medicine on hand, she said.  The recalled 5,000 vials are those remaining from about
70,000 originally manufactured and are mainly with wholesalers,
distributors or in pharmacy or doctor’s officers, Frenze said in
an interview. The medicine, approved for patients with
schizophrenia and bipolar 1 disorder, generated $336 million in
the second quarter. It is typically given every two weeks.  Risperdal Consta, which is refrigerated, is different from
the company’s Risperdal medication, which is given orally. The
recall doesn’t affect Risperdal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  