-- Japan Calls China Incursions Regrettable on Purchase Anniversary
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-11T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/japan-calls-china-incursions-regrettable-on-purchase-anniversary.html
China ’s incursion this week into
Japanese waters was “serious” and “extremely regrettable,” a
Cabinet official said yesterday, a year after  Japan  purchased
the disputed islands and sparked protests in Chinese cities.  Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato spoke at a
briefing in  Tokyo  a day after Japan lodged a diplomatic protest
when eight Chinese ships entered waters near the islands, called
Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese on Sept 10. Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said China is “strongly
dissatisfied” with Japan’s response to its patrols and that the
country should “face reality and history.”  The approach of the anniversary saw stepped up Chinese
patrols and flights near the islands, which are at the center of
a diplomatic quarrel that damaged trade between  Asia ’s two
biggest economies. While protests against Japanese businesses
eased days after the government bought three of the five islands
last year, the two sides are no closer to resolving the dispute.  “The political relationship could not be worse and that is
affecting the economic relationship,” said Jun Okumura, senior
adviser to the Eurasia Group in Tokyo. “Japanese businesses
have not recovered all the ground they lost.”  Chinese imports from Japan  fell 37 percent in the months
after the purchase last year and still haven’t fully recovered.
The August import figure of $14.1 billion was 12.9 percent less
than the level of September 2012.  Fighter Jets  Japan dispatched fighter jets on Sept. 9 when an
unidentified aerial drone was spotted near the islands and also
deployed jets on Sept. 8 after Chinese H-6 bombers flew between
its main southern island of Okinawa and Miyako-jima about 280
kilometers (174 miles) further southwest, without entering
Japanese airspace, the  Defense Ministry  said in a statement on
its website on Sept. 9. China said the flight was legal and that
it would continue such maneuvers.  On Sept. 10, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said
Japan would do everything in its power to protect its people,
territory and airspace. Asked if that could include stationing
public officials on the islands, he said that was “one option
to be considered.”  That drew a swift response from Hong at a briefing. “Japan
should bear the consequences of all its provocative actions,”
he said. A commentary on the official Xinhua News Agency
yesterday went further.  ‘High’ on Nationalism  “Japan is still high on its brew of nationalism and
manufactured sense of aggression, though it has been vowing to
save its relations with China from the current downturn,” the
commentary said. It called Prime Minister Shinzo Abe “Dr.
Feelgood” for providing what it called medication to the
country’s conservatives.  During last year’s protests, hundreds of demonstrators
marched outside the Japanese embassy in Beijing, while Toyota
Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. reported that dealerships in the
country were set ablaze.  On a visit to Beijing on Sept. 10,  James Miller , U.S. under
secretary of defense for policy, said he told Chinese officials
it’s “critically important” that the dispute not be addressed
through the threat or use of force.  No formal bilateral summit has been held between Japan and
China for more than a year. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and Chinese President Xi Jinping only spoke briefly during a
Group of 20 summit in  Russia  last week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  