-- JPMorgan Said Near Settlement on Credit-Card Collections
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-12T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/jpmorgan-said-near-settlement-on-credit-card-collections.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  may settle
regulators’ probes into the bank’s credit-card debt collection
practices and sales of identity-theft products as early as next
week, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau plan to fine the bank less
than $80 million for both matters, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the discussions are private.
JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender by assets, is also near an
agreement with U.S. and U.K. regulators who have been
investigating its $6.2 billion trading loss last year, one of
the people said.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  met in Washington Sept.
10 with U.S. Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  to update
the agency on the bank’s activities and its compliance with
various regulatory orders, according to two people who asked not
to be named because the talks were private.  The bank is facing “a crescendo of activity in past weeks,
and we are reacting to that where it makes sense,” Chief
Financial Officer Marianne Lake told investors Sept. 9 in
announcing that the firm would boost legal reserves by more than
$1.5 billion in the quarter to resolve litigation and other
potential claims.  Dimon, who also visited lawmakers on  Capitol Hill , meets
almost monthly with Curry and other regulators, said one of the
people. Some of the bank’s board members were also in  Washington 
and put in calls to regulators this week as JPMorgan tries to
repair its relations with its supervisors, two people said.  Trading Loss  The OCC is among regulators, also including the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the U.K.’s Financial Conduct
Authority, preparing to fine the bank after an investigation
into its record trading loss in London last year, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said in August. The OCC and
Federal Reserve censured JPMorgan without monetary penalties in
January for the debacle, which cost the firm more than $6.2
billion.  JPMorgan has added 3,000 employees to bolster internal
controls and compliance, Lake said. The company has said it
stopped selling identity-theft products in 2011 and refunded all
affected customers.  Dimon, 57, also joined  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, at a client event hosted by  Carlyle Group LP (CG) 
Sept. 10, according to three people with knowledge of the
matter. More than 1,000 guests attended, the person said.  Spokesmen for the OCC, Carlyle, JPMorgan declined to
comment.  Andrew Williams , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, confirmed that Blankfein was at the event.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  