-- Kashagan Project Produces First Oil After 8 Years of Delays
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-09-11T12:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/kashagan-project-produces-first-oil-after-8-years-of-delays.html
Kashagan, the world’s biggest crude
discovery in the last 40 years, produced its first oil after
eight years of delays and costs that reached $48 billion, more
than double early estimates.  The start of output means the Caspian Sea project has
narrowly beaten an Oct. 1 deadline that Kazakh Energy Minister
Sauat Mynbayev set in 2008, saying the partners risked losing
“tens of billions of dollars” in compensation for costs if
they missed it. Hans Wenck, a spokesman for operator North
Caspian Operating Co. in the capital Astana, confirmed the
deadline while declining to elaborate on potential consequences.  Kashagan, slated to produce as much as 370,000 barrels a
day during its first phase, has been pushed back multiple times
from the original start date in 2005. Expenses mounted as the
operators undertook drilling from a man-made island to unlock
crude 4,200 meters (2.6 miles) under the seabed in a pressurized
reservoir with a high concentration of lethal sour gas.  “Future development projects bear the potential to
significantly increase production volumes and position Kashagan
as an important contributor to the world energy market,” NCOC
said in an e-mailed statement today. NCOC didn’t say how much is
being pumped from the field, which has 35 billion barrels in
place.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni
SpA (ENI)  each holds 16.81 percent in the project.  Japan ’s  Inpex Corp. (1605) 
owns 7.56 percent. State-owned KazMunaiGaz National Co.  retains
16.88 percent.  China National Petroleum Corp. this month bought an 8.33
percent holding from KazMunaiGaz. Kazakhstan had earlier
exercised a preemptive right to buy out  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’ 8.4
percent share to block a sale to India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  