-- KKR Said to Weigh Teaming With Japan INCJ for Panasonic Unit
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-09-11T05:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/kkr-said-to-weigh-teaming-with-japan-s-incj-for-panasonic-unit.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  is considering teaming up
with state-backed  Innovation Network Corp. of Japan  as it seeks
to buy a majority stake in  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s health-care unit,
said three people with knowledge of the matter.  The U.S. private equity firm last week got preferential
negotiating rights after two rounds of bidding for Panasonic
Healthcare Co., which is valued at more than 150 billion yen
($1.5 billion), said two of the people, who asked not to be
identified as the process is private. Panasonic plans to keep a
stake in the unit, according to the people.  Panasonic Healthcare, which provides digital medical record
systems and makes instruments that measure blood glucose, would
be KKR’s biggest acquisition in  Japan , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Osaka-based Panasonic is selling control of the
unit as it focuses on a 250 billion-yen plan to reverse losses
at its electronics business in the next two years.  KKR, run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is also
exploring a wider alliance with INCJ for health-care industry
investments, the people said. Any deals would be done through
Panasonic Healthcare, they said. Allying with INCJ could give
New York-based KKR more access to potential investments in
Asia’s second-largest economy, one person said.  “It’d be a rare deal if the alliance between KKR and the
state fund is realized,” said  Yasuhide Yajima , chief economist
at NLI Research Institute in Tokyo. “The market’s closely
watching this deal.”  State Guarantees  KKR and INCJ haven’t entered formal talks to co-invest in
Panasonic Healthcare and the U.S. firm may still proceed to buy
the stake on its own, the people said.  INCJ was formed by then-Prime Minister Taro Aso’s
administration in July 2009 to invest in technology that would
make Japan more globally competitive. It is capitalized at 280
billion yen, with 266 billion of funds from the Japanese
government and 14 billion yen from 27 private companies,
according to INCJ’s website. The government provides total
guarantees of as much as 1.8 trillion yen for INCJ investments.  KKR,  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and Bain Capital LLC were among bidders
picked in June to make second-round offers for Panasonic
Healthcare, according to people familiar with the matter. Fewer
than 10 suitors made offers for the unit in the first round,
people with knowledge of the matter said in May.  Spokesmen for KKR and INCJ declined to comment, as did
officials from Panasonic, Toshiba and Bain.  KKR is conducting due diligence on Panasonic Healthcare,
two of the people said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is advising KKR
and  Bank of America Corp.  is working with Panasonic, according
to the people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  