-- NJ Democrat Accused of Extorting Meadowlands Mall Builder
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-09-11T21:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/n-j-democrat-accused-of-extorting-mall-developer.html
A former chairman of the Bergen
County Democratic Organization in  New Jersey  was accused of
extorting $1.7 million from a Virginia firm that developed a
now-stalled retail and entertainment center in the Meadowlands
sports complex.  Joseph Ferriero, 56, was indicted today on racketeering
charges in federal court in Newark, New Jersey, where he was
accused of soliciting bribes from a real estate investment trust
that developed the project once known as Xanadu. The REIT, which
wasn’t identified, paid $35,000 a month in bribes from 2002 to
2006, according to the indictment.  Ferriero also engaged in kickback schemes involving a
 software developer  seeking public contracts and a consulting
company that sought grants and loans for local towns. In 2009,
Ferriero was convicted of conspiracy and mail fraud related to
the consulting company, but that verdict and indictment were
later set aside by the judge.  “Joseph Ferriero ran a political organization as a
racketeering enterprise, abusing power for profit,” U.S.
Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement. “Today’s charges
expose years of peddled influence, from grants to building
projects to software contracts.”  Ferriero also is charged with conspiracy, mail and  wire
fraud , and a violation of the Travel Act. He faces as long as
20 years in prison on the racketeering and fraud counts. He is
to make an initial appearance in federal court in Newark.  ‘Unprincipled Attack’  “This indictment is a tragic and unprincipled attack on
Mr. Ferriero’s life, without any legal or factual basis,” his
attorney, Michael Baldassare, said in a statement. “The U.S.
Attorney’s Office has refused to listen to reason after his
lawyers have, for months, sought to show them that neither the
law nor the facts support their allegations.”  Ferriero will be vindicated at trial, Baldassare said.  Holdups over financing, property control, lawsuits and
labor contracts have stalled the $3.7 billion, decade-old mall
project, now known as the American Dream Meadowlands. With its
facade of multicolored rectangles fronting the  New Jersey
Turnpike , it has been called by Governor  Chris Christie  “the
ugliest damn building in New Jersey, and maybe America.”  According to the indictment, the Virginia REIT secretly
agreed to pay $35,000 a month to a consulting company run by
Ferriero and two of his law partners.  No Opposition  In exchange, Ferriero agreed he wouldn’t publicly oppose,
or cause any public official he influenced to oppose, the REIT’s
plan to develop land owned by the New Jersey Sports & Exposition
Authority in East Rutherford, according to prosecutors.  The payments also helped secure Ferriero’s public support
and official action in favor of the REIT, Fishman said.  Plans for the mega-mall about 10 miles (16 kilometers) west
of  Manhattan  include the nation’s first indoor ski slope and a
theme park.  The project is on its second name and its third developer.
Formerly known as Xanadu, the mall in the shadow of MetLife
Stadium, the Izod Center and the Meadowlands Racetrack in  East
Rutherford  has been plagued by delays and financing difficulties
since Mills Corp. was picked to help build it in 2003.  Mills, now a unit of Indianapolis-based  Simon Property
Group Inc. (SPG) , ran out of money, and Thomas J. Barrack Jr.’s  Santa
Monica , California-based Colony Capital LLC took over in 2006.
Construction foundered again after a Colony backer, Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., entered bankruptcy in 2008. A group of
five lenders assumed control of the development in August 2010.  Triple Five  Triple Five Group , an  Edmonton , Alberta-based developer,
agreed with Christie in December 2010 to take over the project.
It planned to invest $1.76 billion, after $1.9 billion was spent
by previous companies, to create a 7.5 million-square-foot
(697,000-square-meter) retail goliath that would be the world’s
largest mall.  After objections from the  National Football League ’s  New
York  Jets and Giants, who play their home games at MetLife
Stadium, the project was cut back to 2.8 million square feet.  Triple Five, owned by Edmonton’s Ghermezian family,
scrapped the Xanadu name and veered from the retail-heavy plan,
adopting the entertainment component from two of its properties,
the Mall of America in  Minnesota  and the West Edmonton Mall. In
May 2011, it projected American Dream would open in 2013 and
attract 55 million visitors a year. Since then, the company has
scaled back its forecast to 40 million visitors.  Bond Issue  The Bergen County Improvement Authority approved an
application yesterday that seeks to issue as much as
$800 million in bonds on behalf of Triple Five to revive the
project, the Bergen Record reported today.  Bonds issued by the authority could produce as much as
$524 million backed by future tax payments due to East
Rutherford and $276 million backed by sales and corporate-income
taxes due to the state, the Record said.  The case is U.S. v. Ferriero, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey ( Newark ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  