-- N.J. County Said to Seek $800 Million Bond Sale for Megamall
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-09-11T20:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/n-j-county-said-to-seek-800-million-bond-sale-for-megamall.html
The Bergen County Improvement
Authority is asking  New Jersey  to approve a plan to sell as much
as $800 million in tax-exempt bonds to cover construction of the
unfinished American Dream megamall.  The authority’s board yesterday approved an application to
sell as much as $524 million in debt backed by tax payments to
 East Rutherford , and another $276 million backed by state sales
and income taxes, the Record newspaper reported.  Plans for the mall about 10 miles (16 kilometers) west of
Manhattan near the Meadowlands Sports Complex include the
nation’s first indoor ski slope and a theme park. Governor  Chris Christie , who approved state incentives for the project, had
expected it to open before February’s Super Bowl, which
organizers say may pump $550 million into the area’s economy.  Now Christie, a Republican, says his hands are tied as the
developer, Triple Five Group, and the  National Football League ’s
 New York  Jets and Giants argue in court over potential traffic
on game days.  “There’s no risk to the taxpayers,” said Allan Marcus, a
spokesman for American Dream. “The risk flows through to the
purchasers of those bonds and there would be no recourse back to
the taxpayers.”  The Bergen County agency would sell the bonds on behalf of
the developers and the money for repayment would come from
revenue at the site, Marcus said. The developers would be using
the authority’s tax-exempt status to borrow at lower costs, he
said.  Triple Five, owned by  Edmonton ’s Ghermezian family, took
over the development in December 2010. The $3.7 billion project
began a decade ago when Governor James McGreevey picked the now-defunct Mills Corp. to build it. The project was later
transferred to  Santa Monica , California-based Colony Capital LLC
in 2006.  Triple Five planned to invest $1.76 billion in the project
after $1.9 billion had already been spent. The company, which
also owns the Mall of America in Minnesota and West Edmonton
Mall in Canada, plans a 2.8 million-square-foot complex slated
to have an ice-skating rink, indoor skydiving simulator and 250
shops, plus 70 restaurants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  