-- N.Y. Thruway to Borrow $700 Million to Finance New Tappan Zee
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-09-11T20:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/n-y-thruway-to-borrow-700-million-to-finance-new-tappan-zee.html
The  New York  Thruway Authority will
sell $700 million in notes to fund construction of a new Tappan
Zee Bridge as it waits for a federal loan to finish its
financial plan for the $3.9 billion project.  The notes will mature at the end of this year, when the
state expects to have a federal loan and long-term construction-spending plan in place, Thomas Madison, the authority’s
executive director, said today at a board of directors’ meeting
in Tarrytown, New York. The authority will use $500 million to
pay off notes it sold in February and $200 million to fund
construction, he said.  “We’re making progress with the loan, but in order to
continue this progress we need to provide interim financing,”
Madison said. The $700 million is “crucial” until the federal
loan is closed, he said.  The authority will sell the notes to a unit of Citigroup
Inc. at an interest rate of 0.189 percent, said Dan Weiller, a
spokesman for the agency. That’s the same rate the authority got
when it borrowed $500 million from  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in February. The
debt from that sale matures at the end of this month.  Building the span is a priority for Governor  Andrew Cuomo ,
who compares it in scope to the 19th-century construction of the
Erie Canal. The project would double the agency’s $3.7 billion
debt load, and rating companies, including  Standard & Poor’s ,
have warned of credit-grade cuts if the financial plan doesn’t
include spending reductions or revenue increases such as from
tolls.  Public Works  The Tappan Zee is one of the nation’s largest public-works
projects and the federal Transportation Infrastructure Finance
and Innovation Act loan of more than $1 billion that Cuomo
requested would be the biggest awarded by the U.S.
Transportation Department.  The 55-year-old Democrat is banking on the low-cost funds
to keep cash tolls from almost tripling on the replacement for
the 57-year-old bridge. Cuomo has said the majority of the
financing will be through toll-backed bonds. The authority is
waiting to find out the size of the loan before determining how
much it’ll need to borrow with municipal debt.  The 3-mile-long Tappan Zee, which connects Rockland and
Westchester counties about 20 miles (32 kilometers) north of New
York, was designed to last 50 years. It carries 138,000 vehicles
daily, 40 percent more than intended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  