-- NE Opco Wins Approval to Sell Assets for $70 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-09-11T18:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/ne-opco-wins-approval-to-sell-assets-for-70-million.html
NE Opco Inc., the largest closely
held envelope maker in North America, won court approval to sell
virtually all its assets to three separate buyers for a total of
about $70 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher Sontchi today granted the
company, which does business as National Envelope, permission to
sell its envelope business to  Cenveo Inc. (CVO)  for about $33 million.  Cenveo, based in  Stamford , Connecticut, will pay
$25 million in cash and $5 million in stock, Perry Mandarino, NE
Opco’s financial adviser with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
testified at a hearing in Wilmington,  Delaware . Cenveo also will
take over a portion of the bankruptcy financing.  “Cenveo was the only game in town other than
liquidation,” Mandarino said. The purchase will save more than
1,500 jobs, or about 95 percent of NE Opco’s total, he said.  Hilco Receivables will buy NE Opco’s accounts receivables
for about $22 million and Southern Paper LLC will acquire
inventory for about $15 million, according to court documents
and Mandarino’s testimony.  The envelope maker sought Chapter 11 protection June 10 for
the second time as the Internet supplants mail for
communications. The Frisco, Texas-based company listed as much
as $500 million in both assets and liabilities.  Private-equity firm Gores Group LLC bought virtually all of
National Envelope’s assets in its first bankruptcy at an August
2010 auction for about $208 million.  NE Opco has eight plants and two distribution centers
capable of producing 37 billion envelopes a year, giving it a 15
percent share of the U.S market.  The case is In re NE Opco Inc. 13-bk-11483,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  