-- NIH Seeking Baby Boomers Helps Buck Trend of Unemployment
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-09-11T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/nih-seeking-baby-boomers-helps-buck-trend-of-unemployment.html
Peggie Theodore, 56, landed a job
as a staffing assistant at the  National Institutes of Health  in
January after a six-month search. Even earning less than she did
in the Navy, she says she’s just happy to return to work.  “If you’re my age looking for a job, it’s not an easy
thing to do,” she said in an interview from Bethesda,  Maryland .
“Even though I have experience, a lot of companies, especially
on the private side, are looking for younger people.”  NIH is among a cadre of employers going against prevailing
trends by seeking out  baby boomers . NIH and Scripps Health lead
the list of best employers for workers over 50 compiled by the
 AARP , a Washington-based non-profit advocacy organization for
people in this age group, and the Society for Human Resource
Management of Alexandria, Virginia.  “We’re always looking for people who have experience,”
Philip Lenowitz, 64, deputy director of human resources at NIH,
said in an interview. “Among the older workers there is an
appreciation for the hierarchy, there’s an appreciation of the
opportunity to share what they know.”  Unemployed Americans ages 55 to 64 take a year on average
to find a job, longer than any other age group, according to
August employment data released Sept. 6 by the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics . Workers older than 65 need 46 weeks, while
those ages 45 to 54 take about 45 weeks, according to the
unadjusted BLS data.  ‘Uphill Struggle’  “For older people who have been laid off it’s always going
to be an uphill struggle to try to find a job,” said Richard W.
Johnson, director of the retirement policy program at the  Urban
Institute  in  Washington . “Employers are reluctant to hire them
because there is a sense they are expensive and they are not
going to stick around for that long.”  Baby boomers want to stay in the labor force to boost
retirement savings and contribute to their children’s college or
parents’ medical expenses, said Carl Van Horn, the director of
the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at  Rutgers
University  in New Brunswick, New Jersey.  “They haven’t saved enough money to retire, and so they
are afraid that they are going to run out of money,” Van Horn
said in an interview. “They want to work longer, they need to
work longer.”  About 60 percent of workers 55 and older have less than
$100,000 set aside for retirement, and 36 percent has less than
$10,000,  according to  the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a
Washington-based non-profit  organization  that focuses on health,
savings, retirement and economic security issues.  Benefits Economy  Putting baby boomers, those born between 1946 and 1964,
back to work benefits the economy and the U.S. budget: instead
of consuming social benefits, they continue earning and increase
spending, said Van Horn.  “When people have been unemployed for a long period of
time, their income declines and they are no longer consuming, so
that obviously hurts the economy,” Van Horn said. “It
increases all the things you would not like to increase,”
including demand for social services, bankruptcies and
homelessness.  The number of Americans ages 55 to 64 receiving  food stamps 
doubled to 2.6 million in fiscal year 2011 from 1.3 million in
2007, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The total
number of food-stamp aid  recipients  grew 70 percent in the same
period.  The  unemployment rate  of 5.2 percent for those 55 to 64 is
below 2010 levels yet is still much higher than at the start of
the recession in 2007. Difficulty finding a job has contributed
to a drop in the proportion of that age group that are employed,
said Sara Rix, a senior strategic policy adviser at  AARP  Public
Policy Institute.  Ratio Drops  The employment-to-population ratio for workers in this age
group dropped to 60.7 percent in August, from a pre-recession
peak of 62.8 percent in March 2008, according to the BLS.  “We have to convince employers that older workers have the
skills and experience that they want,” Rix said in a phone
interview.  Health-care organizations and academic institutions
dominate the AARP’s list of best employers for workers over 50.
Sharing best practices helps promote employment opportunities
for older workers and prepare for the future  labor force ,
according to AARP. By 2016, one-quarter of the U.S. workforce
will be age 55 or older, up from almost 20 percent in 2010, BLS
data show.  Turnover Lower  Scripps Health, a San Diego, California-based operator of
four hospitals, seeks older workers even if their experience was
earned outside the health-care industry, Vic Buzachero,
corporate senior vice president for human resources, said in an
interview. The company also finds their turnover is lower than
that of recent graduates, he said.  “Although we do train a lot of new graduates, we would
prefer to have more seasoned people because they stay,” he
said. “They have a tendency to stick with us as an organization
after we’ve invested in the development of them.”  At the NIH, Theodore says she plans to stay for the next 15
to 20 years. After retiring from the Navy in 2001, she says she
got bored and took a job in Atlanta overseeing cargo at  CSX
Corp. (CSX)  in 2003. After her mother suffered 10 strokes, she quit in
2008 and moved in order to care for her.  “It was definitely a big decision for me to make to resign
from my job and go to  Chicago  to take care of her, knowing that
I would definitely have to go back into the workforce to support
us both,” she said.  Experience Valued  As medical bills depleted her savings, Theodore arranged
for her mother to move close to family in  Louisiana . Figuring
her government experience would be more valued in the Washington
area, Theodore relocated to Maryland.  To assist older workers find jobs, the AARP Foundation is
helping to sponsor Platform to Employment, or P2E, a program to
help long-term unemployed workers land jobs. The organization is
expanding its pilot project, which was started in Connecticut in
2011, to Chicago, Cincinnati,  Dallas , San Diego and  Newark ,  New
Jersey .  Other non-profit organizations are also assisting older
workers.  Experience Works  of Arlington, Virginia, provides
employment, training and community service opportunities for
low-income older workers. San Francisco-based  Encore.org 
provides information about pursuing second careers in non-profit
organizations and public sector.  Older workers such as Debora Ducksworth, 59, say they
refuse to give up. She has been looking for a job since she lost
a position as an administrative assistant for  American Express
Co. (AXP)  in  Stamford , Connecticut, in 2009, and is pursuing an
associate degree at a  community college  to improve her chances,
she said.  Yet thus far, her 30 years of experience, computer skills
and willingness to learn don’t seem to be enough to attract
employers. “No one wants to hire their mother,” she said. “I
find it very discouraging that I can’t find anything, and I’m
quite capable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  