-- Nike in Dow Shows Marketing Genius as Much as Innovation
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-09-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/nike-in-dow-shows-marketing-genius-as-much-as-innovation.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s addition to the Dow
Jones Industrial Average is a testament to the company’s ability
to shrug off hard times and transcend its U.S. origins, making
its swoosh logo known from Beijing to Buenos Aires.  The world’s largest maker of sporting goods will join the
30-member gauge when the market opens on Sept. 23 along with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Visa Inc. They are replacing Bank
of America Corp.,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)   Nike has transformed itself from a shoe company founded for
$1,000 in 1965 by a former runner named  Phil Knight  and his
coach into an global behemoth with 48,000 employees and sales of
$25 billion. While Nike is struggling to re-ignite growth in
China and offset rising labor costs, it has caught up with
Adidas in soccer, pushed into wearable technology and deployed
sports figures from basketball player Kobe Bryant to soccer star
Cristiano Ronaldo to sell its wares around the world.  “I often describe them as a marketing company that makes
shoes,” said Matt Powell, an analyst for researcher
SportsOneSource, who has followed Nike for more than a decade.  Nike, based in Beaverton,  Oregon , reached an all-time high
yesterday in New York, gaining 2.2 percent to $66.82. The shares
have advanced 30 percent this year, compared with an 18 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  By this time, many enterprises of Nike’s size and age are
mature businesses, their best days behind them. Yet Chief
Executive Officer Mark Parker, who started out as a shoe
designer before becoming CEO in 2006, sells Nike to investors as
a growth company. While the financial crisis crushed sales in
2009, Nike has turned in 10 percent compound annual sales growth
in the past three years and it expects those gains to continue
and for sales to reach as much as $30 billion in 2015.  China Missteps  Nike has had some missteps along the way. Revenue is
declining in  China , once one of the company’s fastest-growing
markets, after Nike expanded too quickly. The company is now
discounting items to clean out excess inventory. Nike has blamed
the reversal in China on changing consumer tastes after failing
to notice that local shoppers, like their U.S. counterparts,
have come to expect a more tailored fit.  Such fashion misses aren’t unheard of in the U.S, where
apparel sales have flagged lately as shoppers focus on cars and
housing-related merchandise.  “The majority of athletic footwear is bought for fashion
purposes and that’s the big risk here,” said Brian Yarbrough,
an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis who has a hold
rating on the company’s shares. “With basketball and running,
things come and go.”  Raising Prices  Rising labor costs in Asia are also weighing on profit.
Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after costs of goods
sold, has declined for eight of the past 10 quarters. The
company has responded by raising prices, which it can pull off
because of its enduring brand strength.  Nike’s growth is largely two-pronged: pushing into a new
sport or taking share from competitors in an established
business. Since it’s a force in every major sport, there are few
opportunities for branching out into new categories that will
have a substantial impact on sales, so Nike mainly focuses on
expanding an existing unit.  Exhibit A: how Nike caught up in soccer, or what people
outside the U.S. call football, after flailing in the 1990s.  Adidas, based in Herzogenaurach,  Germany , had dominated the
market since the 1950s with other European brands such as  Puma
SE. (PUM)  Nike didn’t really get serious about building a legitimate
soccer business until the 2000s, when it started spending
lavishly on endorsement deals, including $440 million on a 13-year agreement with Manchester United that began in 2002. Since
then, Nike has essentially drawn even with Adidas in soccer with
sales reaching $1.9 billion last fiscal year.  Third Leg  Besides providing Nike a third leg for its running and
basketball businesses, soccer gave Nike legitimacy as an
athletic brand outside the U.S. That in turn lifted the rest of
its merchandise, Powell said. Now the company generates about 60
percent of revenue outside its home market.  “They tried to become a true international brand for a
number of years and couldn’t get it going until they fully
committed to being a soccer brand,” said Powell, who is based
in Scarborough,  Maine . “That’s when their international
business took off.”  The widespread adoption of casual attire has also lifted
Nike, which sells everything from hoodies to tank tops. Running
shoes in particular have been a post-recession panacea. While
the company sells performance shoes for serious runners, many of
its best-sellers are worn day to day. For many men, sneakers are
a form of retail therapy, as handbags are for women. Last year,
running shoe sales surged 16 percent to $4.3 billion.  “They’re in a class by themselves,” Powell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  