-- No Koruna Sales Without Deflation Threat, Janacek Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-09-11T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/no-koruna-sales-without-deflation-threat-janacek-says.html
The Czech central bank doesn’t need
to rush to start the first koruna sales in 11 years because the
economy isn’t facing an immediate deflation threat, said Kamil Janacek, a member of the policy-making board.  Rate setters in  Prague  are debating whether price growth
below their 2 percent target warrants a move to weaken the
koruna after three  rate cuts  last year exhausted room for
traditional monetary easing. The Ceska Narodni Banka’s board is
weighing the strength of an economic rebound after the country
in June exited a recession that lasted for six quarters.  While the recovery is positive, its significance shouldn’t
be overestimated as more evidence of an economic turnaround is
needed, Janacek said. He said he’ll be ready to back koruna
interventions -- even between the regular policy meetings -- if
there are signs of deflation risks.  “ Inflation (CZCPYOY)  is below the center of the target range, but
the rate is still a positive number and so far there isn’t an
imminent danger of deflation,” Janacek said yesterday in an
interview in Prague. “In my view, we don’t yet have all
necessary arguments for relaxing monetary conditions further in
the coming weeks. It’s still a wait-and-see position for me.”  The koruna has depreciated 2.6 percent against the euro
this year and traded 0.2 percent stronger at 25.763 as of 5:44
p.m. in Prague yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
currency has moved to the center of policy deliberations because
its depreciation would make imports more expensive and boost the
competitiveness of exports, curbing deflation risks.  ‘Slightly’ Overvalued  While the koruna is close to the central bank’s latest
forecast, it’s “very slightly overvalued,” according to
Janacek, who said the projection also assumes lower market
interest rates than at present.  The bank forecasts a koruna rate of about 25.8 per euro for
the third quarter, when it predicts the three-month Prague
interbank offered rate, or Pribor, will be 0.1 percent. The rate
stood at 0.45 percent yesterday.  The central bank on Aug. 1 left its  main   interest rate 
unchanged for a sixth meeting at what it calls a “technical
zero” of 0.05 percent, almost half a point below the  European
Central Bank ’s benchmark. The seven-member board voted at the
last meeting for the first time on whether to start koruna
sales. The bank didn’t disclose a breakdown of the ballot.  Inflation unexpectedly slowed for a second month in August,
to 1.3 percent from 1.4 percent in July, the statistics office
said Sept. 9. Consumer prices fell 0.2 percent from the previous
month in both August and July.  Recession Signal  “For me personally, the main indicator of a deflation risk
would be a return to recession, which would mean that aggregate
demand in the economy declines again,” Janacek said.  Price growth relevant to monetary policy and adjusted for
the primary effect of changes in indirect taxes slowed to 0.5
percent in August from 0.7 percent the previous month. It stayed
below the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent tolerance band.  The central bank won’t be in danger of acting too late if
it waits for signs of deflation threats because currency
interventions affect inflation more quickly than lowering
borrowing costs, according to Janacek.  “It’s our experience from the past that the transmission
mechanism through the  exchange rate  is considerably faster than
through interest rates,” he said. “It’s empirical evidence and
it applies especially in a relatively small and open economy
like ours.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  