-- Norilsk Declines Amid Dividend Concern: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-09-11T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/norilsk-declines-amid-dividend-concern-russia-overnight.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (NILSY) , the world’s
largest producer of nickel and palladium, slumped the most in a
month in New York on concern the company will cut its dividends
amid a tumble in industrial metals.  American depositary receipts of Norilsk slid 2.2 percent to
$14.01 yesterday, extending this year’s plunge to 26 percent.
The decline wiped out its premium to the Moscow-listed shares.
The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian
stocks in the U.S. rose for a sixth day in the longest rally
since December, led by OAO Mechel. RTS stock-index futures
advanced 0.3 percent to 139,630 in U.S. hours.  Norilsk shareholders are discussing potential changes to
dividend payments after declines in nickel and palladium prices,
three people with knowledge of the talks said last month. The
company last year agreed to pay as much as $9 billion in
dividends for 2012 through 2014. United Co. Rusal, owner of a 28
percent stake in Norilsk, expects the company to keep its
approach to dividend payments, billionaire Chief Executive
Officer Oleg Deripaska told Bloomberg News this week.  “People are extremely concerned that dividends will be
lower than what was initially agreed on,” Airat Khalikov, an
analyst at Veles Capital in Moscow, said by phone yesterday.
“Expectation for even lower nickel prices near-term is adding
pessimism to the market.”  Nickel prices may extend a slump in the fourth quarter to
the lowest since May 2009 with inventories at a record high
because of cheaper alternatives to make stainless steel.
Stockpiles monitored by the London Metal Exchange climbed this
month to an all-time high following a rise in production of
nickel pig iron, a substitute metal derived from lower-grade
ores. The price may fall as low as $13,000 a metric ton before
the end of the year, said Nicholas Snowdon, an analyst at
Barclays Plc in New York.  Board Meeting  Norilsk’s board of directors is meeting in Moscow today to
discuss the company’s strategy, Deripaska said in the interview
with Bloomberg TV. The company declared about $2 billion of
dividends for last year. Norilsk’s billionaire Chief Executive
Officer Vladimir Potanin said in July that 2013 dividends may be
cut.  The company’s 12-month gross dividend yield on the Moscow
stock rose 8.7 percent yesterday, recovering from 8.5 percent on
Sept. 10, which was the lowest level since July 24, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Futures on Norilsk Nickel’s Moscow-listed stock fell less
than 0.1 percent in U.S. hours. The  stock  plunged 2.3 percent to
4,608 rubles ($140.46) yesterday.  Mechel (MTL) , the nation’s biggest producer of coal for
steelmakers, rose 6.5 percent to $3.91, the highest level since
May 13, as trading volume almost doubled from the average daily
level for the past three months. The stock had the biggest gain
on the Russia-US gauge yesterday.  Russia ETF  The Bloomberg Russia-US measure added 0.5 percent to 95.60.
The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rose 0.6 percent to
$28.11. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings
in the stock futures, declined 0.8 percent to 22.46.  West Texas Intermediate crude rose for the first time in
three days as stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma  tumbled to the
lowest level since February 2012 and refinery utilization
climbed. WTI for October delivery settled at $107.56 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  