-- Novatek Advances on China Deal as Russian Stocks Extend Streak
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-09-11T17:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/novatek-advances-on-china-deal-as-russian-stocks-extend-streak.html
Russian stocks extended their
longest winning streak in more than three years to an eighth day
after crude oil rose. OAO Novatek climbed after Chinese banks
agreed to finance its Yamal LNG project.  OAO Lukoil was the largest contributor to  gains  on the
index, rising 0.6 percent. Novatek, the country’s biggest non-state gas producer, advanced 1.2 percent to 391.40 rubles a
share. OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel  led declines, falling 2.3 percent
to 4,608 rubles, as it sought to allay concerns it may spend its
cash buying shares in the world’s biggest potash producer.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,454.12, the
highest since March 21, at the close in Moscow. It extended its
recovery from this year’s low on June 13 to 13 percent.  “Investors are pausing for a breather,”  Luis Saenz , head
of sales and trading at BCS Financial Group in  London  said by e-mail. “The Moscow Exchange had been up seven days in a row so
barely gained today.”  The 14-day  relative strength index  closed at 71 today, its
third day above 70, the level at which some analysts say an
index or stock is overbought and poised to decline.  Novatek, controlled by billionaires  Gennady Timchenko  and
Leonid Mikhelson, signed an accord with China National Petroleum
Corp. and Chinese banks on  project financing  for the Yamal LNG
project, which plans to sell liquefied natural gas in Asian
markets, according to a statement from the companies yesterday.
CNPC has agreed to acquire a 20 percent stake in the project.  Syria, Oil  This is “yet another step forward for the ambitious Yamal
LNG project contributing to its de-risking process we’ve been
highlighting,” Saenz said in e-mailed comments.  Brent rose today from its lowest level in two weeks on
concern that the U.S. could return to talk of a military strike
against  Syria . President President  Barack Obama  delayed a
decision yesterday to pursue Russia’s proposal for the Middle
Eastern country to hand over chemical weapons.  Lukoil closed up 0.6 percent at 2,026 rubles, the highest
level since March 23.  Russian equities have the cheapest  valuations  among 21
emerging economies tracked by Bloomberg, with shares trading at
3.9 times 12-month estimated earnings, compared with a multiple
of 11.4 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Norilsk snapped eight days of gains, which took the stock
to the highest since the end of July, after a report that it’s
among those interested in buying a stake in OAO Uralkali. The
metals producer has held no talks and has no intention to bid,
Larisa Zelkova, a Norilsk spokeswoman, said today. The board
will review the company’s strategy tomorrow.  “People are afraid they might buy Uralkali,” Yulia Bushueva, a  money manager  at Arbat Investment Services Ltd. in
Moscow, said in e-mailed comments. Billionaire Oleg Deripaska,
the chief executive officer of United Co. Rusal, which is a
Norilsk shareholder, said today on Bloomberg Television that the
nickel producer will stick to its plan to pay dividends.  Uralkali dropped 0.5 percent to 186.11 a share, extending
its decline this year to 21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  