-- Coal Industry Cries Foul Over Obama Emission Rules
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/obama-said-to-ban-new-coal-plants-without-carbon-controls.html
Representatives of coal-intensive
utilities and coal-producing regions said that President  Barack Obama  would effectively outlaw construction of new  power plants 
using the fuel with pending environmental rules.  The Environmental Protection Agency is revising proposed
rules from last year in response to opposition by utilities and
mining companies. The new version, under review by White House
officials and scheduled for release next week, will be
structured differently though it offers little solace to the
industry, according to people who have been briefed on the
measure and asked not to be identified before its release.  The agency brushed aside a vigorous lobbying campaign by
industry and is pushing rules that would require new coal plants
to install expensive carbon-capture technology, according to the
people briefed on the plans. Alisha Johnson, a spokeswoman for
the EPA, declined to comment.  Low-cost natural gas is leading utilities to build new
plants using that fuel and shutter coal-fired plants. The effect
of the new standard would lock out coal over the long term, said
 Scott Segal , a lobbyist for utilities.  “Once you set something in stone, you discourage
investment in that sector, and you take a flexible market and
ossify it,” Segal, a lawyer at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in
Washington, said in an interview. “The market price of natural
gas can change” but regulations don’t, he said.  Global Warming  Carbon-dioxide emissions since the Industrial Revolution
have led to a warming of the Earth’s temperature in the past 50
years, worsening forest fires, drought and coastal flooding,
according to the U.S. Global Change Research Program.  To deal with the threat, Obama directed the EPA to cap
carbon dioxide from power plants, which account for 40 percent
of U.S. emissions. The first step is to issue rules for new
plants, a proposal set to be released next week. The more
contentious rules would govern emissions from existing plants,
and those aren’t scheduled to be issued until next year. The
rules will be the first of their kind.  “The Obama administration has been waging a war on coal
and Kentucky jobs ever since the president was elected,” Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said
yesterday in an e-mail. “If these reports are accurate, his
latest proposal is not only an open war on coal jobs, but on all
the residents, jobs, and businesses across the commonwealth that
rely on this vital industry.”  Limited Impact  The practical impact of the rule is likely to be limited.
In 2012, the  EPA forecast  that no utilities would build
traditional coal plants over the next eight years.  “The companies themselves are documenting the fact that it
is the widespread availability of low-cost natural gas, and to
some degree wind power, that is eroding the viability of coal,”
Megan Ceronsky, an attorney at the Environmental Defense Fund,
said in an interview.  An  analysis  submitted to the White House by the Clean Air
Task Force, which supports the EPA plan, said that the cost of
building a new coal plant with  carbon capture  is 24 percent more
than that of a traditional coal plant, and more than double that
of a natural gas plant. Flexibilities in the EPA’s initial
proposal could lower that cost, it said.  The administration was forced to rework the first rules on
greenhouse-gases after legal specialists questioned its approach
in setting a single standard for coal and natural-gas plants.
Coal emits about twice the amount of carbon dioxide as natural
gas when burned to make power.  Gas Plant  The  proposal  for new plants was issued by the EPA in 2012.
It set the same standard for coal and natural gas plants of
1,000 pounds of carbon-dioxide per megawatt hour. A new,
efficient natural gas plant can meet that standard, according to
the EPA. A coal plant’s emissions are at least 1,800 pounds per
megawatt hour, and so would need to capture the carbon.  The EPA initially gave plants the option to average
emissions over 30 years, so that they wouldn’t have to employ
the expensive capture process for the first decade of operation.  Lobbyists for coal producers such as  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) 
and  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , and utilities such as  American Electric
Power Co. (AEP) , have visited the Office of Management and Budget,
which is reviewing the EPA proposal, and made their case that
requiring carbon capture, knowns as CCS, is a mistake.  “By prohibiting the use of coal without CCS, demand for
electricity would be met with natural gas or other cost
competitive available options, but not coal with CCS, which will
remain significantly more expensive,” the Coal Utilization
Research Council said in a filing to the White House.  Eight Years  The American Public Power Association, in a meeting with
White House officials on Sept. 4, urged it to set the standard
for coal at 1,900 pounds, and revisit the commercial
availability of carbon capture in eight years.  Segal’s group, the Electric Reliability Coordinating
Council, is set to meet with White House officials this week to
make their plea for an easier standard. If they don’t win now,
that doesn’t mean the issue is dead.  “I am going to go out on a limb and predict there are
going to be legal challenges,” said Jeff Holmstead, a former
EPA official who’s now a lawyer at Bracewell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  