-- Obamacare Computer Hub Completes Security Tests, U.S.
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-09-11T13:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/obamacare-computer-hub-completes-security-tests-u-s-.html
A computer system underpinning the
U.S. health-care  overhaul  has completed security testing and is
ready to go, the federal government said.  The update may ease concerns that the network might not be
functional when the uninsured begin shopping for coverage on
Oct. 1. The computer hub, a frequent target of Republicans, is
designed to route data on customers using new insurance
exchanges from seven federal agencies including the  Internal
Revenue Service  and  Social Security Administration .  “After over two years of work, it is built and ready for
operation, and we have completed security testing and
certification to operate,” U.S. Chief Technology Officer, Todd Park said in an e-mail from a spokesman for the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services.  The system will enable the marketplaces to provide
“accurate and timely eligibility determinations,” Park said.
The inspector general for the  Department of Health  and Human
Services, which built the system,  said  last month that testing
had fallen behind schedule and might not be completed until
Sept. 30.  Congressional Republicans  have questioned whether the hub
presents a security risk because of the amount of sensitive data
it will handle. The system will use the databases of the IRS and
the other federal agencies to confirm information about
Americans’ income, citizenship and insurance coverage when they
apply for plans through the exchanges.  Defends Ability  The Obama administration has defended its ability to keep
the hub secure. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
which will run it, has long experience securing personal data
under Medicare, the health program for the elderly. The hub
itself won’t store any data, officials have said.  “The hub and its associated systems have several layers of
protection in place to mitigate information security risk,” the
Medicare agency said in a fact sheet to be released today.
Health exchanges will use a “continuous monitoring model” to
quickly identify and react to “irregular behavior and
unauthorized system changes” on their networks, the agency
said.  The hub was authorized to operate on Sept. 6, according to
the fact sheet. The network is subject to the 1974 Privacy Act,
the 1987 Computer Security Act and the 2002 Federal Information
Security Management Act. It operates under rules set up by the
Office of Management and Budget,  Homeland Security  Department
and the  National Institute of Standards and Technology , the fact
sheet shows.  Hearing Today  A subcommittee of the House Committee on Homeland Security,
which is led by Republicans, is holding a hearing on the
computer system today. At a hearing yesterday by the House
Energy and Commerce Committee, an executive for the contractor
building the hub said that software coding was finished.  “Performance and integration testing” of the hub is
continuing, Michael Finkel, an executive vice president for the
contractor, Quality Software Services Inc., told the committee
in prepared testimony. QSSI is a unit of Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest U.S. health insurer.  Park didn’t respond directly to an e-mail asking about
Finkel’s testimony.  The 2010 Affordable Care Act is aimed at providing coverage
for at least half the nation’s 50 million uninsured people, and
about 7 million Americans are expected to gain insurance through
exchanges next year,  according  to the  Congressional Budget
Office .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  