-- Loeb Target Sotheby’s Says It Will Review Capital, Policy
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-09-11T18:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/loeb-target-sotheby-s-says-it-will-review-capital-policy.html
Sotheby’s (BID) , the auction  house under
pressure from investor Daniel Loeb to improve its returns, said
in an e-mailed release today that it’s “conducting a thorough
review of its capital allocation and financial policies.”  The board’s review will be ready early next year, the New
York company said.  Bill Ruprecht, the chief executive officer who added the
title of chairman in 2012, said Sotheby’s will look at using
“incremental debt” to fund some operations, the value of its
real estate and the cost of initiatives in the works or being
contemplated.  “Each of these options present possible advantages
disadvantages; all are complex,” Ruprecht said in the
statement.  The company continues to consider buying back shares and
increasing dividends, he said.  Loeb’s Third Point LLC took a 5.7 percent stake, according
to an Aug. 26 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The hedge-fund company “intends to engage in a
dialogue with members of the board or management” that may
relate “to potential changes of strategy and leadership,” the
filing said.  The shares are up 43 percent this year, and were up 60
cents as 12:56 p.m. in New York. They remain below their high of
$57.64, set in October 2007. The shares are up about 5 percent
since Loeb’s stake was disclosed in a filing on Aug. 26.  Other activists with an eye on Sotheby’s include Trian Fund
Management LP, the firm run by activist investor Nelson Peltz,
with a 3 percent stake, and Marcato Capital Management LLC with
more than a 6 percent stake accumulated in options and shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 