-- Offshore Wind Must Lure Institutional Investment, Rabobank Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-09-11T14:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/offshore-wind-must-lure-institutional-investment-rabobank-says.html
Nations with offshore wind plans
must lure institutional investment or risk missing goals to
build turbines at sea, according to Rabobank International.  “There is a tremendous pipeline of offshore wind project
financing coming up,” Simone van Gendt, senior vice president
in project finance, said in an interview.  “Banks and investors are convinced that without
institutionals, these plans will never materialize,” Twan
Geurts, global head of project finance, said during the same
interview by phone.  European nations are seeking to build thousands of offshore
turbines to secure power supplies and boost flagging economies.
 Germany  wants 25 gigawatts of turbines by 2030 from about 400
megawatts now while the U.K. delayed by a decade to 2030 a plan
to reach 18 gigawatts from about 3.7 gigawatts currently. A
Netherlands accord signed this month targets a fourfold increase
to about 4.5 gigawatts by 2023.  “If you look at the amount of debt financing that’s
required for all these projects and the relative long tenors,
then you basically need to find alternative ways to have that
finance,” van Gendt said.  Banks should focus on the more risky construction phase of
offshore wind while institutional investors such as pension and
insurance funds that have long-term liabilities should pick up
financing of the projects’ operational stage, she said.  Denmark’s PensionDanmark A/S and Dutch pension
administrator PGGM NV already financed wind at sea. Rabobank is
involved in “many” offshore wind transactions, van Gendt said,
without giving details. Deals the bank already worked on include
the Belwind project and the Northwind venture, both off  Belgium .  The Amsterdam-based bank is also working on a large onshore
wind farm in the Netherlands, operations in India and  China , and
recently closed financing on a Chilean solar plant, Geurts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  