-- OGX Shorts Jump to Record 41.6% as Batista Seeks Cash Injection
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-09-11T14:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/ogx-shorts-jump-to-record-41-6-as-batista-seeks-cash-injection.html
Bets against OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, the oil producer founded by  Eike Batista  that
has plunged 91 percent this year, climbed to a record as the
former billionaire seeks cash to keep the company operating.  The number of short-interest contracts on OGX shares soared
to 627.3 million yesterday, the highest level since Bloomberg
started compiling the data in 2010. The ratio of borrowed
shares, an indication of short selling, was 41.6 percent of
stock available for trading, also a record and the highest among
the 73 members of the Ibovespa benchmark gauge.  In a short sale, traders sell borrowed stock, anticipating
the price will drop so they can profit by buying back shares at
a lower price.  OGX’s short-interest ratio, which was at 11.3 percent one
year ago, is approaching the 45 percent limit that exchange
operator BM&FBovespa SA set in May. The Rio de Janeiro-based
company’s shares rose 2.6 percent to 39 centavos at 11:14 a.m.
in  Sao Paulo . They plunged 27 percent in the previous two
sessions as Batista challenged the company’s decision to
exercise a $1 billion  put option  that he pledged last year.  Batista, who fell out of the ranks of the world’s
billionaires this year as his companies’ stock prices plunged,
is disputing the terms of the option and plans to take the
matter to an arbitration court if an agreement isn’t reached
within 60 days, according to a Sept. 9 regulatory filing.  The Brazilian entrepreneur is asking a group of investors
for at least $250 million in fresh capital in an effort to avert
bankruptcy, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  