-- Home Depot Accused of Shaking Down Suspected Shoplifters
-- B y   S u s a n   B e r f i e l d
-- 2013-09-11T16:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/home-depot-accused-of-shaking-down-suspected-shoplifters.html
Jimin Chen received two worrisome
letters this summer. Both came from a law firm hired by  Home
Depot Inc. (HD)   The first demanded payment of $350 to settle claims that he
shoplifted from a  California  store. According to Chen, in early
June he had been wrongly accused of taking two pairs of work
gloves, priced at $3.99 each, as he purchased nearly $1,500
worth of merchandise from Home Depot. A second letter demanded
$625. Both helpfully included five ways he could pay, and both
threatened legal action if he didn’t.  Chen didn’t pay. Instead, on Sept. 5, he filed a class-action lawsuit in Superior Court in Alameda, California,
alleging that Home Depot is shaking down customers for arbitrary
and unjust damages for shoplifting charges and using false
threats of criminal prosecution.  There are laws in all 50 states that allow retailers to
claim damages from shoplifters. Chen accuses the retailer of
using the California law, which limits payments to $500, “to
intimidate consumers into paying money to which Home Depot is
not entitled.”  Stephen Holmes, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Home Depot,
said the company hasn’t reviewed the details of the case but
maintains that the general practice of civil demands is lawful.  By some estimates, $37 billion worth of stuff is stolen
from stores every year. (About half of that is taken by
employees.) Home Depot is one of many retailers that makes use
of the laws to seek compensation -- and uses the same law firm
to do so:  Palmer, Reifler & Associates  in Orlando,  Florida .  ‘Letter Mill’  Chen’s lawsuit calls Palmer Reifler a “demand letter
mill” and claims it sends more than a million letters a year to
consumers in the U.S. accused of shoplifting by Home Depot.
Palmer Reifler, which calls itself “a leading civil recovery
law firm in the loss prevention/asset protection
industry,” isn’t named in the suit. The firm didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on the suit.  Chen said that on June 6 he and a friend went shopping at a
Home Depot in San Leandro, California. Before loading some
lumber into the cart, he said in the complaint, they put on work
gloves. When they checked out, all the merchandise was scanned,
except for the gloves, which Chen had belatedly added to the
pile. He paid $1,445.90 with his Home Depot credit card.  As he and his friend were walking toward the door, they
were stopped by a security guard, who accused Chen of stealing
the gloves, according to the complaint. Chen was taken to what
he calls a “stew room” and questioned; while there he suffered
an asthma attack, became agitated, and was handcuffed, he said
in the complaint. After about 30 minutes he agreed to sign a
document promising to stay out of the store for 90 days. He also
provided contact information.  The first letter from Palmer Reifler arrived on June 10,
the second on July 5. The first hearing in the case is scheduled
for Oct. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Berfield in  New York  at 
 sberfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  