-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise as Obama Pulls U.S. Back From Syria Brink
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-09-11T01:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/hong-kong-stocks-rise-as-obama-pulls-u-s-back-from-syria-brink.html
Hong Kong  stocks  rose for a fifth
day as President  Barack Obama  called for a pause in authorizing
a U.S. military strike on Syria.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.4 percent to 23,067.62 as of
9:32 a.m. in Hong Kong as Obama pulled the U.S. from the brink
of military action and after Nomura Holdings Inc. and UBS AG
joined other banks in boosting estimates for China’s economic
growth. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland shares
traded in the city advanced 0.5 percent, extending a more than
20 percent increase from this year’s low, meeting some traders’
definition of a bull market.  “People are starting to not panic as much with Syria,”
George Boubouras, Melbourne-based chief investment officer at
Equity Trustees Ltd., where he helps oversee about $28 billion,
said by telephone. “The pulse is picking up for manufacturing
globally. We are fully invested and have a tactical overweight
to global equities.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today after Obama, in a live address from Washington,
said he had called for a pause in a Senate vote authorizing a
military strike against Syria to allow time for international
talks on a Russian proposal for Syria to surrender its chemical
weapons.  Nomura Holdings and UBS revised their 2013 growth target
for China to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent, joining Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in raising projections.
Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said major economic indicators for
August have shown trends that the economy is recovering,
according to Xinhua News Agency.  China’s broadest measure of new credit almost doubled in
August from the previous month. Aggregate financing was 1.57
trillion  yuan  ($257 billion), the People’s Bank of China said
yesterday, topping the 950 billion yuan median estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. New yuan loans from banks
accounted for about 45 percent of the total, down from July’s 87
percent, as non-traditional credit played a bigger role.  The  Hang Seng Index  rose 1.4 percent this year through
yesterday and traded at 11 times estimated earnings, compared
with 15.3 for the  S&P 500 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  