-- Top U.S. Court May Act in October on Argentina Bond Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-09-11T18:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/top-u-s-court-may-act-in-october-on-argentina-bond-case.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  will use its
Sept. 30 private conference to consider whether to hear
Argentina’s appeal in a clash affecting billions of dollars in
defaulted debt.  The schedule, revealed today on the court’s public  docket ,
means the justices may say as early as Oct. 1 whether they will
review a 2012 federal appeals court ruling that requires
Argentina to pay holders of defaulted bonds if the country makes
payments on restructured debt.  The listing on the case docket is a clerical step and
doesn’t indicate anything about the likelihood that the court
will grant review.  The Sept. 30 conference is designed to give the nine
justices a head start on their new term, which formally opens
Oct. 7. The justices typically issue a list of new cases they
will hear the day after their late September conference. They
will release a list of cases they decline to consider, along
with other orders, on Oct. 7.  The court doesn’t have to act on the  Argentina  appeal
immediately and could defer a decision. The court could also
seek input from the Obama administration.  The appeal is potentially one of two chances the high court
will have to hear Argentina’s arguments, which center on a U.S.
sovereign-immunity law.  Argentina also is asking the New York-based appeals court
to reconsider a separate ruling, issued in August. Should the
appeals court refuse, Argentina could then file a second request
with the Supreme Court.  Argentina’s opponents in the legal fight include NML
Capital Ltd., a unit of billionaire hedge-fund manager Paul Singer’s Elliott Management Corp.  The Supreme Court case is Argentina v. NML Capital,
12-1494. The appeals court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic
of Argentina, 12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit ( New York ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  