-- Mortgage-Bond Analyst Goodman Leaves Amherst for Policy Group
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-11T14:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/mortgage-bond-analyst-goodman-leaves-amherst-for-policy-group.html
Laurie Goodman , the Fixed Income
Analysts Society’s Hall of Fame member who specializes in
mortgage bonds, left Amherst Securities Group LP this month.  Goodman, whose last day at the firm was Sept. 6, is
becoming the director of the Urban Institute’s new Housing
Finance Policy Center, she said in an automated response to e-mails. She had earlier joined the Washington-based nonprofit
organization that studies social and economic issues as a part-time senior fellow, according to a June  statement .  “Over the past few years, I have developed an interest in
public policy issues related to housing finance, and I have
decided to pursue that full time,” she said today in a separate
e-mail.  Goodman joined Amherst in 2008 after serving as UBS AG’s
head of fixed-income research, and has since testified before
Congress on issues related to the collapse of the U.S. mortgage
market, often highlighting the conflicts of interest among the
largest banks involved in the business.  At the time she joined Austin, Texas-based Amherst, she had
garnered more top rankings in annual polls of bond investors by
 Institutional Investor  magazine than any other analyst,
according to a statement by the firm then. Earlier, she was an
analyst at firms including  Paine Webber  and Merrill Lynch & Co.
She was inducted into the bond research society’s Hall of Fame
in 2009.  She told Amherst clients in the note that the firm
“remains dedicated to providing strategy support to its
customers,” and directed them to Brian Landy for government-backed mortgage bonds and Lidan Yang for the non-agency market.  Amherst Chief Executive Officer Sean Dobson didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment. The company is
retaining her as a special adviser to its board of managers, she
said in the e-mail.  “I have really enjoyed my time at Amherst, it is a great
firm,” she said. “I look forward to continuing to work with
the team at Amherst in this role, and I am excited about the new
opportunity at Urban.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ; or
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  