-- Thousands Flee in Southern Philippines as Violence Spreads
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-09-12T08:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/thousands-flee-in-philippines-as-muslim-siege-risks-investments.html
Clashes between Muslim rebels and
Philippine troops forced about 15,000 people to flee their homes
as violence spread in the nation’s south, complicating efforts
to bring peace to the region after four decades of insurgency.  At least 10 people have been killed during four days of
fighting between government forces and Moro National Liberation
Front rebels, who hold about 100 hostages in several parts of
Zamboanga city, police and military officials said. Armed men
also attacked the city of Lamitan in Basilan province, a boat
ride from Zamboanga, wounding three soldiers, police provincial
director Senior Superintendent Mario Dapilloza said.  President Benigno Aquino sent more troops to contain the
MNLF guerrillas. The violence coincides with the resumption of
peace negotiations with a separate rebel group, threatening
government efforts to end an insurgency that has killed about
200,000 people and stifled development in Mindanao.  The spreading violence “is a reflection of the inability
of the Aquino administration to come up with a much more
inclusive approach to creating peace in Mindanao,” said Richard
Javad Heydarian, a political science lecturer at the Ateneo de
 Manila  University. “What is needed is an expanded table of
negotiation.” The MNLF and its founder, Nur Misuari, are not
involved in the government-led peace talks.  Taking Advantage  Different rebel groups were attempting to take advantage of
the situation in Zamboanga, presidential spokesman Edwin Lacierda said in an e-mailed statement. Two other groups were
behind the attack on Lamitan with the army in pursuit after a
two-hour firefight, he said. “Let it be clear to those defying
us that they should not entertain the illusion that the state
will hesitate to use its forces to protect our people.”  Soldiers are keeping a tight cordon around areas in
Zamboanga besieged by rebels, military public affairs chief
Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Zagala told ABS-CBN by phone. The
military supports negotiations with rebels loyal to Misuari,
Zagala said.  “This is just a glitch” in efforts to promote peace and
development on Mindanao island, where Zamboanga is located,
Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry secretary-general
Crisanto Frianeza said in an interview. “We’ve been through
several crises before and we have recovered.”  Peace Talks  The government will ensure the views of the MNLF and
Misuari are considered during the crafting of a law to create a
new autonomous region in Mindanao, Teresita Deles, Aquino’s
spokesman on the peace process, told reporters in Manila
yesterday. She spoke a day after peace talks between the
government and another rebel group, the Moro Islamic Liberation
Front, resumed in Kuala Lumpur.  “Somebody felt neglected and they’re armed. They wanted to
call attention to themselves,” John Forbes, a senior adviser at
the American Chamber of Commerce, told reporters yesterday in
Manila. “From the point of view of investors, the government
must complete the negotiations taking place in Kuala Lumpur.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  