-- Overseas Deposits, JPMorgan Legal Reserves: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/overseas-deposits-jpmorgan-legal-reserves-compliance.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
approved a rule responding to concerns that commercial
depositors in overseas branches of U.S. banks could be
disadvantaged in the event of a lender’s collapse.  FDIC board members meeting in  Washington  yesterday
unanimously voted to adopt a measure responding to U.K.
regulators’ concern that U.S. banks favored domestic depositors
over foreign-based account holders. The agency in February
proposed that overseas branches of the U.S. companies make an
FDIC-estimated $1 trillion in deposits payable in either
country.  One of the FDIC’s chief concerns was writing a rule that
walls off the insurance fund from non-U.S. deposits, so the
final  proposal  maintained a clear barrier. The adopted version
was virtually unchanged from the February proposal.  The rule is a revision of the agency’s definition of
“insured deposit” to make overseas accounts of corporate
customers also payable in the U.S. It puts foreign depositors
who aren’t covered by FDIC insurance in line ahead of general
creditors in a liquidation. About 40 percent of such deposits
are in the U.K., according to the FDIC.  In a joint letter to the agency in April, officials from
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ,  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  and  State
Street Corp. (STT)  said that instead of forcing banks to make the
deposits dually payable, the FDIC could just give the same
treatment to all global deposits of a bank without extending
insurance protection -- an effort they acknowledged would have
required more rulemaking.  Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said in February that the rule
would bring U.S. banks into compliance in the U.K. without
requiring the institutions to turn their branches into
subsidiaries.  The Clearing House Association LLC, a New York-based trade
group that represents large U.S. banks including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. , described the restructuring of
foreign-branch deposit agreements as “administratively
challenging” and costly.  U.S. banks are likely to make their foreign branch deposits
dually payable only when forced to do so by a foreign regulator
because of “negative consequences,” the Clearing House
Association said in a letter to the FDIC.  Compliance Policy  Hedge Funds No Systemic Risk to Australia Financial System  Hedge funds  pose no systemic risk to Australia’s financial
system, the Australian Securities & Investments Commission said
in a report released on its website.  In the report, ASIC identified hedge funds that “manage
only a small share of Australia’s A$2.1 trillion managed funds
industry with more than half of these holding less than A$50
million each.”  “Australian hedge funds do not currently appear to pose a
systemic risk to the Australian financial system,” the survey
indicates. Listed equities represent surveyed hedge fund
managers’ greatest asset exposure, with 32 percent being in
Australian-listed shares, according to the website report.  EU Lawyers Clash Over Legality of 11-Nation Transaction-Tax Plan  European Union lawyers are clashing over whether a proposed
11-nation financial-transaction tax is legal under the 28-nation
bloc’s governing treaties.  Lawyers for the Council of the European Union, which
represents the executives of EU member states and makes laws in
tandem with the EU Parliament, say the tax plan goes too far and
would discriminate against countries that don’t participate,
according to an EU document. The legal service of the European
Commission, which proposed the levy, stands by the plan and will
offer a rebuttal, said Emer Traynor, a spokeswoman for EU Tax
Commissioner Algirdas Semeta.  The EU has proposed a broad-based tax on stocks, bonds,
derivatives and other trades that could be collected worldwide
by  France ,  Germany  and nine other EU nations that have so far
signed up. The plan would charge a 0.1 percent rate for stock
and bond trades and 0.01 percent for derivatives transactions,
with some exemptions.  The feud centers on proposals for worldwide tax collection
on trades involving a bank or financial security based in one of
the participating nations. The council’s Sept. 6 legal opinion
said the EU can’t justify such an aggressive approach just to
keep traders from moving outside the participating-nations zone.  The commission’s plan exceeds the jurisdiction of
participating nations, the council opinion said.  The council legal opinion was reported earlier by Reuters.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Boosts Bank’s Legal Reserves for Potential Claims  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,
increased its litigation reserve by more than $1.5 billion in
the third quarter to help cover potential legal claims.  Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake said Sept. 9 at the
Barclays Global Financial Services Conference in  New York  that
the “reserves covers a number of different matters,” and
there’s “been a crescendo of activity in past weeks,” to which
the bank is reacting.  JPMorgan added 3,000 employees to bolster internal controls
and compliance as it grapples with multiple investigations and
regulatory orders, Lake said. The U.S. is conducting criminal
investigations linked to the bank’s energy-trading and mortgage-backed securities businesses as well as separate probes of its
anti-money-laundering safeguards, foreclosures, credit-card
collections and a record trading loss in  London  last year.  The bank named two new members to its board and announced
expanded powers for lead director Lee R. Raymond to help bolster
risk oversight, according to a company statement.  SEC Probes Gold Fields on South African Black-Ownership Deal  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  said the U.S. Securities Exchange
Commission is investigating an ownership deal that helped the
South African producer of the metal secure a mining license. The
shares fell to the lowest in a month.  The SEC is probing the transaction associated with the
grant of the mining permit for the South Deep operation near
Westonaria, 55 kilometers (34 miles) southwest of Johannesburg,
Gold Fields said yesterday in a statement.  In 2010, Gold Fields agreed to issue 600,000 shares to a
black-owned group and allowed it to buy 10 percent of South
Deep. South African law requires mining companies to sell at
least 26 percent of their local operations to black citizens,
with transactions that benefit workers, communities near sites
and trusts for the poor being favored.  Last year, the company denied a news report by
Johannesburg-based Carte Blanche that the deal benefited
influential people who helped it win the license needed to
continue operating the mine.  “Given the early stage of this investigation, it is not
possible to estimate reliably what effect the outcome this
investigation, any regulatory findings, and any related
developments may have on the company,” Gold Fields said.  U.S investors trade Gold Fields stock through American
depositary receipts.  Courts  Deutsche Bank Faces Hearing Over Fired Euribor Traders’ Claims  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  faces a hearing in a lawsuit by four
traders fired over the lender’s role in the alleged rigging of
interest benchmarks after mandated mediation failed to produce a
settlement.  The  Frankfurt  labor court will hear arguments today over
whether the four men were wrongfully dismissed by the bank in
February. Another banker, who was the most junior of the group,
reached a settlement with the bank, two people familiar with the
matter said in July.  Regulators from Canada to  Switzerland  are investigating
whether more than a dozen lenders, including Deutsche Bank,
colluded to rig benchmark  interest rates . Deutsche Bank has
fired at least seven employees over suspected misconduct in
connection with rates. The bank, continental Europe’s largest by
assets, said in February that while it would fire or suspend
workers that acted inappropriately, it wouldn’t identify
individuals.  Deutsche Bank justified the dismissal of the employees by
saying they had inappropriate communication with a trader the
bank fired at the end of 2011 for trying to rig rates, one of
the people familiar with the matter said in July.  Peter Roelz, a lawyer for the four traders, declined to
comment on the trial.  The traders fired in February were based in Frankfurt and
included two managing directors, two directors and a vice
president, two people with knowledge of the matter said at the
time. Submitting euro interbank offered rates was part of their
responsibilities, the people said.  A mediation hearing in April didn’t yield any results.  Interviews/Hearings  CFTC’s Gensler Says He Never Received E-Mail Training  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, testified about U.S. transparency laws and his use
of his private e-mail account for communications as part of his
work at the CFTC.  David Ferriero, the archivist of the U.S., former
Environmental Protection Agency chief  Lisa Jackson , former
Energy Department loan program director  Jonathan Silver , and
former U.S. Deputy Chief Technology Officer Andrew McLaughlin
also testified before the  House Oversight and Government Reform
committee  in Washington.  For the video, click here.  Banks Seen at Risk Five Years After Lehman Collapse  Bloomberg’s Max Abelson talked about risks to banks five
years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
the ensuing financial crisis.  He spoke with Sara Eisen and  Tom Keene  and on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  