-- Wallabies Drop Genia for Argentina Test, Name Mowen as Captain
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-11T02:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/mowen-to-captain-wallabies-against-argentina-as-genia-is-benched.html
Australia dropped scrum-half Will
Genia to the bench for this weekend’s Rugby Championship match
against Argentina as the Wallabies seek to snap a four-match
losing streak.  Genia, who captained Australia in last week’s loss to South
Africa in the absence of the injured  James Horwill , was replaced
in the starting lineup by Nic White, with No. 8 Ben Mowen taking
over as skipper for the match at Perth’s Patersons Stadium in
three days. Ben Alexander replaces Sekope Kepu at tighthead prop
in the other starting change.  The Wallabies are yet to win a game under new coach Ewen McKenzie, who took over from Robbie Deans following the 2-1
series loss to the British and Irish Lions. McKenzie said White
deserved a chance to start ahead of Genia after being on the
bench for the past three matches.  “It wasn’t an easy decision because Will is undoubtedly a
world-class player,” McKenzie said in a statement. “However,
we also feel Nic has earned an opportunity to start and will add
his own uniqueness and point of difference to how we want to
play this game.”  In other changes to the 23-man squad on duty for the record
38-12 defeat to the Springboks four days ago, lock Sitaleki
Timani and center Tevita Kuridrani replaced Liam Gill and Jesse
Mogg on the replacements’ bench. Mowen, who made his national
team debut in June against the Lions, becomes the Wallabies’
sixth captain in two years.  Last Place  Australia , which has won its past six Tests against
Argentina, is bottom of the southern hemisphere championship
standings at the halfway stage without a point. Competition
leader South Africa faces New Zealand in Auckland in three days.  Since McKenzie took over, the Wallabies have allowed 12
tries in two defeats to the All Blacks and one to the Springboks,
and must win in Perth to avoid losing five straight Tests for
the first time since 2005.  “Rugby is a game of chess and we will look forward to the
challenge of getting the right balance,” McKenzie added.  Argentina yesterday made five starting changes, four of
them in the backline, to the team that lost 28-13 in New Zealand
last weekend.  Springboks coach Heyneke Meyer today named an unchanged 23-man squad from last week’s victory in Brisbane as his team seeks
its 10th win in a row.  AUSTRALIA: Israel Folau, James O’Connor, Adam Ashley-Cooper,
Christian Leali’ifano, Nick Cummins, Quade Cooper, Nic White,
Ben Mowen (captain), Michael Hooper, Scott Fardy, Kane Douglas,
Rob Simmons, Ben Alexander, Stephen Moore, James Slipper.  Replacements: Saia Fainga’a, Scott Sio, Sekope Kepu,
Sitaleki Timani, Ben McCalman, Will Genia, Matt Toomua, Tevita
Kuridrani.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  