-- Toyota Showroom Rebuilt in China Underlines Lost Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-11T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/toyota-showroom-rebuilt-in-china-underlines-lost-sales.html
It took Wang Chongwei almost a year
to rebuild his  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  dealership in Qingdao, China,
after a mob protesting against  Japan ’s purchase of a group of
disputed islands burnt down the showroom.  On opening day one humid Sunday morning last month, more
than 100 local residents, some with toddlers in tow, showed up
to play funfair games and watch svelte dancers performing South
Korean pop star Psy’s new hit single “Gentleman.” That’s a
stark contrast to the demonstrators last year, who also torched
Wang’s other dealership by  Honda Motor Co. (7267)   “I’m a patriot just like any other Chinese, but politics
should be politics and business should be business,” Wang said
in an interview at the showroom’s reopening. “Last year’s
incident is unique and I don’t want to talk about it any more. I
am fully confident in future sales.”  Wang said he’s targeting to sell the same number of cars at
the reopened dealership -- about 100 cars a month --
illustrating how Japanese automakers are working to return to
last year’s sales levels even as the likes of Ford Motor Co. and
Hyundai Motor Co. pull ahead.  Intermittent bouts of tensions between Asia’s two largest
economies also underscore the risks of a prolonged consumer
backlash against Japanese auto brands, which have lost a fifth
of their market share in the past year. Winning back the lost
ground will involve increasing incentives that will pressure
margins, according to consultancy Synergistics Ltd.  “Even if the Japanese recover, they will do so at great
expense,” said Bill Russo, Beijing-based president of
Synergistics. “That’s really going to affect their investment
in this market going forward. They have to think where else in
the world they can have profitable growth if they can’t get it
in  China .”  Disputed Islands  Nationwide protests erupted across China last September
after Japan moved to purchase a group of disputed islands --
known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China -- from their
private owner one year ago yesterday.  Thousands of Japanese cars were vandalized and businesses
attacked by mobs in the demonstrations. The ensuing consumer
backlash sent Toyota and Honda to their first annual sales
declines on record in the world’s largest vehicle market.  The dispute hasn’t blown over. Japan lodged a diplomatic
protest to China after eight Chinese Coast Guard ships entered
Japan-controlled waters on Sept. 10 near the island chain being
claimed by both nations.  Sales Slump  According to  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the biggest Japanese
carmaker in China by volume, its sales are down more than 6
percent in the country during the first eight months of this
year, even as industrywide  passenger-vehicle  sales increased.  Toyota’s deliveries have declined 5.3 percent in the same
period, while Honda slid 2.9 percent.  “In China, there are several issues, ranging from the
political situation between the two countries, the slowdown of
the Chinese economy and the products we sell in the market,”
Toyota Executive Vice President Nobuyori Kodaira said Aug. 21.
“Our aim is to carefully respond to what our Chinese customers
want and to raise our efforts in meeting those needs.”  Toyota passed on  Shanghai  and Beijing and chose Dubai for
one of its three new global Intersect by Lexus boutique stores,
a key effort by the automaker to promote its upscale brand
outside its biggest market of the U.S.  Asked whether the anti-Japanese sentiment played a part in
that decision, Mark Templin, the brand’s vice president, said
last month in an interview that the company wanted to be careful
about the pace of expansion in China.  Slow Recovery  Honda said the political issue won’t affect its long-term
plans in China and the automaker expects sales this year to
surpass last year, according to Beijing-based spokeswoman
Natsuno Asanuma. Nissan’s sales in China haven’t fully
recovered, though it’s on track to achieve its plan this year,
said Yoshiko Tsumagari, a spokeswoman for the Yokohama, Japan-based company.  Ford Motor Co., unencumbered by geopolitical baggage, has
emerged as the biggest winner, benefiting from consumers seeking
non-Japanese options and an expanded lineup of new models.  Deliveries at the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker have
jumped 50 percent in the first eight months of this year, driven
by sales of its Focus compact and Kuga and EcoSport SUVs. The
second-largest U.S. automaker last month introduced a revamped
Mondeo mid-sized sedan aimed at Toyota’s Camry, Nissan’s Teana
and Honda’s Accord.  Ford Benefits  “Ford’s success is due to their new product launches which
suit the market well, but also because of the fall of the
Japanese,” said Zhu Bin, an analyst with LMC Automotive in
Shanghai. “They have many models that directly compete with the
stronghold of the Japanese, such as the Mondeo sedan, Focus
compact and Kuga SUV.”  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  are also stepping up
investments in China as both automakers forecast their sales
will climb to 3 million vehicles in the country this year.  GM will invest $11 billion in China by 2016 and add four
plants by 2015 that will boost capacity to about 5 million
units. VW said in March that it will add seven car plants in the
country, bringing the total to 19, and increase production
capacity there to 4 million vehicles a year by 2018 from about
2.5 million currently.  Despite the headwinds, China remains too big a market to
ignore and Japanese automakers should play to their strengths in
fuel economy to win back customers, said  Satoru Takada , an auto
analyst at Toward the Infinite World Inc. in  Tokyo .  Fuel Economy  That would mean wooing consumers like real-estate agent Lei
Zhucheng, 43, who says tensions between the two countries aren’t
a factor in his purchase decision.  “I look at the car’s quality rather than politics,” said
Lei, who was checking out the Honda Jade wagon at the Chengdu
auto show last month. “Honda cars are fuel-efficient. Their
prices are reasonable and it’s good value.”  Back in Qingdao, Diao Zihui, marketing manager of the
rebuilt Toyota dealership, said she wants to put the past behind
her. The staff worked out of makeshift premises for months while
the showroom was being rebuilt.  “It’s like a nightmare I hate to recall,” said Diao. “I
shed a lot of tears. I hope this won’t repeat and China and
Japan can be friendly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  