-- Pandora Names Ad Veteran McAndrews CEO as Apple Looms
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-12T21:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/pandora-names-former-aquantive-chief-mcandrews-as-chairman-ceo.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest
online radio service, turned to digital-advertising veteran
Brian McAndrews as its new chief executive officer in a push to
boost revenue while fending off competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The shares surged the most in six months. McAndrews was
also named chairman and president, succeeding Joe Kennedy,
according to a statement yesterday from Oakland, California-based Pandora. McAndrews led digital marketing firm AQuantive
Inc., which was sold to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for about $6 billion.  With McAndrews, Pandora aims to bolster advertising, which
accounted for 88 percent of its $427 million in revenue last
fiscal year. While the company dominates Web radio, ad sales
haven’t kept up with growth in listeners or royalty expenses,
leading to  losses  totaling $50.9 million in the past three
quarters. This month’s entry of ITunes Radio from Apple, already
the largest online music seller, will add to the pressure on
Pandora.  “That they are getting someone with an advertising
background is very good,” Brian Nowak, an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group, said in an interview.  Pandora advanced 12 percent to $23.97 at the close in New
York, for the biggest jump since March 8. The shares have more
than doubled this year.  McAndrews, 54, has experience in advertising, entertainment
and in building a small company into something larger while
taking on bigger competitors.  Entertainment, Advertising  He worked at General Mills Inc. and ABC before taking over
Avenue A, a small digital ad agency in  Seattle , in 1999. That
company grew into AQuantive, one of the biggest online
advertising networks matching marketers with websites, as
Internet usage took hold in the U.S.  At Pandora, advertising is a big part of the opportunity,
McAndrews said in a telephone interview yesterday. He said he
expects to draw from his other attributes as well.  “I’d like to think I was also hired because I’m a proven
leader and someone who understands how to scale companies,”
McAndrews said. “My entertainment background doesn’t hurt
either.”  Pandora’s 72.1 million users listened to 1.35 billion hours
of programming in August, an increase of 16 percent from a year
earlier, according to a Sept. 5 statement. The company’s share
of total U.S. radio listening rose to 7.5 percent. Even so, its
revenue amounts to a smaller fraction of the annual $15 billion
local-radio advertising market.  “A big part of Pandora’s future will be its ability to
disrupt traditional radio advertising and its ability to lure
those ad dollars,” Nowak said.  Apple Challenge  It’s also got Apple to contend with. The company introduces
iTunes Radio on Sept. 18, challenging Pandora’s dominance in Web
radio, where rivals include Slacker Inc. and Clear Channel
Communications Inc.’s iHeartRadio.  Ahead of Apple’s entry, Pandora removed a 40-hour monthly
limit on free mobile listening. The company is also investing in
new technologies, products and sales staff to drive continued
growth.  The shares fell the most in more than eight months on Aug.
23 after the company forecast third-quarter profit that will
miss analysts’ estimates because of the staffing costs.  Kennedy’s departure was announced on March 7. He made the
decision after discussions with the board over the company’s
future, according to a statement at the time.  Adding Listeners  Under Kennedy, Pandora rapidly increased listeners, eating
into the local-radio market with online and mobile products.
Second-quarter sales advanced 55 percent to $157.4 million, the
company said on Aug. 22. Total expenses, including content
acquisition, product development, marketing and overhead,
increased by the same percentage to $165 million.  While McAndrews said he helped negotiate rights fees for
sports at ABC, he hasn’t been involved in the arbitration
proceedings and court battles that govern Pandora’s music
royalties.  The company is currently in court as it seeks to limit fee
increases. Music publishers EMI Music Publishing Ltd. and
Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC are trying to remove new-media
rights from licenses with the American Society of Composers,
Authors and Publishers that allow the music to be played.  Pandora filed a lawsuit in November asking a federal court
to set “reasonable” fees with Ascap through 2015.  Microsoft bought aQuantive in 2007, trying to catch  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  amid a boom in online advertising. The software maker,
based in Redmond,  Washington , later wrote down $6.2 billion of
the value.  Since 2009, McAndrews has been an investing partner at
Madrona Venture Group. His background in venture capital is a
positive, said Nowak, the Susquehanna analyst, who recommends
the stock.  “That gives him a lot of experience in identifying good
businesses, knowing how to sustain and grow a business, and how
to build competitive trenches,” Nowak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  