-- Pandora Media Sues Ascap Seeking Lower Songwriter Fees
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-09-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/pandora-media-sues-ascap-seeking-lower-songwriter-fees.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest
Internet radio service, asked a federal judge to stop a group
representing songwriters and music publishers from narrowing the
scope of licenses that allow their music to be played.  The radio company argued in federal court in  Manhattan 
yesterday that if the  American Society of Composers, Authors and
Publishers  is permitted to change the scope of the licenses, it
would have far fewer songs from the Ascap repertory to offer its
listeners than its competitors. U.S. District Judge Denise Cote
said she would rule later on Pandora’s motion for summary
judgment.  “I am very concerned about unintended consequences,” Cote
said at the end of a 3 1/2- hour hearing. “What ruling I give I
want to be as narrow as possible.”  The issue at yesterday’s hearing arises from decisions by
large music publishers including EMI Music Publishing Ltd. and
Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC to withdraw new-media rights from
Ascap and negotiate license fees directly with Web radio
services. Pandora said that while its license renewal with Ascap
is pending, the organization shouldn’t allow the withdrawals,
which would reduce the number of songs covered by Ascap’s
licenses.  Pandora filed a lawsuit in November asking the court to set
“reasonable” fees for a licensing agreement with Ascap through
2015. It’s seeking a blanket license that would cover all songs
represented by the 470,000-member group. Pandora said the
current fees make sustained profitability impossible.  Licensing Rates  Ascap and Pandora reached an “experimental” fee agreement
in 2005 that lasted until 2010. The parties then were unable to
agree on licensing rates after more than a year of talks,
Pandora said in its complaint.  Under the terms of a federal consent decree, the U.S.
District Court in New York has jurisdiction over rate-setting if
the parties can’t come to terms. Cote will conduct a trial in
December.  “It’s impossible to go to trial not knowing the repertory
for which we’re trying to set rates,” Kenneth Steinthal, a
lawyer with King & Spalding LLP representing Pandora, told the
judge yesterday.  Ascap said that nothing in the federal consent decree
prohibits publishing companies from withdrawing rights. Ascap
represents the music of artists including Beyonce, Alan Jackson,
George Gershwin and Duke Ellington.  Revenue Percentage  “We will ask for a percentage of revenue from Pandora,
adjusted for Ascap’s share of performances on Pandora and
exclusive of what’s directly licensed,” Jay Cohen, a lawyer for
Ascap with Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, told
the judge. “We will not get paid for music we no longer have.”  Cohen asked the judge to get an opinion from the U.S.
Justice Department on whether the language of the consent decree
requires Ascap to license all public performance rights to a
composition. Cote is taking the request under consideration.  Pandora, based in Oakland,  California , offers programming
to subscribers based on their musical preferences. The company
said this month it had 72.1 million active listeners at the end
of August, an increase of 28 percent from the same period a year
earlier.  The company is also lobbying the U.S. Congress for lower
royalties on recordings.  The case is In re Petition of Pandora Media Inc., 1:12-cv-08035, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  