-- Paulson-Backed Gabriel Threatens $4 Billion of Claims in Romania
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-09-11T12:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/paulson-backed-gabriel-threatens-4-billion-of-claims-in-romania.html
Gabriel Resources Ltd. (GBU) , backed by
billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson , threatened to seek
as much as $4 billion of damages should Romanian lawmakers vote
to oppose its gold mine project in the country.  “We have a very, very robust case, and we believe we have
claims up to $4 billion that we can send to the Romanian
state,” Gabriel Resources Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Henry said today in a telephone interview. “We will go ahead
and do that if the vote is against.”  Gabriel Resources, also backed by  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and
BSG Resources Ltd., has spent more than a decade trying to build
the $1.4 billion mine amid opposition by campaigners to the use
of cyanide to extract gold. It agreed last month to increase the
government’s stake to 25 percent from about 19 percent and
accept a jump in mining royalties to 6 percent from 4 percent.  The company slumped 54 percent in Toronto trading on Sept.
9 after Prime Minister Victor Ponta said that parliament should
“quickly” vote on whether to abandon the Rosia Montana project
because of levels of opposition. Crin Antonescu, head of the
junior ruling coalition National Liberal Party, and opposition
leader Vasile Blaga called for the development to be terminated.  “If parliament rejects this, they are leaving themselves
exposed as a country to a significant lack of foreign direct
investment,” Henry said. “I can’t see why other foreign
investors would see Romania as the destination of choice.
Romanian politicians have to take that on board.”  Possible Actions  Gabriel Resources said Sept. 9 that it would “assess all
possible actions open to it” including litigation should draft
legislation making way for the development be rejected. Ponta
yesterday responded by saying that the country “wouldn’t want
to pay anything” and was ready to defend itself in court.  Last month, the government said the gold development was of
“exceptional national interest” in a statement on its website.  Gabriel, which estimates that the site holds 17 million
ounces of gold, will also need an environmental permit before
starting to raise the $1.4 billion it needs to develop the mine.  Government spokesman Andrei Zaharescu declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  