-- Pentagon Contracts Little Changed in August
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-09-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/pentagon-contracts-little-changed-in-august.html
The U.S. Defense Department awarded
$17.6 billion in contracts in August, little changed from July
and one-third less than the same month a year ago.  Only one award topped $1 billion in value: an extension of
a current deal to upgrade electronics in U.S. weapons systems
and provide other engineering services, held by seven defense
contractors including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)   August awards increased 1.7 percent from the previous month
after dropping 55 percent in July from June. The larger decline
reflects the continuing effect of across-the-board budget cuts
on Defense Department operations, said Mark Amtower, who runs a
government contracting consulting firm in Clarksville,  Maryland .  “Sequestration is definitely putting a stranglehold on
things,” Amtower said. “That wasn’t in place this time last
year. That has to factor in somehow.”  The value of 324 contracts awarded in August was almost 34
percent less the $26.5 billion announced during the same month
in 2012, as budget reductions unfolded under a process known as
sequestration. The Pentagon is required to announce contracts of
at least $6.5 million.  More than a third of the awards last month were
modifications of existing agreements, such as a $410 million
award Aug. 20 from the U.S. Air Force to Providence, Rhode
Island-based  Textron Inc. (TXT)  for 1,300 cluster bombs for Saudi
Arabia. The Pentagon also has held off on some maintenance in
anticipation of additional budget cuts, analysts said.  Modification Trend  “If you’ve got a contract right now, that’s good for
you,” said Brian Friel, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries.
“We’ll see more of these kinds of modifications and extensions
happening as long as the uncertainty continues.”  The single largest award last month was a $1.3 billion
contract modification to seven companies -- Lockheed, Boeing,
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , BAE Systems Plc,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  -- to continue
upgrading electronics in existing weapons systems.  Defense Microelectronics Activity , based in McClellan,
 California , is supervising the project, which has a value of $6
billion following the modification. That Pentagon agency is
responsible for fixing operational problems in weapons systems.  With the Sept. 30 deadline for Congress and the White House
to agree on spending for the next fiscal year, the Pentagon may
continue to find it easier to modify existing awards than put
new contracts up for bid, Amtower said.  Some  House Republicans  are insisting that any legislation
to fund the government in the next fiscal year eliminate
spending for the new health-care law that provides coverage to
millions of uninsured Americans.  Targeting Obamacare  House Republicans have also said they would demand an end
to funding for the health-care law, additional spending cuts or
other concessions in exchange for separate legislation raising
the government’s authority to borrow money. The Treasury
Department has said the federal government could reach the debt
ceiling next month.  There will be “more spending on things that are already in
place so you can spend the budget you know is there,” Amtower
said. “You’ll see more activities on those existing
contracts.”  Sequestration stripped $37 billion from Pentagon programs
in the current fiscal year. The Defense Department required
about 85 percent of its civilian workforce to each take about
six unpaid furlough days to help meet the budget target.  Lost Days  If every one of the 24,360 contracting employees took those
six days off, that would mean 146,140 days of work lost, adding
“to the delays that budget uncertainty has caused in the
procurement process,” Friel said.  The largest individual contract, $925 million over five
years, went to Hoist Liftruck Manufacturing Inc. of Bedford
Park,  Illinois , for heavy-duty equipment such as forklifts and
container handlers. That award was made by the  Defense Logistics
Agency .  Two companies that shared in the technology award also
received more than $1 billion each in other contracts, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda, Maryland, received $1.5
billion in contracts, including $852 million from the U.S. Navy
for work tied to the F-35 fighter planes. The F-35 is the
Pentagon’s costliest weapon system, with 2,443 aircraft costing
an estimated $391 billion.  Boeing, based in  Chicago , won $1.1 billion in potential
work, including $904 million from the Army for 36 new Block III
Apache Helicopters for  Korea .  Defense Shares  “We have a robust strategy, diversified portfolio, and
well-integrated, high-performing leadership team,” said Donna
Savarese, a spokeswoman for Lockheed. “We remain focused on
meeting our commitments to customers and delivering value to our
shareholders.”  Boeing spokesman Todd Blecher said the U.S. contracts are
“representative of our continued focus on meeting our
customers’ needs around the world.”  The sequestration budget cuts haven’t stopped defense
shares from outperforming the broader stock market. A Bloomberg
index of the 10 biggest contractors advanced 34 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 18 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during the same period.  --  With assistance from Nick Taborek in  New York  and Anthony
Capaccio in  Washington . Editors:  David Ellis , Steve Geimann  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  