-- Phone Roaming Premiums in EU Would End Under Kroes Plan
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-09-11T16:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/phone-roaming-premiums-in-eu-would-end-in-2014-under-kroes-plan.html
Telecommunications companies in the
European Union would be banned from charging premiums for
roaming services under a plan adopted by the EU’s executive that
also seeks to ensure “net neutrality” for  Internet users .  Consumers in the 28-nation bloc would no longer have to pay
to receive calls while traveling in the EU as of mid-2014, the
executive said today in a statement as the European Commission
in Brussels backed the proposal. Telecom providers could choose
to offer phone plans that apply everywhere in the region or let
customers opt for a separate roaming provider without having to
buy a new SIM card.  EU Digital Agenda Commissioner Neelie Kroes has championed
lowering roaming charges and unified rules for telecom networks
to spur investment in  Europe , which is behind the U.S. and  Asia 
in rolling out fourth-generation wireless systems and is
struggling to provide high-speed Internet. The EU accounts for 6
percent of the world’s 4G licenses, while the U.S.,  Japan  and
 Korea  have 88 percent, according to Kroes.  “The European Commission says no to roaming premiums, yes
to net neutrality, yes to investment, yes to new jobs,” Kroes
said in today’s statement. “Fixing the telecoms sector is no
longer about this one sector but about supporting the
sustainable development of all sectors.”  Internet Content  The proposal would ban the blocking and slowing of Internet
content, though carriers will be allowed to charge more for
high-end services such as video-on-demand and other data-intensive features as long as other customers aren’t affected.
Consumers would have the right to check whether they are
receiving the Internet speeds they pay for and to end contracts
if commitments aren’t met, the commission said.  Consumers across the EU also would have the same rights to
shorter minimum contracts. Companies would benefit from a single
authorization for them to operate in all EU countries, and
easier and greater access to spectrum that is key to 4G mobile
services, Wi-Fi and other services, according to the EU.  Kroes is scheduled to give a briefing on the proposed
measures at 12:30 p.m. tomorrow in Brussels. The proposal must
be approved by the European Parliament and EU governments before
it becomes law.  “Our proposal will strengthen guarantees and lower prices
for consumers, and present new opportunities for companies,”
 Jose Barroso , president of the Brussels-based commission, said
today in a speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg,
 France . “Isn’t it a paradox that we have an internal market for
goods, but when it comes to the digital market we have 28
national markets?”  The commission has said it wants to give all Europeans
access to Internet speeds of more than 30 megabits per second
and that half the EU should have connections faster than 100
Mbps by 2020. The average  downloading speed  currently is about
20 Mbps, according to the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  