-- Picasso Friend $170 Million Collection in Christie’s Sale
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-09-12T09:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/picasso-friend-s-170-million-collect-in-christie-s-sale.html
Art from the collection of the
Geneva-based dealer Jan Krugier, who sold works for the family
of Picasso, is estimated to raise at least $170 million when it
is auctioned in New York in November.  More than 150 lots will be sold in evening and day events
at Christie’s International on Nov. 4 and 5, the London-based
auction house said today in an e-mailed statement. Impressionist
and modern works by artists such as Picasso, Giacometti and
Kandinsky dominate the sale, which also features contemporary
pieces,  Old Masters , Latin American and African art.  Krugier, who died in 2008, was for four decades one of the
world’s foremost dealers in high-value 20th-century art. He ran
galleries in Geneva and New York, and was a regular exhibitor at
prestige events such as  Art Basel  in  Switzerland , and Tefaf
Maastricht, in the Netherlands. The Manhattan space closed in
2010 and the dealership no longer participates in art fairs.  “Jan was a great dealer,” the London-based gallerist
Richard Nagy, who bought works from Krugier, said in an
interview. “Because of his connection with the Picasso family,
no one could compete with him in terms of the volume and breadth
of works in different media he was able to sell.”  A survivor of the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp,
Polish-born Krugier held the first commercial exhibition of
Picasso’s works after the artist’s death in 1973. He
subsequently sourced numerous pieces from Marina Picasso, the
artist’s granddaughter, who used the proceeds to found an
orphanage in Thu Duc,  Vietnam , in 1990.  Chicago Sculpture  Christie’s auction will feature 30 works by Picasso. The
most valuable of these is the sheet metal maquette for the 65-foot (19 meters) sculpture “Tete,” which stands outside the
Civic Center building in  Chicago .  Made in 1962-1964, this smaller model is estimated at $25
million to $35 million, the most valuable work in the auction.
The 1971 painting “Buste d’homme ecrivant (Personnage)
(Autoportrait),” is priced at $6 million to $8 million.  An African mask that was owned by Picasso and that
influenced the depiction of faces in several of his paintings,
including “Guernica,” is also included in the collection. It
is valued at $500,000 to $800,000.  After World War II, Krugier lived in Paris, where he tried
to become an artist.  Alberto Giacometti  persuaded him that art
dealing would be a more suitable career and he opened his first
gallery in Geneva in 1962, nurturing friendships with artists.  Giacometti, Kandinsky  The 3-foot-high bronze “Femme de Venise I,” is among the
eight works by Giacometti included in the sale. From a series of
nine sculptures made for the 1956 Venice Biennale, it is priced
at $9 million to $12 million.  Kandinsky’s 1911 Fauvist-period landscape
“Herbstlandschaft” is valued at $20 million to $25 million.  Christie’s sold a similar Kandinsky landscape, “Studie zu
Improvisation 3” -- dating from 1909 -- for 13.5 million pounds
($21.2 million) in  London  in June. The work had been entered by
the Nahmad family of dealers and had carried a third-party
guarantee.  Impressionist and modern art was for decades the highest-selling category of art at auction. Market-fresh works are in
short supply. More fashionable -- and plentiful -- contemporary
pieces have become the auction houses’ biggest money-spinner.  Owners of big-ticket Impressionist and modern works can
negotiate attractive terms from  Sotheby’s (BID)  and Christie’s, each
of which holds at least four evening sales in the category every
year.  No Guarantee  High-value sellers aren’t charged commission, and can be
lured with either guaranteed prices or a portion of the fees
charged to buyers, reducing profits for the auction houses,
dealers said.  The Krugier collection hasn’t been guaranteed, said
Christie’s.  “He made good choices as a collector and made some
interesting non-commercial purchases,” said Nagy.  Underlining the eclecticism of Krugier’s collecting taste,
the 1982 Jean-Michel Basquiat painting “Crisis X” is estimated
at $3 million to $4 million, while Jean-Auguste-Dominique
Ingres’s early 19th-century drawing “Portrait de la Comtesse
d’Haussonville” is valued at $1.5 million to $2.5 million.
Ingres’s painting of this subject is in the Frick Collection in
 New York .  Highlights are on show in the company’s St. James’s
headquarters in London through Sept. 19.  Muse highlights include  Catherine Hickley  on books,
 Frederik Balfour  on Hong Kong art,  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 