-- Pinochet Era Divided Daughters Contending for Chilean Presidency
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-09-11T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/pinochet-era-divided-daughters-contending-for-chilean-presidency.html
One was the daughter of an Air
Force official who helped lead the military junta that seized
power in  Chile  40 years ago today. The other’s father was
tortured to death by that regime.  On Nov. 17, Evelyn Matthei and  Michelle Bachelet  will face
off along with seven other candidates in a presidential election
that personifies how Chilean politics remains marked by the
convulsions of the 1970s and ’80s. One side of the political
divide still defines itself by its opposition to a dictatorship
that ended 23 years ago, while the other struggles to erase its
involvement with a regime that killed 3,000 people.  “The dictatorship is still a factor in Chilean society,
the wounds haven’t healed,” said Robert Funk, a political
scientist at the University of Chile in Santiago. “Some people
think they never will until the death of all those involved and
even their children.”  At stake in the election is stewardship of an economy that
has achieved economic growth averaging 5.2 percent over the past
30 years and given the country an income per capita of $19,475,
the highest in  South America . Chile has the slowest inflation
among major economies in the region and the cheapest five-year
credit-default swaps, which are contracts protecting holders of
the nation’s debt against non-payment.  The most recent poll on the race, taken July 13 to August
18 by Santiago-based polling company  CEP , showed Bachelet
leading the field with 44 percent support. Matthei was second
with 12 percent in the poll, which surveyed 1,471 people and had
a margin of error of three percentage points.  Marco Enriquez-Ominami of the Progressive Party, Marcel
Claude of the Humanist Party and independents Franco Parisi and
Tomas Jocelyn-Holt all garnered support of 4 percent or less.  Higher Taxes  Bachelet, seeking to regain the presidency she held from
2006 to 2010 as the candidate of the opposition Socialists, is
campaigning on improving public services through higher taxes.  Matthei, the standard-bearer of the ruling coalition, is
running on the government’s stewardship of the economy and
vowing to accelerate growth by keeping taxes low.  “Economic growth will be of primary importance,” her
campaign manager Felipe Morande said Aug. 21. “We want to set
the foundation to increase potential growth.”  During Matthei’s tenure as labor minister under current
President Sebastian Pinera from January 2011 to this July, the
 unemployment rate  fell to 5.7 percent from 7.3 percent as the
economy added more than 300,000 jobs.  GDP (CLGNYCON)  has expanded an average 5.5 percent during Pinera’s
time in office compared with 3.3 percent for Bachelet’s term,
which included the global economic downturn that pushed Chile
into recession in 2009.  Future Direction  Even as the two candidates spar over the country’s future
direction, it is their personal and family stories that has
captured many peoples’ attention.  “The truth is that beyond those good friendships, our
lives have been very different,” Bachelet told reporters on
Aug. 7, referring to Matthei’s family. “You know the story of
my father. He didn’t support the military coup, he was detained,
tortured and killed in prison.”  Bachelet’s father, Alberto, and Matthei’s, Fernando, were
friends and colleagues in the  Air Force  in the 1960s. The
friendship failed to survive the 1973 coup that overthrew
Socialist President Salvador Allende, which Bachelet’s family
opposed and Matthei’s supported.  The year after the coup, Fernando Matthei became director
of the Air Force’s War Academy. It was there where Alberto
Bachelet was repeatedly interrogated about his loyalty to the
junta by jailers who hooded and threatened to shoot him,
according to  court documents  signed last year by the judge in a
trial charging two officials in his death.  Academy Murders  On March 12, 1974, Bachelet died of a heart attack after
being tortured, according to a report released in June 2012 by
Chile’s Legal Medical Service.  Fernando Matthei, 88, has denied any involvement in the
death, and the magistrate in charge of investigating murders at
the military academy refused to charge him in July.  “My father couldn’t have done more for General Bachelet,”
Matthei said Aug. 11.  Bachelet said she respected the judge’s decision.  Fernando Matthei became a member of the ruling junta in
1976. His daughter studied economics at the  Catholic University 
in Santiago.  After her father died, Bachelet said she was detained and
tortured by the junta’s secret police before fleeing the country
for East Germany, where she began her medical studies.  Social Norms  In 1979, the same year that Evelyn Matthei obtained her
economics degree, Bachelet returned to Chile and resumed her
studies as a doctor. A self-declared agnostic and divorced
mother of three in a country where the majority of people are
Catholic, Bachelet defied social norms with her rise to power
following the end of the dictatorship.  She became the second democratically elected female
president in South America, after Guyana’s Janet Jagan, with her
election in 2006. Bachelet left office four years later with a
78 percent approval rating, according to CEP. Pinera currently
has a 31 percent approval rating, according to the July 13 to
August 18 CEP poll.  Constitutionally prohibited from running for a second
consecutive term, Bachelet moved to  New York  in 2010 to run UN
Women, a gender-equality agency created at the  United Nations 
that same year.  Free Education  She returned to Santiago in 2013 to begin a presidential
campaign, calling for free education for all Chileans following
two years of student protests for cheaper schooling. Her
government would boost corporate taxes to 25 percent from 20
percent to finance the initiative, a measure Matthei’s allies
say will scare off investors.  Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said on June 21 that the
proposal was already damping investments. Higher taxes would
slow economic growth, crimping  tax revenue  at the same time
Bachelet would raise spending, he said.  Three months after Bachelet left office, Moody’s Investors
Service gave Chile the only double-A  credit rating  in  Latin
America , citing “years of solid macroeconomic policies.”  Chile’s dollar-denominated bonds returned 32 percent from
March 2006 to March 2010 when Bachelet governed. That’s four
times the 7.9 percent return of the bonds under the current
Pinera administration, and more than the 27 percent gain on
similar Latin American bonds during her tenure, according to
Bank of America Corp.  600,000 Jobs  Matthei vows her government would add  600,000 jobs  to a
 labor force  that currently totals 8.2 million by boosting
economic growth through lower taxes than her competitor.  The choice of Matthei as its candidate has made it harder
for the ruling coalition to distance itself from the past, said
 Patricio Navia , a political science professor at  New York
University .  “There is an important sector of the right wing that
doesn’t seem to understand that in order to win elections, there
has to be a distance with the authoritarian legacy,” Navia
said.  Pinera won the 2009 election in part because he could
disassociate himself from the military regime, Navia said.
Pinera voted against the dictatorship in the 1988 plebiscite
that brought Pinochet’s reign to an end.  By contrast, Fernando Matthei campaigned in favor of
maintaining the dictatorship in 1988, appearing on broadcasts
urging Chileans to vote for Pinochet.  “The past mustn’t kidnap the future,” Pinera told
reporters last week. “The hatreds of our grandfathers can’t
poison the lives of our grandchildren.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  