-- Ponce Accused of Breaches That Moneda Says May Curb Restructure
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-09-11T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/ponce-accused-of-breaches-that-moneda-says-may-curb-restructure.html
Soc. Quimica & Minera de Chile SA’s 
controller Julio Ponce and other executives at the fertilizer
producer’s holding companies are being accused by  Chile ’s
securities regulator of buying shares at below market prices and
selling them back at inflated prices.  Ponce has 20 days to respond to charges related to trades
carried out between the so-called cascade companies through
which he controls SQM, the regulator known as SVS said  in a
statement  on its website yesterday. The executives -- including
Aldo Motta, chief executive of  Norte Grande SA (NORTEG)  and Ponce adviser
Roberto Guzman -- will face sanctions if the breaches are
verified, the regulator said.  The accusations come as Ponce prepares to seek approval for
two of the holding companies to sell new shares at meetings
scheduled for  Sept. 27 . The capital increase is part of an
effort to satisfy holders of debt secured by SQM shares that
plunged last month on prospects of a potash price slump. The SVS
charges risk impeding the restructuring plan Ponce needs to
shore up $1.5 billion of debt, according to Moneda Asset
Management, a minority shareholder fighting the plan.  “We envisage that this will block the shareholder
meetings,” Pedro Pablo Gutierrez, a Moneda director, said by
telephone yesterday. “These are very serious infringements.”  Motta wasn’t available to comment on the accusations, an
assistant said by phone. Ponce declined to comment through an
assistant, who asked not to be named citing internal policy.  Yearlong Probe  After a yearlong probe, the SVS identified a succession of
trades carried out from 2009 to 2011 between the holding
companies and Ponce’s closely held SQ Inversiones SA, the
regulator said in yesterday’s statement. The companies made $6.4
billion of trades among themselves in that span, Moneda wrote in
an Aug. 2 letter to the regulator.  On March 29, 2011, Soc. de  Inversiones Oro (OROB)  Blanco SA sold
163 million Soc. de Inversiones  Pampa Calichera (CALICH)  SA shares at 726
pesos, 10 percent below the previous day’s price, to Norte
Grande and SQ Inversiones. On Nov. 7 of the same year,  Potasios
de Chile SA (POTASIOA)  bought 151 million shares in Calichera for 1064.53
pesos while SQ Inversiones sold 137 million at 1065 pesos.  Companies related to Ponce and Guzman sold shares at
“significantly higher prices” than market value to the
detriment of the holding companies that bought them, the SVS
said. The trades weren’t in the interest of the holding
companies, it said.  SQM, the region’s biggest potash producer and one of the
world’s biggest makers of iodine and lithium, rose 2.2 percent
to 16,205 pesos in Santiago yesterday.  Share Sales  Since 2007, Ponce has tripled consolidated debt at Norte
Grande, the company through which he controls 32 percent of SQM.
Most of the bank loans and bonds were guaranteed using shares in
SQM, which has slumped 41 percent this year as suppliers that
controlled almost half of the world’s potash exports suspended
their marketing venture.  Norte Grande will call a shareholder vote to sell $177
million in new shares, while Oro Blanco plans to sell $290
million, according to separate filings sent Aug. 29.  Ponce wrote in a letter to the securities regulator on Aug.
2 that the drop in SQM shares “has left Norte Grande and its
affiliates in a delicate financial and credit situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  