-- Pound Climbs to 7-Month High Versus Dollar as Unemployment Falls
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-09-11T15:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/pound-little-changed-versus-dollar-before-u-k-unemployment-data.html
The pound strengthened to a seven-month high against the dollar after a government report showed
unemployment unexpectedly declined, adding to signs the U.K.
economy is gaining momentum.  Sterling climbed to the strongest since January versus the
euro as the jobless rate moved toward the 7 percent threshold at
which the  Bank of England  said it will reassess it policy of
keeping interest rates low. Central bank Governor  Mark Carney 
along with fellow policy makers  Paul Fisher ,  David Miles  and  Ian McCafferty  will testify to parliament tomorrow. U.K. government
bonds were little changed after benchmark 10-year yields climbed
to the highest level in two years.  “The pound is likely to maintain its recent momentum in
the near term,” said Peter Kinsella, a senior currency
strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “It will probably take
another two years before the unemployment rate drops to the 7
percent target. Still, a decline in jobless claims will no doubt
help in terms of sentiment.”  The pound advanced 0.5 percent to $1.5811 at 4:42 p.m.
London time after rising to $1.5827, the highest since Feb. 8.
The U.K. currency rose 0.2 percent to 84.16 pence per euro after
appreciating to 83.83 pence, the strongest since Jan. 23.  Sterling has strengthened 7.6 percent in the past six
months, the best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
gained 0.9 percent and the euro advanced 3.1 percent.  Jobless Rate  The U.K.  unemployment rate  as measured by International
Labour Organization methods dropped to 7.7 percent in the three
months through July from 7.8 percent in the second quarter, the
 Office for National Statistics  said in London. The median
forecast of economists was for 7.8 percent. In August,  jobless
claims  fell 32,600, more than analysts had forecast.  The improving data may not bring an interest-rate increase
forward, according to  Capital Economics  Ltd.  “Although employment rose strongly, more timely evidence
from the recent activity surveys suggests that firms are
responding to higher demand more by boosting productivity than
taking on new workers,” said Martin Beck, a U.K. economist at
Capital Economics in London. “We doubt today’s news
significantly increases the chances of  interest rates  rising
sooner rather than later.”  The 10-year gilt yield was at 3.02 percent after rising to
3.05 percent, the highest since July 2011. The price of the 2.25
percent bond maturing in September 2023 was 93.44. The two-year
yield declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
0.52 percent.  Carney’s Testimony  Bank of England officials introduced guidance on the path
of interest rates last month and said they won’t raise borrowing
costs until unemployment falls to 7 percent. While they don’t
see that happening until late 2016, signs of strength in the
economy have prompted investors to bet on an earlier increase.  The gilt reaction today “may also have been damped by the
proximity of Carney’s testimony to the Treasury Committee
tomorrow,” wrote Jamie Searle, a fixed-income strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “Carney is likely to be quizzed on
guidance and perhaps what the MPC intends to do if the market
continues to ignore” it, he said, referring to the central
bank’s Monetary Policy Committee.  Gilts lost 5.1 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bunds dropped
3 percent and  U.S. Treasuries  fell 4.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  