-- Princeton Politics Were Tougher Than Wilson’s Election
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2013-09-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/princeton-politics-were-tougher-than-wilson-s-election.html
The day after  Woodrow Wilson  won
the 1912 presidential election, he was visited by William
McCombs, chairman of his campaign committee.  “Before we proceed,” Wilson told him, “I wish it clearly
understood that I owe you nothing. God ordained that I should be
the next president of the  United States . Neither you nor any
other mortal could have prevented that.”  No other statement says as much about the man now reclaimed
from obscurity by A. Scott Berg, biographer of  Charles
Lindbergh ,  Samuel Goldwyn  and editor  Max Perkins , in “ Wilson .”  Son of a Presbyterian minister, Wilson was an ardent
Christian. Berg sets the tone with chapter titles like
“Ascension” “Baptism” and “Ecclesiastes,” beginning each
with a biblical quotation.  Of the great presidents -- historians usually rank him in
the top 10, though Berg doesn’t really make the case -- Wilson
is perhaps the most obscure.  Well-informed people know he was president during the First
World War and that he championed the League of Nations, an early
United Nations prototype.  Those with a taste for television documentaries may know he
wore himself out trying to sell the League to the American
people after it had been torpedoed in the  U.S. Senate , and that
his wife ran the country while he recovered from a stroke, “the
greatest conspiracy that had ever engulfed the White House,” as
Berg puts it.  Funny Glasses  Otherwise, Wilson is forgotten. Like his rival  Theodore Roosevelt , he wore pince-nez glasses. He favored tall silk hats.
Didn’t he have something to do with  Princeton ?  Berg shows there was a lot more to the man than this scant
evidence and his own austere, schoolmasterly mien suggests. In
1902, at age 45, he attained what was probably his dream job as
president of  Princeton University . There he would have stayed
had the university faculty and trustees gone along with his plan
to de-emphasize the school’s elitist “eating clubs” in favor
of residential quadrangles.  The fight was as bitter as the stakes were small. When New
Jersey Democratic bosses knocked on his door in 1910 and offered
him the governorship and an inside track to the presidency in
1912, he was receptive. As he later said as governor, “After
dealing with college politicians, I find that the men with whom
I am dealing now seem like amateurs.”  46 Ballots  Thus began an unlikely ascendance. After less than two
years of public service, he took the Democratic nomination on
the 46th ballot (those were the days when conventions really
meant something), and went on to face Republican incumbent
 William Howard Taft  and Theodore Roosevelt, running on the Bull
Moose ticket.  Perhaps it was his Progressive agenda, which he said
favored the man on the make rather than the man who had already
made it. Perhaps it was his oratory, which tended to “sneak
up” on people, as Berg says. Maybe he really was charismatic,
as the author avers. Wilson won all but eight states in the
Electoral College.  Wilson wasn’t the first Democratic president since
Reconstruction; it just seemed that way. Born in  Virginia , he
was a son of the South, and his cabinet was full of men with
“Confederate biases,” according to Berg. They
institutionalized segregation in the federal government. Wilson,
who treated individuals with decency and dignity, was
“indubitably racist,” Berg writes.  Sedition Act  He “kept us out of war,” as the saying went, yet when he
did ask the country to go to war, his administration proved
repressive in the extreme, embracing a Sedition Act that kept a
lid on the press. Berg deals with actual American participation
in the war in only a couple of pages; and surely I am the only
reader who wished he had spent more time on the creation of the
 Federal Reserve .  Berg spends probably a third of the book on Wilson’s waging
of the peace, a depressing story for anyone at all interested in
foreign affairs and the world stage. Is any nation good at this?
The Treaty of Versailles was a botch and led directly to the
Second World War. The record since then is little better.  The Wilson that emerges in “Wilson” isn’t the most
pleasant of characters. He was rigid, arrogant, brooked no
disagreement. He was “a good hater,” and stopped talking to
three once-bosom friends.  There’s a surprising nugget here, as there often is with
Berg biographies: Wilson may have suffered from dementia from
about 1919 on. Or he may just have enjoyed rearranging furniture
during the Paris peace talks and reciting limericks. Even at
800-plus pages, at the end I was sorry to see Wilson go.  “Wilson” is published by Putnam (818 pages, $40). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Joe Mysak  is editor of Bloomberg Brief’s Municipal Market,
and author of “The Encyclopedia of Municipal Bonds.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in  New York  at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 