-- Promontory Financial Hires Top Official From U.S. Banking Agency
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-11T21:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/promontory-financial-hires-top-official-from-u-s-banking-agency.html
Promontory Financial Group LLC
hired Mark Levonian, formally the top economist at the U.S.
agency that regulates national banks, as the firm’s global head
for enterprise economics and risk analysis.  In his new position, Levonian, who started work at the
Washington-based consulting firm this week, will help banks with
capital rules and stress testing -- the same topics he focused
on while working for the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency. Promontory has counted big banks such as  Bank of
America Corp. ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  among its
clients.  “Promontory’s clients and the entire banking industry are
doing a lot of work these days involving quantitative analysis,
particularly in areas like stress testing and model
validation,” Levonian said today in an interview. “We know the
banks are using models more. We want them to use them well.”  Promontory, founded by former OCC head Eugene Ludwig,
employs many former agency officials, including Julie Williams,
once the agency’s top lawyer, and Wayne Rushton, former senior
deputy comptroller and chief national bank examiner. The OCC’s
current chief counsel, Amy Friend, also worked there, and
Promontory hired former Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  after she stepped down last year.  “I’ve leaned on Mark and his department for counsel and
support in a number of areas, including our work on stress
testing and the new capital rule,” Comptroller of the Currency
 Thomas Curry  said in an internal staff memo on his departure.  Levonian, a former vice president for banking supervision
and regulation at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco,
worked at the OCC for nine years. Levonian was replaced as OCC
senior deputy comptroller for economics on an acting basis by
David Nebhut, deputy comptroller for economic and policy
analysis.  Promontory has done work this year for Bloomberg LP, parent
of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 