-- Puerto Rico ‘Herd Mentality’ Hurts All Island Bonds, Amodeo Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-11T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/puerto-rico-herd-mentality-hurts-all-island-bonds-amodeo-says.html
Not all municipal bonds from  Puerto
Rico  are created equal, yet investors spooked by reports about
the commonwealth’s fiscal health are treating them similarly,
said Robert Amodeo, head of Western Asset Management Co.’s
municipal group in New York.  Amodeo, whose company oversees about $30 billion in state
and local debt, said he mainly invests in Puerto Rico  sales-tax 
 bonds , known as Cofinas, some of which Moody’s Investors Service
rates Aa3, the fourth-best grade.  He also discussed why there will always be a “next
Detroit” for today’s Bloomberg Brief: Municipal Market
newsletter.  Q: Is Detroit’s bankruptcy an outlier or a sign of things
to come?  A: Detroit’s problems are common -- a mismatch between
expenses and revenue that has come to the point where they’ve
filed for bankruptcy. The pension benefits and other post-employment benefits are sizeable. What differentiates Detroit is
the size of the problem.  Q: Western Asset Management is a division of  Legg Mason
Inc. (LM) , which has been identified as one of the biggest holders of
Detroit obligations. What repayment scenarios do you envision?  A: The G.O. debt and the pension-obligation certificates we
believe are more vulnerable to haircuts. The water and sewer
bonds have a revenue pledge and we stand first in line behind
operating expenses.  If the respective monoline insurer has the ability to pay,
you should receive full coupon and principal when due.  Q: What is your strategy for Puerto Rico debt, given the
selloff?  A: Like any battered region, there are different names. We
have virtually no G.O. debt. Our exposure is really to the
sales-tax revenue, which is coming in stronger. It’s one of the
few bright spots coming out of that island.  Right now there’s this herd mentality where everything is
getting beaten down just because it has the name  Detroit  in it
or Puerto Rico in it. But if you dive down to the fundamentals
and the lien status, you can find good value in those regions if
you feel comfortable with the volatility that may come with it.  Q: What do you like about the Cofina bonds?  A: They are rated well into investment-grade territory,
which differentiates them from the other credits in Puerto Rico.
We’re looking at the fundamentals, we’re looking at the gross
lien pledge and we’re looking at valuations and our conclusion
is that there’s good value.  Prior to two years ago, if you visited Puerto Rico and paid
a dollar of sales tax, less than 50 cents would find its way to
the territory’s tax coffers. Their collection process has
improved greatly.  Q: Is it fair to compare issuers such as Puerto Rico and
 Chicago , which are facing fiscal stress, with Detroit?  A: There will always be a next Detroit. It comes down to
good policy versus bad policy and maintaining a well-diversified
economy. If you don’t have that and you’re not building upon
that, you’re going to fall into financial disrepair.  We look at the  poverty rate , median  household income ,
population change, crime rate,  unemployment rate  and then the
housing market.  People now recognize that municipal credits can be
complicated and you have to be able to really look at the credit
and understand where the revenue comes from and where you stand
in case things go bad.  Q: Did investors fail to consider the risk that general-obligation bonds might not get top priority in the case of a
default or bankruptcy like Detroit?  A: People didn’t attach the proper spread to general-obligation debt. They did overlook that there are all types of
G.O. and G.O.-related debt out there: Unlimited, limited,
certificates of participation, lease obligations, appropriation
debt. People believed in prior years that they had the full
faith and taxing authority. The issue with Detroit is: What if
they don’t have flexibility to raise taxes? That’s the new
wrinkle here.  I don’t want to be an alarmist because there are some very
good G.O. issuers out there. The stress in the market is in the
lower-quality, smaller names that may struggle.  Q: Muni bonds are experiencing the worst losses since 1999,
driven by persistent withdrawals from mutual funds. Is the
market behaving like it usually does -- outflows lead to sales
which lead to price declines which lead to more outflows which
lead to more sales -- or is this time different?  A: The negative demand cycle seems to feed on itself at
times. Selling drives additional selling, and then valuations
get to a point where these bonds are too cheap. And you can make
the case that we’re at that point.  These large outflows can be viewed as an exit strategy of a
great majority of the money that found its way seeking yield
during the low interest-rate cycle in the past couple of years.  Q: What will cause the fund withdrawals to reverse?  A: An improving fundamental landscape combined with cheap
 valuations . These high-profile credit stresses are overshadowing
this market. There’s a broad improvement in the fundamental
strengths within the public-finance arena.  The selloff has been severe, and more severe in municipal
bonds than some other parts of the fixed income marketplace, but
it has unlocked some good value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  