-- Putin May Resume Missile Sales to Iran at Summit With Rohani
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-09-11T12:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/putin-may-resume-missile-sales-to-iran-at-summit-with-rohani.html
President  Vladimir Putin  may agree
to resume Russian missile sales to  Iran  this week when he meets
his counterpart Hassan Rohani for the first time, after heading
off a U.S. attack against their common ally  Syria .  Putin and Rohani, elected in June, will discuss a range of
issues at their Sept. 13 meeting in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan,
including possible deliveries of S-300 surface-to-air defense
systems and Russia’s plan to put Syria’s chemical arsenal under
international control, according to Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s
spokesman.  Putin has agreed in principle to resume missile sales to
Iran and to start work on a second nuclear reactor at Bushehr,
the country’s only atomic plant, the Kommersant newspaper
reported today, citing an unidentified person close to the
Kremlin. Peskov declined the comment on the likelihood of the
two leaders reaching a missile agreement at their meeting.  “First of all, they will get to know each other,” Peskov
said by phone today. “Cooperation in the military sphere and
the situation in Syria will be on the agenda.”  Then-President Dmitry Medvedev in 2010 froze Russia’s S-300
contract with Iran to avoid international pressure after the
 United Nations  imposed sanctions against the Islamic republic.
Iran has sued Russia for breaching their contract because
defensive systems aren’t prohibited by the sanctions.  ‘War of Nerves’  There are disagreements among Russian officials about
arming Iran and Putin will have to make a decision after meeting
Rohani, said  Ruslan Pukhov , head of the Center for Analysis of
Strategies and Technologies in Moscow.  “It’s a war of nerves among senior Russian policy
makers,” said Pukhov, who is also a member of public advisory
board to the  Defense Ministry . “The final political decision
will largely depend on the meeting in Bishkek.”  President  Barack Obama  yesterday postponed a decision on
military action against Iran’s neighbor Syria after Putin
proposed to neutralize the counry’s chemical stockpile. Putin
rejects U.S. claims that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad was
behind an Aug. 21 chemical attack that killed more than 1,400
people near Damascus. Assad, backed by Russia and Iran, is
holding on to power amid a 2 1/2-year civil war that has killed
more than 100,000 people.  “We are looking at the new leadership with hopes to deepen
our cooperation with Tehran,” Deputy Prime Minister  Dmitry Rogozin , who oversees the defense industry, told reporters Aug.
30. S-300 shipments will “only be possible if lawsuits against
Russia are denounced,” Rogozin said then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  