-- Quest Diagnostics Sued for Defrauding Virginia Medicaid
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-09-11T15:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/quest-diagnostics-sued-for-defrauding-virginia-medicaid.html
Quest Diagnostics Inc., the biggest
U.S. operator of medical labs, and Laboratory Corp. of America
Holdings defrauded  Virginia ’s Medicaid program by billing it at
higher rates than other customers, according to a 2007 state
whistle-blower lawsuit unsealed last month and filed this week
in federal court.  The companies “made false claims for payment of Medicaid-covered laboratory tests by falsely representing that the fees
being charged were no greater than the maximum fees payable
pursuant to Virginia regulations,” according to the complaint
filed by Hunter Laboratories LLC, of Campbell,  California , and
its chief executive officer, Chris Riedel.  Under Virginia law, the companies were “required to
provide their services to Medicaid patients at the same rates
billed to others,” Hunter said in the complaint in federal
court in Alexandria. LabCorp’s fees for Medicaid were “far in
excess” of those charged to members of the  Premier Inc. (PINC) 
purchasing collective, Hunter said.  Quest, based in Madison,  New Jersey , billed Medicaid as
much as $10.42 for an automated hemogram, a common blood test
that it charged others as little $1.42, according to the suit.  “We believe these allegations lack merit and our testing
services are priced appropriately,” Wendy Bost, a spokeswoman
for Quest, said in an e-mailed statement. “We comply with the
laws and regulations governing our business, including Medicaid
pricing requirements, not only as a legal obligation, but also
because it is the right thing to do.”  Phone and e-mail messages seeking comment from LabCorp
weren’t immediately returned.  Medicaid Fraud  Hunter and Riedel also are suing Quest and LabCorp for
Medicaid fraud in  Georgia , according to court records. Hunter is
a competitor of the two companies.  The Virginia complaint seeks civil penalties of $11,000 for
each false claim and does’t specify the number of violations.  A similar case brought by Hunter and Riedel accusing Quest
of overcharging Medi-Cal, the Medicaid program in the state of
California, was settled in 2011 for $241 million.  At the time, the settlement was the largest recovery under
the California False Claims Act, according to a press  release  by
California Attorney General  Kamala Harris .  The Virginia case was filed in December 2007 in state court
under the Virginia Fraud Against Taxpayers Act. Hunter and
Riedel also are acting on behalf of the state under the terms of
the law.  Case Unsealed  It was unsealed in August, according to Mark Friedlander
Jr., a McLean, Virginia-based attorney for Hunter.  Friedlander referred further questions on the case to
another attorney for Hunter, Niall McCarthy, of Burlingame,
California. McCarthy didn’t immediately respond to a phone
message requesting comment.  The case was moved to federal court in Alexandria by Quest
because the parties are from different states and the complaint
raises questions of federal law, according to a Quest filing.  The case is Hunter Laboratories LLC v.  Quest Diagnostics
Inc. (DGX) , 13-cv-01129, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  