-- Quick Deal Sought for EU Nations on Joint Bank Resolution
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-09-11T16:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/quick-deal-sought-for-eu-nations-on-joint-bank-resolution.html
European Union nations must move
swiftly to reach a deal on a joint policy for handling failing
banks to avoid a “disappointing delay” in creating a banking
union, Lithuanian Finance Minister Rimantas Sadzius said.  Sadzius, who hosts a two-day meeting of EU finance chiefs
that begins in Vilnius on Friday, said the bloc’s 28 nations
need to agree on a “general approach” by year-end so that
negotiations with the European Parliament can begin soon enough
to get a deal before 2014 European elections. He commented in a
Sept. 10 letter to finance ministers.  Lithuania  holds the EU’s
rotating presidency.  “On account of legislative procedures that in some cases
might not be accelerated, I am concerned that the failure to
reach an agreement by the aforementioned date would result in a
disappointing delay in creation of the banking union,” Sadzius
wrote in the letter, which was obtained by  Bloomberg News . In a
separate “issues note” prepared for the meeting, Lithuania
pushed for a mandate from EU states to start talks with the
European Parliament by December.  EU nations are in the midst of an ambitious push toward
financial integration that began with a June 2012 commitment to
pursue banking union as a way out of the euro area’s sovereign
debt crisis. European Central Bank oversight for banks in the
17-nation  euro zone  has been agreed on, and debate now focuses
on who will fill capital shortfalls and take on troubled assets
found during a one-year transition period to the new system.  ECB Oversight  Sadzius said nations need to debate whether the proposed
Single Resolution Mechanism should include all or only some of
the euro-area banks that will be under ECB supervision. Nations
also should debate whether the resolution plan needs a common
fund as proposed by the European Commission, he said.  “Some  member states  are concerned that centralization of
the fund is not the best approach, given the current financial
situation in the European Union,” Sadzius said.  Germany  has argued that joint resolution would violate EU
treaties. Sadzius urged nations to leave such considerations to
the bloc’s lawyers, who are already working on a legal opinion
of the plan.  The forthcoming analysis should be “sufficient” to
address all concerns, Sadzius said. “With this in mind, I would
invite you to focus on other substantive issues in the proposal
and not necessarily on the legal aspects,” he said.  For example, current plans call for the Single Resolution
Mechanism to come into force in 2015. This compares with a
proposed 2018 start date for new standards on how nations should
impose losses on bank creditors when propping up or shutting
down a failing lender, as part of pending legislation on common
national standards for bank resolution.  The European Parliament wants the forced-loss regime to
start in 2016. Sadzius said nations should consider whether to
align the dates for when the joint resolution system and the
national standards take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Vilnius at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  