-- Trapattoni Leaves as Ireland Soccer Manager After Five Years
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-09-11T12:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/trapattoni-leaves-as-ireland-soccer-manager-after-five-years.html
Giovanni Trapattoni left as manager
of Ireland’s national soccer team after a second straight defeat
all but ended the squad’s hope of reaching the  World Cup  finals.  The departure of Trapattoni, 74, was “amicable,” John Delaney, head of the Football Association of Ireland, said in an
interview with Newstalk radio in Ireland. His departure was “by
mutual consent,” the  FAI said .  Though Trappatoni led Ireland to the 2012 European
Championship, the team lost all three games in the tournament.
Ireland lost yesterday to Austria in Vienna in a World Cup
qualification game, following a home defeat last week against
 Sweden .  Ireland is fourth in its qualifying group, where the top
team automatically earns a place at the World Cup and the
second-place team enters a playoff, with two matches remaining.
The campaign to reach next year’s tournament in Brazil was
“disappointing,” the FAI said.  Northern Ireland’s  Martin O’Neill , former manager of
Sunderland and Aston Villa in England, is the favorite to
succeed Trapattoni, according to Dublin-based bookmaker  Paddy
Power (PWL)  Plc.  O’Neill’s odds are 4-5, meaning a successful $5 wager would
bring $4 plus the original stake. Former Ireland manager Mick McCarthy is second favorite, at 8-1, followed by Brian
McDermott, manager of Leeds in England, at 10-1 and Roy Keane,
former Ireland player, at 14-1.  Trapattoni took over Ireland’s national soccer team in
2008, after Irish billionaire  Denis O’Brien  agreed to partially
finance his salary.  Coaching History  Twice a European Cup winner as an AC Milan player,
Trapattoni won 14 trophies during two spells at Juventus.  He brought the European Cup to Juventus in 1985, two years
after losing in the final, and led it to six Serie A successes.
He also won the UEFA Cup twice and the now-defunct Cup Winners’
Cup with the Turin-based club, among other trophies.  In between, he spent five years at  Inter Milan  where he
achieved his other Serie A title in 1989, followed by a UEFA Cup
win two years later.  Further league titles were achieved outside of Italy with
 Bayern Munich , Benfica and Salzburg, while he has also had
spells at Cagliari, Fiorentina and Stuttgart.  His assistant, Marco Tardelli, has also left his job, the
FAI said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  