-- RBNZ Signals 2014 Interest Rate Rise as Inflation Picks Up
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-09-12T03:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/rbnz-signals-2014-interest-rate-increase-as-inflation-picks-up.html
New Zealand ’s central bank said
interest rate increases “will likely be required next year” as
the economy strengthens and inflation picks up. The kiwi rose.  “With the inflation pressures that have the potential to
build up, given the capacity constraints in the economy, we will
need to raise interest rates,”  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand
Governor Graeme Wheeler said in Wellington today after leaving
the official cash rate at 2.5 percent, a record low. “Exactly
when that will start to trigger will be determined by many
factors. At this point we don’t expect that to start this
year.”  New Zealand may become one of the first developed nations
to begin raising  borrowing costs  as an overheated housing market
and accelerating economic growth start to stoke price pressures.
Until then, Wheeler is betting new limits on riskier mortgages
will curb demand for property and give him scope to leave rates
unchanged for as long as possible to avoid fueling demand for
the  New Zealand dollar .  “They have more belief that the rates are going to be
lifting next year,” said Doug Steel, economist at Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “The forward leading indicators for
the economy are going from strength to strength and it’s those
indicators that say tighter monetary conditions are likely to be
required.”  High Kiwi  New Zealand’s currency advanced to a three week high,
before paring its gains. It rose 0.5 percent to 81.20 U.S. cents
at 3 p.m. in Wellington. It has gained 1.6 percent the past
three months, the best performer among the 10 major developed
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The overvalued currency is a problem and we would
certainly, as a central bank, like to see a weaker currency,”
Wheeler told a parliamentary committee after the rate decision
was announced. The exchange rate’s gains are hurting industries
such as manufacturing and tourism, he said.  The central bank today forecast that the three-month bank
bill yield will be 3 percent in the second quarter next year, up
from an estimated 2.6 percent in the current quarter. The
outlook, which is seen as a guide to the direction of the cash
rate, suggests an increase in the benchmark in the first half of
2014. The previous projection published in June implied a rate
rise in the second half.  Loan Curbs  The bank bill forecasts are about 50 basis points higher
than in June, reflecting stronger immigration and commodity
price rises, and recent currency declines, the RBNZ said.
Restrictions on low-deposit home loans, which take effect next
month, reduced the bill yield forecast by about 30 basis points,
it said.  The RBNZ will limit low-deposit lending from Oct. 1. Loans
for more than 80 percent of a property’s value must account for
no more than 10 percent of a bank’s new lending, down from about
30 percent currently.  Wheeler has expressed concern that the banking system is
getting over-exposed to any sudden collapse in the housing
market. Prices rose 8.5 percent in August from a year earlier,
the fastest annual pace since January 2008, Quotable Value New
Zealand said this week.  The loan restrictions will slow annual house-price
inflation by as much as 4 percentage points over the next year,
the RBNZ said in its Monetary Policy Statement, also published
today. House-price inflation will peak at 11 percent in the
first quarter of 2014 before declining to 5 percent a year
later, it said.  Rate Odds  Thirteen of 15 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  last
week expected a rate rise by March 31. None expected an increase
today.  There is a 78 percent chance of a rate rise by March,
according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg at 3 p.m. in
Wellington, and an 85 percent of no change this year.  “The extent and timing of the rise in policy rates will
depend largely on the degree to which the momentum in the
housing market and construction sector spills over into broader
demand and inflation pressures,” Wheeler said.  The RBNZ raised its growth forecast for the year through
March 2014 to 3.2 percent from 3 percent, citing construction
and a boost to spending from rising house  prices. (QVNZTOTY)  Growth will
peak at about 3.5 percent in mid-2014 and slow to 2.3 percent by
March 2015, it said.  Rising Inflation  It maintained its inflation forecast for 2014 at 1.9
percent. Inflation isn’t projected to reach the midpoint of the
1 percent to 3 percent range that Wheeler targets until the
second quarter of 2015. Consumer prices rose 0.7 percent in the
year ended June 30.  “Inflation is expected to rise toward the midpoint of the
target band as growth strengthens over the coming year,”
Wheeler said. “Consumption is rising and reconstruction in
Canterbury will be reinforced by a broader national recovery in
construction activity, particularly in Auckland.”  New Zealand is being buoyed by an estimated NZ$40 billion
($32 billion) rebuild of the South Island city of Christchurch
following a series of earthquakes in 2010-11 that damaged roads,
homes and commercial property. A lunchtime quake in February
2011 killed 185 people when some central city buildings
collapsed.  The central bank has left the cash rate unchanged since
March 2011 to allow the economy to recover from the earthquakes
and to revive confidence after  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
curbed global demand. Exporters have also been buffeted by near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and Europe, which helped boost
the New Zealand dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  