-- Treasuries Pare Advance Before Auction as Verizon Sells Bonds
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-09-11T16:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/treasuries-rise-on-bets-jobless-claims-to-damp-fed-stimulus-cut.html
Treasuries pared gains as the U.S.
prepares to auction $21 billion in 10-year notes and Verizon
Communications Inc. sold a record $49 billion in corporate
securities.  Government-bond prices rose earlier as traders speculated
that the unprecedented Verizon sale would lead to the unwinding
of hedges used to guard against higher yields. The benchmark
Treasuries being sold today yielded 2.955 percent in pre-auction
trading, which would be the highest level since June 2011.
Federal Reserve officials will meet Sept. 17-18 to discuss
whether to slow $85 billion in monthly debt purchases.  “There’s a lot of supply to bid on here,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in  New
York , one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “Next
Wednesday, the Fed may be changing policy. I’m not sure people
are comfortable jumping in here ahead of a huge policy decision.
More people are willing to see how it all plays out.”  The U.S.  10-year yield  was little changed at 2.96 percent
at 12:43 p.m. in New York after earlier dropping four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.92 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield climbed to 3.01 percent
on Sept. 6, the highest level since July 2011.  As companies sell debt, they enter into so-called rate lock
agreements, in which they bet on Treasury prices falling to
guard against higher yields. Once the debt is sold, the wagers
are ended.  Verizon Bonds  Verizon, the second-biggest U.S. telephone carrier, sold
$49 billion of bonds in an eight-part offering, the biggest
company debt sale ever, according to a person with knowledge of
the issue, who requested anonymity because terms aren’t set.  The fixed-rate debt carries maturities ranging from three
to 30 years as well as two portions of floating-rate securities,
said the person. The deal will help fund Verizon’s buyout of
Vodafone Group Plc’s stake in  Verizon Wireless , the largest and
most profitable U.S. wireless carrier.  Treasuries have lost 1.7 percent since the end of June,
headed for a fourth quarterly decline, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Today’s 10-year debt auction is the second of three sales
of $65 billion of U.S. notes and bonds this week. The benchmark
securities drew a yield of 2.62 percent at the previous auction
of the maturity on Aug. 7. Investors bid for 2.45 times the
amount of available debt, the lowest  bid-to-cover ratio  since
March 2009.  ‘More Attractive’  “Given the backup in yields, Treasuries are more
attractive in yields than they have been for some time,” said
 Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist in New York at broker-dealer BTIG LLC.  Treasuries snapped a decline that had pushed 10-year yields
above 3 percent on Sept. 6 after a report showing the U.S. added
fewer-than-forecast workers in August fueled bets the Fed will
slow stimulus less aggressively than previously anticipated. The
169,000 addition in jobs compared with the median forecast of
180,000 in a Bloomberg News survey and followed a revised
104,000 increase in July that was 58,000 jobs lower than
initially estimated.  Newton Investment Management is paring short positions in
Treasuries, betting a likely announcement by the Fed next week
of a reduction to its asset purchases will spur a short-term
rally in the securities. Short positions are wagers an asset
will decrease in value.  Newton is reducing some shorts versus benchmarks and in
absolute terms in 10-year and 30-year Treasuries as tactical
moves, said Paul Brain, head of fixed income, in an interview.  Yields may rise above 3 percent, although not dramatically,
as the U.S. economic recovery is still fragile and higher rates
pose risks to the housing market, Brain said, adding that yields
may drop toward 2.5 percent before year end.  ‘Big Mistake’  Jeffrey Gundlach , manager of the $36 billion DoubleLine
Total Return Bond Fund, said the Fed is making a “big mistake”
in the way it ends its unprecedented asset-purchase program.  “We thought the Fed wouldn’t walk away from QE,” or
quantitative-easing, and would buy securities until targeted
yields were reached, Gundlach said yesterday during a webcast
for DoubleLine Capital LP’s investors. Instead, the central bank
is opting for a “seat of the pants” way of handling policy,
said the manager, whose firm is based in  Los Angeles .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues will decide
to reduce Treasury bond purchases to  $35 billion  from $45
billion at next week’s meeting while maintaining mortgage-bond
buying at  $40 billion , according to the median of 34 responses
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists on Sept. 6.  The Fed bought $1.5 billion of Treasuries today due from
February 2038 to February 2043 as part of the stimulus program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  