-- Treasury Yields Are Near Two-Year High as Safety Demand Recedes
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-09-11T05:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/treasury-yields-are-near-two-year-high-as-safety-demand-recedes.html
Treasury 10-year yields were four
basis points from a two-year high after U.S. President  Barack
Obama  called for a pause in authorizing a military strike
against  Syria , easing demand for safer assets.  A term-premium model signals 10-year bonds are near the
cheapest since May 2011 before the government auctions $21
billion of the securities today. Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York  President William C. Dudley will speak tomorrow amid
speculation the central bank will decide at its meeting next
week to slow its $85 billion monthly debt purchases.  “There are quite a few investors who have to dump their
positions because selling is leading to more selling,” said
Akira Takei, the head of the international fixed-income
department in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which
manages the equivalent of $37 billion. “Treasuries have become
substantially cheaper relative to other bonds.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year  note  was little changed
at 2.97 percent as of 6:51 a.m. in  London  after climbing five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, yesterday. It touched
3.01 percent on Sept. 6, the highest since July 2011. The price
of the 2.5 percent note due in August 2023 was 96, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  Japan ’s benchmark 10-year note yield added half a basis
point to 0.74 percent in Tokyo. It fell to as low as 0.705
percent on Aug. 30, a level unseen since May 10.  Obama said he’d asked Congress to delay a vote authorizing
the use of military force against Syria while the administration
pursues a proposal that would have the Middle Eastern country
surrender its chemical arms.  Syria Situation  The U.S. will work in consultation with Russia and  China  at
the United Nations Security Council to get rid of Syria’s
chemical weapons and to “ultimately destroy them under
international control,” the Obama said from the White House in
a televised speech.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues will
probably decide at their Sept. 17-18 meeting to reduce monthly
purchases of Treasuries to  $35 billion  from $45 billion while
maintaining mortgage-bond buying at  $40 billion , according to
the median of 34 responses in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Bill Gross , the manager of the world’s biggest bond mutual
fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said “forward
guidance is the Fed new policy,” stabilizing for shorter-term
yields, according to his post on Twitter.  The 10-year  term premium , which reflects expectations of
interest rates, economic growth and inflation, was at 0.58
percent today. It reached 0.63 percent on Sept. 5, the most
since May 2011.  Bond Returns  U.S. government bonds have lost 1.7 percent since the end
of June, set for a fourth consecutive quarterly decline,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. That would
be the longest losing streak on record dating back to 1978. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares has  returned  5.3
percent this quarter, including dividends reinvested into the
gauge.  DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  said the Fed is
making a “big mistake” in the way it’s ending its asset-purchase program.  “We thought the Fed wouldn’t walk away from QE,” or
quantitative easing, and would buy securities until targeted
yields were reached like in Japan and Europe, Gundlach said
during a webcast for investors. Instead, the central bank is
opting for a “seat of the pants” way of handling policy, said
the manager, whose firm is based in Los Angeles.  U.S. Inflation  Labor Department data due Sept. 13 will probably show
wholesale prices excluding food and fuel rose 1.3 percent in
August from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. It advanced 1.2 percent
in July, the smallest gain since November 2010.  The report will follow government figures released on Sept.
6 that showed payrolls in the U.S. climbed less than economists
had estimated last month.  “There’s little justification for higher yields from the
perspective of U.S. inflation,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a senior
strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co.,
which oversees the equivalent of more than $70 billion. “The
U.S. economy is in a so-so state, but it’s not strong enough to
spur a large-scale rise in wages, pushing up inflation.”  Previous Auction  The 10-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 2.98
percent in pre-auction trading, rising from 2.62 percent at the
previous sale of the securities on Aug. 7. Investors bid for
2.45 times the amount of available debt last month, the lowest
 bid-to-cover ratio  since March 2009.  Indirect bidders, which include foreign central banks,
purchased 46 percent of the securities, compared with the
average of 37 percent for the previous 10 auctions. Direct
bidders, non-primary dealers buying for their own accounts,
purchased 15 percent of the notes, versus the 10-sale average of
22 percent.  Treasury  trading volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, increased 43 percent to
$350 billion yesterday. The 2013 average is $315 billion.  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the  Bank of America
Merrill Lynch MOVE index  was 101.81 yesterday, the seventh
consecutive day above 100, the longest stretch since November
2011. The average of this year is 70.99.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  