-- Richmond, California, Advances Mortgage Reduction Plan
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-09-11T17:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/richmond-california-advances-mortgage-reduction-plan.html
Richmond, California, took a step
toward setting up a mortgage principal reduction program to help
homeowners with troubled loans, while leaving the door open to
using its eminent domain powers to acquire the debt.  The City Council refused to shelve a plan to seize
mortgages that exceed the value of their properties, which has
spurred lawsuits by U.S. banks including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  The
council agreed that any effort to acquire loans though eminent
domain -- the right of governments to take private property for
the public good -- would require their approval.  “Our residents have been badly harmed by this housing
crisis,” Mayor Gayle McLaughlin said. “The banks have been
unwilling or unable to fix this situation, so the city is
stepping in to provide a fix.”  Richmond, a refinery town of about 106,000 east of San
Francisco, is among U.S. cities considering the proposal
advocated by Steven Gluckstern’s Mortgage Resolution Partners
LLC to seize and refinance so-called underwater mortgages to
avert foreclosures.  San Francisco-based Mortgage Resolution Partners would
provide services and arrange for private investment funds that
would profit by buying the loans for less than property values.  ‘Only One’  While Mortgage Resolution Partners is shopping around the
plan to several communities, “right now, we are the only one”
to support it, City Manager William Lindsay told the council.
Lawmakers in North Las Vegas,  Nevada , last week rejected a
similar plan.  A federal judge in  San Francisco  will scrutinize the plan
tomorrow and hear arguments from lawyers representing
bondholders who sued the city through their bank trustees for a
court order to halt Richmond from moving ahead. Richmond and
Mortgage Resolution Partners oppose the request and will ask
U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer to dismiss the case on
grounds that it was filed too soon because the city council has
yet to vote on whether to acquire loans through eminent domain.  Breyer could decide tomorrow whether to grant an
injunction, or issue a ruling at a later date.  About 38 percent of Richmond homeowners with a mortgage, or
more than 7,000, are underwater, according to RealtyTrac Inc.,
an  Irvine , California-based data provider.  Nationwide , 23
percent of those with home loans owed at least 25 percent more
than their property is worth, RealtyTrac said Sept. 5.  Servicers, Trustees  Richmond sent letters in July to 32 servicers and trustees
with offers to buy 624 mortgages, saying it was “experiencing a
historic home mortgage crisis” that’s harming the community.  Council member Nathaniel Bates opposed the plan and offered
a proposal to withdraw the offers.  “We cannot fight with  Wall Street  and their big monies,”
he said. “Richmond may be a test case where the lending
institutions will take this thing to the furthest limit.”  Governments have long used eminent domain to take private
property for public uses, including highways, and for economic
development such as shopping malls, providing compensation to
the owner.  Mortgage-bond trustees Wells Fargo,  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  and
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  last month sued the city, saying
its plan violates constitutional protections against impairing
private contracts. Wells Fargo and Deutsche Bank represent
investors including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment
Management Co.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo “does not have the contractual authority to
sell the loans and is not aware of any other party having the
contractual authority to sell the loans or consider your
offer,” David Gorsche, the bank’s assistant general counsel,
wrote in an Aug. 13 response to the city’s offer to buy the
mortgages.  Richmond was a shipbuilding center during World War II.
Today,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is the largest employer, with 1,950
refinery workers, data from the city’s most recent financial
report show. The 17 percent poverty rate is higher than the
 California  average of 14 percent, and two-thirds of the
residents are black or Hispanic, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in Richmond, California at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  