-- Rolls-Royce Sees Type 26 Win Spurring More Navy Engine Contracts
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-11T12:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/rolls-royce-sees-type-26-win-spurring-more-navy-engine-contracts.html
Rolls-Royce (RR/)  Holdings Plc said its
contract to supply the MT30 engine for  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ’s Type 26
Global Combat Ship may lead to more naval orders.  Australia and  Japan  are among the countries where the
turbine, derived from the Trent 800 powering airliners, could
find customers, Don Roussinos, president of naval activities at
London-based Rolls-Royce, said in an interview today. “There
are plenty of opportunities for the engine,” he said, adding
that and the Type 26 to be supplied to the U.K. navy also has
export potential.  BAE Systems today named Rolls-Royce as provider of the
single engine for the Type 26, giving the powerplant maker its
fifth application for the turbine. The powerplant will also
power the U.K.’s new aircraft carrier, and has been selected for
DDG-1000 destroyers, the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  Littoral Combat
Ship for the U.S. navy, and some South Korean FFX frigates.  BAE Systems, prime contractor for the Type 26, today
announced the first major system suppliers for the 13-ship
program and named Tognum, a joint venture of Rolls-Royce and
 Daimler AG (DAI) , to provide diesel generators for the vessel.  About 70 more subsystem choices are currently under review,
with about half to be announced by year end and most decisions
to be made by mid-2014, Geoff Searle, BAE’s program director,
said at a briefing at the DSEI defense conference in  London .  Some selections, including the ship’s main gun, will be
made by the government. The 5 inch (12.7 centimeter) gun choice
should be made next year, he said.  The Type 26 will undergo its final system design review in
the coming weeks before detailed ship design starting early next
year, Searle said. Ship building will begin around 2016 with
precise plans still to be settled by the government.  BAE also named David Brown Gear Systems Ltd. to provide the
Type 26’s gear box, with Rohde & Schwarz working on the
integrated  communications system .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  