-- Russian Railways to Shelve $3 Billion of Bonds on Tariff Freeze
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2013-09-11T17:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/russian-railways-to-shelve-3-billion-of-bonds-on-tariff-freeze.html
OAO Russian Railways will probably
drop plans to sell 100 billion rubles ($3 billion) of
infrastructure bonds if the government freezes prices to fight
inflation, Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Yakunin  said.  The state rail monopoly may lose more than 70 billion
rubles of revenue in 2014 if regulated tariffs are held at this
year’s level, Yakunin said. That would compound the effect of a
slowing economy, cutting a total 91 billion to 93 billion rubles
from revenue, he said.  Russia’s government is seeking measures to jolt the economy
out of the worst economic slowdown since the 2009 recession.
Inflation has outpaced the central bank’s target of 5 percent to
6 percent for 12 months. Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  last
week ordered a study of the effect of a tariff freeze next year
on so-called natural monopolies, including Russian Railways, OAO
Gazprom and electricity network OAO Russian Grids.  The drop in revenue means Russian Railways won’t be able to
increase its debt level and service borrowings, Yakunin said.
The company also may fire 62,100 staff to cut costs, RIA Novosti
reported today, citing an unidentified person with knowledge of
the matter.  Without state subsidies, Russian Railways won’t be able to
finance its investments in full, Yakunin said. The spending
program may shrink 75 percent, he said. Russian Railways planned
to invest about 389 billion rubles next year, according to RIA
Novosti.  While holding down tariff growth would help contain
inflation, a moratorium may raise the risk that monopolies cut
investments sharply, hindering economic expansion,  Julia
Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP Paribas SA in Moscow, said
last week by phone. Tariff growth accounts for about one-third
of inflation and monetary factors contribute the rest, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  