-- Russia Will Probably Refrain From Interest-Rate Cut on Inflation
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-09-11T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/russia-will-probably-refrain-from-interest-rate-cut-on-inflation.html
Russia ’s central bank will probably
refrain from cutting its main  interest rates , leaving them
unchanged for a 12th as policy makers await a government
decision on regulated tariffs with inflation still above target.  Bank Rossii will keep the  refinancing rate  at 8.25 percent
at tomorrow’s meeting in Moscow, according to 14 of 22
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Eight forecast a cut to 8
percent. The main lending and deposit rates will also stay
unchanged, two separate surveys show.  Elvira Nabiullina, who became central bank chairman in
June, is opting against interest-rate cuts with inflation
exceeding policy makers’ goal for a year even as the economy
grows at its weakest pace since 2009. The  Economy Ministry ,
which is seeking ways to curb consumer-price growth and spur
expansion, has proposed freezing utilities costs next year.  “The key factors for the central bank are inflation and a
decision on tariff growth,” Vladimir Kolychev, head of research
at Societe Generale SA’s  Rosbank (ROSB)  unit in Moscow, said yesterday
by phone. “The central bank wants more clarity on the pace of
tariff growth next year before embarking on a rate-cutting
cycle.”  The three-month MosPrime rate, which large Moscow banks say
they charge one another, may drop 32 basis points, or 0.32
percentage point, in the next three months, forward-rate
agreements tracked by Bloomberg show. The ruble has gained 0.1
percent against the dollar in the last month, the fourth-best
performer among 24 emerging-market currencies Bloomberg tracks.  Easing Cycles  Eastern European central banks have begun ending or slowing
policy easing as the euro area’s recovery from recession buoys
the region’s growth. Hungary lowered borrowing costs by 20 basis
points on Aug. 27 following 12 months of quarter-point cuts,
while Poland held its main rate at 2.5 percent on Sept. 4 after
a nine-month cycle of reductions. Serbia kept its benchmark at
11 percent for a third month this week.  Russian  inflation  remained at 6.5 percent from a year
earlier in August, more than the 6.4 percent median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey. The central bank, which is targeting a rate
of 5 percent to 6 percent, may start “a gradual reduction” in
borrowing costs as price growth slows, Nabiullina said Sept. 3
in an interview with the state-run Itar-Tass news service.  While monetary-policy makers want to bring inflation next
year down to 4.5 percent, allowing a tolerance range of 1.5
percent either side, the goal requires government limits on
tariff increases, Nabiullina said in the interview.  Tariff Boost  The proposed freeze on regulated-price growth for natural
gas, power and rail monopolies next year, which state companies
such as OAO Russian Railways oppose, may help reduce the
inflation rate by 40 to 50 basis points, according to Economy
Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev , who was first deputy central bank
chairman before taking his position in June.  If tariffs are frozen, the ministry may increase its 2014
economic-growth forecast to 3 percent from 2.8 percent, he said
in a Sept. 9 interview with the Interfax news service.  Gross domestic product  will rise 1.8 percent this year, the
Economy Ministry said last month, trimming its April forecast
for a 2.4 percent advance. The economy grew 1.2 percent from a
year earlier in the second quarter, the worst result since the
last three months of 2009.  While monetary easing policy may “ease the pain” in the
short term, it won’t help bolster economic growth in the longer
run, according to Nabiullina.  “While economic expansion is decelerating, it’s not
because of the monetary situation,” Natalia Orlova, chief
economist at  Alfa Bank , Russian biggest non-state lender, said
yesterday by phone from Moscow. “It’s hard to break stagnation
in industry with monetary factors.”  To spur credit growth, Nabiullina created a one-year,
floating-rate auction following her first rates meeting in July.
After banks took 306.8 billion rubles ($9.3 billion), or 61
percent, of the 500 billion rubles on offer, policy makers may
announce a second facility, Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief Russia
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Moscow, said Sept.
10 in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  