-- Samsung, Pernod Ricard, Marvel: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-11T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/samsung-pernod-ricard-marvel-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  was sued by
Dyson Technology Ltd., the vacuum-cleaner maker founded by U.K.
inventor James Dyson, over claims his company’s steering
technology was infringed.  The dispute concerns an invention called “a cleaning
appliance with a steering mechanism,” Wiltshire, England-based
Dyson said in an e-mailed statement. It filed the case Aug. 29
in  London .  Dyson won a patent lawsuit against Samsung in 2009 over its
cyclone vacuum-cleaner technology. Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung has been embroiled in patent and copyright disputes with
Apple Inc. over smartphones and tablet computers on three
continents.  “Samsung has many patent lawyers so I find it hard not to
believe that this is a deliberate or utterly reckless
infringement of our patent,” James Dyson said in the statement.  Samsung’s Korean press office didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail sent outside regular business hours.  The case is Dyson Technology Ltd. v. Samsung Electronics
Co., High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, HC13A03838.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Toho Claims ‘Mechahopzilla’ Beer Infringes ‘Mechagodzilla’  Toho Co. (9602) , maker of the Godzilla films, sued a New Orleans
brewery for trademark infringement.  The Tokyo-based movie company objected to  New Orleans Lager
& Ale Brewing Co. ’s “Mechahopzilla” beer, saying it infringes
trademarks associated with its “ Mechagodzilla ” character.  According to a complaint filed Sept. 6 in federal court in
New Orleans, Toho introduced Mechagodzilla in 1974, and has used
it in four additional films as well as comic books, video games
and toys. Mechagodzilla is described in court papers as the
mechanical doppelganger of Toho’s Godzilla, a monster resembling
a giant lizard.  The film company said it has numerous U.S. copyright and
trademark registrations related to Mechagodzilla that are
infringed by the New Orleans brewery.  Included in the complaint are color photos of a can of
Mechahopzilla and the pull-tap for Mechahopzilla draft, both of
which appear to depict a giant mechanical lizard-like monster.
Toho claimed this character, described on the back of a
Mechahopzilla can as a “hop monster,” is aimed at latching on
to the goodwill associated with Godzilla.  Toho claimed websites have discussed the similarity between
Mechahopzilla and Mechagodzilla. The public is likely to be
confused by the similarity, and assume incorrectly that the
brewery has some association with Mechagodzilla and Godzilla,
the studio said.  Toho asked the court to bar the brewery’s registration of a
Mechahopzilla trademark and further use of “Mechahopzilla.”
Additionally, the film company asked for an order for the
destruction of all infringing promotional material, as well as
for money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. The
studio is seeking triple damages to punish the brewery.  Kirk Coco, president of the brewery, said in an e-mail that
his company followed “all the proper legal requirements” in
researching the name and is waiting for the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office to register “Mechahopzilla” for use with
alcoholic beverages.  Toho’s infringement suit is “an attempt to have us pull”
the trademark application, he said. The brewery will “continue
to use the proper legal process” to file for the trademark,
Coco said.  Absolut Salon Passes Hat Online to Change Name, MyNorthwest Says  Pernod Ricard SA (RI) ’s demand that the owner of a hair salon in
Everett,  Washington , change its name or face trademark
litigation moved the shop’s owner to go online to raise money
for the name change, the MyNorthwest.com news site  reported .  Jessee Skittrall, owner of the  Absolut Hair Salon , is using
the  GoFundMe.com  website to raise the $20,000 he said the name
change will cost, according to MyNorthwest.  Although he claimed the cease-and-desist notice he received
July 31 from counsel for Pernod Ricard, the owners of Absolut
vodka, was the first notice of any trademark issues, the shop’s
former owner said that he knew when he bought the business in
2009 that she had been contacted by Absolut, according to
MyNorthwest.  Skittrall acknowledged that although he had seen a 2005
letter from the liquor company’s counsel, he assumed it was no
longer a problem because there had been no further contact from
the company, MyNorthwest reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Beastie Boys Sampling Copyright Suit Allowed to Proceed  The  Beastie Boys  hip-hop group will have to face some
infringement claims made by the owner of copyrights to four
songs by the group  Trouble Funk  over song samples, a judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge Alison J. Nathan in New York yesterday
said that one sample was significant to both a Trouble Funk
original and a Beastie Boys song. She also let a second claim go
forward, while rejecting four other claims, including one she
said covered a sampled sound typically used in cartoons for a
falling object.  Nathan gave the parties two weeks to submit a new case-management plan.  In an initial complaint, the copyright owner said the
alleged samples were “effectively concealed to the casual
listener” and identified “only after conducting a careful
audio analysis.”  Those statements were omitted from an amended complaint.
Lawyers for the Beastie Boys said the statements were “binding
as factual and legal admissions” through which the copyright
owner “pled his way out of court.”  Nathan rejected that argument, saying it was “largely
irrelevant” to the question of whether the protectable elements
of the samples were “quantitatively and qualitatively
significant to the original song.”  The case is Tufamerica Inc. v. Diamond, 12-cv-03529, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Disney’s Marvel Settles ‘Ghost Rider’ Dispute With Comic Writer  Walt Disney Co.’s Marvel Enterprises unit and comic book
writer Gary Friedrich settled their copyright lawsuit over the
“Ghost Rider” character, according to a court filing.  Friedrich has said he first came up with the idea for Ghost
Rider in 1968 and assigned his rights to Marvel, which published
the first “Ghost Rider” comic book in 1972. Friedrich claimed
in his suit that the rights to the character automatically
became his after the initial copyright term expired in 2000.  Marvel argued that Friedrich assigned his renewal rights to
it under a work-for-hire agreement he signed in 1978. In June, a
federal appeals court reversed a lower-court ruling in favor of
Marvel, granting Friedrich a trial on his claim.  In his suit, Friedrich sought an unspecified share of the
money made by Marvel on “Ghost Rider.”  In 2007,  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Columbia Pictures released a film
version of “Ghost Rider,” starring Nicolas Cage and Eva
Mendes. The film took in $228.7 million in worldwide ticket
sales, according to Box Office Mojo. A sequel, “Ghost Rider:
Spirit of Vengeance,” made $132.6 million.  According to the court filing, the parties submitted a
letter to the court on Sept. 6 saying they resolved all claims.
The court set a status conference for Sept. 12.  The case is Gary Friedrich Enterprises LLC v. Marvel
Characters Inc., 12-00893, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan).  Grateful Dead Photographer Sues Over Web Sales of Garcia Picture  A photographer who specializes in images of the  Grateful
Dead  filed a copyright infringement lawsuit against five named
and 20 unnamed defendants for selling unauthorized copies of one
of her photos on EBay Inc. auction website.  Roberta Kelly Madison Cohn, the music photographer formerly
known as Robert Cohn, shot  a photo  of the late  Jerry Garcia  and
 Neil Young  at San Francisco’s Golden Gate Park and registered
her copyright for the image, she said in court papers.  According to the complaint filed Sept. 9 in federal court
in San Francisco, unauthorized copies of the photo have been
sold through various websites operated by the defendants and
also on  EBay. (EBAY)  San Jose, California-based EBay isn’t a party to
the suit.  She asked the court for money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs, and for an order barring the defendants from
further infringement of her copyright. Additionally, she asked
for the seizure of all unauthorized copies of the photo,
together with Internet domain names, servers and computers used
to publish, broadcast or archive copies of the picture.  The case is Madison v. Zeigler, 13-cv-04177, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  Armenia’s Lawmakers Moves Against Copyright Misuse, Website Says  Armenian lawmakers passed legislation yesterday that would
classify plagiarism as a misdemeanor, ArmeniaNow.com  reported .  Violators who use others’ work or who fail to identify its
original source would be subject to a fine, the website
reported.  Ashot Melikyan, head of the legislature’s Freedom of Speech
Protection Committee, said even though the law will need
amending, it’s a first step toward improving copyright
enforcement in the country, according to ArmeniaNow.com.  Before the bill was drafted, some media outlets tried to
set up some voluntary anti-plagiarism measures, ArmeniaNow.com
reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  