-- Sarissa’s Denner Targets Astex Amid Ire Over Otsuka Deal
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-09-11T20:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/sarissa-s-denner-targets-astex-amid-ire-over-otsuka-deal.html
Sarissa Capital Management LP, the
hedge fund of activist investor  Alex Denner , boosted its stake
in  Astex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ASTX)  after the cancer-drug maker
accepted an offer of as much as $886 million from Otsuka
Holdings Co. that disappointed investors.  Astex, based in Dublin,  California , said Sept. 5 it
accepted a bid of $8.50 a share from Tokyo-based Otsuka, a
premium of 27 percent to Astex’s closing price two days earlier,
before reports of the deal surfaced. Investors and analysts took
issue with the price, saying it undervalues Astex’s approved
drug and slate of experimental compounds.  “We think that the bid price seems exceptionally low given
the promise of the pipeline of the company,” Denner said today
in a telephone interview. “I talked with the CEO. We’re one of
their largest shareholders.”  The stock has traded above $8.50 since Sept. 5, indicating
investors may expect a higher bid. Astex rose less than 1
percent to $8.71 at the close in New York.  Sarissa, the hedge fund Denner founded with Richard Mulligan after leaving billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ’s firm in
2011, has boosted its stake to almost 5 percent of Astex stock,
Denner said.  “We had a position before the deal was announced and we
increased the position when we saw the meager offer,” Denner
said. He declined to lay out further plans immediately.  Timothy L. Enns, a spokesman for Astex, didn’t respond to a
call and e-mail seeking comment.  Blood-Cancer Drug  Astex makes the blood-cancer drug Dacogen and its pipeline
includes SGI-110, which in August produced results in a mid-stage study in acute myeloid leukemia that drove the stock up 24
percent in one day.  The company is worth at least $13 to $14 a share currently
and could be worth double or triple that in 18 months, Aquilo
Capital Management, a San Francisco-based investment fund that
said it has owned Astex stock for three years, wrote in an open
letter on Sept. 9 to the company and its shareholders.  “The company is currently on the path to success, making
great strides in becoming an important player in the oncology
market,” Aquilo’s Marc Schneidman and Adam Bristol wrote in the
letter. “In a robust capital market environment in which
biotech companies with fewer resources, lower commercial
potential, and minimal clinical pipelines are being valued for
far more, the board has decided to short-change shareholders of
the value that they have supported and helped to create.”  Shopped Around  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , put the
likelihood of a higher bid or another bidder at less than 35
percent to 45 percent, in a Sept. 9 research note.  “We think Astex was shopped to all the big pharmas
including Japanese pharmas,” Yee wrote, noting he spoke with
the company’s management about the sale process. “Thus, the
only way the deal might be at a higher price is if holders do
not tender at least 50 percent of shares which is possible but
not likely and has some risk Otsuka would not raise the price
and walks away.”  Otsuka’s offer will be made via a tender process and the
companies expect to complete the deal early in the fourth
quarter, Astex said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  