-- Saudi Aramco Said to Plan Gasoline Exports From New Jubail Plant
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-09-11T10:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/saudi-aramco-said-to-plan-gasoline-exports-from-new-jubail-plant.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. may offer the
first cargoes of gasoline and diesel next month from a new
 joint-venture refinery , according to two people with knowledge
of the situation.  The state-owned company known as  Saudi Aramco  may ship
light products from the facility at the Persian Gulf port of
Jubail, said the people, asking not to be identified because the
information is not public. The venture with  France ’s  Total SA (FP) ,
called Saudi Aramco Total Refining and Petrochemical Co. or
Satorp, already plans to offer one or two cargoes of straight-run fuel oil this month.  Saudi Aramco Products Trading Co., an Aramco unit, will
sell the fuel oil, according to the people. The shipments will
each comprise 80,000 metric tons and the first of them could be
available through direct negotiation, rather than by tender,
late in September, one of them said. Satorp may offer two more
 fuel oil  cargoes next month before a coker unit starts.  A spokeswoman for Total in Paris didn’t have an immediate
comment when contacted by e-mail today. Nobody answered calls to
Satorp’s media office in Khobar today and yesterday and a Saudi
Aramco spokesman in Dhahran referred inquiries to Satorp.  Saudi Aramco is the world’s largest crude exporter. Satorp,
62.5 percent owned by Aramco and the remainder by Total, is
processing the Arab Light blend at a 120,000 barrel-a-day unit,
the second person said. Another crude unit of the same size will
start next month, according to the person. A coking facility,
which will turn fuel oil into diesel and gasoline, is to start
in November and will enable the refinery to process heavier oil
grades, the person said.  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates , members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, are boosting
their domestic refining capacity to produce more fuels such as
gasoline and diesel for local use. Refined products typically
also fetch higher prices than crude in international markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  