-- Scandinavia’s Weakest Nation Leverages Slowest Prices Since 1967
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-09-11T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/scandinavia-s-weakest-nation-leverages-slowest-prices-since-1967.html
As  inflation  crawls at its slowest
pace since records started in 1967, Denmark’s government says
the disinflation is helping Scandinavia’s weakest economy.  “I can’t see at all that the current low level of
 inflation (DNCPIYOY)  should pose any risk,” Economy MinisterMargrethe Vestager said in an e-mailed response to questions. “On the
contrary, we need household budgets not to be eroded by price
gains; this has been an issue in the past.”  Denmark has lagged behind neighboring  Norway  and  Sweden  in
surfacing from the fallout of  Europe ’s debt crisis. A 20 percent
slump in  house prices  since their 2007 peak wiped out more than
a dozen community banks as impairments ate through solvency
buffers. Denmark’s inflation rate sank to 0.4 percent in August,
from 0.6 percent a month earlier, the statistics office said on
Sept. 10. Inflation was 2.5 percent a year ago.  While Denmark emerged from its  recession  last quarter, the
recovery was driven by  government spending  and an increase in
exports. Household spending, which fell in the first three
months of the year, stalled in the quarter through June,
according to Statistics Danmark.   Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Scandinavia’s biggest lender, estimates
Denmark’s economy will grow just 0.3 percent this year, compared
with 1.3 percent for Sweden and 2 percent for Norway, according
to its September economic outlook.  Won’t Last  Vestager signaled households should take advantage of
record-low inflation to boost spending now before price gains
pick up. Much of last month’s slowdown followed cuts in taxes on
fatty foods, an effect that won’t last, she said.  “Both here and abroad it would be natural to expect
inflation to rise somewhat again,” she said.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s biggest lender, is warning
investors not to misinterpret the nation’s price development as
something that could lead to the kind of chronic deflation that
 Japan  has suffered.  “Nothing suggests that Denmark is becoming a copy of what
Japan was,”  Steen Bocian , chief economist at Danske Bank in
Copenhagen, said in an interview.  According to Nordea, inflation will accelerate as
unprecedented monetary easing drives prices higher, even causing
price bubbles. The bank is urging clients to buy inflation-linked debt to hedge against future inflation.  Linker Demand  Inflation will accelerate to 1.7 percent next year,
compared with 1.1 percent in 2013, according to a Bloomberg
survey of 11 economists. Denmark’s central bank doesn’t target
inflation and instead uses monetary policy to defend the
nation’s currency peg to the euro. The bank has kept its deposit
rate below zero since July last year, while its benchmark
lending rate is at a record low of 0.2 percent.  Denmark ’s 10-year inflation-linked bond rose yesterday as
investors including head of bonds at PFA Pension, Poul Kobberup,
said there aren’t enough linkers to satisfy demand.  The debt office in Copenhagen, which introduced its first
inflation-linked bond last year, targets an outstanding volume
of at least 20 billion kroner ($3.6 billion). The office has
sold 13.3 billion kroner in the bond to date, according to the
central bank’s  website . Ove Sten Jensen, head of the office,
said yesterday issuance will follow market demand. According to
Nordea, that’s likely to pick up.  “It’s easy to see how inflation will materialize from the
current monetary policy regimes employed by central banks,” Jan Stoerup Nielsen, an economist at Nordea who’s based in
Copenhagen, said in an interview. “We’ll get some bubbles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  