-- Schaeuble Says Portugal May Still Face Problems After Program
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-09-11T16:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/schaeuble-says-portugal-may-still-face-problems-after-program.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said Portugal may still face “problems” after its
bailout program ends next year, suggesting the country may
require more assistance from international creditors.  Speaking at an election rally of his Christian Democratic
Union in the city of Moenchengladbach today, Schaeuble said
while countries including  Greece  aren’t out of the woods yet,
there’s growing consensus in the euro region that the 17
countries sharing the currency have the worst behind them.  “Maybe Portugal will still have problems” after the end
of the program, “but they are doing well,” Schaeuble said. The
euro region through its bailout funds is “helping countries
help themselves” when they’re under the pressure of financial
markets to give them time to revamp their economies.  Eleven days before  Germany ’s federal election, Schaeuble
dropped at least the second hint that Portugal may need some
form of additional assistance. In an Aug. 31 election speech in
the town of Appenweier, Schaeuble said Portugal’s program will
“presumably” be finished when it expires on June 30, 2014.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who heads
meetings of euro-area finance ministers, said today in The Hague
that Portugal’s exit from its aid program will be “more
difficult.”  Portugal’s  10-year (GSPT10YR)  bond yield has climbed since May, when
the rate reached the lowest since 2010, and the country last
sold bonds. Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  has to trim
spending by about 3.3 billion euros ($4.4 billion) in 2014 to
meet the terms of Portugal’s 78-billion-euro bailout program.  Greek Aid  Schaeuble, in an Aug. 20 speech in the northern town of
Ahrensburg, said for the first time that Greece will need a new
aid program, diverging from an earlier practice to call this a
possibility. In Appenweier, Schaeuble said his revelation was
meant to deflect any accusations that the government is hiding
an unpleasant truth until after the election.  A Forsa poll showed Chancellor Angela Merkel’s CDU has a
slim majority with her current coalition. Her Christian
Democratic-led bloc dropped a point to 39 percent, while her
Free Democratic partner gained a point to 6 percent.  The opposition Social Democrats gained two points to 25
percent and their Greens ally dropped two points to 9 percent,
their lowest level since March 2009, according to a Forsa poll
published today in  Stern magazine .  Forsa surveyed  2,500 voters Sept. 3-9 and had a margin of
error of 2.5 percentage points.  German elections will be held on Sept. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at +49-30-70010-6235 or
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at +49-30-70010-6228 or
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  