-- Scientists Force Mature Cells to Revert to Stem Cells
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-09-11T16:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/scientists-force-mature-cells-to-revert-to-stem-cells.html
Scientists have turned back the
hands of time in cells within a living creature.  Researchers in Spain used a technique created seven years
ago to force mature cells in mice to revert to an original form
of  stem cell  with the potential to change into any type of
living tissue. Previously, scientists were only been able to
achieve this change in a petri dish.  The newest experiment,  outlined  today in the journal
 Nature , may one day let doctors work entirely inside the body to
regenerate tissue and, perhaps, more complex organs, said  George
Daley , director of stem cell transplantation at  Boston 
Children’s Hospital. This could include reconnecting a severed
spinal cord or generating healthy heart cells.  “This is the next step along a continuum,” said Daley, a
professor at Harvard Medical School in Boston who wrote an
accompanying editorial on the work, which he wasn’t involved
with. “What this is hinting at is that maybe we can, by
regressing tissues in the patient, regenerate this embryonic
potential and, with direction, regenerate a particular tissue.”  The reverted mouse cells were also found to be more
primitive than stem cells taken from embryos or created in the
lab. This means they can be turned into a placenta and other
embryonic-support membranes, a factor beyond the capacity of the
other cells, the researchers wrote.  The latest finding modifies a technique that won Shinya
Yamanaka the Nobel Prize for medicine last year. Using mice
whose genes could be manipulated at will, the scientists
duplicated the factors Yamanaka had used to regress adult cells
into stem cells. The cells that regressed in the dosed mice were
in the stomach, the intestines, kidneys, and pancreas.  ‘Surprising’ Finding  “You don’t need the milieu of the petri dish,” Daley said
in a telephone interview. “You can just do this right in the
tissues. That’s surprising.”  In today’s report, some of the mice had tumors that
developed in embryonic support structures as well as a yolk sac,
suggesting they were more primitive and powerful than other stem
cells, the scientists wrote.  “These embryo-like structures are a reflection of going
back to a more-primitive state,” Daley said. “That’s honestly
what blew me away about the paper.”  It’s not clear why the cells developed in live mice are
more powerful than those developed in petri dishes, said Maria
Abad, a study author and researcher at the Spanish National
Cancer Research Center in  Madrid . Those grown in live bodies are
more malleable, and behave differently when transplanted into a
petri dish, she said.  The group is analyzing the outcome to see what may account
for the differences, she said.  Safety Concerns  The finding also raises safety concerns for trials that use
stem cells created in the laboratory, said Hongjun Song, the
director of the stem cell program at the Institute of Cell
Engineering at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore.  Many of these cells are induced by adding four genes
permanently to their DNA. That was a lesser safety concern
before scientists demonstrated that it was possible to revert
cells in living creatures, Song said.  Now that scientists know it’s possible to create stem cells
in live animals using those four genes, it may mean that the
techniques that permanently add those genes could increase the
risk of tumors called teratomas, which are made of up of varying
kinds of tissue that don’t belong where they develop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  