-- SEC Probing Schilling’s Failed 38 Studios Video-Game Bond Deal
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-09-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/sec-investigating-schilling-s-failed-38-studios-bond-financing.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is investigating a $75 million financing by a  Rhode
Island  agency for  Curt Schilling ’s bankrupt  video-game  company.  The Rhode Island Economic Development Corp. sold federally
taxable municipal bonds backed with the state’s moral obligation
to induce the former Boston Red Sox pitcher to move 38 Studios
LLC from  Massachusetts  to Providence in 2010. The company
declared bankruptcy last year, with taxpayers on the hook to
repay the bonds.  Rhode Island television station WPRI was first to report
that the Economic Development Corp. hired a  law firm  to help
respond to the SEC’s staff during five months last year, citing
documents it obtained through an open-records request. Melissa
Czerwein, a spokeswoman for the Economic Development Corp., said
in an e-mail that the report was accurate and that the agency
wouldn’t comment at the SEC’s request.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
on the investigation in an e-mail. Christine Hunsinger, a
spokeswoman for Democratic Governor Lincoln Chafee, also
declined to comment.  “We don’t talk about the 38 Studios issue because of
pending litigation,” Hunsinger said.  Rhode Island is suing the insolvent company. The complaint
claims that Schilling conspired with Wells Fargo & Co. bankers
and other advisers to persuade the state to lend the company $75
million, knowing it wouldn’t be enough to finish development of
a new video game.  Covering Payments  The financing shows the risks that states and localities
take when offering businesses incentives to add or create jobs.  Lawmakers in June approved a $2.5 million payment to cover
bond payments this year and avoid a credit-rating downgrade.
Moody’s Investors Service in June threatened to cut the state’s
Aa2 rating, the third-highest, if Rhode Island failed to follow
through with its obligation.  Bonds maturing November 2020 last traded July 1 with an
average yield of about 5.5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The debt is rated A2, sixth highest, and insured by
Assured Guaranty Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  