-- SEC’s White to Push Exchange Executives for Better Data Backups
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-09-11T17:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/sec-s-white-to-push-exchange-executives-for-better-data-backups.html
Exchange executives and securities
regulators will discuss improvements in systems for distributing
price data as they meet in  Washington  tomorrow in the latest
attempt to strengthen the fragmented U.S. equity market.  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White
plans to hold private talks in with the chief executive officers
of the 13 U.S. stock exchanges to discuss the Aug. 22 failure in
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s backup system for disseminating prices,
which prompted a three-hour trading halt for thousands of
companies.  The malfunction was the latest in a series of mishaps that
have shaken confidence in computerized trading since May 6,
2010, when an algorithm briefly caused markets to erase about
$862 billion in share value. The SEC expects Nasdaq and NYSE
Euronext to explain that incident and coordinate with other
exchange operators to prevent future occurrences.  “They are encouraging the exchanges to work together to
make sure the systems are as redundant as possible,” said David A. Herron, chief executive officer of Chicago Stock Exchange
Inc., who will attend the meeting. “I think the industry will
step up and do the right thing.”  White, who was a  Nasdaq  Stock Market Inc. board member from
2002 to 2006, has said she will seek new protocols for breaking
trades if a network fails and push to advance rules that would
require exchanges to show trading can continue through natural
disasters and programming glitches.  Snowballing Malfunction  Nasdaq’s computers were flooded Aug. 22 with data from NYSE
Arca, a rival exchange, revealing a bug in Nasdaq’s software
that disabled systems that should have prevented the malfunction
from snowballing, according to a statement. The challenges were
“clearly within the control of Nasdaq OMX,” the company said.  Nasdaq experienced another glitch with the system on Sept.
4. This time, the backup worked and the problem only lasted six
minutes. The exchange said the data feed suffered a “hardware
memory failure” that forced a switch to a backup.  The private meeting will focus new scrutiny on the price
networks, known as securities information processors, that
distribute stock prices to the public. The three SIPs for U.S.
equity markets are run by Nasdaq and  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   SIPs gather price data from each exchange, consolidate it,
and then sell the information to brokers and other securities
firms. All exchange participants share the revenue earned from
selling the data, which is prescribed by an SEC rule.  Nasdaq’s recent failures underscore the risk of relying on
a single system to disseminate market data. An SEC advisory
committee recommended in 2001 that the commission encourage
competition by opening up the market-data business to outside
consolidators. The commission rejected that idea in a 2005
update of national-market system rules known as Regulation NMS.  ‘Regulatory Mandate’  “This notion that people should pay for the quotes by
regulatory mandate was back in a time when you needed  mainframe
computers  and hundreds of millions of dollars to aggregate
quotes and provide information to the public about security
prices, but we haven’t needed that for 25 years,” said Harold S. Bradley, who served on the 2001 committee and is a former
chief investment officer for the Ewing Marion Kauffman
Foundation. “So the SIP ends up being a choke point in a high-frequency trading world and an enormous source of revenue for
the exchanges.”  A committee that oversees Nasdaq’s SIP proposed on Sept. 4
“short-term” actions to prevent future failures. The changes
include terminating a connection if the network detects an
unusual surge in data traffic and increasing the frequency of
stress testing.  Future Failures  The SEC meeting also will allow White and fellow regulators
to explore how a rule proposed in March, known as Regulation
SCI, may help prevent future failures of key exchange
technology. The exchanges have resisted key sections of the
proposal, saying it would cover too many systems and require
them to report too much information.  The SEC also plans to discuss how a trading halt due to a
SIP failure can be better communicated. Some exchanges had
systems programmed to stop trading based on a message from the
market-data networks. That message couldn’t be relayed by
Nasdaq’s SIP after it went down on Aug. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  