-- Second Life Bankers Thrive in Dubai as Boutiques Boost Fees
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-09-12T12:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/second-life-bankers-thrive-as-middle-east-comeback-revives-deals.html
After two decades as an investment
banker at  Goldman Sachs Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Ziad Awad figured he could do more deals striking out on his own.  “Banks were facing constraints such as the increased cost
of capital and reduced risk appetite,” Awad, head of  Boardroom
Metrics Arabia  and founder of merger and acquisition firm Awad
Advisory, said by phone. “Banks wanted to do fewer but bigger
deals at a higher fee, while I wanted to do more and more.”  Awad is among a rising number of Middle Eastern bankers
starting their own firms or joining boutique investment houses
to exploit what they see as a profitable niche in the market:
advising on the smaller M&A deals overlooked by larger rivals.
The share of fees for independent advisory firms in the region
rose to 36 percent last year, up from 22 percent in 2011,
according to New York-based research firm Freeman & Co. That
coincided with a 16 percent drop in fees for the global banks.  Banks from  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to  UBS AG (UBSN)  cut jobs in
Dubai as deals dried up after the crisis. The 10 biggest
investment banks, including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank
AG and Citigroup Inc. have lost about 11,000 front-office staff
globally in the past two years, analytics firm Coalition said in
May. Morgan Stanley, the top-ranked adviser for M&A in the
Middle East and  Africa , also cut Dubai jobs.  ‘Rethink Strategy’  Shrinking deal sizes “have forced larger investment banks
to rethink their strategy with respect to M&A,” said Phil Gandier, head of transactions for Ernst & Young LLP in the
Middle East. “Bulge bracket banks increasingly use M&A to win
more lucrative balance sheet and capital markets business.”  The average value of M&A deals in the region fell 36
percent to $192 million in the first half, from $300 million a
year earlier, according to the consulting firm.  Ali Asghar, former head of  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ’s Dubai office,
recently left to set up his own boutique emerging markets-focused firm, according to a person familiar with the matter,
asking not to be identified as the move wasn’t announced. That’s
after helping drive the Hamilton, Bermuda-based bank to the top
of the list of independent advisers in the region this year,
ranking 10th among all banks after working on five deals worth
$5.5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Companies want to work with people they know and who are
there for the long term,” Christopher Wheeler, a London-based
analyst with Mediobanca SpA said in a telephone interview from
the city. “Some of the bankers at the boutiques have been there
longer than some of the bankers who fled.”  ‘Climbed Tables’  Lazard has climbed the tables recently. Last year, it
ranked 13th, up from 15th in 2011, the data show.  The bank is advising French media firm  Vivendi SA (VIV)  on the
sale of its majority stake in  Morocco ’s Maroc Telecom SA for 4.2
billion euros ($5.6 billion) to Abu Dhabi’s Emirates
Telecommunications Co. It also advised Qatar Holding LLC, the
investment arm of the Gulf state’s sovereign wealth fund, in
negotiations with  Glencore International Plc. (GLEN)   “The Middle East remains an important participant in the
global M&A marketplace,” Mian Zaheen, chairman of Lazard Middle
East said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Moelis & Co., founded by former UBS AG investment bank
president  Kenneth Moelis  in 2007, ranks 20th among companies
advising on regional M&A this year, up from 43rd a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company is advising
the Emirates Investment Authority on its 60%-owned affiliate
Etisalat’s attempted acquisition of Maroc Telecom.  Middle East  Merger and acquisition deals valued at $43.2 billion have
been announced in the Middle East and Africa this year, the
highest since the same period in 2007 and 24 percent higher than
a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Many seasoned bankers from larger investment banks join
boutiques,” Jameel Akhrass, a partner at Perella Weinberg
Partners LP and former investment banking head at  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  in the Middle East and North Africa, wrote in e-mailed comments. They “bring with them not only years of
experience, but also client relationships that they have
fostered over their careers.”  Perella advised  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , Dubai’s largest bank, on
its acquisition of BNP Paribas SA’s Egyptian unit for $500
million in December. It also advised Qatar on its acquisition of
 Italy ’s Valentino Fashion Group SpA.  Cross-Border  Awad, 40, says his own firm has mainly worked on cross-border sell-side deals, declining to provide more details.
Previously, he worked at Goldman Sachs Inc. for 13 years in
 London , Paris and Dubai, including as head of debt financing for
the MENA region. He joined Merrill Lynch in Dubai in 2007, where
he was a managing director after it was taken over by Bank of
America, and stayed until resigning last year.  “We’ve had a steady growth in mandates,” he said. “The
reason is that they’re smaller deals. They’re in the sweet spot
of what companies in this region want to do.”  Boardroom Metrics is a franchise-based business with about
25 consultants. The Dubai office has also enlisted Nasser Saidi,
a Lebanese politician and economist who was formerly chief
economist at the Dubai International Financial Centre, according
to Toronto-based Boardroom Metrics’s website.  A  Bank of America  spokeswoman in Dubai, who asked not to be
named citing corporate policy, declined to comment.  M&A activity is picking up as the Persian Gulf recovers
from the financial crisis and family-owned businesses seek to
grow. Companies are favoring smaller deals as confidence remains
low because of regional political turmoil, said Ernst & Young’s
Gandier. Sovereign wealth funds are also more focused on
managing existing assets rather than new deals, he said.  ‘Large Ticket’  “Large ticket deals have reduced and this has certainly
opened more opportunities for smaller boutique firms,” said Ian
Gomes, head of advisory for consultancy KPMG LLP in the Middle
East. Still, “we have also seen big investment banks play for
smaller M&A deals so they continue to remain present,” he said.  To be sure, independent firms are also still trailing their
larger competitors in the league tables.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is the
region’s top M&A adviser so far this year, working on about
$18.2 billion of deals, more than triple Lazard’s share. The New
York-based bank advised Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co.
when Dubai and Abu Dhabi agreed to merge their aluminium
smelting companies to create a $15 billion joint venture.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the third-largest arranger of deals in the
region, was an international adviser on a plan by Egyptian
construction and fertilizer company Orascom Construction
Industries to transfer shares from Cairo and London to
Amsterdam, in the region’s largest deal this year valued at
about $10.5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays  Barclays also advised Bahrain’s Investcorp Bank BSC when it
sold its majority stake in British online payment company Skrill
Group in August to CVC Capital Partners Ltd. in a 600 million-euro ($802 million) transaction.  “There’s always room for independent advisory firms but
our main competitors remain our peer group of universal
international banks,” Makram Azar, vice chairman of investment
banking for Barclays, said in an interview. “Companies these
days after the financial crisis prefer one-stop shop firms to
support them with their financial needs for everything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  