-- Short-Selling Bans Tested in U.K. Turf War Over EU Powers
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-09-11T11:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/short-selling-bans-tested-in-u-k-turf-war-over-eu-powers.html
The U.K.’s bid to overturn a
European Union agency’s power to ban short selling faces a test
tomorrow when an EU judge gives his view on part of Britain’s
turf war with the bloc’s financial regulators.  An adviser to the EU Court of Justice will issue a non-binding opinion on whether the  European Securities and Markets
Authority ’s decision-making ability goes beyond limits allowed
under the bloc’s treaties.  The short-selling skirmish is one of several legal U.K.
challenges against EU financial regulations at the EU courts.
Britain’s opposition to some rules affecting the City of London
has prompted warnings from EU officials that it can’t pick and
choose the terms of its relationship with the bloc.  “Previous decisions of the EU court have struck down
attempts to clothe an administrative agency with broad law-making powers,” Michael Wainwright, a partner at Eversheds LLP
in London, said in an e-mail. “This case raises important
questions as to how those decisions apply to ESMA and the other
new EU financial supervisory authorities.” Though non-binding
on the Luxembourg-based court, the opinion “will provide an
insight into how the U.K.’s arguments have been received.”  The EU’s top court follows the advice of its advocates
general in a majority of cases. Rulings follow opinions about
six months later.  “The U.K. supports the Short Selling Regulation, and has
engaged constructively with the Commission, ESMA and other
member states,” the U.K. Treasury said in an e-mailed
statement. “Our legal challenge does not change this. We are
seeking legal clarity on how powers given to ESMA to restrict or
ban short selling sit with the principles established under the
existing case law.”  EU Referendum  While Prime Minister David Cameron has promised a
referendum on EU membership by the end of 2017, this has failed
to quell calls from members of his Conservative Party for
Britain’s European destiny to be put to the people sooner.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief and
architect of draft laws for the industry, has warned Britain
that it must accept EU financial regulations in exchange for
access to the bloc’s single market.  The U.K. has often found itself on the defensive in EU
discussions on financial regulation. The nation, which lacks a
veto on financial laws, was the sole dissenting voice in March
opposing a deal to ban bonuses more than twice fixed pay.  Transaction Tax  Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne has
said that plans being discussed by 11 other EU nations for a
common financial transactions tax were “unlawfully
extraterritorial” and “poorly designed.” The country started
a legal challenge over the draft measures in April.  The U.K. is also suing the European Central Bank over
policies that it says push clearing of some derivatives away
from  London  and into the euro area, and has grappled with other
states on topics ranging from oversight of hedge funds to how
much power the Brussels-based European Commission should have to
police bank capital.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for Barnier, declined to
comment on the short-selling opinion.  The case is: C-270/12, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland v. Council of the European Union, European
Parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  