-- Apartment Showroom Visitors Near Olympic Village Site Jump
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-09-11T06:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/showroom-visitors-near-olympic-site-jump-mitsubishi-estate-says.html
Visitors to apartment showrooms in
the Tokyo Bay area where the Olympic Village will be built
doubled after the city was selected to host the 2020 Olympic
Games, according to  Japan ’s biggest developer by market value.  The number of groups who visited  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) ’s
showroom for the 49-story  Parkhouse Harumi Towers  doubled to 60
on Sept. 8, when the decision was made public, from about an
average 30 per day, said Masayuki Watanabe, a Tokyo-based
spokesman. The units are priced from 49.8 million yen ($496,000)
to 83.9 million yen, according to its website.  Tokyo’s winning bid to host the Olympic Games is a boost to
a real estate market that’s showing signs of a rebound amid
efforts by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to revive the world’s
third-largest economy. The capital is planning its biggest
housing complex in 42 years to lodge athletes in an area called
Harumi, which will occupy a 44-hectare (109-acre) site.  “The phone just kept ringing,” Watanabe said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We’ve got e-mail inquires from
as early as 6 a.m. on Sunday morning.”  Parkhouse Harumi Towers, developed by Mitsubishi Estate and
 Kajima Corp. (1812) , consists of 861 units and is scheduled to be
completed by April 2016, according to the company’s website.  Shares of Mitsubishi Estate closed little changed at 2,880
yen in Tokyo trading.  Sumitomo Realty  A few blocks away from the Parkhouse Harumi Towers stands
the construction site of  Deux Tours , a twin 52-story apartment
development owned by  Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. (8830) , Japan’s
third-biggest developer.  The company, which plans to introduce the model room for
the project in November may consider putting apartments up for
sale earlier to meet rising demand, said Kazuyoshi Tanaka, a
Tokyo-based spokesman of Sumitomo Realty.  Japan’s  housing starts  rose for a 11th month in July, the
longest streak since February 1994, according to the land
ministry. The number of condominiums for sale in  Tokyo  and
surrounding areas rose 32 percent to 5,306 units in July, the
highest same-month level since 2007, according to the Real
Estate Economic Research Institute.  The Harumi area, which is located about 2 kilometers (1.2
miles) south of Ginza, central Tokyo’s shopping district, will
undergo a transformation after the introduction of condominiums
including the Parkhouse Harumi Towers as they will bring more
residents to the neighborhood, said Tadashi Matsuda, a
researcher at the institute in Tokyo.  “The potential of this area is rising,” Matsuda said.
“Naturally, that means prices will increase. With the Olympics,
the trend for price gains will become clearer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  