-- SocGen Hires UBS’s Borst to Trade Corporate Bonds in New York
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-09-11T20:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/socgen-hires-ubs-s-borst-to-trade-corporate-bonds-in-new-york.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s George Borst joined
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  this week as a senior trader in investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds.  Borst started at France’s second-largest bank on Sept. 9 in
New York, and will report to Fran Mulvey, head of credit trading
in the U.S., according to  Jim Galvin , a spokesman for the Paris-based bank. Borst left UBS after 16 months with the lender,
according to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  records . He
previously worked at Bear Stearns Cos. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
the records show.  Borst and Megan Stinson, a spokeswoman for Zurich-based
UBS, declined to comment.  Societe Generale’s  profit  more than doubled in the second
quarter, helped by a surge in corporate and investment-banking
revenue. Led by Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea , the bank
is selling assets and has cut hundreds of jobs in investment
banking to comply with stricter capital rules designed to ensure
the financial crisis of 2008 is not repeated.  Trading in fixed-income, currencies and commodities saw
“growing demand from retail and institutional clients on
structured products,” the bank said.  Societe Generale has climbed to 24th in managing high-yield
bond sales in the U.S. this year, up from 36th last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Speculative-grade
borrowers, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s, have sold $253 billion of
the notes this year, 21 percent more than during the same period
in 2012, when a record $357.3 billion of the debt was issued.  BNP Paribas SA is  France ’s largest bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  