-- Southeastern Buys 12% Voting Stake in News Corp.
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-11T20:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/southeastern-asset-takes-12-percent-stake-in-news-corp-.html
Southeastern Asset Management Inc. (NWS) ,
the investment firm that joined  Carl Icahn  in opposing  Dell
Inc. (DELL) ’s buyout, acquired a 12 percent voting stake in News Corp.,
making it the largest shareholder after Chairman Rupert Murdoch.  The 23.8 million-share Class B stake, disclosed in a
regulatory filing yesterday, is valued at about $397 million,
based on a closing price of $16.72. The investment accounts for
about a 4.1 percent economic  interest  in New York-based News
Corp., the publishing business split off in June from Murdoch’s
film and television division.  Southeastern, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
O. Mason Hawkins, has no plans to influence News Corp.,
according to the filing. The investment company, based in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , is known for value investing, though it has
occasionally tried to sway management. Hawkins and Icahn dropped
their opposition this week to  Michael Dell ’s $24.9 billion plan
to buy out Dell.  “There is a lot of value here that may not be fully
recognized by the market,” said John Janedis, an analyst at UBS
AG in New York. He has a buy rating on the stock and expects it
to climb to $19 within the next 12 months.  News Corp. has two classes of shares, and only Class B
shareholders have voting rights. The Class B shares rose 2.9
percent to $17.20 at the close in New York, while the more
widely traded Class A stock also  advanced  3 percent to $17.05.
Both stocks are trading at record highs.  Share Classes  As News Corp. “split out the U.S. Fox entertainment
business, we had the opportunity to own the remaining strongly
financed, premier media assets around the world at an attractive
discount,” the investment firm said in its latest annual
report. Murdoch spun off the publishing company at the end of
June with $2.6 billion in cash and no debt.  Lee Harper, a spokeswoman for Southeastern, declined to
comment, as did  Ashley Huston , a spokeswoman for News Corp. The
company owns the Wall Street Journal and the New York Post and
competes with Bloomberg LP, owner of Bloomberg News, in
financial news and data.  Southeastern, founded in 1975, is an independent advisory
firm with $32.9 billion under management as of June 30,
according to its website. The company, which manages Longleaf
Partner Funds, generally takes large stakes in “competitively
entrenched, well-managed businesses purchased at steep discounts
to their intrinsic values.”  Biggest Holdings  Southeastern’s biggest holdings at the end of the second
quarter included Chesapeake Energy Corp., holding company Loews
Corp., delivery company FedEx Corp. and satellite broadcaster
 DirecTV. (DTV)   While Hawkins occasionally takes an activist role, doing so
at News Corp. would mean going up against Murdoch, a billionaire
who has built the News Corp. media empire over the past 60
years. Murdoch owns 39 percent of the Class B stock and a 14
percent economic interest in News Corp.  “Rupert has a big ownership holding in the company --there
have to be easier targets out there,” Janedis said.  Murdoch, 82, split up his two media companies following a
hacking scandal at its U.K. newspaper unit. News Corp. shut down
the weekly News of the World and Murdoch and his son, James, who
oversaw the division, testified before Parliament in 2011 about
the company’s response to revelations that reporters accessed
voice-mail accounts, including that of a murdered schoolgirl
named Milly Dowler.  Shareholder Unrest  In July, Murdoch agreed to testify to Parliament a second
time. British lawmakers asked for Murdoch to be recalled after
the transcript of a tape was published by Exaro News, in which
Murdoch told reporters at the Sun newspaper that bribery had
been a routine practice.  The scandal intensified concerns among some shareholders
about News Corp.’s governance. Proposals to separate the
chairman and CEO titles held by Murdoch and to eliminate the
dual-class stock system that allows Murdoch and his family to
retain control drew opposition at News Corp.’s annual meeting
last October. Investors excluding family holdings voted in
support of the two measures, even as Murdoch pressed forward
with a plan to split the company.  Saudi  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal  is another large News Corp.
investor, with 6.6 percent of the voting shares, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg. He has supported Murdoch through the
hacking episode.  Dell Fight  Southeastern previously teamed up with Icahn in a
shareholder revolt at Chesapeake Energy. Hawkins, 65, also
joined with investors advocating for a sale of Knight-Ridder
Inc. in 2005.  In dropping his battle for control of Dell, in which he was
joined by Southeastern’s Hawkins in a counterbid, Icahn argued
the company was worth more. Southeastern sent a letter to Dell’s
board in February saying Dell “grossly undervalued” the
computer maker.  While they failed to win their prize, Icahn and
Southeastern took credit for obtaining a sweetened offer from
Dell and Silver Lake Management LLC. The latest buyout plan now
has enough votes to win approval, a person with knowledge of the
matter said yesterday.  “We are pleased that our efforts contributed to the modest
increase in merger consideration Dell stockholders will
receive,” Southeastern said in a statement this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  