-- Soybeans Gain Before USDA Report Set to Signal Lower U.S. Output
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-09-11T10:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/soybeans-gain-before-usda-report-set-to-signal-lower-u-s-output.html
Soybeans rose in  Chicago  before a
government report tomorrow that may show the U.S. crop, the
world’s largest, will be smaller than previously expected after
dry weather in the past month.  U.S. farmers may harvest 3.13 billion bushels of soybeans,
3.7 percent less than estimated a month ago, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts before the Department of
Agriculture updates its projection. Parts of Iowa and  Illinois ,
the biggest growing states, had as little as 5 percent of normal
rain in the past 30 days, National Weather Service data show.  “August weather is key to setting U.S. soybean yields,
with conditions over the month signaling a large cut to expected
production,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts including
 Jeffrey Currie  in New York wrote in a report today. “This will
limit the recovery in already-tight U.S. inventories and will
limit the decline in soybean prices in coming months.”  Soybeans for delivery in November gained 0.2 percent to
$13.5725 a bushel at 4:45 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
rebounding from two sessions of declines. Futures climbed 13
percent since the end of July as dry weather and heat
intensified in the Midwest.  The USDA cut its  condition  ratings for the soybean crop for
four straight weeks, saying 52 percent of fields were in good or
excellent condition as of Sept. 8, down from 64 percent that
received the top ratings in early August. Corn conditions
deteriorated to 54 percent good or excellent from 64 percent
over the same period, USDA data show.  Corn Harvest  Corn for delivery in December dropped 0.1 percent to $4.685
a bushel. Prices slumped 33 percent this year on expectations
the U.S. harvest will rebound to an all-time high after drought
curbed last year’s production.  The USDA may lower its forecast tomorrow for the U.S. corn
harvest to 13.6 billion bushels, 0.9 percent below its previous
outlook while still the largest crop on record, according to
Bloomberg’s survey.  Wheat for delivery in December climbed 0.3 percent to
$6.4875 a bushel. Milling wheat for delivery in November fell
0.1 percent to 187.50 euros ($248.73) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe
in Paris.  Egypt , historically the world’s biggest importer of
the grain, bought 235,000 tons of wheat in a tender yesterday
from Ukraine, Russia and  Romania .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  