-- Steinbrueck Attacks Merkel’s ‘Saving, Saving, Saving’ in Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-09-11T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/steinbrueck-attacks-merkel-s-saving-saving-saving-in-crisis.html
German Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck  attacked Chancellor Angela Merkel’s euro crisis-resolution polices as obsessed with spending cuts and told
voters that Germany must step in to help indebted countries.  Merkel has been focused on “saving, saving, saving” and
has spent the crisis “doing a dance of the veils” to convince
voters that Germany shouldn’t pay to help weaker nations, the
SPD chancellor candidate said, responding to audience questions
in a live broadcast on  ARD television . Steinbrueck said Germany
would have to save 170 billion euros ($226 billion) a year if it
had to cut as much as euro members Greece and Spain.  “Nobody would be sitting here very quietly in that case,”
Steinbrueck said in the town-hall style event yesterday in the
western German city of Moenchengladbach. Austerity policies in
southern Europe are creating a “social powder keg,” he said.  Steinbrueck is stepping up criticism of Merkel’s crisis
response as polls show the SPD gaining ground on the
chancellor’s Christian Democrats after their only campaign
debate on Sept. 1. Yet 10 days before the Sept. 22 election,
most polls show Merkel with a slim majority to lead a third
government in her present coalition with the Free Democrats.  A Forsa poll published in Stern magazine yesterday gave a
two-point gain for Steinbrueck’s SPD to 25 percent. That was
offset by a two-point drop for the SPD-allied  Greens party  to 9
percent, a four-year low. That would undermine Steinbrueck’s
goal of forging an SPD-Green coalition.  CDU Drops  Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc dropped a point to
39 percent, while her FDP partner gained one to 6 percent.  Forsa
surveyed  2,500 voters Sept. 3-9 and the poll had a margin of
error of 2.5 percentage points.  The decline of the Greens would buttress Merkel’s position
in coalition talks, either with the FDP or for a “grand
coalition” with the SPD. Merkel’s first government from 2005 to
2009 was a coalition with the SPD.  “Steinbrueck’s performance in the election debate was a
wake-up call for Merkel but he’s still not gaining enough
traction,”  Jan Techau , director of the Brussels office of the
Carnegie Endowment, said in a telephone interview.  In a personal contest between Merkel and Steinbrueck, the
chancellor lost three points to 52 percent, while the SPD
candidate gained three to 26 percent, Forsa showed. This was
Forsa’s first survey taken after the Sept. 1 debate. German
voters cast ballots for members of parliament and parties and
don’t directly elect the chancellor.  Greens Reversal  The drop for the Greens marks a reversal of fortune for the
environmental party compared with a surge in support following
the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster. Forsa registered a high of
28 percent for the Greens in April 2011.  Forsa’s managing director, Manfred Guellner, told Stern the
Greens’ slump is due to their campaign for social justice, which
“doesn’t fit them,” and calls for tax increases.  Merkel has also pounced on a Green proposal to mandate a
no-meat “veggie day” in school and work cafeterias, targeting
the idea in most of her election rally speeches. Merkel says the
CDU won’t legislate what people should eat.  Steinbrueck defended his party’s plan to raise taxes on the
wealthy to fund  Germany ’s “dilapidated” infrastructure and
underfunded communities should he unseat Merkel. The SPD plans
to raise the top income tax rate to 49 percent.  “Not everybody should pay more, but some should pay a
little more,” Steinbrueck said.  Age Questioned  Steinbrueck fielded questions on issues including climate
change, rising energy prices, retirement security and temporary
jobs. One 55-year-old woman asked whether Steinbrueck, 66,
“really wanted to bother with the chancellorship” at his age.  “Just look at me,” Steinbrueck responded as he paced the
floor.  Another voter asked what the SPD candidate what he would do
about motorists on Germany’s autobahns who drive the wrong way.  “Your question surprises me,” a puzzled Steinbrueck said
before pledging to examine a pilot program in an unidentified
Bavarian community to hang additional warning signs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  