-- Stringer Repels Spitzer’s Comeback in NYC Comptroller Race
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-09-11T14:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/stringer-defeats-insurgent-spitzer-in-race-for-nyc-comptroller.html
Manhattan  Borough President Scott Stringer fought off  Eliot Spitzer  in the Democratic primary for
New York City comptroller, halting the former governor’s
attempted comeback from a prostitution scandal.  Stringer, who had the support of the party establishment
and the city’s three major newspapers, captured 52 percent of
yesterday’s vote with 97 percent of precincts reporting,
compared with 48 percent for Spitzer, according to the
 Associated Press . With Democrats outnumbering Republicans by
more than 6 to 1, the victory virtually ensures Stringer, 53,
will become comptroller after the general election in November.  The comptroller is the city’s chief financial officer,
auditing agencies and overseeing $140 billion in pension assets.
Stringer’s temperate public statements before his opponent
entered the race contrasted with the media-driven drama of 
the fiery Spitzer’s return.  “To the people of this city: As I continue to get to know
you, I believe public office can make a difference,” Stringer,
a veteran state politician, told supporters last night.  Doug Muzzio, a professor of urban politics at  Baruch
College  of the  City University  of New York, said Stringer will
be vigorous, with an eye toward extending his career.  “What you’ll have is a really active comptroller who has
his own political ambitions,” he said. “Spitzer would go in
and be the steamroller. Scott’s not going to do that.”  Spitzer’s Fall  Spitzer, 54, resigned as governor in 2008 after his trysts
were disclosed. He entered the race in July, upending a contest
in which Stringer, a career politician, was expected to coast to
victory. The former “Sheriff of Wall Street” vowed to use the
power of the pension funds to keep corporations well managed and
socially responsible.  The son of a multimillionaire real estate developer,
Spitzer waged a self-financed campaign, outspending Stringer and
outside groups backing him by $7.2 million to $5.3 million,
according New York City  campaign-finance records .  He portrayed himself as a ready to do battle with  Wall
Street  again, just as he had done as state attorney general. In
that post, he rose to prominence by exposing conflicts of
interest between Wall Street firms’ analysts and investment
bankers. Stringer, he said, accomplished little in a 20-year
career in politics, including 12 in the state Assembly.  The Anti-Eliot  Voting for Stringer was “like a default vote,” said Bambi
Granovsky, 71, outside a precinct on Manhattan’s East Side.  “I didn’t want to vote for Spitzer; I have an issue with
his aggressiveness,” Granovsky said. “His manner alienates
everyone. A comptroller brings people together.”  In his concession speech, Spitzer said he could continue to
serve the public “in different ways.”  “I’m proud to have run a campaign over the past nine weeks
that many thought was incapable to mount from the very
beginning,” Spitzer said.  After finding himself behind in the polls by as much as 19
percentage points, Stringer fought back, attacking Spitzer for
breaking the law when he patronized high-priced prostitutes.
Spitzer wasn’t charged with a crime.  ‘Colossal Failure’  Stringer called Spitzer’s 15-month term as governor a
“colossal failure.”  While Spitzer painted the opposition to his candidacy by
business and labor as proof that powerful interests had
something to fear, most voters saw it differently, said Ester Fuchs, a professor of political science at Columbia University’s
School of International and Public Affairs and a Stringer
supporter.  “The fact that you can get labor, business and women’s
organizations to agree on anything would give one pause about
the candidate,” said Fuchs, who served as special adviser to
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  from 2001 to 2005. The mayor is the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  “When a public official violates the law and betrays the
public trust, it’s not about second chances. It’s about judgment
and it’s about whether you want a person like that in high
positions of authority in the city of New York.”  Outside Support  In addition to about $4.2 million of individual
contributions and $1.9 million of public matching funds,
Stringer received about $1.3 million from outside groups
affiliated with unions such as the  American Federation of
Teachers  and the Central Labor Council, an umbrella group
representing 1.3 million workers.  “We built a coalition,” Stringer said in his victory
speech. “We had labor, we had parents, we had the next
generation of Democrats.”  Stringer says his own views on using pension funds’
shareholder clout to influence corporate management and
decision-making parallel Spitzer’s.  “You have to be aggressive with corporate-governance work,
and need to press for reforms that improve accountability,
transparency, efficiency and performance, because that’s good
for business,” Stringer said in a July interview.  “But you have to approach this work with balance and
maturity and work with a lot of people,” he said. “It’s wrong
to think you’re the sheriff of our pension fund.”  As attorney general from 1999 through 2006, Spitzer
disclosed subpoenaed e-mails and other evidence to persuade
Merrill Lynch & Co., Citigroup Inc. and other securities firms
to pay $1.4 billion in pretrial settlements, rather than go to
court on charges they misled consumers with biased research.  He was then elected governor, with 69 percent of the vote
in 2006, serving for less than 15 months before getting caught
patronizing high-priced prostitutes.  Since resigning as governor, Spitzer has run the family’s
real estate investment firm and worked as a commentator on CNN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  