-- Suicide Car Bombs Hit Egypt Security Targets in North Sinai
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-09-11T13:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/suicide-car-bombs-hit-egypt-security-targets-in-north-sinai-2-.html
Two suicide car bombs struck
security targets in North Sinai, killing at least six people, as
the military pressed an offensive in the volatile region,
security officials and state media said.  The explosions in the town of Rafah, along the border with
the Gaza Strip, took place near the military intelligence
building and a security checkpoint, the state-run Middle East
News Agency said. Six soldiers were killed in the attacks
carried out by “terrorist elements,” the Facebook page of
military spokesman Ahmed Mohamed Ali said. The bombings come
after Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim survived a Sept. 5
attack by suspected militants on his convoy in Cairo.  Ali Azzazi, head of criminal investigations in North Sinai,
and MENA described the attacks as suicide car bombings. At least
17 people, including seven civilians, were injured, MENA said,
adding one of the blasts destroyed the main gate of the
intelligence building and damaged outside walls.  Last week,  Egypt ’s military and security forces began an
offensive targeting militants in the largely lawless Sinai,
alongside a crackdown on the Muslim Brotherhood begun after the
army overthrew Islamist President Mohamed Mursi on July 3.  Cycle of Violence  “The crackdown on Islamists and trying to repress them
violently will never stop violence,” Ziad Akl, senior
researcher with Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic
Studies, said by phone. “Violent confrontations will have a
very temporary effect, but on the long run they will simply
create new forms of violence.”  “We’re paying the price of how Sinai has been marginalized
for decades, which makes it a perfect soil for the rise of
insurgency,” Akl said.  Today’s attack complicates the interim government’s efforts
to restore security, revive a battered economy and return the
country to elected rule in the face of opposition by Mursi
supporters who vow to reverse his ouster.  Egyptian security officials have long voiced concern about
the unrest in Sinai. Attacks on security forces, which have
killed army and police personnel, have increased since Mursi was
pushed from power in what the Muslim Brotherhood says was a
military coup.  The Rafah border crossing was closed as a “precautionary
measure” after the attacks, MENA said.  Officials declared a state of emergency a month ago,
including a curfew that has since been eased. Interim Prime
Minister Hazem El Beblawi was quoted by the Al-Masry al-Youm
newspaper as saying the measure may be extended.  “When we imposed the state of emergency, we thought one
month was enough,” he said. The assassination attempt on the
interior minister “represented a change” in the nature of
security.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  