-- Syrian Conflict: Sept. 11 Digest of Middle Eastern Editorials
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-09-11T08:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/syrian-conflict-sept-11-digest-of-middle-eastern-editorials.html
The following is a round-up of
editorial comment across the Middle East as world powers debate
whether to carry out punitive strikes against Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s government for its alleged use of chemical
weapons last month. Assad denies the charge.  * Lebanon  Daily Star   Lebanon’s English-language, privately owned Daily Star said
the Syrian regime “can barely contain its glee at avoiding a
U.S. strike and will likely continue with its face-saving
declarations of victory.”  “But this newest development is a clear defeat for
President Bashar al-Assad.”  “ Syria  had spent decades building its chemical weapons
stockpile –- as a deterrent against any attack by Israel.”  “Destroying these stockpiles is a price Assad cannot be
happy to pay.”  “If there is any question that desperation has driven
Assad to agree to this, consider the risk it opens him up to:
Muammar Qaddafi unilaterally dismantled Libya’s weapons of mass
destruction program in 2004 in the face of American threats –-
it did not save him.”  *Syria  Baath   Syria’s state-run Al Baath newspaper said the Syrian crisis
has put the U.S. president, or maybe he has placed himself, in a
situation that is oscillating between “going ahead and
hesitation, wisdom and recklessness, war and peace.”  “He’s now striving to reach the emergency exit and is
waiting for someone to throw him a lifeline.”  ----------------------------------------  Al Thawra   Syria’s state-run Al Thawra newspaper said the country
sought to own chemical weapons because it and the region are
threatened by chemical and nuclear weapons. The West, including
the U.S., the Turks and Arabs are seeking to rid Syria of those
weapons as “a service for  Israel  and to break some of the
balance of terror that Syria wanted.”  “The question now is who’s going to protect the Syrian
people from others who may use these weapons?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  