-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed Near Three-Week High
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-09-11T07:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-near-three-week-high.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed,
after the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose to an almost four-week
high yesterday, as U.S. President  Barack Obama  put off  military
action against the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , which designs chips for Apple Inc.’s
iPhones, jumped the most in seven weeks after the U.S. company
said its new model will use ARM’s more advanced technology.
African Minerals Ltd. slumped 8.6 percent after cutting its
export forecast for this year because of shipping delays.
 African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG)  posted its biggest two-day decline in
eight months after saying its chief operating officer resigned.  The FTSE 100 lost 10.82 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,573.17
at 8:53 a.m. in London. The equity benchmark has  fallen 3.9
percent  since May 22, which was its highest level since 1999,
amid speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will begin reducing
its monthly asset purchases as early as this year. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index slid 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index also retreated 0.1 percent.  The number of shares trading hands in FTSE 100-listed
stocks was 31 percent greater than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  In the U.S., Obama postponed a decision on military strikes
in Syria and said that he will pursue a proposal by Russia to
have the Middle Eastern nation surrender its stockpiles of
chemical weapons to international authorities. He had previously
said he would ask Congress to authorize the use of military
force against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  “It’s too early to tell whether this offer will succeed,
and any agreement must verify that the Assad regime keeps its
commitments,” Obama said yesterday in an address from
 Washington . The initiative “has the potential to remove the
threat of chemical weapons without the use of force,
particularly because Russia is one of Assad’s strongest
allies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  