-- U.K. Unemployment Rate Unexpectedly Declines to 7.7%
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-11T16:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/u-k-unemployment-rate-unexpectedly-declines-to-7-7-.html
Bank of England  policy maker  David Miles  said he’s skeptical that the recent strength of the
recovery will translate into a sharp drop in unemployment toward
the level that may trigger a rate increase.  Data today showed the  U.K. jobless rate  fell to 7.7 percent
in the three months through July, moving closer to the 7 percent
that the BOE has said will prompt it to reassess its policy
stance. The report followed surveys indicating the economy
continued to gather pace this quarter.  “People may interpret that good news as implying that we
might reach the 7 percent threshold relatively quickly,” Miles
said at an event in  London  today. “That may turn out to be the
case, I rather doubt it myself.”  The 7 percent level is part of the forward guidance
introduced by BOE Governor  Mark Carney  last month, a policy
aimed at cementing the recovery. Policy makers forecast that the
threshold won’t be reached until late 2016, and Miles said today
that productivity will improve along with the overall economy,
limiting the pace of hiring.  “Once growth and demand pick up more strongly for a
sustained period, productivity will itself move up rather
sharply,” he said. “That would mean unemployment might move
down less than would normally be the case given the strength in
demand and economic activity.”  Miles also said that policy “can become more expansionary
if it’s judged that’s what is needed.” The BOE kept its
 benchmark rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent this month and
left its bond-purchase program on hold.  Jobless Claims  The 7.7 percent  unemployment rate  is the lowest since the
September-November 2012 period. Unemployment was last at 7
percent or lower in the quarter through February 2009.  The labor-market statistics also showed that  jobless claims 
fell 32,600 in August, more than economists had forecast. The
total decline in claims in July and August was the biggest two-month drop since 1997.  Market yields suggest investors think the BOE will have to
raise  interest rates  before the 2016 horizon indicated. Short-sterling futures have dropped, indicating investors are adding
to bets on higher rates. The implied yield on the contract
expiring in December 2014 is 0.98 percent, up from 0.68 percent
on Aug. 1.  Carney, along with Miles and policy makers  Paul Fisher  and
 Ian McCafferty , will give evidence in Parliament tomorrow. It’s
the first time the governor will face questions from lawmakers
on guidance since it was introduced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  