-- U.K. Banks Face $79 Billion Capital Boost in Future Rules
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-09-12T09:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/u-k-banks-face-79-billion-capital-boost-in-future-basel-rules.html
The eight biggest U.K. banks may
need to boost capital levels by 50 billion pounds ($79 billion)
or shrink their balance sheets by 20 percent to meet tougher
international rules in the future, a  report  said.  Regulators may require banks to meet a higher 5 percent
 leverage ratio , guidelines on transparency and tougher rules on
how they weight assets for risk in the next round of capital
regulations set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
once the current standards are put in place by 2019, New York-based accounting firm  KPMG  said in the report.  “Even before Basel III is fully implemented, Basel IV may
be emerging from the mist,” KPMG said in the report.  International banks have raised about $500 billion in
capital in the aftermath of the financial crisis and fall of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. five years ago and are moving
closer to complying with global capital rules known as Basel
III,  Mark Carney , chairman of the  Financial Stability Board  and
governor of the  Bank of England , said in a speech last week.  Global banks had core capital reserves averaging about 9
percent of their risk-weighted assets at the end of 2012, more
than the 7 percent required under the updated standards, the
Basel committee said in a report last month. The minimum ratio
of equity to debt, known as the leverage ratio, is 3 percent.  “The outlines of Basel IV are already becoming visible,
five years before the technical implementation deadline for
Basel III,” Giles Williams, a financial services partner at
KPMG, said in the statement. “Care needs to be taken that the
banks are not being asked to do too much too soon.”  ’Relentless’ Lobbying  Sheila Bair , the former chairwoman of the  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation , told Bloomberg Television yesterday that
banks should be subject to a minimum leverage ratio of 8
percent. The level of bank lobbying of regulators on the
leverage ratio has been “disheartening” and “relentless,”
Bair said.  International standards set by the Basel committee require
banks to meet minimum  capital requirements , measured as a
percentage of their assets. The amount of capital that must be
held is linked to the riskiness of the assets, with large banks
allowed to use their own models to calculate the likelihood of
losses. This process is known as risk-weighting.  The Bank of England in June ordered the five largest U.K.
lenders, including Barclays Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, to plug a 13.4 billion-pound
capital shortfall by the end of the year.  The Basel committee brings together bank regulators from
nations including the U.K., U.S. and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  