-- U.S. Soccer Head Says FIFA Failed to Consider Qatari Weather
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-11T11:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/u-s-soccer-head-says-fifa-failed-to-consider-qatari-weather.html
U.S. Soccer President Sunil Gulati
says FIFA officials should have held more discussions about
 Qatar ’s summer temperatures before the Middle Eastern country
was awarded World Cup 2022 hosting rights in December 2010.  “What led to their decision when those facts were known
three years ago?” Gulati said yesterday at the Bloomberg Sports
Business Summit hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in New York. “There’s
a number of people that should answer that question.”  Sepp Blatter, president of FIFA, the sport’s global ruling
body, wants to move the tournament to the winter because Qatar’s
temperatures of 50 degrees Celsius (122 degrees Fahrenheit) in
June and July, when the World Cup is traditionally held, could
be dangerous for players and fans. FIFA’s executive committee
will meet in Zurich on Oct. 3 and 4 to discuss the possible
switch.  “We knew the temperature back then,” said Gulati, who
is a member of the executive board. “Qatar has a plan to cool
open-air stadiums. I’m not sure what you do about training
sites.”  Europe’s biggest soccer leagues and clubs yesterday urged
FIFA to avoid rescheduling the competition to the Qatari and
European winter until an assessment has been carried out.
They’re concerned about the potential disruption to national
leagues and clashes with other sporting events. Most European
domestic soccer competitions are in mid-season in the winter
months.  “It affects a lot of things: television, commercial
issues, players, spectators,” Gulati said. “It doesn’t affect
the schedule for one year, it affects the schedule probably for
four years.”  AS Roma President James Pallotta, speaking alongside Gulati
at yesterday’s event, said he expects the 2022 tournament won’t
be moved.  “The scheduling side of it is just so incredible,”
Pallotta said. “At the end of the day, the players will pretty
much be OK in the stadiums and training. I think it’s the fans
that are the ones who are going to live with the 120 degrees.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  