-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Sept. 6 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-09-11T14:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-sept-6-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 15.9 million
barrels per day during the week ending September 6, 2013,
roughly the same as the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 92.5 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production was flat compared to the previous week,
averaging 9.1 million barrels per day. Distillate fuel
production was also unchanged last week, averaging about 5.0
million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 8.0 million barrels per
day last week, down by 238 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports
averaged over 8.1 million barrels per day. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 401 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 99 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 0.2 million barrels
from the previous week. At 360.0 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are near the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by
1.7 million barrels last week and are in the upper half of the
average range. Finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories increased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories increased by 2.6 million barrels last week but
remain near the lower limit of the average range for this time
of year. Propane/propylene inventories decreased by 0.1 million
barrels last week and are in the middle of the average range.
Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 4.1 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period averaged
19.0 million barrels per day, up by 1.7 percent from the same
period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor gasoline
product supplied averaged about 9.0 million barrels per day.
Distillate fuel product supplied averaged 3.7 million barrels
per day over the last four weeks, up by 8.6 percent from the
same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 6.8 percent
higher over the last four weeks compared to the same four-week
period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  