-- U.S. Urges Fairness in Bangladesh’s Tax Case Against Yunus
-- B y   J a m e s   G u n s a l u s
-- 2013-09-11T03:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/u-s-urges-fairness-in-bangladesh-tax-evasion-case-against-yunus.html
The U.S. said it’s concerned that
the government of  Bangladesh  may pursue a tax evasion case
against Grameen Bank founder  Muhammad Yunus , and urged fair and
transparent treatment of the Nobel laureate.  Yunus has improved the lives of Bangladesh’s poorest
citizens through Grameen’s microfinancing, lending to 8.3
million people, 96 percent of whom are women, the State
Department said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The U.S.
also expects Bangladesh to name a qualified managing director to
replace Yunus, according to the statement.  Bangladesh’s tax authority plans to serve notice on Yunus
for alleged violation of tax exemption rules, following Prime
Minister Sheikh Hasina’s approval for the National Board of
Revenue to take action. The notice is based on a probe of
foreign income Yunus earned and tax treatment he received from
2004 to 2011, according to a letter the board released to
reporters on Sept. 9.  Yunus received tax exemptions valued at 126.54 million taka
($1.6 million) on 506.18 million taka given to him in
honorariums, awards and royalties from foreign sources,
according to the letter. Yunus did not get permission from the
government before receiving the money as a “public servant” in
accordance with tax laws, the board said.  Escalating Tension  A government review earlier this year concluded that
because Grameen was created under a special law, it should be
considered a government bank.  Yunus, 73, didn’t breach any law as Grameen’s managing
director and his activities were approved by the bank’s board,
the  Yunus Centre , which promotes his ideas and programs, said in
an e-mailed statement on the tax case. He resigned from Grameen
in 2011 after the country’s central bank said he’d breached
retirement norms by leading the company after turning 60.  Hasina’s approval of the tax authority action follows a
finance ministry panel’s recommendation that the government
replace officials on Grameen’s board and take control of parts
of the business.  Tensions between Yunus, who gained global recognition in
2006 after winning the  Nobel prize , and Hasina have escalated
since he signaled an interest in entering politics a year later.  Government involvement with the bank has met with concern
from global leaders including Virgin Group Chairman  Richard Branson  and former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who
have urged Hasina not to seize control of the company.  Thirty-two U.S. Congress members called on Hasina not to
implement the recommendations, which would “undermine the women
borrowers and shareholders who have made the bank such a
success,” they wrote in an open letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Gunsalus in Tokyo at 
 jgunsalus@bloomberg.net  