-- U.S. Lacks Afghan Anti-Corruption Goals After $96 Billion
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-09-11T17:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/u-s-lacks-afghan-anti-corruption-goals-after-96-billion.html
The U.S. doesn’t have a clear
strategy to combat corruption in  Afghanistan  after providing $96
billion in reconstruction aid since 2002, according to a
government watchdog’s audit.  The “anti-corruption activities in Afghanistan are not
guided by a comprehensive U.S. strategy or related guidance that
defines clear goals and objectives,” John Sopko, the special
inspector general for Afghanistan reconstruction, wrote in a
report issued today.  The U.S. plans to continue billions of dollars in aid to
the country after withdrawing combat troops by the end of next
year. Afghanistan tied Somalia and  North Korea  as the most
corrupt country in the world, according to a ranking last year
by  Transparency International .  The U.S. State Department “never finalized the draft 2010
U.S. anti-corruption strategy” and instead uses two other
documents that lack “specific goals and objectives with
measurable outcomes for anti-corruption activities,” Sopko
wrote in today’s report addressed to Secretary of State  John Kerry  and James Cunningham, the U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan.  Sopko has highlighted corruption in Afghan ministries in
previous reports, and in August an investigation by his office
led the U.S. Justice Department to  freeze $63 million  in
American funds from the bank accounts of an Afghan trucking
contractor. The inspector general’s office cited court documents
showing that the contractor had defrauded the U.S. of $77
million by charging inflated prices for delivering military
supplies.  Plan Abandoned  Although the U.S. embassy in Kabul prepared a draft plan in
2010 to combat graft in Afghan institutions, it was never
approved by the State Department after the death that year of
 Richard Holbrooke , who was special representative for
Afghanistan and  Pakistan , Sopko said in today’s report.  The embassy abandoned that anti-corruption plan because it
used a “resource-intensive approach that is not sustainable”
given U.S. plans to withdraw combat troops and hand over
security responsibilities to the Afghan government, Sopko wrote.  Instead, the embassy has three working groups overseen by
the deputy ambassador and an approach lacking a method of
tracking progress over time, Sopko said in the report.  The State Department should draw up a comprehensive anti-corruption strategy that measures outcomes and identifies
resources it needs to implement such a plan, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  