-- Humberto Is Season’s First Hurricane as Gabrielle Drifts
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-09-11T21:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/humberto-is-season-s-first-hurricane-as-gabrielle-stalls.html
Hurricane Humberto, the first such
system of the season, strengthened in the Atlantic west of the
Cape Verde Islands as Tropical Storm Gabrielle weakened after
passing  Bermuda .  Humberto’s maximum sustained winds increased to 85 miles
(137 kilometers) per hour from 80 mph earlier. It was declared a
hurricane at 5 a.m., missing the record for the tardiest big
storm since satellites began watching the Atlantic in 1967. The
mark for the latest that such a powerful storm has formed is
held by 2002’s Gustav, born at 8 a.m. on Sept. 11, said  Dennis Feltgen , a National Hurricane Center spokesman.  Jared Smith, an operational meteorologist at MDA Weather
Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said Humberto will only get
about halfway across the Atlantic before turning onto a
northward track.  “It’s pretty much a non-story for anyone in North
America,” he said.  Humberto was about 360 miles west-northwest of the Cape
Verde Islands and moving north at 12 mph  as of 5 p.m.   New York 
time, the center said.  Gabrielle’s Track  Gabrielle was moving  west-northwest at 5 mph with maximum
sustained winds of 40 mph, down from 45 mph earlier, the center
said. It was about 620 miles south-southeast of  Massachusetts ’
Nantucket Island and expected to take a path that will brush
Nova Scotia and cross Newfoundland later this week.  “Gabrielle is really a discombobulated storm,” said Dan Kottlowski, a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in State
College,  Pennsylvania . “Frankly, I think we’re sitting on a
dead horse here.”  The storm is being torn apart by wind shear and a cold
front will push it away from the U.S. East Coast, he said.  That doesn’t mean the threat to the Canadian Maritime
provinces has eased. When a system runs into a cold front coming
off the North American continent, it’s possible for the storm to
gain power and strength even if it isn’t a tropical entity
anymore, Kottlowski said.  “That interaction causes a storm to intensify,” he said.  Canada Outlook  The cold front is expected to bring heavy rain across New
Brunswick in the next two days and the moisture from Gabrielle
will “form a second swath of heavy rain” over Nova Scotia,
Prince  Edward Island  and Newfoundland by the end of the week,
according to the  Canadian Hurricane Centre  in Dartmouth, Nova
Scotia.  The same front is expected to turn Humberto away from North
America next week, Kottlowski said.  Eight named storms have formed in the Atlantic so far this
season, which began June 1 and runs through Nov. 30. The systems
are followed closely by energy and commodity markets because
they can disrupt supply and demand of petroleum products,
natural gas and crops.  The Gulf of Mexico is home to about 5.6 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 23 percent of oil production and more than
45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  Florida , which is struck by tropical systems
more often than any U.S. state, is the second-largest producer
of oranges after  Brazil .  A system gets a name when its winds reach 39 mph and it
becomes a tropical storm. Yesterday was the statistical peak of
the Atlantic season.  Systems Watched  The U.S. hurricane center is  also tracking two areas  of
disturbed weather that may strengthen into tropical systems.  The first, near Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula, is expected to
move into the Bay of Campeche tomorrow and has a 70 percent
chance of becoming a tropical depression or storm in the next
five days, the center said. Petroleos Mexicanos, Mexico’s state-owned oil company, known as Pemex, has rigs in the bay.  The water in the bay is so warm it’s possible Tropical
Storm Ingrid could be on the hurricane center’s tracking map in
the next few days, Kottlowski said.  If any storm forms there, it will probably stay south of
U.S. energy production areas in the Gulf of  Mexico , said MDA’s
Smith. The system is forecast to bring heavy rains across the
Yucatan, Belize and Guatemala in the next two days.  The second area being monitored is about 700 miles east of
the Leeward Islands and has a 10 percent chance of becoming
tropical in the next five days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  