-- Umpqua Agrees to Buy Sterling Financial for $2 Billion
-- B y   D a n   R e i c h l
-- 2013-09-12T14:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/umpqua-agrees-to-buy-sterling-financial-for-2-billion.html
Umpqua Holdings Corp. (UMPQ) ,  Oregon ’s
biggest bank, agreed to pay about $2 billion in stock and cash
to buy Sterling Financial Corp., the lender backed by Warburg
Pincus LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP.  Sterling holders will receive 1.671 shares of Umpqua stock
and $2.18 in cash for each of their shares, the companies said
yesterday in a statement. That values Spokane, Washington-based
Sterling at $30.52 a share, 26 percent more than its $24.20
close on Aug. 30, when Bloomberg reported Sterling was for sale.  “With our size, shared cultures and financial strength,
our combined organization will be uniquely positioned to deliver
value,” Umpqua Chief Executive Officer Raymond P. Davis, who
will lead the combined company, said in the statement.  Buying Sterling would  double Umpqua’s size  to about $22
billion in assets and almost 400 branches.  Warburg Pincus  and
Thomas H. Lee, the private-equity firms, each held more than 20
percent of Sterling’s  common stock  at midyear.  Sterling advanced 7 percent to $28.40 at 9:47 a.m. in New
York. Umpqua slid 4.3 percent to $16.23. Both boards approved
the deal, which will be completed in the first half of next
year, the banks said.  Davis has sought to bulk up Umpqua over the past two years
through mergers and acquisitions. The lender bought Financial
Pacific Holding Corp. in July, and last year added Circle
Bancorp, a six-branch lender in Novato,  California .  Sterling took $303 million from the U.S. Treasury
Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, repaid a year ago
through a public stock offering. The bank, run by CEO Greg Seibly, had $9.9 billion in assets as of midyear, with deposits
of $6.6 billion from about 170 branches in Washington, Oregon,
 Idaho  and California.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. provided financial advice to Umpqua,
and Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz was the legal adviser. Sterling
used Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP as financial adviser and
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP for legal advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Reichl in  San Francisco  at 
 dreichl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  