-- Hungary CPI Drop to 39-Year Low Widens Room for Rate Cuts
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-09-11T08:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/hungary-cpi-drop-to-39-year-low-widens-room-for-rate-cuts.html
Hungarian inflation was the slowest
in more than 39 years in August as government-mandated cuts in
household energy costs reined in price growth and widened the
central bank’s room to lower borrowing costs more.  Consumer prices  rose 1.3 percent from a year earlier after
a 1.8 percent increase in July, the Budapest-based statistics
office said today. The median estimate of 15 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was 1.5 percent. Prices fell 0.3 percent from July.  As he prepares for elections next year, Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  is pushing utility-price cuts, which have helped
keep inflation below than the central bank’s 3 percent target
since February. Monetary-policy makers lowered borrowing costs
for a 13th month in August, bringing the benchmark to a record
3.8 percent.  “What a wheeze of a strategy from the Orban
administration,” Timothy Ash, a London-based analyst at
 Standard Bank (STAN)  Group Ltd., wrote by e-mail. “Force mostly
foreign-owned  utility companies  to cut prices, and this drives
headline inflation lower, enabling the” central bank “to
continue to cut policy rates. And all this is happening just
prior to elections.”  The forint was little changed at 299.43 per euro at 9:53
a.m. in Budapest after rising to its strongest in two weeks
yesterday. It has appreciated 0.8 percent over the past six
months, the best performance among 24 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut its benchmark rate 0.2
percentage point last month, more than economists predicted,
after inflation data “surprised a bit” and showed the need for
further easing to reach policy makers’ target, Vice President
Adam Balog said on Sept. 5.  Utility Prices  Household energy prices dropped 8.7 percent in August from
the same month last year. Orban’s ruling Fidesz party supports
another 11.1 percent cut in the household price of natural gas,
district heating and electricity by Nov. 1 on top of a 10
percent reduction this year, Antal Rogan, the party’s
parliamentary leader, said on Sept. 5.  Central bank policy makers last month slowed the pace of
rate cuts after 12 consecutive quarter-point reductions as they
seek to fortify a recovery from last year’s recession while
safeguarding financial stability and the attractiveness of local
assets as the  Federal Reserve  considers when to start paring its
stimulus.  Hungary’s growth and inflation outlook justify further
monetary easing while global risks warrant policy caution, rate
setters said Aug. 27.  Food prices dropped 1 percent in August from the previous
month, while the cost of clothing and footwear fell 2.1 percent,
the statistics office said. The core inflation rate, which
strips out volatile items such as energy costs, rose 3 percent
from August 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  