-- Hungary Central Bank Backs Lenders on Mortgage Conversion
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-09-11T14:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/hungary-central-bank-backs-lenders-on-mortgage-conversion.html
Hungary’s central bank said it
agrees with commercial lenders that the country should avoid the
one-time conversion of billions of dollars of foreign-currency
mortgages into forint.  “Based on financial-stability considerations,” the bank
“opposes any solution that seeks to focus all the burden on one
moment,” President  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told reporters today in
Budapest. The bank is awaiting government proposals on how to
ease the burden on foreign-currency mortgage holders, though any
plan shouldn’t threaten its inflation goal, he said.  Hungarian lenders back the gradual conversion of foreign-currency mortgages into forint to avoid “drastically”
weakening the currency and are asking the central bank to
provide the funds in tranches, Banking Association Chairman
Mihaly Patai said yesterday. Prime Minister Viktor Orban, under
pressure from the radical Jobbik party to help borrowers before
2014 elections, has said he wants the issue resolved by Nov. 1.  The central bank is ready to provide funds from its
foreign-currency reserves at the daily exchange rate to help
lenders convert mortgages, so long as it doesn’t endanger its
reserves ratio, Matolcsy told reporters today in Budapest.  The forint was 0.1 percent weaker at 299.55 per euro at
4:05 p.m. in Budapest. It’s risen 0.6 percent in the last six
months, the only gainer in that period among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest lender, rose 1.2 percent
to 4,300 forint. Its share price has tumbled 15 percent since
July 16, when a minister said the cabinet would start working on
a new relief plan for foreign-currency mortgage borrowers.  Hungarians hold 1.81 trillion forint ($7.4 billion) in
foreign-currency mortgages and an additional 1.68 trillion
forint in home-equity loans denominated in currencies other than
the forint. That equates to 13 percent of economic output,
according to data compiled by the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development. About two-thirds of all
Hungarian mortgages are denominated in Swiss francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  