-- Hungary Rate Cut Bets Extend as Inflation Slows: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-09-11T12:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/hungary-rate-cut-bets-extend-as-inflation-slows-budapest-mover.html
Investors extended wagers on
Hungary cutting interest  rates  after inflation dropped to the
slowest in 39 years.  Forward-rate agreements for three-month interest in three
months time fell eight basis points to 3.46 percent by 12:56
p.m. in Budapest, 29 basis points below the Budapest interbank
offered rate, the biggest discount in two weeks. The forint
gained 0.1 percent to 299.04 per euro, paring its depreciation
in the third quarter to 1.3 percent.  Consumer price growth slowed to 1.3 percent in the year to
August from 1.8 percent the previous month, the statistics
office said today. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank, which cut benchmark
borrowing costs by 20 basis points last month to a record 3.8
percent, may reduce to as low as 3 percent if the forint’s level
allows, according to  Daniel Hewitt , a London-based economist at
Barclays Plc. Inflation will probably slow further this year and
next as the government mandates more utility and energy price
cuts, Hewitt said in an e-mailed report today.  “The very low headline inflation supports continued
National Bank of Hungary rate cuts,” Hewitt said. “We do not
expect the NBH will hike rates before 2015.”  Nine-month forward-rate agreements, which last week priced
in an increase of as much as 38 basis points, traded four basis
points above the BUBOR today.  The outlook for further rate cuts spurred by the decline in
inflation is “forint negative,”  Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based
analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , wrote in an e-mailed report today. “We expect euro-forint not to return to
below the 300 level in a stable manner in the next 1.5 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  