-- Hungary Central Bank Expands Lending Plan to Boost GDP
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-09-11T15:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/hungary-central-bank-expands-lending-plan-to-boost-gdp.html
Hungary’s central bank will expand
its Funding for Growth program through the end of 2014 in a bid
to boost the economy after last year’s recession.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will provide as much as 2 trillion
forint ($8.9 billion) in interest-free funding to commercial
lenders, President  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told reporters today,
extending a 750 billion-forint initiative that began in June. It
will offer 500 billion forint starting October, with 90 percent
earmarked for new loans to small and medium-sized companies.  Central banks around the world are looking for ways beyond
interest rates to stimulate economic growth. Hungarian policy
makers, who cut the benchmark rate to a record 3.8 percent last
month, have further room to ease monetary policy, Matolcsy said
today. Gross domestic product expanded 0.1 percent from the
previous three months in the second quarter.  “The Funding for Growth program will substantially
strengthen the country’s return to growth in the coming years,”
Matolcsy said. The funding, which banks must lend at an  interest
rate  not exceeding 2.5 percent, may boost GDP by as much as a
cumulative 2.4 percent through 2014, he said.  The forint dropped 0.1 percent to 299.6 per euro by 4:10
p.m. in Budapest, paring a 0.3 percent gain yesterday. OTP Bank
Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, rose 1.3 percent, the largest
gain among 15 eastern European banks tracked by Bloomberg.  The first phase of the Funding for Growth plan expires
Sept. 30. Lenders extended 32 percent of interest-free funding
for new investments, with an additional 40 percent going to loan
refinancing, the central bank said today, based on data after 60
percent of the available funds were used.  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks
including  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Bayerische Landesbank AG,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , and
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)  The central bank has said it will allocate
the zero-rate funding to help smaller domestic banks gain market
share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  