-- Lutnick Recalls 9/11, Start of $270 Million Disaster Fund
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-09-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/lutnick-recalls-9-11-start-of-270-million-disaster-fund.html
On Sept. 11, 2001, Howard Lutnick,
the chief executive of  Cantor Fitzgerald LP , lost 658 employees,
including his brother, at the World Trade Center.  Three days later, he began rebuilding Cantor so that it
could take care of the victims’ surviving families by giving
them 25 percent of the company’s profits for five years.  He established the  Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund , using the
25 percent and other contributions. It now totals more than $270
million and has also supported those affected by Hurricane
Katrina, the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami and last year’s
superstorm Sandy.  Cantor also began an annual Charity Day, which is today --
brokers donate their Sept. 11 pay to the fund and have raised
$89 million.  Lutnick, who recounts the horror of Sept. 11 in a
documentary released this week, “Out of the Clear Blue Sky,”
talked about how the attack affected him and Cantor over lunch
at Bloomberg News headquarters in New York. (His sister, Edie Lutnick, a lawyer and the fund’s co-founder, answered questions
by phone.)  Cole: How did Sept. 11 change your outlook on life and
business?  Lutnick: My mom died of cancer when I was 16, and 18 months
later my father also had cancer and went in for his first
chemotherapy shot. The nurse gave him 100 times the dose and
killed him.  Seeing Hell  My extended family pulled out. I think they were afraid
we’d be sticky, we’d come over and never leave. I never spoke to
my father’s brother after my father’s funeral. If you look at
Sept. 11, I was not going to let what happened to me ever repeat
itself. I had seen what hell looked like, and I had been there.  Cole: You must have been haunted by the attack.  Lutnick: The first night, it was 3:30 a.m. and I had the
worst dream ever. I watched a spider make a web and it came down
on my face and suffocated me, and I woke up screaming.  The other dream I had was putting my feet on the transom in
my office looking out the window, and I would see the plane
coming. I know what’s going to happen. I have enough time to get
out. But I never get out because I’m grabbing other people. I
had that dream for two or three years.  Cole: How did your priorities change?  Distributing Money  Lutnick: We rebuilt the company in order to have short-term
earnings to take care of the families. That’s the only thing
that mattered to me. Every decision I made was a short-term
decision so that we could give 25 percent of the profits to the
families. Edie’s job was to figure out how to distribute the
money and take care of them in every way humanly possible.  Cole: Who did you turn to for advice on creating the Cantor
Fitzgerald Relief Fund?  Lutnick: It was definitely a creation from scratch. I knew
that I needed to touch the families, and I knew that it had to
be me or the equivalent of me. My sister is the equivalent of
me. Edie didn’t want to do it because she was crying all day,
sick to her stomach all night, but she had to do it.  Cole: The fund’s scope over the years has been expanded to
disasters such as  Hurricane Sandy  victims to whom you gave $10
million in $1,000 debit cards. Why did you decide to give cash
grants?  Edie Lutnick: We learned from Sept. 11 that if we can give
families direct financial aid, they would do the right thing for
their family. That was a core model for us.  When Sandy hit, we still had funds from Charity Day left
over, and Howard and I talked about what the fund could do. We
said we wanted to help Sandy victims in a big way.  More Taxes?  Cole: Let’s talk about taxes, Howard. Warren Buffett says
that the rich should pay more taxes. Do you agree?  Lutnick: I disagree. I don’t think that sending more money
to the U.S. government is going to make a darn bit of
difference. I like the concept of incentives because I’m a
businessman. If  Warren Buffett  has got an extra $100 million,
and he’s doing nothing with it, then you should send it to
government.  But if you invest it in creating jobs, then you should get
a credit and not pay. And Warren Buffett is smart enough that I
bet you that if he invests that $100 million he will employ
people and make money.  Cole: What about giving to national parks?  School Money  Lutnick: Love the idea of parks. The key is that I want to
give my money in ways I think are worthwhile. I believe in
charity because I make the choice. We give money through schools
because I want to do it with the principal of the elementary
school standing next to me, so that when I leave, these parents
think, “How great was the principal for arranging that!”  Cole: What philanthropic issues aren’t getting enough
attention?  Lutnick: Articulating the percentage of money raised that
goes to the purpose at hand is gigantically important. It
disgusts me, these organizations that take 35 cents of a dollar
off the top and have big real-estate holdings and salaries,
because that’s not the purpose.  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining, Joe Mysak on
 books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  