-- Verizon Pays Premium to Top Apple Bond Record
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d ,   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-11T12:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/verizon-pays-premium-to-top-apple-bond-record.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  is
poised to pay investors a premium on an unprecedented $49
billion of bonds, a cost  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  escaped during its then-record $17 billion offering four months ago.  The telephone company may sell $11 billion of 10-year bonds
today at a yield that’s 225 basis points more than Treasuries,
according to a person with knowledge of the issue. The yield is
47 basis points more than investors demand to own bonds with
similar maturities and BBB ratings, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. Apple issued $5.5 billion of 10-year bonds on
April 30 at less than the market rate.  While Apple had $145 billion of cash and no debt when it
tapped credit markets for the first time in more than a decade,
New York-based Verizon will add to its $49 billion of bonds
already outstanding to bolster a cash position that accounts for
less than 2 percent of the $130 billion it needs to obtain full
control of Verizon Wireless from Vodafone Group Plc.  “The new issue concession is significant,” Dorian Garay,
a New York-based money manager at ING Investment Management,
which oversees about $230 billion, said today in a telephone
interview. “They’re trying to lock in  interest rates  now
because of all the concern about rising rates, and at the same
time lock up most of the funding for the acquisition, so they
have to pay up for sure.”  ‘Best Deal’  Verizon is marketing eight portions of dollar-denominated
bonds, said the person, who asked not to be identified, citing
lack of authorization to speak publicly. It’s also postponed
investor meetings in  Europe  linked to the deal that were
scheduled to begin tomorrow.  The potential spread on its 10-year portion compares with a
relative yield of 178 basis points for bonds maturing in seven
to 10 years with a Bloomberg composite rating of BBB. Those
securities yielded 4.52 percent yesterday, Bloomberg data show.  Verizon “is not a company dictating terms,” said Matthew Duch, who helps oversee $12 billion as a  money manager  in
Bethesda,  Maryland , at Calvert Investments Inc., which plans to
purchase a portion of the new bonds. “Verizon is not sticking
to saying, ‘We need the best price,’ as much as, ‘We need to get
the best deal done.’”  The company’s $1.75 billion of 2.45 percent notes due
November 2022 dropped to a record-low 83.9 cents on the dollar
yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The decline
pushed the yield to 4.63 percent, or 166.2 basis points more
than Treasuries. Two months ago, the spread was 97.8.  Rising Leverage  Apple, which yesterday unveiled two new iPhones, sold its
2.4 percent notes due 2023 at a spread of 75 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. A day before the Cupertino, California-based company’s six-part offering, relative yields on AA ranked
securities due between 2020 and 2023 were 83.6 basis points.  “Apple didn’t need the money” and “it was an
opportunistic issuance,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income
portfolio manager at Cabot Money Management in Salem,
 Massachusetts . “Verizon is a leveraged company, and they’re
leveraging out again with this.”  Bob Varettoni , a Verizon spokesman, declined to comment on
the sale. Verizon had its  credit grades  cut to Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB+ at  Standard & Poor’s  on Sept. 2, with
both firms citing heightened leverage from the acquisition.  The purchase may boost Verizon’s ratio of debt to  cash flow 
to 3.4 from 3, according to S&P, which will contribute to a
“significant” financial risk profile.  Investor Compensation  Along with $4 billion of floating-rate debt due in 2016 and
2018, Verizon also plans to sell $4.25 billion of three-year,
fixed-rate notes that may yield 165 basis points more than
Treasuries; $4.75 billion of five-year debt with a spread of 190
basis points; $4 billion of seven-year securities that pay 215;
$6 billion of 20-year bonds yielding 250 more than benchmarks;
and a $15 billion, 30-year portion with a spread of 265, the
person said.  The estimates “seem like it’s a pretty good balance” for
investors to be fairly compensated for the company’s increase in
debt, said Greg Tornga, who manages $7.5 billion as head of
fixed income at Edge Asset Management in  Seattle . “From an
investor standpoint, the last thing we want to see is that the
bonds got priced so tight that they get socked afterward.”  While Apple could hardly have picked a better time to sell
bonds, Verizon is borrowing after a surge in benchmark borrowing
costs. Ten-year Treasuries yielded  2.96 percent  yesterday,
climbing from 1.67 percent the day of Apple’s offering amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  may curtail its unprecedented
stimulus measures.  ‘Limited Window’  “The environment is very different, with a high degree of
expectations regarding tapering having a definite effect on the
yield curve, which is working against Verizon,” said Alan Shepard, an analyst and money manager at Madison Investment
Advisors. His firm oversees about $16 billion in Madison,
 Wisconsin .  The risk of a further rise in rates may be pressuring
Verizon management to borrow as soon as possible. Francis Shammo, the company’s chief financial officer, said on a Sept. 3
conference call that “we’re going to move as quickly as we
possibly can” to replace a $61 billion bridge loan to initially
help finance the purchase with more permanent borrowings.  Barclays, JPMorgan  With the acquisition, Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam
would obtain full control of  Verizon Wireless  after years of
stalled negotiations with Newbury, England-based Vodafone. The
deal is about the size of Verizon’s market value.  The bond offering is being managed by Barclays Plc, Bank of
America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, the same
banks that agreed to supply the bridge loan.  “They have a limited window to get this deal done, so
that’s why you see spreads so big that you could drive a truck
through,” Scott Colyer, the chief executive officer of
Monument, Colorado-based Advisors Asset Management, which
oversees about $11.6 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“They need to do more financing in the future, so they’re
pricing it cheap so it trades well after the deals close.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  