-- Verizon’s $265 Million in Bond-Sale Fees Exceed Average
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-09-12T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/verizon-pays-265-million-in-fees-on-record-bond-sale.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  paid
banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanley $265.3
million in fees to underwrite the second-biggest U.S. telephone
carrier’s record $49 billion bond sale yesterday.  The fees amount to 0.541 percent of the funds raised,
exceeding the average 0.486 percent paid on offerings of
investment-grade U.S. corporate bonds this year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The four leading underwriters, also including
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Bank of America Corp. , each underwrote 15.7
percent of the sale, according to a regulatory filing, and would
get $41.6 million apiece if commissions are divided in
proportion to firms’ involvement.  The eight-part offering, which includes $15 billion of 30-year bonds, is helping to fund New York-based Verizon’s $130
billion buyout of partner  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD) ’s 45 percent stake
in the largest and most profitable U.S. wireless carrier,
Verizon Wireless. The sale is more than double the previous
issuance record of $17 billion from Apple Inc. sold in April.  The fees may help sustain a jump in banks’ earnings from
issuing corporate debt amid low  interest rates . The five largest
Wall Street firms generated $14.3 billion in debt underwriting
revenue in the 12 months ended in June, up from $10 billion in
2011 and $11 billion in 2010, according to data from Bloomberg
Industries.  Apple Fees  Verizon’s fees are about five times what Apple paid for its
April offering, which was approximately one-third the size of
Verizon’s. Apple’s $53.25 million in fees amounted to 0.313
percent of the funds raised.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Deutsche Bank AG led that offering.  The four primary banks on today’s deal also generated
revenue as advisers on the deal and lenders on Verizon’s $61
billion bridge loan, which funded the $58.9 billion in cash that
Verizon agreed to pay Vodafone. Verizon said earlier this month
that it planned to bring down the size of the bridge commitment
with the bond issuance.  JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were lead financial advisers to
Verizon on its purchase of the stake, along with Guggenheim
Securities LLC and Paul J. Taubman, Morgan Stanley’s former head
of investment banking. Barclays and Bank of America also advised
Verizon on the acquisition.  Other banks that each handled 4.8 percent of the bond
offering were  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,  Royal
Bank of Canada , Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , the filing shows. Deutsche Bank and Banco Santander SA each
underwrote 1.8 percent of the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  