-- Vivendi Gets Closer to Split With Bollore as Deputy Chairman
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-09-12T07:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/vivendi-prepares-for-company-split-names-bollore-vice-chairman.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  moved closer to a long-discussed plan to split its telecommunications business from
media assets, marking another sweeping reorganization of the
former French utility.  Bowing to investor pressure to overhaul its structure,
Vivendi will begin a formal study to separate its French phone
unit SFR and assemble the rest of its businesses into a new
international media group based in  France , it said yesterday.
Billionaire shareholder  Vincent Bollore  will become deputy
chairman, as Vivendi ends its search for a new chief executive.  The division, similar to  Rupert Murdoch ’s split of his
publishing business from the rest of the News Corp. media
empire, gives further impetus to the shakeup of  Europe ’s
telecommunications industry. In the past week, Vodafone Group
Plc agreed to sell its U.S. wireless business for $130 billion
and Microsoft Corp. took over Europe’s last major handset-making
business, owned by Nokia Oyj.  “The board agreed there were no synergies between telecoms
and content, and that was dragging down Vivendi because of a
holding structure discount,” Bollore said in an interview with
Les Echos newspaper. “A split is an attractive plan, and it has
my full support.”  Europe Cinema  Music, pay-TV, European cinema and Internet in  Brazil  will
make up the new Vivendi. A final decision on the reorganization
will be made at the beginning of next year before being taken to
shareholders, the Paris-based company said.  Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou is making good on a promise he
made to investors more than a year ago to restructure the
company to boost its market valuation. The 74-year-old Frenchman
in the past quarter agreed to cut Vivendi’s holding in video-games maker  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and entered exclusive talks
to dispose of a controlling stake in Maroc Telecom SA to
 Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)   Asset sales have left him with control of SFR as well as
music company  Universal Music Group , pay-television unit Canal
Plus and Brazilian broadband provider GVT.  Vivendi rose 3.2 percent to 17.23 euros at 9:05 a.m. in
Paris. Even as the stock has rebounded more than 40 percent from
a nine-year low of 12 euros reached in April last year, it is
still trading at 1.26 times  book value , similar to 2008 levels,
data compiled by Bloomberg  show .  Retirement Plan  For years, investors have said Vivendi’s company structure
makes the stock trade at a discount to the value of its assets.
 Bloomberg News  reported in April 2012 that Vivendi was
considering an overhaul that may lead to a breakup of the
company. After announcing the sale of the Activision stake in
July, Vivendi said its board was considering a split.  There will be no further asset sales at Vivendi, Bollore
told Les Echos. Bollore, who owns 5 percent of Vivendi and a 7.1
percent stake of advertising company Havas SA, said there’s no
plan to combine the two entities, he said in the interview.  Fourtou is expected to retire in about a year once
Vivendi’s transformation is well in place, said a person
familiar with the matter, asking not to be named discussing
internal deliberations.  Vivendi plans to keep CEO Jean-Francois Dubos, who stepped
in after predecessor  Jean-Bernard Levy  was removed in June last
year, Bollore was cited as saying in  Les Echos . The company,
which hired a headhunter to identify potential successors, had
been sizing up candidates.  Net Debt  Bollore, 61, has been building up a stake in Vivendi. His
holding is valued at about 1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion).
With holdings in businesses ranging from African ports to an
electric-car sharing service in Paris, Bollore joined Vivendi’s
supervisory committee in December after selling his television
assets to the company.  Taking into account asset disposals including Maroc Telecom
and Activision, Vivendi’s net debt will drop to 6.5 billion
euros from 17.4 billion euros as of June 30, the company said
last month.  For Vivendi, the decision to shift to media marked another
chapter in the improbable transformation of the former water
utility into a global media company. Former CEO Jean-Marie Messier embarked on a $77 billion acquisition spree in music,
film and telecommunications before being pushed aside in a 2002
boardroom coup.  Levy, his successor, went on to reinforce Vivendi’s
presence in telecommunications. Fourtou retook oversight of the
company after Levy was removed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  