-- Water Reserves Found in Drought-Stricken Kenya: UNESCO
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-09-11T13:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/water-reserves-found-in-drought-stricken-kenya-unesco.html
Underground water reserves
discovered in drought-prone northern  Kenya  are big enough that
they may relieve scarcity issues in the region, the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization said.  The Lotikipi Basin aquifer in a semi-barren region west of
Lake Turkana where about 700,000 people live “on its own could
potentially increase Kenya’s strategic water reserves,” UNESCO
said on its website. Smaller Lodwar aquifer could provide life-sustaining water supplies for residents of the capital of
Turkana county, said UNESCO, which conducted the groundwater
mapping project with the Kenyan government and  Japan ’s support.  The Lotikipi reserve is estimated to extend 100 kilometers
(62 miles) by 66 kilometers and may hold as much as 200 billion
cubic meters of water that could be pumped from wells and
boreholes for agricultural and other needs, ITV News said on its
website. The Turkana region is where  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and partner
Africa Oil Corp. in 2012 announced they’d found crude deposits.  Lake Turkana in Kenya’s Rift Valley is about 290 kilometers
long and termed the world’s largest permanent desert lake.  The technology used in the groundwater mapping involved
satellite data, seismic information and remote sensing, with the
findings then confirmed by drilling conducted by UNESCO.  The discovery is important as about 41 percent of Kenya’s
41 million people don’t have access to safe, clean water while
28 million lack adequate sanitation, according to UNESCO. The
country in 2011 experienced its worst drought in six decades,
causing famine in the northern, eastern and coastal regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  