-- Korean Won Snaps Three-Day Gain on Intervention Risk; Bonds Rise
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-09-11T06:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/won-snaps-three-day-advance-on-intervention-risk-bonds-steady.html
South  Korea ’s won snapped a three-day advance amid speculation policy makers will intervene to
weaken the currency, which yesterday reached the strongest level
since February.  Government bonds  climbed.  The won rose as much as 0.45 percent against the dollar
yesterday, before temporarily erasing gains in a half-hour
period on suspected dollar purchases by the central bank. The
currency is still up 5.1 percent this quarter, the best
performance among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and
that erodes the competitiveness of exports that account for
about 45 percent of South Korea’s gross domestic product.  The won declined 0.2 percent to 1,086.55 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, increased nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 7.67 percent.  “Traders are cautious about betting aggressively on the
won, especially when it heads toward the 1,080 level, because of
the risk of intervention,” said Choi Sung Hyun, a currency
trader at  Woori Bank  in Seoul. “Ahead of the holidays,
companies may need to buy the won to cover expenses, and foreign
investors are buying local shares, which may limit the won’s
decline.”  South Korea’s markets are shut Sept. 18-20 for a public
holiday. Overseas investors bought more local equities than they
sold for the 14th straight day today, as data showed the
 unemployment rate  fell to 3.1 percent in August from 3.2 percent
in July.  ‘Definitely Cautious’  The won fell as much as 0.5 percent today, the biggest
intra-day loss since Aug. 22.  “Traders are definitely cautious after yesterday’s
possible intervention by the government,” said Jude Noh, a
currency trader at Suhyup Bank in Seoul. “We suspect the
authorities may have stepped in briefly today,” said Han Sung Min, a currency trader at Busan Bank in Seoul.  South Korea will take steps to check currency volatility,
including imposing a levy on banks’ foreign-currency debt and a
cap on lenders’ currency forward positions, if “herd behavior”
causes drastic movements, the  Finance Ministry  said in a report
submitted to parliament in June.  The won may outperform other Asian currencies in 2014,
Credit Agricole CIB said in a note yesterday, citing the
nation’s current-account surplus and short-term debt. It said it
expects the currency to strengthen to 1,080 per dollar by the
end of this year and 1,040 by end-2014.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016
dropped one basis point to 2.95 percent, Korea Exchange Inc.
prices show.  Bank of Korea  will probably hold its  interest rate 
at 2.5 percent in a policy meeting tomorrow, according to the
median estimate of 15 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  