-- WTI Fluctuates After Obama Delays Syria Strike Decision
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-11T12:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/wti-little-changed-after-falling-most-in-three-weeks-on-syria.html
Brent rose from its lowest level in
two weeks amid speculation that risks of a U.S. attack against
 Syria  and a threat to Middle Eastern oil exports remain even
after President  Barack Obama  decided to delay military strikes.  Futures gained as much as 1.1 percent in London after
losing the most in more than two months yesterday. Obama said in
a televised speech that he asked Congress to delay a vote on the
use of military force while the administration pursues a Russian
proposal for Syria to surrender its chemical arms. Brent’s
recent sell-off is overdone as there are no signs of improvement
in Libyan crude production, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “The tensions with Syria have been eased but they haven’t
been removed,” said Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy at
Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “The market is taking a second
look today, as military strikes have been taken off the table
but obviously could return if there’s no progress” with
diplomatic options.  Brent for October settlement rose as much as $1.24 to
$112.49 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, and traded for $111.80 at 12:42 p.m. local time. It
closed at $111.25 yesterday, the lowest since Aug. 26. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $4.43 to West Texas
Intermediate. The spread shrank for a fourth day yesterday to
$3.86, the narrowest since Aug. 19.  WTI for October delivery rose as much as 61 cents to $108 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
and was at $107.36. The contract dropped 1.9 percent to $107.39
yesterday, the lowest close since Sept. 4. The volume of all
futures traded was about 10 percent more than the 100-day
average.  Sarin Gas  Brent advanced a fourth straight week last week amid
concern that the conflict in Syria would escalate. The U.S. says
Assad’s regime used sarin gas outside of Damascus on Aug. 21,
killing more than 1,400 people.  Obama spent much of his 16-minute address repeating his
arguments for the use of force to deter any future use of
chemical weapons. He also pledged to explore a proposal backed
by Russia to rid Syria of its chemical stockpiles.  “The WTI price growth is the standard rebound, as traders
are opportunistically buying at the low,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , global commodities strategist at VTB Capital in
London. “The situation around Syria doesn’t change much, that’s
why I don’t think the oil-price growth will be sustainable.”  Russian Proposal  President Bashar al-Assad’s government has agreed to the
plan to give up the weapons, the Interfax news agency yesterday
cited Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem as saying. France
said it will submit a plan to the  United Nations  to confiscate
the country’s chemical weapons.  The  Middle East  accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil production in the first quarter of this year, according to
the  International Energy Agency . Syria borders  Iraq , the biggest
producer after  Saudi Arabia  in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  In  Libya , worker strikes at oil ports, terminals, storage
facilities and fields have curbed output to about 150,000
barrels a day,  Jeffrey Currie , a New York-based analyst at
Goldman Sachs, said in an e-mailed report today. The bank
maintained its near-term forecast for Brent at $115 a barrel.
Libya pumped 575,000 barrels a day in August and has capacity to
produce 1.55 million a day, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Crude Inventories  Crude inventories in the U.S., the world’s largest oil
consumer, fell by 2.93 million barrels in the week ended Sept.
6, the  American Petroleum Institute  reported yesterday.  The Energy Information Administration will release separate
data today that will probably show supplies dropped by 2.1
million barrels, according to the median estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Gasoline stockpiles increase by 195,000 barrels, the
industry-funded API said. The government report may show they
slid by 1 million barrels, according to the  survey . Distillate
fuels, including heating oil and diesel, rose 807,000 barrels,
compared with a projected 600,000 gain in the survey.  The API collects supply information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  