-- Yahoo’s Mayer Says Monthly Active Users Climbed 20%
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/yahoo-s-mayer-says-monthly-users-climbed-20-in-august.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Marissa Mayer  said the Web portal has surpassed 800 million
active monthly users, a 20 percent increase since she joined the
company in July 2012.  Attrition is also down, Mayer said in an onstage interview
at the TechCrunch Disrupt conference in  San Francisco  yesterday,
without providing numbers. The monthly user figure doesn’t
include Tumblr Inc., the blogging startup that Yahoo agreed to
buy in May for $1.1 billion, she said.  Mayer’s turnaround effort has so far focused on revamping
Web products and services, and improving worker morale. Yahoo
attracted more U.S. visitors than  Google Inc. (GOOG)  during July, the
first time it did so in more than two years. Still, the Web
portal has failed to woo more advertisers, who continue to shift
budgets to Google and  Facebook Inc. (FB)   “The products have to be good,” Mayer said. “Otherwise,
users don’t come and actually use them.”  Yahoo’s share of the $17.5 billion market for display ads,
its core business, will slip to 7.9 percent in 2013 from 9.2
percent last year, according to researcher EMarketer Inc. Google
will climb almost three percentage points to 18 percent, while
Facebook will increase about two points to 17 percent, EMarketer
said.  Mayer has embarked on an  acquisition spree  that comprised
at least 19 companies, including the purchase of Tumblr, as well
as mobile-application makers Stamped Inc., Jybe Inc. and Summly
Ltd., the news-reading application created by teenager Nick D’Aloisio.  Yahoo fell 1 percent to $29.19 at yesterday’s close in  New
York  before Mayer’s remarks, leaving the stock up 47 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  