-- Yankees’ Radio Broadcasts Moving to Mets’ Home WFAN in 2014
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-11T21:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/yankees-reach-multiyear-agreement-to-be-broadcast-on-wfan-radio.html
The  New York Yankees  are moving
their radio home to  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s WFAN next season, knocking the
 New York  Mets from the station that has carried their games
since it began its all-sports format in 1987.  The 27-time World Series championship franchise agreed on a
multiyear contract with WFAN announced today in an e-mailed
release. The Yankees will leave WCBS, another CBS Corp. station
and their radio home since 2002.  Terms weren’t announced. Newsday reported yesterday that
the new contract would be worth more than $15 million a year.  The Yankees’ games will be heard on WFAN’s AM and FM
stations. CBS also acquired the Major League Baseball team’s
Spanish-language broadcast rights, according to the release.  “The paramount consideration was how our fans would best
be able to hear our games,” Yankees Managing General Partner
 Hal Steinbrenner  said in the release. “Having the Yankees on
WFAN-AM/FM provides listeners in the New York metropolitan area
and beyond with superior broadcast quality and vast territorial
signal strength.”  WFAN has broadcast the National League team’s games since
before All-Star pitcher Matt Harvey was born. There was no
immediate word on where the Mets’ broadcasts might wind up.  Mets spokesman  Jay Horwitz  declined in an e-mail to comment
on the announcement.  “There is no bigger name in baseball than the Yankees, nor
an organization so steeped in tradition,” CBS Radio Chief
Executive Dan Mason said in the statement. “As the nation’s
premier sports radio station, we look forward to capturing all
the excitement surrounding the team, and bringing it to millions
of fans for many years to come.”  WFAN premiered on July 1, 1987, as the first 24-hour, all-sports radio station, according to its website. It is also the
radio home of football’s  New York Giants , hockey’s New Jersey
Devils and basketball’s Brooklyn Nets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  