-- Yuan Fixing Set Near Record High as Premier Li Pledges Reforms
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-09-11T08:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/yuan-fixing-set-near-record-high-as-premier-li-pledges-reforms.html
The People’s Bank of  China  raised
the  yuan ’s reference rate to within 0.005 percent of the
strongest level on record after Premier  Li Keqiang  said the
nation will continue to push for capital-account convertibility.  The PBOC boosted the  daily fixing  0.02 percent to 6.1601
per dollar, just shy of the record 6.1598 on June 17. The spot
rate in Shanghai is allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on
either side of the fixing. China will keep pushing for interest-rate liberalization and will consider making Switzerland an
offshore yuan hub, according to a transcript of Li’s comments
posted on the website of the Xinhua News Agency yesterday. Key
economic indicators in August have shown recovery, Li said.  The yuan gained 0.02 percent to close at 6.1185 per dollar
in Shanghai, China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices show.
The currency has advanced 1.8 percent this year, the best
performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded exchange rates.  “The yuan is resilient as the sentiment on China has
improved based on recent economic data,” said Patrick Cheng, a
Hong Kong-based senior investment analyst at Goldenway Group, a
foreign-exchange brokerage. “A stable and relatively strong
yuan will continue to draw investor interest, helpful for
promoting its global usage.”  China should make its currency more widely used in trade
and settlement, according to a commentary published in China
Securities Journal today.  ‘Turning Point’  The nation reported 10.4 percent growth in  industrial
output  for August yesterday, beating the median forecast for a
9.9 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey. Figures released over
the weekend showed  exports  rose the most in four months.  Asia’s largest economy will rebound after the third
quarter, which is the “ turning point ,” Shanghai Securities
News reported today, citing Wang Jun, a researcher at the China
Center for International Economic Exchanges.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan rose 0.03 percent
to 6.1098 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
after touching a record high of 6.1063 yesterday. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.02 percent to 6.2240 in Hong
Kong, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts
traded at a 1.7 percent  discount  to the onshore rate.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.08
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  