-- Zurich’s Oldest Bank Seeks U.S. Tax-Probe Settlement
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-09-11T14:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-11/zurich-s-oldest-bank-seeks-u-s-tax-probe-settlement.html
Rahn & Bodmer Co. , the Swiss
private bank established by silk traders in 1750, said it’s
cooperating with a U.S. Department of Justice probe into cross-border accounts of American clients.  The bank was probably named by its own clients
participating in a U.S. initiative for the voluntary disclosure
of offshore assets, according to Christian Rahn, a partner at
the closely held firm, which is based in Zurich.  “We are seeking a long-lasting solution,” Rahn said in a
telephone interview today. “All our personal and financial
resources are ready.”  Rahn & Bodmer is part of a category-one group of Swiss
financial firms under investigation by the DoJ for allegedly
helping U.S. clients hide money from the Internal Revenue
Service. The group of 14 includes  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG, the
nation’s second-biggest bank, wealth manager  Julius Baer Group
Ltd. (BAER)  and the Swiss unit of  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   The private bank, which has about 12.4 billion Swiss francs
($13 billion) under management, decided five years ago to stop
accepting undeclared U.S. assets and informed American customers
to retain a tax adviser in their home country, Rahn said. He
declined to provide details on U.S. client funds, saying the
bank is still analyzing accounts.  “The U.S. makes a big difference between those banks that
took on clients from mid-2008 and those that didn’t and we
didn’t,” he said.  No Collapse  Credit Suisse and Julius Baer have said they expect to pay
a fine and hand over client information to resolve the probes.
Rahn said he has “no idea” what the size of his firm’s penalty
might be, adding he was “certain” the investigation wouldn’t
lead to the collapse of the bank.  UBS AG, Switzerland’s largest bank, avoided prosecution by
paying $780 million in 2009, admitting it aided U.S. tax evasion
and handing over data on 4,500 accounts. Wegelin & Co., the
Swiss private bank established nine years before Rahn & Bodmer,
pleaded guilty in January, paid $74 million and closed its
doors.  The DoJ and IRS are pursuing taxpayers and bankers who set
up secret accounts after the UBS deferred-prosecution deal was
announced. Last month, the U.S. announced a program for the rest
of Switzerland’s 300 banks which aren’t already being probed to
come forward, disclose accounts and pay penalties to avoid
prosecution.  Those firms are being sorted into three additional
categories to determine whether they should seek a non-prosecution agreement or non-target letter from the DoJ. The new
program, which was supported by the Swiss government, outlines
escalating penalties for banks that seek to avoid prosecution
depending on when they opened undeclared accounts.  Banks must pay 20 percent of the value of accounts not
disclosed to the IRS on Aug. 1, 2008; 30 percent for such
accounts opened between then and February 2009; and 50 percent
for accounts opened after February 2009. Bank penalties to avoid
prosecution could exceed $1 billion, according to the DoJ.  The probe of Rahn & Bodmer was first reported by Neue
Zuercher Zeitung newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  