-- ‘Desperate Housewives’ Gets Turkish Twist as Disney Looks Abroad
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-09-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/-desperate-housewives-gets-turkish-twist-as-disney-looks-abroad.html
The “ Desperate Housewives ” of
Wisteria Lane have a new address: Istanbul’s Gul street. In
 Russia , Peg and Al Bundy of “Married With Children” have
morphed into Gena and Dasha, who inhabit an apartment in
Yekaterinburg rather than a suburban home near  Chicago .  For decades, American situation comedies and dramas dubbed
into other languages have been standard fare on TV screens
worldwide. Today, broadcasters in Turkey, Russia, and elsewhere
are instead padding their prime-time schedules with locally
produced versions of shows licensed from U.S. studios.  The Istanbul housewives -- named Yasemin, Nermin, Elif,
Zelis and Emel and known as “Desperate Women” -- star in the
eighth-most watched series on Turkish TV courtesy of  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) , which owns global rights to the show. Sony Corp. has remade
“Married With Children” a dozen times for international markets.  “Right now we see that in the Middle East, the TV world
has an exploding appetite for everything,” said  Andrea Wong ,
president of international production at  Sony Pictures
Television. (6758)  “Turkey is a key market and  Israel  is being
explored, as is  India .”  Reality- and game-show concepts have been sold in multiple
markets for many years -- think “Survivor” or “Who Wants to
be a Millionaire?” Now, media companies say, increased
availability of free and paid channels on satellite and cable
systems in  emerging markets  have spawned a growing appetite for
localized versions of American dramas and sitcoms.  Social Mores  Media companies say the shows appeal to audiences who don’t
want to watch dubbed or subtitled programs, and in conservative
cultures plot lines can be adjusted to avoid offending social
mores.  “We have high hopes for this side of the business and
continue to work with our local broadcasters in order to engage
large local audiences,” said Michael Edelstein, president of
international TV production for  NBC Universal , which has adapted
“ Law & Order ” in Russia.  Developing countries  including  Brazil , Turkey, Colombia and
Vietnam make up nine of the top 10 fastest-growing markets in
terms of ad revenue, according to Informa Telecoms & Media in
London. Global advertising, worth $149 billion last year, is
forecast to grow 4 percent in 2012, Informa says.  Disney’s  operating profit  from the U.S. and  Canada  in the
year through Oct. 1, 2011 was $6.4 billion, little changed from
three years prior. Asia-Pacific earnings gained 62 percent to
$627 million during the same period and profit from Latin
America and other markets rose 67 percent to $293 million.  Turkish Doctors  Disney says it plans to announce today that a Turkish
version of “Private Practice,” a spinoff of the hit ABC
medical drama “Grey’s Anatomy,” will start airing next month
on the FOX Turkey channel. That may offer further profit because
Turkish dramas are often sold across the  Middle East .  “Turkish products appeal in the entire region and we can
get secondary revenue by licensing the Turkish drama to other
countries,” said Catherine Powell, senior vice president of
media distribution for Disney EMEA. Turkey’s “Desperate
Women,” now in its second season, was licensed by Disney to
Dubai’s MBC Group, a free-to-air satellite company covering the
Middle East.  As ad revenues in emerging markets rise, broadcasters have
more money to spend on programming, said Stewart Clarke, editor
of London-based magazine Television Business International.
“International TV companies are increasingly keen to have a
presence in these markets,” he said, noting that adaptations
are also thriving in countries like  France  and Germany.  Cannes Market  TV executives gather early next month at the world’s
largest TV content market,  Mipcom , in Cannes, France, where
adaptations from the U.S. and other countries will be bought and
sold. One session at the event will focus on the market for
Turkish dramas and their international adaptation.  “Lots of these markets will continue to grow over the
years, as western markets mature and growth is leveling,” said
Guy Bisson, TV research director at IHS Screen Digest in London.
“Russia, Turkey, Latin America are moving from a small offer of
TV or cable to a large choice of channels and new pay-TV
platforms.”  Once a format is sold to a particular country, the
reformatted script and production are almost always overseen by
a representative of the U.S. companies.  “We will have a consultant on each show who spends a fair
amount of time in that territory,” said Andrew Zein, senior
vice president of creative format development and sales at
 Warner Bros. International TV Production. (TWX)  “Pre-production is
the most important time and we want to see location, designs,
casting.”  Chinese Gossip  Warner Bros .’s Chinese version of “Gossip Girl,” called
“V Girl,” will premier in the second quarter of next year,
Zein said. Russia, which Zein calls a “significant market with
an appetite for scripted format,” will see the “Without a
Trace” series air later this year.  Warner Bros. and Sony Pictures Television have purchased
production houses in recent years to film original content or
remake hit versions. Warner bought Shed Media, the U.K.
production company behind “Supernanny” and “Footballers’
Wives” in 2010. Sony has 18 production companies worldwide.  More conservative markets like the Middle East may require
alterations. Sony says that the Arabic version of “Everybody
Loves Raymond” eliminated a scene where the couple was in bed.  TV executives in  China  requested their adaptation of the
high school musical show “Glee” show the actors in university,
said Yoni Cohen, senior vice president for development and sales
at 20th Century Fox. “Glee,” one of the top-rated shows in the
U.S., could prove problematic in some markets as the show has
openly-gay actors and discusses teen sex and teen pregnancy, he
said.  “We try very hard not to let other cultures dictate,”
Cohen said. “And we’d rather not do a show in the end if it
steps beyond an adaptation and into a reinvention.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  