-- ‘Repair Work’ With Lockheed Needed, Air Force Chief Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-09-18T21:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/-repair-work-with-lockheed-needed-air-force-chief-says.html
The new U.S.  Air Force  chief of
staff said “repair work” is needed to mend relations with
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  as he renewed concern about its F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter.  General Mark Welsh, who became the top uniformed Air Force
officer last month, said he will meet with Lockheed Martin
executives “in a couple of weeks” to review the operating
costs of the F-35, the Pentagon’s costliest weapons program.  “I still have questions about the operating cost of the
airplane,” Welsh told reporters at the annual conference of the
Air Force Association, a civilian group that promotes aerospace
education. “The company knows that. If you can buy it and can’t
afford to fly it, it’s not going to do you much good.”  His comments at the meeting outside of  Washington  came a
day after the new deputy head of the Pentagon’s F-35 program
said his office’s relationship with plane manufacturer Lockheed
Martin is “the worst I’ve ever seen.”  Air Force Major General Christopher Bogdan, on the job five
weeks as deputy program executive officer, fired an unusual
public salvo at Lockheed yesterday for what he described as a
poor partnership in managing the Joint Strike Fighter program.  “We will not succeed on this program until we get past
that,” Bogdan said in a briefing to the association. “We have
to find a better place to be in this relationship. We have to.”  Asked about that assessment today, Welsh told reporters,
“Evidently, there’s some repair work that needs to be done.”  Lockheed’s Statement  Michael Rein, a spokesman for Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed, issued a statement yesterday saying, “We remain
committed to continuing our work to solve program challenges and
build on the momentum and success we’ve achieved during the past
couple of years.”  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, fell 44
cents to $91.77 at the close of  New York  trading and has risen
13 percent this year.  The $395.7 billion F-35 acquisition program has been
subject to criticism for years for ballooning costs. The first
four contracts, for 63 jets, exceeded their combined target cost
by $1 billion, according to congressional auditors.  The $395.7 billion estimate for the entire acquisition
program is a 70 percent increase from the $233 billion projected
in late 2001, when development began, after adjusting for
inflation.  The F-35 “operationally is performing pretty well,” Welsh
said.  Pentagon Cuts  Concern about the fighter’s price tag comes as the Pentagon
is under growing pressure to cut costs. The Defense Department
faces an additional $500 billion in cuts to future spending over
the next decade unless Congress and President  Barack Obama  act
to avert automatic across-the-board cuts that are to begin in
January.  If forced to make more cuts, Welsh said he would begin by
looking at airplanes restricted to a single mission. He cited as
an example the A-10 Warthog, which was developed in the early
1970’s to provide close air support for ground forces.  “The single-mission airplanes are the ones that would get
the most scrutiny first,” Welsh said.  His weapons priorities remain the F-35, the KC-46 tanker,
which is in development, and a future long-range bomber, he
said. “Those three things are fundamental to the future of our
air force,” he said.  While cybersecurity remains a major concern, Welsh said in
his speech, “I’m concerned it’s a black hole” because of what
he described as poorly defined requirements in that emerging
field.  “I’m going to go a little slow on the operational side of
cyber until we know what we’re doing,” he said, telling
reporters afterward, “‘This is a really fuzzy area for a lot of
people, not just the Air Force.’’  Sexual Assaults  Welsh again expressed concern about the sexual-assault
scandal that rocked Lackland Air Force Base in  Texas , where at
least 15 military instructors have been under investigation for
alleged sexual misconduct with trainees.  While the service has tried to deal with the issue of
sexual assaults in the past, Welsh said, ‘‘we’re not making a
difference in the big scheme of things.’’  He said Air Force Secretary Michael Donley will get
recommendations on any changes to policy by the end of October.
Colonel Deborah Liddick has been named to take command of basic
training at the troubled Lackland base on Sept. 21, according to
an Air Force statement.  Welsh, who gave a motivational speech in a packed ballroom
that drew a standing ovation, described his most immediate task
as ‘‘hugging the force.’’  ‘‘Our folks are tired,’’ he told reporters later, citing
two decades of almost constant no-fly-zone and combat missions.
‘‘Their families are tired.’’  He said his immediate mission is to communicate clearly and
motivate his airmen.  ‘‘If I can do that, they’ll take care of everything else,’’
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  