-- Abercrombie Bid Odds Rise as Woes Lure Activist: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-09-18T20:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/abercrombie-deal-odds-rise-as-woes-embolden-whitworth-real-m-a.html
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  is more
susceptible than ever to a takeover as an activist investor
presses for changes amid faltering sales and shifting teen
clothing preferences.  The stock has lost 21 percent in 2012, the most among U.S.
specialty apparel retailers valued at more than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Abercrombie’s
enterprise value is languishing at 5.1 times projected earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization this year,
less than 89 percent of 18 peers, and its price-to-sales ratio
also lags behind 16 competitors, the data show.  Takeover speculation earlier this year has given way to
concern Abercrombie’s strategy is failing, prompting Ralph Whitworth’s Relational Investors LLC to seek changes and the
retailer to hire Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for advice. The
stock’s  slump  has boosted the odds of a private-equity buyout,
RidgeWorth Capital Management Inc. and Alpine Woods Capital
Investors LLC said, with the $3.18 billion company projected to
more than double free  cash flow  this year. It could fetch $55 a
share, a 43 percent premium, Morningstar Inc. said.  “Given the cash flow characteristics, given the premium
brand, it absolutely could be a private-equity or LBO takeout,”
Joshua Schachter, a Sewickley, Pennsylvania-based money manager
and founding partner at Snow Capital Management LP, which
oversees about $3 billion including Abercrombie shares, said in
a telephone interview. A private-equity firm “would come in and
see the catalyst for change. And the catalyst for change here is
the direction that the current management team is taking the
company.”  Adventure Seekers  “The company has a policy of not commenting on rumors or
news articles,” Joseph Teklits, a spokesman for  New Albany ,
Ohio-based Abercrombie at ICR Inc., said in an e-mail.  Abercrombie & Fitch was founded in 1892 as a purveyor of
guns, fishing rods and camping gear to adventure seekers and the
rich, with customers including  Theodore Roosevelt  and  Ernest
Hemingway , according to Hoover’s Inc. Chief Executive Officer
and Chairman Mike Jeffries shifted the company’s focus two
decades ago, and Abercrombie now targets young adults with
jeans, polos and T-shirts recognizable by their moose logo. The
company also owns Southern California-style Hollister apparel
stores and Gilly Hicks lingerie shops.  The company is losing traction in the U.S. and  Europe ,
where the economy is contracting amid a debt crisis that began
in  Greece . Sales at stores open at least a year fell 8 percent
in the six-month period that ended in July, and management last
month forecast a 10 percent decline for the second half of the
year. In the second quarter, international same-store sales
dropped 26 percent.  Overseas Sales  Abercrombie had bet that overseas sales would offset the
U.S. economic slowdown and the rise of cheap clothing chains
with rapid inventory turnover such as Forever 21 and Hennes &
Mauritz AB’s H&M, which made American teens less likely to buy
its more expensive apparel. It closed 71 U.S. stores in the most
recent fiscal year even as 47 foreign locations were opened.
There are plans to shutter about 180 American sites through
2015.  Its market capitalization has sunk by $1 billion this year,
with the stock falling to $38.49 yesterday from $48.84 at the
end of 2011. The company has missed out on a  rally  by
competitors that’s driven the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing
Index to a 27 percent advance in 2012.  ‘Speed Bumps’  The decline left Abercrombie’s enterprise value at 5.1
times the company’s projected Ebitda of $585 million this year,
according to the average of analysts’  forecasts  compiled by
Bloomberg. Only Columbus, Ohio-based  Express Inc. (EXPR)  and  New York- 
based  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  have a lower ratio among U.S. specialty
apparel retailers valued at more than $1 billion. Abercrombie’s
multiple to estimated fiscal 2013 sales is 0.72, which only
exceeds the valuations for Aeropostale and Express.  Abercrombie hit a “combination of speed bumps,”  Richard Jaffe , a New York-based analyst with Stifel Financial Corp.,
said in a phone interview. “The euro or the euro market
suffering economic woes, a fashion shift away from the classic
teen preppy look, all those things worked against them.”  The retailer’s slump prompted activist investor Whitworth
to press the company to cut expenditures and slow overseas
expansion in an effort to align spending with competitors, a
person familiar with the matter said last week. Abercrombie
hired Goldman Sachs to facilitate discussions with Whitworth,
the person said.  Reconsider Later  Whitworth isn’t pressing the retailer to shop itself around
to private-equity firms or other retailers, though he could do
so later, the person said.  A Relational Investors representative said Whitworth wasn’t
available to comment.  Today, shares of Abercrombie fell 1.7 percent to $37.85.  Analysts project that Abercrombie will have  operating
margins  of 7.9 percent in the fiscal year ending in January,
compared with 12.5 percent at rival  American Eagle Outfitters
Inc. (AEO) , a teen-apparel chain based in Pittsburgh, according to
estimates and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Abercrombie may find it easier to restructure as a private
company, said Bryan Keane, who owns Abercrombie shares in the
Alpine Global Consumer Growth Fund.  “If you need to change price points, if you need to change
the margin structure, whatever the conclusion is that needs to
be done, it’s just easier in a private setting,” he said in a
phone interview from Purchase,  New York . “It’s a brand that
obviously right now has operating difficulties,” he said.
“Given the cash generation that these guys have, there’s always
the opportunity that you can either take the company private
with a  management buyout  or private equity.”  Cash Flow  While Abercrombie’s  free cash flow  plunged 80 percent to an
11-year low of $46.6 million in fiscal 2012, the figure will
increase 123 percent this year, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The cash flow metrics are there,” making the company
attractive to a private-equity buyer with the patience to turn
around the business, Jaime Katz, a Chicago-based analyst with
Morningstar, said in a phone interview. “It’s a very clean
balance sheet, and it makes it easy to kind of maneuver the
business nimbly.”  Shares of Abercrombie tumbled 50 percent through yesterday
from the 52-week high of $76.81 set in October.  ‘A Non-Starter’  “There’s tremendous upside,”  Don Wordell , an Orlando,
Florida-based fund manager for RidgeWorth, which oversees about
$47 billion including Abercrombie shares, said in a phone
interview. “There’s a lot of things that they can control as
far as slowing down the international growth, reducing their
store base here and just getting the fashion right,” he said.
“The stock looks pretty attractive from that standpoint, and
the numbers could really be higher.”  While Katz estimates a private-equity takeover would value
Abercrombie at about $55 a share, Snow Capital’s Schachter said
“it’s a non-starter below $60.” To Stifel’s Jaffe, a leveraged
buyout would come in at $55.50 a share, based on Ebitda
multiples paid in four comparable deals, according to a Sept. 12
report.  Concern about Abercrombie’s lagging sales and a weak
economy in Europe may lead some private-equity firms to balk at
such premiums, according to Anna Andreeva, a New York-based
analyst at FBR & Co. Abercrombie’s projected 2013 free cash flow
represents just 3.3 percent of its market capitalization, about
half the figure at American Eagle.  Modern Founder  “The business obviously is struggling,” Andreeva said in
a phone interview. “That potentially could keep some of the key
bidders wary about coming in and buying this company.”  Jeffries, 68, may be another impediment. The company calls
him “the ‘founder’ of the modern day Abercrombie & Fitch,”
according to a regulatory filing. He took the helm in 1992 and
transformed the one-time safari-outfitter into a sex-meets-Ivy
League teen retailer with more than 1,000  locations  worldwide.
His vision drove success from 1995 to 2008, as sales grew 23-
fold and net income increased 58-fold.  His most recent employment contract, which expires in
February 2014, awards him as much as $105.6 million if control
of the company changes hands and he loses his job, according to
a regulatory filing from May.  It’s likely that Jeffries would oppose any takeover that
saw him stripped of his leadership responsibilities, Snow
Capital’s Schachter said.  “Other shareholders own 99 percent,” he said. “But he’s
running it as if he owned 100 percent of the company.”  Abercrombie and Jeffries may not have the luxury of
rejecting a bid, Katz said.  “Everybody has got a price, and for the right price, I’m
sure they will take it into consideration,” she said. “It is a
company with external  shareholders , and you can’t just ignore a
bid.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  