-- ABN Amro Buys European Stocks on ECB Crisis-Fighting Move
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-18T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/abn-amro-buys-european-stocks-on-ecb-crisis-fighting-move.html
ABN Amro  Private Banking bought
European equities after policy makers unveiled a bond-buying
program to tackle the debt crisis, leaving the firm with a so-
called overweight position for the first time since 2010.  ABN Amro’s wealth-management unit, which manages 155
billion euros ($203 billion) for clients, started buying
equities after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
announced the unlimited asset-purchase program on Sept. 6. The
company was last overweight  Europe , meaning it held more of the
region’s stocks than are represented in global benchmarks, from
July to October 2010.  “There is a huge incentive to put money to work,” Didier Duret, chief investment officer of ABN Amro Private Banking,
said in a telephone interview. “The market has to recognize
that the institutional problems of Europe will be tackled. From
an investment perspective, it is very important to start to look
at the end game.”  Since the  money manager  bought European stocks on Sept. 10,
the benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has climbed 1.2 percent to
touch a 15-month high, boosted by a third round of quantitative
easing by the  Federal Reserve . The purchases, which included
financial shares, sent ABN Amro’s total asset allocation in
equities to overweight and pushed its holdings in U.S. stocks to
underweight.  Debt Burdens  The Stoxx 600 retreated 4.4 percent through June 4 amid
growing concern that debt burdens in Greece and other peripheral
European nations will force them to leave the euro. The gauge
has since rallied 18 percent, bringing this year’s advance to 12
percent.  We have “extremely accommodative monetary conditions and
it will have an impact,” said Duret, who is based in Geneva.
“Considering people have been on the sidelines for a year now,
there is still more upside to come. There is a lot of money
still to be invested.”  Didier said ABN Amro Private Banking has reduced cash
holdings over the last month and a half. The wealth manager is
also overweight emerging-market equities and bonds, corporate
debt,  hedge funds  and U.S.-listed real estate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  