-- Abu Dhabi Utility Shuweihat Said to Be Raising $1.2 Billion Loan
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-09-18T13:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/abu-dhabi-utility-shuweihat-said-to-be-raising-1-2-billion-loan.html
Abu Dhabi  power utility Shuweihat
is raising $1.2 billion from a loan to refinance debt as it
seeks to reduce costs and benefit from a drop in  interest rates ,
according to two bankers familiar with the plan.  The 17-year loan is being raised for the Shuweihat S2 power
and water unit and pays 1.75 percentage points to 2.25
percentage points above the benchmark London interbank offered
rate, the bankers said, asking not to be identified because the
information is private.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. are helping
Abu Dhabi Water & Electricity Authority, the Persian Gulf
emirate’s utility, raise the loan, they said.  Abu Dhabi National Energy (TAQA)  Co., which holds a majority stake
in Shuweihat, and its partners had obtained $2.7 billion in
financing for the project in October 2009 at a margin of between
2.35 percent to 3.5 percent above the three-month Libor. They
now seek to refinance that with the new loan and a planned bond
sale this year, according to the bankers.  Average bond yields in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council, which includes the United Arab Emirates of which Abu
Dhabi is the capital, plunged 139 basis points this year to 3.6
percent yesterday, the lowest since at least 2005, according to
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai’s GCC U.S. Dollar Sukuk/Bond Index.  State-controlled Abu Dhabi National Energy holds a 54
percent stake in Shuweihat, while  GDF Suez (GSZ)  owns 20 percent,
 Marubeni Corp. (8002)  and Osaka Gas Co. 10 percent each, and Abu Dhabi
Water 6 percent. Shuweihat 2 project, a natural-gas-fired
facility capable of generating 1,510 megawatts of power and
desalinated water, began operating in the first half of 2011.  Abu Dhabi National Energy and Abu Dhabi Water didn’t
respond to phone calls seeking comment. Ramy Lawand, a spokesman
for Standard Chartered in Dubai, declined to comment, while a
spokesmen for Citigroup in Dubai couldn’t immediately comment.
Spokesmen for BNP Paribas and Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi couldn’t
immediately be reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  