-- Taiwan Intervention Gives Exporters Edge With Stable Currency
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-09-18T00:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/taiwan-intervention-gives-exporters-edge-with-stable-currency.html
Central bank intervention is making
Taiwan’s dollar one of the most stable currencies in  Asia ,
giving the island’s exporters an edge over regional rivals as
U.S. monetary easing weighs on the greenback.  Three-month historical volatility for the  Taiwan dollar 
fell 0.04 percentage point this quarter to 2.82 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among 11
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg, only  China ’s  yuan  and
Hong Kong’s dollar fluctuated less. The island’s dollar
appreciated 1.8 percent versus its U.S. counterpart during the
period, less than the 4.5 percent gain in  South Korea ’s won.  Exporters from  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the
island’s biggest company, to privately-held auto parts maker
Sungreat Inc. have called for a more stable or weaker currency
as economic slowdowns in China, the U.S. and  Europe  threaten
earnings.  Overseas sales  dropped in all but one of the last
eight months and the Central Bank of the  Republic of China 
(Taiwan) has bought U.S. dollars to stem gains in the local
currency on most days in the past four months, according to
traders who asked not to be identified.  “When the global economy is doing so badly, the central
bank needs to make sure the Taiwan dollar is stable to keep us
competitive,” said Chang Pen-Tsao, chairman of the Taipei-based
General Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of China. “The
governments of our biggest competitors are doing the same.”  Most Volatile Currencies  India’s rupee, Malaysia’s ringgit and  Japan ’s yen were
Asia’s most volatile currencies in the past three months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won was fourth with
a reading of 6.3 percent, more than double the Taiwan dollar’s.
Volatility for the yuan was 1.5 percent and that for the  Hong
Kong  dollar 0.2 percent. China’s central bank keeps the nation’s
currency within 1 percent of a daily fixing, while Hong Kong has
been pegged to the greenback since 1983.  Taiwan’s central bank will step in to “maintain order” in
the  exchange rate , Governor Perng Fai-nan said in March in
response to questions from lawmakers. Stable currencies help
manufacturers set prices for customers that reflect costs of
production, allowing them to maximize profits and margins.  Limiting appreciation is becoming harder after the  Federal
Reserve  announced on Sept. 13 a third round of asset purchases
that boosts the supply of dollars and spurs demand for emerging-
market assets. Overseas investors bought $946 million more of
the island’s equities than they sold last week, the second-
biggest net purchases since March, exchange data shows.  Currency Rally  The local dollar gained 1.9 percent this month through
yesterday as all of Asia’s 11 most-used currencies strengthened
versus the greenback.  Taiwan ’s currency finished yesterday 0.2
percent higher on the day at NT$29.399 versus its U.S.
counterpart, having been up as much as 0.9 percent earlier in
the day. The central bank intervened to curb appreciation in the
run-up to the close, according to traders who asked not to be
identified.  “If the Taiwan dollar still strengthens a lot from the
current level, that’s when exporters will really feel the
pain,” said Aidan Wang, senior economist at Yuanta Investment
Consulting. “The rally brought by QE3 is Asia-wide, and maybe
that makes the central bank a bit less nervous.”  TSMC, the world’s largest custom maker of chips, based its
revenue guidance for this quarter on an exchange rate of
NT$29.76 per dollar, Chief Financial Officer Lora Ho said in a
July 19 conference call. That’s stronger than the average close
of NT$29.95 since June 30.  “It’s about keeping the currency more stable and aligned
with other currencies,” said  Philip Wee , a senior currency
economist in  Singapore  at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “I’m pretty
sure the central bank has taken in feedback from exporters as
well.”  Exports Estimate Cut  Taiwan relies on demand from overseas for at least two-
thirds of its growth, according to official data. The island’s
biggest export competitor in the region is South Korea, where
companies including Samsung Electronics Co. are vying for smart-
phone market share against Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC Corp. The
island’s manufacturers also compete for global market share in
memory chips, display panels, and machinery products.  South Korea’s exports fell 2.1 percent from a year earlier
in the first eight months of 2012, while Taiwan’s shipments
dropped 5.6 percent, official data show. The island risks
missing its export goal this year, even after the statistics
bureau cut the estimate to a 1.72 percent contraction from 0.07
percent growth.  “We understand everyone’s suffering, not just Taiwan,”
said Janus Sun, Chairman of Sungreat, which exports auto parts
including head lamps, racing car seats and aluminum wheels.
“But the least the government officials can do is to make sure
the Taiwan dollar doesn’t gain more than the Korean won.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  