-- Akzo’s CEO Takes Leave for Fatigue Six Months Into Role
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s   a n d   M o r w e n n a   C o n i a m
-- 2012-09-18T09:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/akzo-s-buechner-takes-leave-for-fatigue-six-months-into-ceo-role.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  Chief Executive
Officer Ton Buechner will take temporary leave after suffering
fatigue less than six months after taking the helm of the
world’s largest paintmaker.  The Dutch national, who took over May 1, will be off for
one month to recuperate on the advice of his doctor, Amsterdam-
based Akzo said today in a statement. He plans to return in the
first half of October and Chief Financial Officer Keith Nichols
will be the point person in the interim period.  Akzo shares fell the most in a year as the sick leave comes
at a crucial time for the maker of Glidden and Dulux paint
brands, with the 47-year-old putting the final touches to his
strategic plan. Akzo had been preparing to unveil his vision to
investors and analysts on Oct. 22, though that meeting in  London 
has now been postponed until further notice.  “Until this news, he’d given a very good impression,”
said Mutlu Gundogan, an analyst at  ABN Amro . “If this could be
more serious, it’s a bad thing. But if it’s just temporary,
people will wonder whether he’s able to head the company’s
transformation as there’s so much still to be done.”  Akzo shares  fell  as much as 5.7 percent to 46.07 euros in
Amsterdam trading, the most since September 2011. The shares had
declined 4.5 percent at 46.66 euros at 10:10 a.m. local time.  Track Record  Buechner joined Akzo’s executive committee at the start of
the year, traveling globally to see operations spanning
specialty chemicals, household paint and industrial coatings for
passenger jets. He arrived after leading an overhaul at Swiss
pumpmaker  Sulzer AG. (SUN)   At Akzo, he inherited a broad revamp needed to combat
higher costs for raw materials such as titanium dioxide, used as
a whitener in paint, and sluggish demand for coatings in  Europe 
and the U.S. The overhaul, which includes reducing IT systems
and cutting back on the number of raw materials aims to boost
earnings by 500 million euros ($654 million) by 2014.  Buechner has indicated that his strategy would focus on
operational improvement and building on strategic positions
rather than making large portfolio changes.  His predecessor, Hans Wijers, spent a decade transforming
the company into the world’s biggest paintmaker, competing
against  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG)  and  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW)  in the U.S.  “When you’re travelling the world, airplane in, airplane
out, building in, building out, it isn’t surprising for one to
become ill at some point,” said  Tom Muller , an analyst at
Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers, who has a hold rating on Akzo.  Prior to today, Akzo shares had gained 21 percent since
Buechner’s arrival bringing the market value of the paintmaker
to 11.6 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net ;
Morwenna Coniam in London at 
 mconiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  