-- Alibaba Completes $7.6 Billion Repurchase of Yahoo Stake
-- B y   T o m   G i l e s
-- 2012-09-18T21:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/alibaba-completes-7-6-billion-repurchase-of-stake-from-yahoo.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  rose after saying it’s
returning about $3.65 billion to investors after completing the
sale of half of its stake in Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  The U.S. Internet company plans to return $3 billion to
investors after earlier returning $646 million in recent months,
Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said in a statement. The
shares rose 1.4 percent to $15.91 at the close in New York.  Alibaba Group said earlier today that it completed the
initial part of its repurchase of a stake in itself that was
held by Yahoo, through transactions valued at $7.6 billion.
Yahoo said its net cash proceeds total about $4.3 billion.  Yahoo acquired about a 40 percent stake in Hangzhou, China-
based Alibaba in 2005 in exchange for $1 billion and ownership
of Yahoo’s Chinese operations. While Alibaba’s repurchase
reduces Yahoo’s presence in China, the world’s largest Internet
market, it may aid in turnaround efforts by new Chief Executive
Officer  Marissa Mayer , who took over in July, as the portal
competes with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  for users and ad
dollars.  “Marissa Mayer made her first really good decision as CEO
by returning over $3 billion to shareholders,” said Kevin Stadtler, principal of Stadtler Capital Management LLC, which
holds Yahoo shares. “Investors now have certainty of the use of
proceeds.”  Alibaba bought back about half of Yahoo’s stake for about
$7.1 billion, which includes $6.3 billion in cash and $800
million in preference shares in Alibaba Group. It also paid
Yahoo $550 million in cash in connection with changes in terms
of a technology and intellectual-property licensing agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  