-- An Empire Built on Short-Armed Shirts
-- B y   M e l   a n d   P a t r i c i a   Z i e g l e r
-- 2012-09-18T22:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/an-empire-built-on-short-armed-shirts.html
Mel: If you took 1,500 one-dollar
bills and laid them end to end, they would stretch all of 750
feet, only three-quarters of the way down a crosstown block in
 Manhattan . We had to stretch those dollars into a lifetime free
of ever having to work for anyone other than ourselves again.  I was a writer in my early 30s, and Patricia, several years
younger, an artist. Newly in love, not wanting to be apart for a
second, we itched to travel and see the world. We had met at the
San Francisco Chronicle, where I worked as a reporter and
Patricia as an illustrator and courtroom artist.  Patricia: One day I came home from work and shot Mel a
playful I’ve-got-something-to-tell-you look.  “Guess what?” I could not wait to tell him. “I just quit!”  “No!” he replied. “I was going to surprise you -- so did
I.”  We downsized, moving from our two-floor  San Francisco 
apartment on Russian Hill to a two-bedroom house off Highway 1
in  Mill Valley . Magazine stories paid well but were irregular.
Indian summer gave way to a cold, rainy winter. We were barely
making the rent.  Mel came home from the library one afternoon with a copy of
Napoleon Hill’s “Think and Grow Rich” and tossed it to me.  The book prompted three basic questions: How much money do
I want to make? How long do I give myself to make it? How will I
make it?  We wrote down our answers separately and compared them. We
had both scribbled “a million” and “five years.” Then we each
looked at what the other had jotted down as an answer to the
“how” question. Again, the same: “start a business.”  But what business?  Sydney Surprise  Mel: One day toward the end of a trip to  Australia  on a
magazine assignment, I wandered off into the backstreets of
Sydney and stumbled onto a “disposal store,” which is what
Australians call their surplus stores. One item caught my fancy:
a British Burma jacket. Made of thick, soft khaki cotton twill,
it looked like a safari jacket and had the tailored feeling of a
fine garment. I had to have it, if only to wear it when I landed
in San Francisco the next day.  Patricia: He looked great. How perfect the color, the
raised lines of twill, the slightly worn collar and cuffs. The
jacket said, with panache, close to everything that I, and the
friends I admired, valued in life: character, adventure,
heritage and independence. However, I thought it could use some
new buttons.  I added suede elbow patches and leather trim on the cuffs
and collar, and swapped the metal military buttons for wooden
ones.  Mel: Everywhere I went, people stopped me.  “What a great jacket!”  “Where did you get that fabulous jacket?”  “Excuse me, do you mind if I ask you where you bought your
jacket?”  Here was the business we’d been looking for.  Between us, we had $1,500 in our bank accounts. We would
use it to start a company that would sell jackets like the
British Burma jacket and anything else like it we could find.
Therein lay our full and complete business plan.  “What should we name it?” Patricia asked.  “ Banana Republic ” popped into my head.  The name was the easy part.  We knew nothing about retail, nothing about mail order,
manufacturing, surplus, finance, nothing about management. I
began making phone calls. I learned that one of the top six
military surplus jobbers in the U.S. was right over the bridge
in Oakland.  Surplus Shopping  So much stuff was packed into bins and piles that it was
difficult to get a good look at what anything was. I asked the
jobber, Zimm, about British Burma jackets. He had seen them but
didn’t have any. Instead he pointed out piles of used combat
boots, bales of new-issue nonwrinkle polyester shirts, woolen
U.S. Army mittens, fatigue caps, plastic tarps, rope, mosquito
netting. Each time, we nodded and moved on.  We then came upon a huge pile of khaki shirts.  “What are these?” Patricia asked.
“Spanish Army shirts,” Zimm said. “You can have them for $1.75
if you take them all.”  We haggled, settled at $1.50 each and brought the shirts
home to wash.  That night, at a dinner at our house, our friend Herbert
returned from a visit to the downstairs bathroom, which was near
the washing machine, presenting, as a matador might hold up a
cape, one of the shirts.  “I want one,” he said. “How much?”  The words “Take it, Herb, it’s yours,” were about to come
off my lips when Patricia interjected:  “Six fifty.”  But he’s our friend, my eyes pleaded across the table.  “Plus tax,” she added sweetly. Banana Republic was born.  We were all smiling until Herb slipped his arms into the
sleeves. The cuffs fell well above his wrists. Patricia ran
downstairs to get him another, but the sleeves on that shirt
were also too short. So this is why the Spaniards had declared
them surplus, I thought.  By this point, nothing was going to deter Patricia.  “Nobody would think of keeping the sleeves on a shirt like
this rolled down, Herb,” she said with an almost scary
authority, rolling them up for him. Herb caught a glimpse of
himself in the mirror. “Fabulous!” he declared.  Six miles from San Francisco, off the 101 freeway, is Marin
City, where every week a huge, dusty lot was transformed into a
thriving flea market. Sunday morning, off we went, sign in hand:  “Short-Armed Spanish Paratrooper Shirts $6.50”  By the end of the day, we had sold barely enough to pay the
$30 booth fee.  “We need to double the price,” Patricia said. “The shirts
are too cheap. People can’t appreciate the value.”  The next Sunday, she herself wore a Spanish paratrooper
shirt belted at the waist with tight jeans and heels. Same
table, same spot, same everything except the sign, which now
read:  “Short-Armed Spanish Paratrooper Shirts $12.95”  We sold more than 100 shirts. One hundred and two to be
exact. Times 12.95.  With more than $1,000 in the bank, Banana Republic needed a
store.  (Mel Ziegler and Patricia Ziegler are the founders of
Banana Republic and the Republic of Tea. This is the first in a
series of three excerpts from their new book, “ Wild Company: The
Untold Story of Banana Republic ,” which will be published Oct. 2
by  Simon & Schuster . The opinions expressed are their own. Read
 Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Romney’s 47 percent fallacy 
and on how  not to be tough in the Middle East ;  Ezra Klein  on
Romney and  the responsibility of the poor ;  Margaret Carlson  on
how  Romney isn’t necessarily doomed ; Clive Crook on why  the Fed
made the right move ;  Peter Orszag  on how the Ryan budget would
make it  harder for Medicare patients to find doctors ; William
Pesek on rising  tensions between China and Japan ; Matthew Bryza
on how  Europe can hang tough on Gazprom .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mel and Patricia Ziegler at  mel@mzpz.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  