-- Manchester United Has Fourth-Quarter Loss on Trophy Failure
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-18T16:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/manchester-united-has-fourth-quarter-loss-on-trophy-less-season.html
Manchester United Plc (MANU)  had a fiscal
fourth-quarter loss as the 19-time English soccer champion
played fewer matches in finishing without a trophy for the first
time since 2005.  The net loss was 15 million pounds ($24.4 million), or 10
pence a share, in the three months ended June 30, compared with
a net loss of 501,000 pounds in the year-earlier period, the
company said today in an e-mailed statement. Revenue declined 25
percent to 74.5 million pounds as the team failed to advance in
the Champions League and F.A. Cup.  Today’s results are United’s first since its August initial
public offering, where its U.S. owners raised $233.3 million by
selling 10 percent of the 134-year-old team at $14 per share,
below the initial marketed range of as much as $20. The shares
declined 7.4 percent before today.  “The team’s performance is central to this business,”
Executive Vice Chairman Ed Woodward said on a conference call
with analysts. “It allows us to get the great partners.”  Match-day revenue decreased 35 percent to 18.9 million
pounds as the team played two fewer home games, and broadcast
income fell 37 percent to 27.5 million pounds mainly because the
team failed to make the knockout stages of the  Champions League .
Commercial sales rose 5.2 percent to 28.1 million pounds.  The shares fell 31 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $12.65 shortly
after noon in  New York  trading, giving the team a market value
of $2.1 billion.  Forecast  Fiscal-year revenue fell to 320.3 million pounds from 331.4
million, the first decline since the Glazers bought the club in
2005. United is forecasting 2012-13 revenue of between 350
million pounds and 360 million pounds, with earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of between 107
million and 110 million pounds.  The estimates assume that the team recovers from last
season’s failure to advance in all competitions and makes the
quarterfinals of the Champions League and domestic cups.  The club is trying to regain its Premier League title,
which it lost on the final day of last season to crosstown rival
 Manchester City  on goal difference. United has nine points after
four games this season, a point and a place behind leader
Chelsea. It opens its Champions League campaign against  Turkey ’s
Galatasaray at Old Trafford tomorrow.  United sold shares in New York after initially exploring
raising as much as $1 billion by listing in  Singapore . Some
supporters have criticized the team’s owners, the Florida-based
Glazer family, for profiting from the IPO. The owners took half
the proceeds and used the other to pay down debt related to the
2005 leveraged buyout. The team said its gross debt is 436.9
million pounds.  Family Control  The team floated only Class A shares, allowing the Glazers
almost 99 percent control through their ownership of Class B
shares, which carry 10 times the voting power of each share
sold.  “ Manchester United ’s failure to score in the public
markets reminds investors that winning teams don’t make winning
investments,” said Sam Hamadeh, chief executive officer of
PrivCo, a New York-based firm that analyzes private companies’
financial data, in a note on Sept. 7. PrivCo estimated the
team’s fair value share price at $4.97 a share.  Record nine-time European champion Real Madrid announced
last week it became the first sports team to breach the 500-
million euro ($653.9 million) revenue mark in a single year. The
Spanish league winner said it got 514 million euros for the year
ended June 30, 2012.  United’s sales are among the highest in soccer, doubling
since the Glazers bought the team. The club reorganized its
commercial sales operation in 2008, and since then revenue from
sponsorship has risen to more than 100 million pounds a year.
That will be boosted after United signed a record $559 million
jersey sponsor agreement with General Motors Co.’s Chevrolet
brand in August.  Getting Started  “We’re only getting started in this area of our
business,” United’s Commercial Director Richard Arnold said in
an Aug. 16 interview after the team unveiled bookmaker Bwin as
its latest partner. “We’ve been investing heavily in this area
over recent years and we’ve been able to see that momentum.”  A week after floating, United broke with a tradition of
buying young players likely to increase in value by spending as
much as 24 million pounds on 29-year-old Arsenal striker  Robin van Persie . The Dutchman has scored four goals in four league
games after manager  Alex Ferguson  convinced him to sign for the
Red Devils. Some fans groups claimed the move was to pacify
supporters opposed to the listing.  “We’re not stupid,” Chief Executive Officer David Gill
said in an interview after this season’s Champions League draw
in  Monte Carlo . “Why would Alex want to do something which is
sop for the IPO? We’re doing it to improve the team all the
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  