-- Anti-Islam Film to Be Blocked on Russian Internet, Providers Say
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-09-18T14:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/anti-islam-film-to-be-blocked-on-russian-internet-providers-say.html
Russia ’s biggest Internet providers
said they’ve been ordered by the Prosecutor General’s Office to
block access to an anti-Islamic film that has provoked violent
protests across the Muslim world.  “MegaFon is taking necessary measures to prevent the
further distribution of the clip among subscribers,” Dmitry Smirkin, a spokesman for the Russian mobile operator controlled
by billionaire  Alisher Usmanov , said today by e-mail.  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , Russia’s biggest mobile phone
company, is acting to fulfil the “regulator’s requests,”
Valeriya Kuzmenko, a spokeswoman for the company known as MTS,
said by e-mail.  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  “received the information about
the need to restrict access to the film and is acting in this
direction,” Anna Aybasheva, a spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  The prosecutor’s office yesterday instructed Russian
Internet providers to block the distribution of the film
“Innocence of the Muslims,” and said it would seek a court
order banning the video as extremist because it offends
religious feelings and provokes inter-ethnic conflict.  The 14-minute trailer, posted on Google Inc.’s YouTube,
shows a fictional attack by Muslims on a Christian family,
followed by an account of the origins of Islam depicting
Muhammad as a womanizer.  The film, which the U.S. has described as “very
offensive,” last week triggered violent demonstrations and
attacks on U.S. and European targets in several  Muslim
countries . U.S. ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens and three
colleagues were killed in an attack in Benghazi, while Muslim
protesters in Tunis and elsewhere died in clashes with
government security forces.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Russian office said today it can’t comment on
legal matters.  Russia has 16.4 million Muslims, or 11.7 percent of the
total population, according to the Pew Research Center. The
country has suffered a spate of terrorist attacks by Islamic
extremists, including a January 2011 blast at its busiest
airport, Domodedovo in Moscow, that killed 37 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  