-- Anti-Japan Protests Raise Risks for China’s Leadership Shift
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-19T04:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/anti-japan-protests-raise-risks-for-china-s-leadership-transfer.html
Demonstrations across  China  against
Japanese businesses and property pose a growing risk for the
country’s leaders as the economy slows and the Communist Party
prepares for a once-a-decade transition of power.  With growth in danger of reaching a 22-year low, ousted
Politburo member Bo Xilai’s case still pending public resolution
and the biggest diplomatic spat with  Japan  since 2005, any
uncontrolled protests risk undermining authority before the
handover. Thousands waved flags and brandished Mao Zedong
portraits yesterday at Japanese diplomatic posts in Beijing and
 Shanghai  in a sign of public fury over a territorial dispute.  “They do not want things to get out of control; there will
be more attempts to contain the protests,” said  Joseph Cheng , a
political science professor at the  City University  of  Hong Kong .
The portraits of Mao “are implicit criticisms of the present
leadership,” he said. Bo Xilai championed resurrection of Mao
slogans before his downfall as Chongqing party boss this year.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Fast Retailing Co. were
among companies that halted operations in China after protesters
attacked Japanese cars and shops. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
of stocks recorded its biggest back-to-back loss since March.  China regards organizations not sanctioned by the
government as illegal. Political protests, including those held
by students in  Tiananmen Square  in 1989 and by practitioners of
the Falun Gong spiritual group a decade later, have been
forcibly suppressed.  Orchestration Undermined  The smooth orchestration of China’s leadership handover has
been undermined by the downfall of Bo, whose wife was convicted
last month of murdering a British businessman. Wang Lijun, the
former Chongqing police chief whose flight to an American
diplomatic office in February triggered the country’s biggest
political crisis in two decades, yesterday confessed to
defecting after a two-day trial.  “What the protests underscore is the level of frustration
within society about many things: the slowing down of economic
growth, the job market for young graduates,” Jean-Pierre Cabestan, head of the department of government and international
studies at Hong Kong Baptist University, said in a telephone
interview. “And you have this opaque political system with
leaders jockeying for position behind the curtain.”  Xi Jinping, President  Hu Jintao ’s heir apparent,
disappeared from view for two weeks before re-emerging without
explanation on Sept. 15. The dearth of information prompted
speculation about his health and who else might oversee an
economy struggling to overcome a widening wealth gap.  Ambassador’s Car  At the Japanese embassy in Beijing, protesters threw
bottles and branches at the building’s walls, which were
spattered with eggs and paint. In Shanghai, protesters marched
through the streets waving Chinese flags and shouting slogans
saying “Down With the Japanese.”  Demonstrators in the capital caused minor damage to the
official vehicle of U.S. Ambassador Gary Locke yesterday as it
was about to enter the embassy grounds, spokesman Nolan
Barkhouse said. Some of the people had Chinese flags and looked
to be leaving protests taking place at the nearby Japanese
embassy, said a U.S. official who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter. Locke was in the car at the time of the
incident, the official said.  The recent demonstrations escalated after Japan last week
purchased the islands, called Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in
Japanese, from a private Japanese owner. The islands have been
under Japanese administrative control since 1895.  Japanese Occupation  Some demonstrators said they were also protesting Japan’s
World War II occupation.  China Central Television  observed a
moment of silence yesterday to commemorate the 81st anniversary
of the Manchurian Incident, a staged attack on a Japanese
railway that was used as an excuse to start an invasion that
would see Japan take control of much of China.  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  last night said the
anniversary was one reason for the demonstrations and said both
sides must work to repair ties.  “If our relationship remains strained for a long period,
it will be harmful not only to our two countries but to the
region and the world economy,” he said on TBS Television. “We
should keep a cool head, but take a firm line. It is important
to at least talk, exchange information and communicate.”  The worst bilateral diplomatic crisis since 2005 is
endangering a trade relationship that has tripled in the past
decade to more than $340 billion. Japanese retailers in China
closed their doors and covered up their logos as protests spread
to dozens of cities.  Hot and Cold  The tensions complicate efforts to fortify growth in each
country as  Europe ’s debt crisis saps demand for exports. China
was the largest market for Japanese exports in 2011, while Japan
was the fourth-largest market for Chinese exports.  “Sino-Japan relations are often described as hot in trade
but cold in politics, but now even the trade relationship is
getting cold,” said Zhang Jifeng, a researcher with the
Institute of Japanese Studies at the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences  in Beijing. “It’s hard to tell which side would suffer
more from the cooling trade, but it’s sure that the pain will be
deep for both.”  Shares of  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , owner of the Uniqlo clothing
brand, fell the most in three months in  Tokyo  trading after the
company closed 42 stores in China.  Seven & I Holdings Co. (3382)  closed
211 stores and Aeon Jusco shut 30 outlets.  Prevent Harm  “If this dispute doesn’t end soon, it could be a very
serious problem for Japan, especially when global demand is
slowing,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co. “Japan would also diversify foreign direct
investment away from China to China’s neighbors.”  The Japanese government yesterday urged China to “take all
measures to prevent any further harm to Japanese citizens or
companies,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura told
reporters in Tokyo.  Japan “totally caused” the current crisis and should
“take responsibility,” Chinese Defense Minister Liang Guanglie
told reporters in Beijing yesterday in a joint appearance with
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta . “We will very closely
watch the evolution with regards to this dispute and we reserve
the right for further actions.”  A Chinese fishing ban in waters surrounding the islands
ended Sept. 16, and Chinese and Japanese media aired footage of
fishing vessels heading out to sea. The state-run China News
Service reported on Sept. 17 that 1,000 fishing boats typically
go to the region and the government would send more vessels than
in recent years. Hong Kong-based activists may go to the region
as early as today, the Apple Daily newspaper reported.  Fishing Boats  Fujimura said that while 10 Chinese patrol boats have been
spotted in waters adjacent to Japan’s territory, Japan has no
information about the fishing boats. He confirmed yesterday that
two Japanese temporarily landed on one of the islands. At least
two Chinese vessels entered Japan’s waters, NHK Television said
last night, citing the Coast Guard.  “Considering that Japanese companies make important
contributions to the Chinese economy and employment, people
should look at the broader picture and act calmly,” Fujimura
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  