-- Apollo’s Berry Plastics Said to Plan Starting IPO This Week
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-09-18T21:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/apollo-s-berry-plastics-said-to-plan-to-set-ipo-terms-this-week.html
Berry Plastics Group Inc. (BERY) , the
container maker owned by funds tied to  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO) , may set terms for its initial public offering as soon as
this week, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Berry may seek a market value of about $2 billion in the
sale, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the process is private. Bank of America Corp. is leading the
offering, the people said.  The company, which makes consumer packaging ranging from
drink cups to prescription vials, filed for a $500 million IPO
in March. Apollo, based in  New York , and Graham Partners Inc.
agreed to acquire Berry’s parent, BPC Holding Corp., in a $2.25
billion deal in 2006 from the private-equity units of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Evansville, Indiana-based company, which has completed
11 acquisitions in the past six years, will use the IPO proceeds
to repay debt, regulatory filings show. Long-term borrowings
totaled $4.5 billion as of June 30.  Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc and Deutsche Bank AG will help
manage the offering, according to the people familiar with the
situation. The stock sold in the IPO will be equivalent to a 25
percent stake in the company, they said.  The  net loss  at Berry narrowed to $20 million in the nine
months through June 30, compared with a loss of $107 million a
year earlier, the filings show. Sales in the period were $3.6
billion.  Apollo’s Stake  Apollo-affilitated funds will maintain a majority stake in
Berry after the IPO, according to the company’s filing. Domus
Holdings Corp., the parent company of real-estate services
provider Realogy, is another Apollo-owned company that’s
planning an IPO.  The franchiser of residential real estate brokerages with
rights to brands including Century 21, Coldwell Banker and
 Sotheby’s International Realty  plans to raise as much as $1
billion in an initial offering, it said in a June regulatory
filing.  Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, and
 Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  