-- Argentina’s Dollar Bonds Tumble After IMF Threatens Censure
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-09-18T20:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/argentina-s-dollar-bonds-tumble-after-imf-threatens-censure.html
Argentine  government bonds  tumbled
the most in three months after the  International Monetary Fund 
said the country is on track to becoming the first nation ever
censured for reporting inaccurate economic data.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine debt
instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 24 basis points, or 0.24
percentage point, to 871 basis points at 4:37 p.m. in  New York ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index. Dollar-
denominated bonds due in 2017 plunged 1.76 cents to 97.93 cents
on the dollar for the biggest loss since June 11.  The IMF’s board of directors, meeting yesterday in
Washington, decided to give the country until Dec. 17 to respond
to concern about the quality of its official data, according to
a statement today. If the deadline is missed, the board can
issue a declaration of censure, which means sanctions may be
applied if the concerns aren’t addressed.  “Argentina is now starting to crack,”  Siobhan Morden , the
head of Latin American fixed-income strategy at Jefferies Group
Inc., said in a telephone interview from New York. “Any
official sanctions are mostly symbolic, but it’s a reminder that
policy mismanagement is a key concern.”  Inflation data for South America’s second-biggest economy
has been questioned since 2007, when former President  Nestor
Kirchner  began replacing personnel at the national statistics
agency in a bid to “improve operations.”  Argentina’s credit-rating outlook was revised to negative
from stable yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service Inc., which
said the lack of reliable statistics “make it extremely
difficult to know with certainty Argentina’s real economic
conditions, raising questions about the country’s ability to
manage adverse shocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  