-- Martin Marietta Seen Bumping Vulcan Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-18T23:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/martin-marietta-seen-bumping-vulcan-bid-real-m-a.html
Now that  Martin Marietta  Materials
Inc. is cleared to renew its pursuit of  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  and
create the world’s biggest supplier of gravel and sand, it needs
to boost the initial bid by 40 percent to cement a deal.  As of Sept. 15, Martin Marietta is allowed to pursue a
takeover of the Birmingham, Alabama-based gravel producer again,
after a judge delayed the hostile buyout in May. Vulcan shares
closed at $49.17 last week, 8.1 percent higher than the value of
the original all-stock bid and the widest gap since it was
disclosed in December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vulcan’s  stock gain  signals that some investors are betting
Martin Marietta will revive the deal and sweeten the terms,
Tullett Prebon Plc said. To win over Vulcan’s board and
shareholders, Thompson Research Group said Martin Marietta may
need to offer 0.7 share for each Vulcan share, a 40 percent
boost in the takeover price from the original 0.5-to-1 ratio.
While U.S. regulators may demand divestitures as a condition of
approval, Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. said a merger to create a
market leader and reduce costs still makes sense.  “The injunction is over,”  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based special situations analyst at Tullett Prebon, said
in a telephone interview. “Now it’s up to Martin Marietta.
They’ll have to pay up. At this point, it behooves Martin
Marietta to try to do a more friendly deal.”  Anne Lloyd, Martin Marietta’s chief financial officer,
declined to comment on whether the Raleigh, North Carolina-based
company is considering a second bid. Meghan Gavigan, a
spokeswoman for Vulcan who works at Sard Verbinnen & Co.,
declined to comment on a possible offer from Martin Marietta.  Hostile Offer  After merger discussions that began in April 2010 between
the two companies broke down, Martin Marietta made a hostile
offer on Dec. 12 to exchange half a share for each share of
Vulcan. The deal valued Vulcan’s equity at $4.8 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Vulcan, the larger of the two companies with a market
capitalization of almost $6 billion versus Martin Marietta’s $4
billion, rejected the bid as being too low and said that
regulators would force the sale of assets, undercutting the
value of the transaction. Ward Nye, chief executive officer at
Martin Marietta, said at the time that a combined company would
claim about 15 percent of the U.S. aggregates market and save as
much as $250 million in costs from bulk purchases and duplicate
operations.  On May 4, a Delaware Chancery Court judge ruled that Martin
Marietta violated an earlier agreement with Vulcan by using
confidential information to devise its bid and said the company
couldn’t proceed with the deal for four months. To comply with
the court order, Martin Marietta withdrew the offer on May 14.  Higher Bid  Since the May decision, Vulcan’s  stock  gained 19 percent
through last week to $49.17. Martin Marietta’s all-stock offer
would have been valued at $45.47 on Sept. 14.  Vulcan ended yesterday at $46.21, still 5.6 percent  above 
the takeover price. The premium indicates that some investors
are anticipating Martin Marietta will return with a higher bid
now that the injunction is over, said  Tullett Prebon ’s Shah.  The 0.5 exchange ratio is a “non-starter” for Vulcan,
according to Kathryn Thompson, an analyst at Thompson Research
in Nashville,  Tennessee . For Vulcan to be willing to revive
negotiations, she estimates Martin Marietta may need to increase
the ratio to 0.7.  At that ratio, Martin Marietta’s closing price yesterday
implies an offer of $61.27 a share, or about a 33 percent
premium for  Vulcan stockholders . That compares with the average
31 percent premium that buyers have paid in building-materials
acquisitions globally larger than $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Makes Sense  Shah estimated a ratio of at least 0.6-to-1 would be needed
to “get in the ballpark of what the Vulcan board wants.” That
implies a 14 percent premium based on yesterday’s closing
prices.  “Whatever the offer is, it has to move higher and that’s
the bottom line,” he said. “That 0.5 has to go up.”  More pricing power and increased profitability are among
the potential benefits of a merged company and make it worth
increasing the offer to ensure a deal gets done this time,
Thompson said.  “It’s probably pretty highly likely” that Martin Marietta
renews its bid, she said in a phone interview. “Does it make
sense just from an overall industry standpoint? Yes, it
absolutely does.”  U.S.  construction spending , after falling every month for
almost four straight years amid a weak housing market and a
slump in state and local government infrastructure spending, has
climbed each month since November, Census Bureau data show.  Better Prospects  With the industry showing signs of recovery, analysts
project sales and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization at both Vulcan and Martin Marietta will climb
during the next three years.  Still, Martin Marietta hasn’t yet said it will pursue the
takeover, and Vulcan may be less likely to agree to one now that
the outlook for the  construction industry  is improving, said
Jack Kasprzak, a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst with BB&T
Capital Markets.  “I do not think it’s a foregone conclusion that they’re
going to try again,” he said in a phone interview. “A company
that wasn’t interested in a merger in the first place would
probably be more emboldened against it now.”  Regulators may demand asset sales, depleting the so-called
synergies that underscore the merger, according to Ted Grace, a
Boston-based analyst at Susquehanna International Group LLP.
Vulcan also has improved its operations since the deal
collapsed, leaving less room for Martin Marietta to cut costs at
the combined entity, Grace said.  Getting Less  Analysts  estimate  Vulcan will post net profit next year for
the first time since 2009, the year that the longest recession
since the Great Depression ended. The company  earned  6.2 cents
in operating income for each dollar of sales last quarter, the
highest operating margin since the period that ended in
September 2010, the data show.  “It makes the deal harder to justify now,” Grace said in
a phone interview. “Martin would have to pay more and get
less.”  Even so, two of Vulcan’s shareholders have signaled support
for a possible combination that could create a stronger
competitor than the two companies would be on their own.  The Ireland family, collective holder of about 1.5 million
Vulcan shares and descendants of the  company’s founders , favors
another bid because there is “still a compelling business
case” for a combination, Guy Mitchell, a family member, said in
a phone interview last week.  ‘Attractive’ Deal  Loomis Sayles & Co. also would welcome a new attempt, said
Arthur Barry, a  fund manager . Boston-based Loomis Sayles held
about 938,000 Vulcan shares as of June 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Martin has always said it hopes to get Vulcan back to the
table and they want to pursue a negotiated bid,” Todd Vencil,
an analyst at Sterne Agee in Richmond,  Virginia , said in a phone
interview. “This is a deal that’s attractive from the
standpoint of market position and the opportunity to improve
operations. I don’t see why they wouldn’t be interested in going
forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in  Dallas  at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 