-- Treasuries Rise as Euro Falls; Most U.S. Stocks Retreat
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   A m a n d a   G o u l d
-- 2012-09-18T20:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/asia-emerging-currencies-drop-with-copper-as-china-stocks-fall.html
Treasuries rose for a second day
amid speculation economic growth will fail to fuel employment,
while European  stocks  and the euro fell on concern leaders will
struggle to tame the debt crisis. Most U.S. stocks retreated.  Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields declined three basis points
to 1.81 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1
percent to 1,459.32 as five stocks declined for every four
rising in the U.S. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index decreased 0.4
percent. The euro slid 0.5 percent to $1.3046, weakening for a
second day after reaching a four-month high last week. The S&P
GSCI Index of commodities lost 1.3 percent, extending its
biggest two-day tumble since June.  Treasuries have recouped more than half the losses
triggered when Federal Reserve policy makers announced more
stimulus measures last week. International demand for U.S.
financial assets rose more than forecast in July as investors
sought shelter from Europe’s troubles. FedEx Corp., which is
considered an economic bellwether because it operates the
world’s largest cargo airline, reduced its profit outlook today
amid slowing demand.  “The Fed is going to be looking to keep yields low no
matter what,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government
trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage
for institutional investors. “If yields go back up, a lot of
people think the Fed will come back in,” he said. “There
continues to be geopolitical concerns adding a bid to the
market.”  Thirty-year Treasury bond yields decreased three basis
points to 3.01 percent, while rates on two-year notes were
little changed at 0.25 percent.  Highest Since 2007  The  S&P 500  retreated after closing last week at the
highest level since December 2007. FedEx slipped 3.1 percent
after forecasting second-quarter earnings of $1.30 to $1.45 a
share, below the $1.67 average from 23 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Advanced Micro Devices Inc. sank 9.7 percent after
announcing its chief financial officer will resign. Apple Inc.
closed above $700 for the first time.  Commodity, financial and consumer-discretionary stocks led
declines among the 10 main groups in the S&P 500, while
consumer-staples, health-care and telephone companies rose the
most. The S&P 500 has climbed for three straight months and is
up 16 percent this year.  “The past week of trading sessions have been very much to
the positive side, so it may be time for a little pause,”
 Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment
officer at Philadelphia Trust Co., said in a phone interview.  Puts Decline  Bearish options on the S&P 500 have dropped to the cheapest
level in more than three years after the Fed announced a third
round of bond purchases to stimulate economic growth.  Puts protecting against a 10 percent decline in the S&P 500
cost 7 points more than calls betting on a 10 percent increase,
according to one-month data compiled by Bloomberg. The  price
relationship  known as skew fell to 6.4 on Sept. 14, the lowest
level since April 2009. The S&P 500 remains close to a five-year
high after rallying 16 percent this year.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.4 percent. Renault SA
and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA led gauges of automakers and banks
lower. Akzo Nobel NV sank 5.5 percent as Chief Executive Officer
Ton Buechner said he will take temporary leave after suffering
fatigue less than six months after taking the post at the
world’s largest paintmaker.  The euro slid against all 16 major peers, weakening for the
first time in six days against the yen.  Australia ’s dollar
dropped against 14 of 16 major counterparts after minutes of the
 Reserve Bank ’s September meeting showed officials believed the
currency’s strength was a risk to the economy.  Spanish Auction  Spain  sold 4.6 billion euros ($6 billion) of bills, more
than its maximum target, as borrowing costs declined at its
first auction since the ECB proposed buying sovereign debt. The
yield on Spain’s 10-year notes fell eight basis points to 5.90
percent, after climbing as high as 6.06 percent. The cost of
insuring Spanish debt rose for a second day, jumping to a one-
week high of 373 basis points.  Rising yields may force Spain to seek assistance and submit
to European Central Bank conditions for aid, ECB Governing
Council member Luc Coene said yesterday. The country will
consider a rescue to cut borrowing costs if the conditions are
acceptable, Spanish Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de
Santamaria said today.  No ‘New Sacrifices’  “If we get our borrowing costs to fall, so we pay less,
and if we manage to do that by doing reforms and without new
sacrifices,” a rescue may be an option, Saenz said in an
interview with Telecinco. “Paying these interest costs is like
throwing money out of the window,” Saenz said.  Germany ’s 10-year bond yield dropped four basis points to
1.64 percent as investors sought the safest fixed-income assets.
The yield premium, or spread, that investors demand to hold
Spanish debt over benchmark German bunds slipped four basis
points to 426 basis points, or 4.26 percentage points, compared
with a five-month low of 400 points reached last week.  If “markets see that Spain will not” ask for aid, “then
it will not last long before spreads will rise again, and then
Spain will be somewhat forced to come back on its decision and
submit to the conditionality program,” said ECB’s Coene, who is
governor of the Belgian central bank.  German investor confidence improved for the first time in
five months in September after the ECB pledged to buy  government
bonds  to stem the debt crisis, the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research said today.  Sugar, cocoa, natural gas and nickel lost at least 2
percent to  lead the S&P GSCI Index lower, extending its two-day
retreat to 3.5 percent.  New York-traded oil slipped 1.4 percent to $95.29 a barrel
after falling $2.38, or 2.4 percent, yesterday. Prices tumbled
more than $3 in less than a minute yesterday, leaving traders
and analysts perplexed about the cause.  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.4 percent. The Hang
Seng  China  Enterprises Index of  mainland companies  listed in
 Hong Kong  slipped 1 percent and  Taiwan ’s Taiex Index sank 0.4
percent.  India ’s Sensex Index dropped 0.3 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.9 percent amid
escalating tensions with  Japan , extending a 2.1 percent slide
yesterday for its worst two-day loss since March. The nations’
worst diplomatic crisis since 2005 threatens trade ties of more
than $340 billion.  “There are still a number of areas of concern,”  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital
Ltd. in  Melbourne , said in a telephone interview. “Investors
will become increasingly nervous if a policy response doesn’t
materialize in China. There are still tensions between European
partners in terms of what shape and form the ultimate rescue
takes. The devil lies in the detail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Gould in New York at 
 agould27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  