-- Japan Company Bond Risk Rises on China Tension; DBJ Markets Debt
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   H e n r y   S a n d e r s o n
-- 2012-09-18T04:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Japanese corporate bond risk rose
for the first time in five days as a dispute with China about
islands in the  East China Sea  mounted.  Development Bank  of Japan
Inc. and Bangkok Bank PCL are marketing dollar-denominated debt.  The  Markit iTraxx Japan  index climbed 5 basis points to 180
basis points as of 9:11 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices
show. The measure is on track for its first increase since Sept.
10, according to data provider CMA. Development Bank of Japan is
considering a sale of seven-year bonds to yield in the mid-to-
high 40 basis-point area more than the benchmark mid-swap rate,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified because the terms aren’t set.  Panasonic Corp., Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co.
reported damage to their operations in  China  after thousands
protested on Sept. 16 against Japan’s purchase of the
uninhabited territory from a private owner. Panasonic and Canon
Inc. said yesterday that they plan to shut some plants through
today. The islands are known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in
Japanese.  “The dispute may negatively affect manufacturing
companies, including steel or electronics corporates,” said
Taketoshi Tsuchiya, Tokyo-based director of credit trading at
Barclays Plc. “This is a serious situation, with lots of car
companies, especially Nissan, depending on China.”  Ratings Pressure  Major Japanese auto and technology manufacturers may see
pressure on their ratings if the dispute worsens and is
prolonged,  Fitch Ratings  said today.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan advanced 2 to 116.5 as of 8:08 a.m. in
 Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show. The
gauge fell to a near 14-month low at 114.4 on Sept. 14,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 2 to 138 as of 11:21
a.m. in Sydney,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  prices show. The benchmark
dropped to 135.25 last week, the lowest since March 21,
according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  