-- Aussie Falls After RBA Minutes Amid China, Europe Concern
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-09-18T06:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/aussie-falls-after-rba-minutes-amid-china-europe-concern.html
Australia’s dollar weakened versus
most major peers after minutes of the  Reserve Bank ’s meeting
this month showed officials saw the currency’s strength as a
risk to the economy, signaling scope to cut  interest rates .  The so-called Aussie fell against the dollar and yen as
concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis and mounting tensions between
 China  and  Japan  dimmed the allure of higher-yielding assets.
Australia’s currency has declined from a six-month high reached
last week after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced a third round
of asset purchases to bolster the economy. Demand for New
Zealand’s kiwi dollar was tempered amid global equity declines.  “It does seem that there is a degree of skepticism that
the Aussie can make substantial gains simply on the back of the
Fed printing more money,” said  Sean Callow , a Sydney-based
senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s
second-biggest lender. “We’ve had a bit of a soft start to the
week on a handful of modest negatives that all seem to add up to
an excuse for profit taking.”  The Australian dollar dropped 0.2 percent to $1.0460 as of
4:47 p.m. in Sydney. The Aussie climbed to $1.0625 on Sept. 14,
the highest since March 20. It dropped 0.2 percent to 82.26 yen.
The kiwi bought 82.77 U.S. cents from 82.62 yesterday and was
little changed at 65.09 yen.  Australia’s  10-year yield  fell 10 basis points to 3.33
percent. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made
to receive floating rates, dropped to 2.745 percent from 2.77
percent.  Stock Declines  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares lost 0.3
percent yesterday after last week posting the strongest close
since 2007, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.3
percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent.  The RBA released today records of its meeting on Sept. 4
when policy makers held the overnight cash rate target at 3.5
percent. “The current assessment of the inflation outlook
continued to provide scope to adjust policy in response to any
significant deterioration in the outlook for growth,” according
to the meeting minutes.  Central bank officials “acknowledged risks from China and
weaker commodity prices in particular and thus have a bias to
cut, but did not show real urgency,” said Greg Gibbs, a senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Singapore. “I think risks are a bit more weighted to the
downside” for the Aussie, he said.  China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  October Bets  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see about a 78 percent chance policy makers will cut the cash
rate by at least 25 basis points on Oct. 2, up from 57 percent
odds seen two weeks ago.  RBA Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle  said in the text of a
speech today that monetary policy remains “very effective” in
a nation where rising funding costs mean lenders frequently
don’t pass on interest-rate cuts in full. Officials have lowered
the bank’s benchmark by 125 basis points in the space of seven
months beginning November.  A territorial dispute between China and Japan is putting at
risk a trade relationship that’s tripled in value in the past
decade to more than $340 billion.  Toyota Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co. halted production
at some plants while  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  reported damage to its
operations in China as protesters smashed store fronts and cars
in demonstrations sparked by Japan’s purchase last week of
islands claimed by both countries.  In  Germany , the ZEW Center for European Economic Research
is forecast to say its  index  of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict economic developments six
months in advance, was at minus 20 in September, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. The gauge slid to minus
25.5 last month, the lowest this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  