-- Australia ‘Quarry’ Caricature Masks Services Economy, Swan Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-18T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/australia-quarry-caricature-masks-services-economy-swan-says.html
Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
rejected caricatures of his nation as a China-dependent quarry,
saying the services-based economy is poised to cash in on  Asia ’s
burgeoning middle class.  Swan will highlight to a forum organized by the  Reserve
Bank  of  Australia , the Treasury and International Monetary Fund
today that while the nation’s biggest resource boom in a century
draws most attention, services account for almost 80 percent of
gross domestic product, according to the text of his speech.  “As millions of people are added to the ranks of Asia’s
middle class in the next decade, the demand for Australia’s
services will also grow,” he said at the ‘Structural Change and
the Rise of Asia’  conference  in Canberra. “There will be
greater opportunities in everything from agriculture and food,
to travel and tourism, to education, engineering, arts and
architecture, to banking and financial services.”  Swan’s spotlight on Australia’s services industry follows a
plunge in the price of  iron ore , the nation’s biggest export,
and the sustained strength of the currency prompted mining
companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd. (FMG)  to put off projects and cut jobs in the past month. He
cited the surge in Asian students studying in Australia in the
past decade and the growth in tourism from the region.  Sophisticated, Diversified  “The caricature of our country is one of a quarry, but we
know in fact that Australia is a services economy --
sophisticated and diversified,” Swan said.  Other speakers at the conference today include RBA
Assistant Governor Christopher Kent and Anne Krueger, a former
deputy managing director of the IMF and now a professor of
international economics at  Johns Hopkins University .  Australia is coming through the largest terms of trade boom
in its history, Swan said today, referring to a measure of
windfall gains from exports. The economy has low unemployment
and contained inflation “despite the very difficult adjustments
faced by some sectors,” he said.  The government is struggling with a so-called two-speed
economy, a phrase used to distinguish resource-rich regions in
the north and west that are powering growth, from struggling
manufacturing and retail industries across the south and east.  “To those who mount the argument that we are too closely
tied to  China  or too dependent on Asia’s demand for our
resources, I say this: it’s extremely difficult to make a case
that we should be doing less trade with the fastest-growing,
most dynamic region in the world,” Swan said.  Australia’s resource investment expansion is turning a boom
in prices into a sustained increase in the economy’s capacity,
which will see a higher level of production and exports for
years to come, Swan said.  “Our success so far, in stark contrast to past booms,
hinges on our sound macroeconomic frameworks, and our openness
and flexibility brought about by successive reforms,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  