-- MBAC Rally Fades After Surge on Agnelli Stake
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-09-18T21:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/mbac-rally-fades-after-surge-on-agnelli-stake.html
MBAC Fertilizer Corp. (MBC)  ended flat
after rising 12 percent in the last five days as a venture co-
founded by Vale SA’s former Chief Executive Officer became the
Canadian crop-nutrient producer’s largest shareholder.  B&A Mineracao SA, a venture of a company controlled by
 Roger Agnelli  and  Banco BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11) , bought 13.6 million MBAC
shares at C$2.73 each, valuing its stake at about 11.5 percent,
according to a Sept. 13 statement. The investment will allow
MBAC to fund the completion of its Itafos Arraias phosphate
project, said Spencer Churchill, an analyst at Paradigm Capital
Inc.  “The financing for the project was there but the worry was
that if there would be a delay or more capital needed, that
buffer wasn’t there,” Spencer, who recommends buying MBAC’s
shares, said by telephone from Toronto today. “Now it is.”  MBAC  was  unchanged at C$3.50 at market close after rising
12 percent since the day before the announcement. The stock is
 up  24 percent this year.  Sao Paulo-based B&A was created in July to invest as much
as $520 million in mines in  Brazil , Africa and Latin America.
B&A is looking at investment projects including copper,  iron
ore , phosphate and titanium, Chief Executive Officer Eduardo
Ledsham, a former Vale director, said July 12. BTG, the
Brazilian investment bank that went public this year, and AGN
Agroindustrial, Projetos & Participacoes Ltda, a company
controlled by Agnelli, each hold a 50 percent stake in B&A.  Rare Earth  Toronto-based MBAC, which produces about 60,000 tons of
phosphate rock a year in Brazil, plans to start operations at
the Itafos Arraias project in November, from where it expects to
produce 500,000 tons of single super phosphate by 2014, Chief
Executive Officer Antenor Silva said in an Aug. 13. interview.
The company is also seeking a partner to become Brazil’s first
 rare-earth  producer by 2016, he said at the time. All of MBAC’s
projects are in Brazil. The company has a market value of about
C$409 million ($419 million).  MBAC shares are rising on the investment news, diminished
concern about project financing and an improvement in the
outlook for fertilizer industry, Spencer said.  “The gains I think are coming off the combination of the
financing and less concern there, they’ve got this big Brazilian
bank that’s backing them, and just general market sentiment has
improved towards the fertilizer space,” the analyst said. MBAC
is “by far and away the best-performing North American junior
fertilizer company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  