-- Baidu, Tencent Show ‘Patriotism’ as China, Japan Dispute Islands
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-18T04:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/baidu-tencent-show-patriotism-as-china-japan-dispute-islands.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ,  China ’s largest search-
engine, and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , the nation’s biggest Internet
company, placed patriotic banners on their websites amid the
worst diplomatic crisis with  Japan  since 2005.  The homepage for Baidu’s search engine today featured an
animated illustration of the islands, known as Diaoyu in Chinese
and Senkaku in Japanese, with a Chinese flag flying atop.
Tencent posted a banner on its  QQ website  commemorating today’s
81st anniversary of the Mukden Incident, which led to Japan’s
invasion of China.  China and Japan’s clash over the islands is putting at risk
a trade relationship that’s tripled in the past decade to more
than $340 billion. Tensions escalated after Japan’s cabinet
approved the purchase of the islands for 2.05 billion yen ($26
million) on Sept. 11. China, which has said it doesn’t accept
the move, responded by sending government vessels to the area.  Clicking the image above Baidu’s search box takes users to
a separate webpage with the message “ The Diaoyu Islands belong
to China! ” and an enlarged image of China’s flag over the
islands. Users can then click to plant a Chinese flag on the
islands to show their support. A counter on the page shows more
than 2 million electronic flags have been planted.  “The intended statement is one of rational patriotism, and
a renunciation of violence and extremism,” said Kaiser Kuo, a
Beijing-based spokesman for Baidu. “Planting a digital flag is
a far better alternative than throwing stones or eggs or
smashing cars.”  Chinese Protesters  Thousands of protesters threw eggs and plastic bottles at
the Japanese embassy in Beijing today. Police in the southern
city of Guangzhou said they detained seven people for
vandalizing a Japanese-brand car on Sept. 16 and held another
three for smashing an unidentified store front.  On Tencent’s QQ website is a banner commemorating the
Mukden Incident, also known as the Manchurian Incident, which
took place in 1931. The event near what is now the Chinese city
of Shenyang led to the Japanese invasion of China.  “Never forget national humiliation,” the Tencent banner
reads. “Enrich the people and build a powerful nation.”  Clicking that banner leads to a  second page  with details on
casualties from the Japanese invasion of China.  Jane Yip, a spokeswoman for Shenzhen-based Tencent, didn’t
immediately respond to calls and e-mailed request for comment.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  