-- Baker, Clifford Chance, Royal Lawyers: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-18T11:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/baker-botts-clifford-chance-royal-lawyers-business-of-law.html
Baker Botts  LLP’s Steve Wardlaw is
taking over as partner in charge of the firm’s  London  office,
after spending seven years in Moscow, the firm said.  During his time in Moscow, the firm grew from five
attorneys representing institutional energy clients to 24, who
advise on corporate, real estate and intellectual property work
for Russian clients, in several industries, the firm said.  “Steve did a wonderful job in Moscow, so much so that we
substantially extended what was originally intended to be only a
two-year stay,” Baker Botts managing partner Andrew M. Baker
said in a statement. “I look forward to Steve putting his
imprint on London, and leading that office to the next level.”  Wardlaw joined Baker Botts’s London office in 2000, with a
practice focused on energy clients. His clients prompted his
move to Moscow in 2005. The following year he became partner in
charge of that office.  He will divide his time between London and Moscow in order
to serve his clients with Russia-related interests. Maxim Levinson succeeded him as partner in charge of the Moscow
office.  Wardlaw succeeds Tony Higginson in London. Higginson will
continue to practice, focusing on corporate and asset
acquisitions and divestitures and energy sector projects.  Wardlaw said in a statement that he plans to expand the
firm’s London office, which opened in 1998 and has 34 lawyers.  “Our experience in the energy, technology and life
sciences sectors reflects the strength and diverse talent
available to our clients throughout the firm,” Wardlaw said.
“We are committed to enhancing these strengths in London,
delivering advice from London to clients operating in a range of
regions, including  Europe , the Americas and sub-Saharan
 Africa .”  Baker Botts has more than 725 lawyers in 14 offices  North
America , Europe, China and the  Middle East .  Hyde to Lead Clifford Chance Asia Pacific Finance Practice  Clifford Chance LLP elected Mark Hyde, the firm’s global
head of restructuring and insolvency, to a four-year term as
Asia Pacific finance practice area leader. He will relocate to
Hong Kong in 2013. He will also run the restructuring and
insolvency practice in Asia Pacific.  Huw Jenkins , who has led Clifford Chance’s finance practice
in Asia Pacific since 2001, will continue to focus on worldwide
projects as part of the firm’s energy and infrastructure group.  “We are delighted to welcome Mark back to the region and
I’m certain that with his breadth of experience he will continue
to build on Huw’s successes,” Peter Charlton, Asia Pacific
managing partner said in a statement.  Hyde joined  Clifford Chance  in 1984, making partner in
1993. He has twice worked in the region. His restructuring and
insolvency work has included clients such as the National Bank
of Brunei, Peregrine, Monier, Dubai World and Nakheel. He has
been head of restructuring and insolvency at Clifford Chance
since 1998.  Clifford Chance’s Asia Pacific finance practice has more
than 100 legal advisers including 23 partners in eight offices
throughout the region, the firm said. Clifford Chance has 3,400
lawyers with 34 offices in 24 countries in Africa, the Americas,
Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East.  Litigation  U.K. Royal Family Wins French Ruling on Kate Sunbathing Photos  The French magazine Closer, which published topless photos
of the Duchess of Cambridge, must hand over the negatives and
pay a 10,000-euro ($13,000) fine each time the images are
published again, a French court ruled.  The ruling was issued today in Nanterre,  France , against
the magazine owned by the Berlusconi family’s  Arnoldo Mondadori
Editore Spa. (MN)  The title was sued after it printed a series of
photos of the duchess, Kate, and her husband Prince William,
sunbathing on a private estate in France.  Closer was also ordered to pay Kate 2,000 euros in expenses
for the case.  Aurelien Hamelle,  of Metzner Associes, the royal
family’s lawyer, had asked for 5,000 euros at a hearing
yesterday.  Delphine Pando, the lawyer representing Mondadori at the
hearing yesterday, said the magazine doesn’t have staff
photographers and didn’t own the photos.  “The photos are out there,” she said. “If a TV show
wants to show an image of this edition, it’s got nothing to do
with us.”  Ex-Trader Adoboli in Debt, Had Personal Spread-Bet Accounts  Kweku Adoboli, the former trader on trial for allegedly
costing  UBS AG (UBSN)  $2.3 billion from unauthorized trades, was in
debt and had several spread-betting accounts in violation of the
bank’s rules, a prosecutor said.  The bank’s compliance department notified Adoboli, 32, that
he should have flagged his personal trading through the spread-
betting firms IG Index Plc and City Index Ltd. to UBS
beforehand, prosecutor  Esther Schutzer-Weissmann  said at his
trial in London yesterday.  Adoboli’s personal bank accounts were mostly overdrawn and
he had borrowed money from various short-term lenders, she said.
At UBS, his pay rose from 40,500 pounds ($65,900) in 2005 to
360,000 pounds in 2010, including bonus, another prosecutor said
at the opening day of his trial last week. He lost 123,000
pounds through his personal trading with IG Index in the year
leading up to his arrest, Schutzer-Weissmann said yesterday.
Adoboli’s lawyers agreed not to challenge the information
provided by the prosecutor.  The former trader is charged with falsifying records on
exchange-traded fund transactions and other documents needed for
accounting purposes as early as October 2008. Prosecutors also
charged him with fraud for abusing his senior trader position.
His trial, at a London criminal court, is scheduled to last
eight weeks.  Lawyers at the firm Bark & Co. said in a statement on their
website that Adoboli “is keen to proceed with the evidence and
ensure that his own account is put forward,” which will give
the jury a chance “to consider a radically different and
compelling version of both his trading and the way he was
managed.”  Adoboli was arrested by the  City of London  Police last year
after he confessed in an e-mail to a UBS accountant to accruing
losses during “the aggressive sell-off in the days of July and
early August” as a result of the “escalation of the euro-zone
crisis,” prosecutors said at the trial last week.  Adoboli worked for the Zurich-based investment bank’s Delta
One desk, which handles trades for clients -- or risks the
bank’s own money -- typically by speculating on a basket of
securities. The loss UBS attributes to him came from trading in
Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures.  For more, click here.  Deals  Baker Botts Advises Waste Connections in $1.3 Billion Deal  Baker Botts LLP is advising Waste Connections Inc. in its
agreement to buy subsidiaries of R360 Environmental Solutions
Inc for about $1.3 billion, which will add oilfield waste-
treatment services in the Permian, Bakken and Eagle Ford.
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and Latham & Watkins LLP is
advising R360.  The Baker Botts team includes partners Ted Paris and Breen
Haire, corporate; Dan Kroll, tax; James Raborn, employee
benefits & executive compensation; Matt Kuryla and Derek McDonald, environmental; Bob Wright, real estate; and Mitch Lukin, intellectual property.  Wachtell Lipton corporate partner Ante Vucic is leading the
team for R360. Additional partners include Joseph D. Larson,
antitrust; Adam J. Shapiro, executive compensation and benefits;
Joshua A. Feltman, restructuring and finance; Jodi J. Schwartz
and Joshua M. Holmes, tax. Latham partners Tim Fenn and Ryan
Maierson in Houston and Laura Gabriel in San Francisco also
advised R360.  The transaction is expected to increase Waste Connection’s
earnings by boosting profit from treating, recovery and disposal
services for oil and natural-gas producers, the company said in
a statement yesterday.  “Through acquisitions and new facility development, R360
has created leading positions in key basins, providing closed
loop oilfield waste services within an increasingly stringent
regulatory environment,” Ronald J. Mittelstaedt, chairman and
chief executive officer of Waste Connections, said in the
statement. “This acquisition represents a natural extension of
our existing E&P disposal activities.”  News  Former Dewey Leaders Seek to Limit Personal Liability in Suits  The top three former executives at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the
defunct  law firm , filed objections to aspects of the proposed
settlements with about 400 partners designed to bring in $71
million.  Steven Davis , the former chairman, Stephen DiCarmine, the
former  executive director , and Joel Sanders, the ex-chief
financial officer, said last week that it’s improper that
releases under the settlements end up making them solely liable
for the firm’s failure.  The law doesn’t permit the settlements to eliminate their
rights to have liability for only their “proportionate share”
of damages, the three ex-executives said in a filing in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan. They also object to making secret
the identities of the settling partners, saying they need to
know who settled in preparing their defenses.  The firm’s former leaders also want the bankruptcy judge to
strike a provision that would prevent settling partners from
helping them fight lawsuits. The settlements come up for
approval at a Sept. 20 hearing.  A team of four former Dewey lawyers who were involved in
the $2 billion sale of the  Los Angeles Dodgers  this spring also
have concerns. They are using the outstanding fees that need
collecting from the sale as leverage in the proposed settlement,
the Wall Street Journal  reported  yesterday.  The four,  Bruce Bennett , Sidney P. Levinson, James O.
Johnston and Joshua M. Mester, now at  Jones Day , are seeking
damage claims for fraud and misrepresentation by the firm’s
executive committee members, according to the paper.  Their request makes that the four partners claims for
damages could continue if the clawback settlement moves forward,
the WSJ reported.  Dewey once had 1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under
Chapter 11 in May. The petition listed assets of $193 million
and liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Moves  Hogan Lovells Adds Five New IP Partners in Northern California  Hogan Lovells  LLP hired five new intellectual property
partners in Northern California, four of whom come from Hanes
and Boone LLP’s Silicon Valley office.  Edward Kwok, Jennifer Lantz, Steve Levitan, and Clark Stone, most recently of Hanes and Boone, have joined Hogan
Lovells as partners in the Silicon Valley office. Christian Mammen, who had his own private practice, joins Hogan in San
Francisco.  “We are seeing tremendous growth in our global
intellectual property and patent litigation practices, and these
new partners give us additional capabilities and critical mass
in one of the most important technology and IP markets in the
world,” Hogan Lovells Co-Chief Executive Officer Warren Gorrell
said in a statement.  The incoming partners will focus on IP litigation in
federal courts, state courts, the International Trade
Commission, and arbitration proceedings, with an emphasis on
patent and trademark litigation for West Coast and Asia-based
technology clients.  The group has experience in electrical engineering and
computer science-related fields, as well as Internet search,
high-temperature superconductivity, mobile telecommunications,
digital video and audio, and biotechnology matters.  Hogan Lovells’ intellectual property practice group has
more than 390 lawyers, specialists, and paralegals worldwide,
the firm said. The team handles IP litigation in U.S. and
European courts, the ITC, and other international forums.  Hogan Lovells has 2,300 lawyers at more than 40 offices in
the U.S., Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  