-- Be Smart, Not Just Tough, in the Middle East
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-18T22:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/be-smart-not-just-tough-in-the-middle-east.html
A week has passed since U.S.
Ambassador Christopher Stevens was killed in  Libya , but the
debate about how the U.S. should respond to the  Middle East ’s
turmoil has barely progressed beyond name-calling. Something
better is needed, because this problem isn’t going away.  Riots sparked by the made-in-the-USA, anti-Islam video that
ostensibly helped to provoke his death have continued,
underlining that U.S. positions in the region can become hostage
at any time to some crackpot’s irreverent portrayal of the
 Prophet Muhammad .  A suicide attack this week in  Afghanistan  killed at least 12
more people, nine of them foreigners. The Taliban-linked
perpetrators claimed the attack was in revenge for the video.
That followed a day of riots outside U.S. diplomatic missions in
Indonesia and  Pakistan . In Lebanon, Hezbollah leader  Hassan Nasrallah  made a rare public appearance before protesters to
call for a sustained movement in defense of the Prophet. Iran’s
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  also got in on the act.  Wrong Answers  Needless to say, most of these responses are opportunistic.
The video, called “Innocence of the Muslims,” was no more than a
useful tool to pursue existing agendas, as was probably the case
at the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, where Stevens died.  So how to respond? Well, you could follow the lead of
Senator  John McCain  and House Intelligence Committee Chairman
Mike Rogers, for example, who cast the riots and Stevens’ death
as a product of U.S. weakness and failed leadership in the
Middle East. They say a tougher, more assertive U.S. is the
answer. They also say the U.S. is too weak on  Iran  and  Syria .  Yet if we have learned anything since Islamist radicals
started trying, as far back as 1979, to oust the U.S. from the
Middle East with attacks, it is the folly of using “toughness”
as the chief criterion for evaluating U.S. policy in the region.
That perspective often seems to produce the wrong answers.  What’s needed is a more clear-eyed approach that emphasizes
effectiveness over toughness. In that light, we have four
recommendations to make about how to respond to this latest
spasm of anti-American riots, which sadly won’t be the last.  First, don’t let talk of a clash of values become self-
fulfilling. It is a fact that many Muslims don’t believe that
free speech trumps religious dictates against blasphemy. The
U.S. can’t do much about this. It certainly shouldn’t bend its
own values in response, or get involved in censoring what
YouTube posts. But the U.S. also shouldn’t count on persuading
conservative Muslims to change their sensitivities anytime soon.
In the meantime, they have a right to express their disgust at a
meritless and hateful video, including by peaceful
protest.  The U.S. government, equally, has the right to distance
itself vigorously from trash, produced by a convicted fraudster,
that it had no hand in producing or distributing -- and without
being accused of apologizing for U.S. values.  Second, the U.S. needs to be realistic in dealing with the
Arab Spring’s newly elected Islamist governments. The decision
by  Egypt  and  Tunisia  to call for protests on the video is not
evidence that they want to sever relations with the U.S., or
that the U.S. has been naive in engaging with them. These
governments compete for power with ultraconservatives and feel
that not to take the lead in protesting well-publicized insults
to the Prophet would be political suicide. The U.S. should go on
working with these inherently awkward partners while demanding
that their police offer more determined protection to U.S.
diplomatic missions and other assets.  Smart Security  Third, the U.S. needs to produce more Chris Stevenses and do
a better job of protecting them. Ambassador Stevens was  unusual 
not just in his Arabic proficiency, but also in his willingness
to move outside the bubble of security that insulates most U.S.
diplomatic personnel in the region. The challenge the U.S. faces
-- one that we hope proposed hearings on the Libya attacks take
up -- is in safeguarding its personnel without walling them off
from the world.  Fourth, in its use of power, the U.S. needs to make a clear
distinction among its responses to terrorists, Islamist
governments and ordinary conservative Muslims, all of whom have
played a role in turmoil over the videos and demand separate
responses.  It should come as no surprise that in this most recent bout
of unrest, the most violent incident took place in a country
where the government is not Islamist, but secular and pro-
American. A  study  this year found a direct correlation between
the level of secular-Islamist competition in  Muslim countries 
and levels of anti-Americanism. The researchers explain that, in
competing for legitimacy, the two sides bid up their rhetoric
against the U.S.  At first glance, Libya doesn’t fit that pattern -- a Gallup
 Poll  in August showed it was by far the most pro-American
country in the Middle East, other than  Israel . But that’s a new
and direct result of the U.S. military intervention to topple
Colonel  Muammar Qaddafi  last year. Having lost elections to
secularists in July, Libya’s radical Islamists appear to have
“bid up” the anti-American card by killing Ambassador Stevens.  The right response in Libya now is more low key U.S.
engagement, not less, working with the Libyan government to
track down terrorists, disarm and retrain militias, build up an
effective police force and encourage Libya’s integration into
the international economy. That makes less of a campaign trail
sound bite than insisting that America stand tall and get tough
against its enemies. But it’s what the U.S. needs to do.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Romney’s 47 percent fallacy ;
 Ezra Klein  on Romney and  the responsibility of the poor ;
 Margaret Carlson  on how  Romney isn’t necessarily doomed ; Clive
Crook on why  the Fed made the right move ;  Peter Orszag  on how
the Ryan budget would make it  harder for Medicare patients to
find doctors ; William Pesek on rising  tensions between China and
Japan ; Matthew Bryza on how  Europe can hang tough on Gazprom ;
Mel and Patricia Ziegler on  the creation of Banana Republic .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 