-- Billionaire Ross Says Deal With Lehman Brokerage Is Fair
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-09-18T20:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/billionaire-ross-says-deal-with-lehman-brokerage-is-fair.html
Billionaire Wilbur Ross said his
company is paying a fair price for shares in a shipping company
held by defunct brokerage  Lehman Brothers Inc ., after hedge fund
Elliott Management Corp. said the price was too low.  Elliott, a creditor of the brokerage, said the 34 percent
stake in gas-tanker operator  Navigator Holdings Ltd. (NVIGF)  is being
offered to WL Ross & Co. for about $110 million without a proper
bidding process. Trustee James Giddens would be letting Ross’s
company, which already owns Navigator shares, raise its stake to
61 percent without paying a premium for control, Elliott said
yesterday in a bankruptcy court filing in Manhattan.  The fight pits two billionaire investors against each other
in the market in distressed industries. Elliott, the $20 billion
firm founded by billionaire investor  Paul Singer , asked the
judge not to let Giddens complete the sale to Ross.  “WLR not only has agreed to pay a full and fair price for
the shares following arms’ length negotiations between the
trustee and WLR, but WLR, like any other potential purchaser,
was required to agree to binding standstill restrictions that
preclude it from acquiring or exercising control” for a
specified period, the Ross company said in a filing today that
was accompanied by a declaration from Ross, the chairman.  Most of Ross’s Navigator shares were bought last year from
Navigator for the same $25 each that Lehman would receive, the
company said.  Capacity Glut  Ross, whose company manages about $10 billion of assets,
told  Bloomberg News  this month that private-equity investors are
increasingly interested in shipping after a four-year rout
caused by a glut of capacity.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  are
among private-equity firms that bought vessels in the past two
years. WL Ross joined other investors who spent $900 million a
year ago on 30 tankers hauling refined oil products.  The Lehman brokerage, which is liquidating separately from
its parent, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., hasn’t paid
institutional creditors anything from its $25 billion hoard
after four years in liquidation. Elliott demanded in June that
Giddens sell securities and pay an initial $3.2 billion soon.  Noting the payment demand, the Ross company said Elliott
appears to have an agenda that many of the brokerage’s creditors
don’t share.  Peter Truell , an Elliott spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the Ross statement.  The Lehman brokerage liquidation is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
parent’s case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings  Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  