-- Brazil Finance Chief Blasts QE3 as Damaging for Emerging Markets
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-09-18T13:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/brazil-finance-chief-blasts-qe3-as-damaging-for-emerging-markets.html
Brazil ’s finance chief blasted the
latest round of U.S. monetary easing, saying that the  Federal
Reserve ’s resumption of asset purchases could damage growth in
 emerging markets .  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who coined the term
“currency war” in 2010 to describe advanced economies’ use of
monetary policy to boost exports, said the Fed’s open-ended plan
to purchase assets will erode the competitiveness of Brazilian
manufacturers by weakening the  U.S. dollar . A decline in the
dollar also cuts into the value of Brazil’s foreign currency
reserves, he said.  “QE3 is a worry of ours,” Mantega told reporters in Paris
following a meeting with his French counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici . “It will resolve lots of problems in the U.S., but
the depreciation of the dollar will cause lots of problems for
emerging nations.”  Brazil has stepped up efforts to weaken the real since
Sept. 13, the day  Ben S. Bernanke  unveiled the asset-buying
plan. The central bank has sold reverse currency swaps four
times in the past four days, driving down the real 0.4 percent
to 2.0285 per U.S. dollar as of 10:12 a.m. local time.  The real reached a high this year of 1.70 against the U.S.
dollar on Feb. 28. Since then, the real has slid 16 percent,
more than all 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as the
government came to the rescue of industry by raising tariffs,
imposing barriers on capital inflows and purchasing dollars in
the spot and futures market.  Brazil has been one of the leading critics of interest rate
policy in the U.S. and Europe. President  Dilma Rousseff  in March
said advanced economies were unleashing a “monetary tsunami”
that adversely impacts on emerging markets’ currencies and trade
balances.  Even after the real began depreciating in March, most of
the measures to curb gains by the real have been kept in place
and Mantega reiterated today that the government won’t let the
real strengthen.  An overvalued real could again hit Brazilian manufacturers
just as Brazil’s economy is showing signs of recovering after a
yearlong stagnation. Brazil’s gross domestic product is expected
to grow 1.57 percent this year, down from 2.7 percent in 2011,
according to the latest survey of analysts by the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in London at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  