-- Brazil Said to Be Guided by Inflation in 2013 Rate Moves
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-09-18T20:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/brazil-said-to-be-guided-by-inflation-in-setting-rates-in-2013.html
Brazilian policy makers will set
interest rates next year based on the outlook for inflation, a
government official close to the central bank said, in response
to Finance Minister  Guido Mantega ’s forecast that borrowing
costs will remain unchanged at a record low in 2013.  Policy makers won’t hesitate to raise interest rates next
year to keep  inflation  in line with their 4.5 percent target,
said the official, who isn’t authorized to speak publicly about
the issue.  Mantega, in an interview with O Estado de S. Paulo
newspaper published Sept. 16, said government tax cuts and
measures to reduce electricity costs will contain price
increases next year, clearing the way for the central bank to
keep the benchmark Selic rate on hold at 7.5 percent.  Central bankers reduced the benchmark interest rate by five
percentage points in the past 13 months to a record 7.5 percent
in a move that President  Dilma Rousseff  said made her “happy.”  Traders are wagering the central bank will have to reverse
course and increase rates during the first half of 2013 to rein
in consumer price increases. Inflation quickened for a second
straight month to 5.24 percent in August amid signs that
economic growth is rebounding.  Yields on swap rates maturing in January 2013, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo  today, were unchanged at 7.31 percent at
5:02 p.m. local time.  Brazil ’s rate reductions since last August, the biggest
among the Group of 20 most industrialized nations, is part of an
effort to revive economic growth that will slow to 1.57 percent
this year, according to the median estimate in a central bank
survey published yesterday.  Brazil is carrying out “an unprecedented path of constant
and vigorous  interest rate  cuts that has lowered the Selic to 2
percent a year in real terms,” Rousseff said in a Sept. 6
speech. “This makes me happy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  