-- CF Partners Starts Voluntary Carbon Unit, Competing on Price
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-09-18T16:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/cf-partners-starts-voluntary-carbon-unit-competing-on-price.html
CF Partners (U.K.) LLP, the  London 
investment manager, is expanding beyond mandatory carbon trading
to offer voluntary emission reduction products and services to
boost sales.  The London-based group started Arctix Sustainable Solutions
because companies including Microsoft Corp. and Marks & Spencer
Group Plc are seeking to show their customers they are helping
to protect the climate, said Tobias Troye, head of carbon
solutions at the new unit.  “There will be an element of price competitiveness”
because some buyers may be paying too much, Troye said yesterday
by phone. “Buyers of voluntary offsets are not always
interested in the lowest price, they are also interested in the
marketing benefits the credits can bring their organization, or
the project’s contribution to social development, for
instance,” he said.  Gold Standard voluntary credits are at about 4.60 euros
($6) a metric ton, according to  Tullet Prebon Group Ltd.  data.
That’s three times more than December Certified Emission
Reduction credits under the United Nations-overseen Clean
Development Mechanism, which fell today to a record 1.43 euros a
ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  There may be some consumption by voluntary offset buyers of
CERs, Troye said.  “Demand from the voluntary market won’t be enough to boost
prices in the CDM,” he said.  High Pressure  The low CER prices are a function of a lack of demand
stemming from a failure of governments to set ambitious
greenhouse-gas reduction targets, said  John Davis , a trader at
Arctix.  The voluntary offset market has encountered problems in the
past. On Aug. 16, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said it
was concerned that there was an increasing number of firms using
“dubious, high-pressure sales tactics and targeting vulnerable
consumers.”  “There are still unscrupulous sellers of voluntary
emission credits, who damage the market’s reputation”, Davis
said yesterday by phone. “We are confident this is a temporary
problem, and are playing our part in flagging such firms to the
relevant regulators.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  