-- China Protests Against Japan Continue on War Anniversary
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-18T08:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/chinese-protest-over-islands-on-anniversary-of-japan-conflict.html
Thousands of people hemmed in by
riot police protested outside the Japanese Embassy in Beijing
over a territorial dispute, as state media commemorated an
attack that led to  Japan ’s World War II occupation.  As a helicopter hovered overhead, demonstrators waving
Chinese flags marched up and down a street outside the embassy
that had been blocked off. Japanese retailers in  China  closed
their doors and covered up their logos to thwart attacks after
 car dealerships  were torched over the weekend as protests spread
over Japan’s plan to buy islands claimed by both countries.  Japan “totally caused” the current crisis and should
“take responsibility,” China’s Defense Minister Liang Guanglie
told reporters in Beijing today in a joint appearance with U.S.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta . “In the future we will very
closely watch the evolution with regards to this dispute and we
reserve the right for further actions.”  The protests over the islands, known as Diaoyu in Chinese
and Senkaku in Japanese, coincide with a once-a-decade
leadership transition in China that has already been clouded by
the ouster of Politburo member Bo Xilai and a two-week absence
by Vice President  Xi Jinping , who is in line to take over the
top job. China and Japan’s worst diplomatic crisis since 2005 is
endangering a trade relationship that has more than tripled in
the past decade.  “We’re not just protesting Diaoyu Island,” said Liu Lin,
53, who took a day off from work to demonstrate. “We’re angry
because the Japanese did not learn their lessons from World War
II like  Germany . Instead they are trying to steal our territory
again.”  ‘Open Fire’  In  Shanghai , thousands of protesters marched through the
streets waving Chinese flags and holding portraits of  Mao
Zedong . Protesters shouted slogans and carried banners saying
“Down With the Japanese” and “Open Fire on Japan.”  China Central Television  observed a moment of silence today
to commemorate the 81st anniversary of the Manchurian Incident,
an attack on a Japanese railway that historians say was used as
an excuse to start an invasion that would see Japan take control
of most of China.  Purchase Approved  The protests began last week after Japan’s cabinet approved
the purchase of the islands for 2.05 billion yen ($26 million)
on Sept. 11. China, which has said it doesn’t accept the move,
dispatched government vessels to the area around the islands.  A Chinese fishing ban in waters surrounding the islands
ended Sept. 16, and Chinese and Japanese media aired footage of
fishing vessels heading out to sea. The state-run China News
Service reported yesterday that 1,000 fishing boats typically go
to the region and the government would send more vessels than in
recent years.  The standoff is putting at risk a $340 billion trade
relationship.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Honda Motor Co. and Nissan
Motor Co. halted production at some plants while  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
reported damage to its operations in China.  Shares of  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , owner of the Uniqlo clothing
brand, fell the most in three months in Tokyo trading after the
company closed 42 stores. Seven & I Holdings Co. closed 211
stores and Aeon Jusco shut 30 outlets as of today.  Throwing Bottles  At the Japanese embassy, protesters threw bottles and
branches at the building’s walls, which were spattered with eggs
and paint. A recording of a female voice, played in a loop over
a loudspeaker, urged protesters to display their patriotism “in
an orderly manner” and avoid behaving “impulsively.”  Japan’s government urged China to “take all measures to
prevent any further harm to Japanese citizens or Japanese
companies,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said today.  Fujimura said the government received a report that two
Japanese landed on one of the disputed islands today and left
after being warned by the Coast Guard. Hong Kong-based activists
may go to the region as early as tomorrow, the  Apple Daily 
reported today.  “Considering that Japanese companies make important
contributions to the Chinese economy and employment, people
should look at the broader picture and act calmly,” Fujimura
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  