-- China’s Stocks Fall on Concern Japan Tensions May Hurt Economy
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-09-18T08:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/china-stock-index-futures-decline-on-pboc-inflation-report.html
China’s stocks  fell, capping the
biggest two-day drop in almost six months, on concern escalating
tensions with  Japan  over a territorial dispute will hurt trade
and deepen an economic slowdown.  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co., which has ventures with
Japanese automakers including Toyota Motor Corp., slid to a
record low as a Chinese industry association said some
dealerships that sell Japanese cars shut after outlets were
attacked. Chengdu Galaxy Magnets Co., which derived two-thirds
of revenue from Japan, dropped to the lowest this month. Zijin
Mining Group Co. and Jiangxi Copper Co. led a gauge of material
producers to the biggest slump among 10 industry groups.  “Historically, whenever there’s unrest nearby, stocks will
decline because of the uncertainty,”  Zhang Gang , a strategist
at Central  China  Securities Holdings Co., said by phone in
Shanghai today. “With no new stimulus from the central bank,
investors are negative and stocks keep going down.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slumped 0.9 percent to
2,059.54 at the close, the lowest close since Sept. 6, while the
 CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 1 percent to 2,235.24. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong
retreated 0.9 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, slid
1.7 percent in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite had fallen 6.4 percent this year on
concern the government isn’t loosening monetary policy or
introducing stimulus policies fast enough to counter the
slowdown in the economy. It’s valued at 9.4 times estimated
earnings, compared with the 17.5 average since Bloomberg began
compiling the weekly  data  in 2006.  Political Crisis  China reserves the right to take further action concerning
its island dispute with Japan, Chinese Defense Minister Liang
Guanglie said at a briefing today with U.S. Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta . Japan Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said
the government received a report that two Japanese landed on one
of the disputed islands today and left after being warned by the
Coast Guard. Fishing boats that are suspected to be from China
or Taiwan were seen near islands disputed between Japan and
China,  Kyodo News  reported, citing Japan’s Coast Guard.  China and Japan’s worst diplomatic crisis since 2005 is
putting at risk a trade relationship that’s tripled in the past
decade to more than $340 billion. Panasonic Corp. and Canon Inc.
yesterday said they’re shutting some plants in China through
today and the China Automobile Dealers Association said the
protests will hurt sellers of Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan
Motor Co. cars in China more than Japan’s March 2011 earthquake.  Inflation Concerns  Guangzhou Automobile declined 0.7 percent to 5.49 yuan,
extending a record low. In  Hong Kong , Dongfeng Motor Group Co.,
which produces cars with Nissan in China, plunged 4.8 percent to
HK$9.16. Chengdu Galaxy Magnets Co., a magnetic alloy component
maker that derived 69 percent of 2011 revenue from Japan
according to Bloomberg data, slid 1.7 percent, extending
yesterday’s 5.6 percent drop.  Stocks also fell after the Chinese central bank said it’s
placing more emphasis on  price stability , boosting concern it
will delay easing monetary policy even as the economy slows.  The People’s Bank of China is focusing more on keeping
“overall  price levels  basically stable,” it said in a report
yesterday from Beijing. The authority has held off from
loosening monetary policy further after cutting  interest rates 
in June and July. Inflation that accelerated for the first time
in five months in August may limit any monetary easing.  A third round of quantitative easing announced last week by
the U.S. Federal Reserve reduces room for China’s policy easing
as it may add to the nation’s inflationary pressure, Industrial
Securities Co. said in a report yesterday.  QE3 Concern  The Shanghai Composite has gained 0.6 percent this month
amid speculation QE3 will spur inflows in  emerging markets . A
rebound for stocks isn’t sustainable because the fundamentals of
cyclical industries may not improve until the first half of next
year, Cheng Dinghua, an analyst at Essence Securities, said in a
report dated yesterday. Essence was second ranked for equity
strategy research by New Fortune magazine last year.  A gauge of  material stocks  in the CSI 300 lost 2.2 percent,
the most among the 10 groups. Zijin Mining, the biggest gold
producer lost 2.3 percent to 3.89  yuan . Jiangxi Copper, the
largest copper producer, slid 2.5 percent to 21.88 yuan.
Commodities fell for the first time in eight days on concern
that the U.S. stimulus may not be enough to jumpstart the  U.S.
economy  and spur demand.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
tumbled 2.2 percent to 678.68, the biggest one-day drop since
July 23. Copper prices fell as much as 0.8 percent to $8,238 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange, while spot gold fell as
much as 0.4 percent to $1,753.75 an ounce.  Home Prices  Australia , the world’s biggest iron ore exporter, reduced
its price forecasts for this year and next on concern that a
slowing economy in China will curb demand growth.  China’s economy  continues to face some difficulty for a
period of time on the sluggish U.S. and European economies and
because of domestic factors, according to a commentary published
by Xinhua News Agency.  Chinese new home prices rose in fewer cities last month
than in July, reducing concern that the government may issue new
tightening measures. Prices climbed in 35 cities out of the 70
the government tracks, according to data released by the
statistics bureau. Prices fell in 19 cities, the data showed.  Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second-biggest developer,
gained 1.1 percent to 9.82 yuan. Gemdale Corp. advanced 0.2
percent to 4.87 yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  