-- China Money Rate Jumps to Three-Week High on Cash Demand Outlook
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-18T03:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/china-money-rate-jumps-to-three-week-high-on-cash-demand-outlook.html
China ’s money-market rate jumped to
the highest level in three weeks after the central bank issued
treasury deposits at higher yields, reflecting banks’
expectations that cash demand will rise as the quarter-end nears.  The overnight-repurchase  rate  rose for a second day after
the People’s Bank of China offered 40 billion  yuan  ($6.3 billion)
of three-month treasury deposits to commercial banks on behalf
of the  finance ministry  at a yield of 3.7 percent, compared with
3.52 percent at the last sale in August. That was the highest
yield since September 2011 in similar-maturity auctions.  “The higher yield shows commercial banks are preparing for
a cash crunch around the end of this quarter,” said Wang Huane,
a senior bond trader at Qilu Bank Co. in Jinan, capital of the
eastern Shandong province. “The central bank is trying to
prevent a cash shortage by using reverse-repurchase agreements,
but they are limited in solving the problem.”  The one-day repo, which measures interbank funding
availability, gained 19 basis points to 2.92 percent as of 11:06
a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate compiled
by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The PBOC conducted 20 billion yuan of seven-day reverse-
repo operations today and 55 billion yuan of 28-day reverse
repos, according to a statement. The yields were kept unchanged
at 3.35 percent and 3.6 percent, respectively.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined eight
basis points to 3.19 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the 3.39 percent government bonds due
August 2022 dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 3.55 percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  --Judy Chen. Editors: Andrew Janes, Simon Harvey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  