-- Citigroup Executives Depart After Mortgage-Fraud Case
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   B o b   I v r y
-- 2012-09-18T14:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/citigroup-executives-depart-after-mortgage-fraud-case.html
Two  Citigroup Inc. (C)  executives are
departing after federal prosecutors named them earlier this year
in a mortgage-insurance fraud case that resulted in a $158.3
million settlement and an admission of wrongdoing by the bank.  Jeffery Polkinghorne , a senior risk manager at the
CitiMortgage division, is leaving after 16 years of “dedicated
service,” according to an internal memo obtained by  Bloomberg
News  and confirmed by  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for the New
York-based bank. Donald Houghtalin, a compliance officer at the
unit, has already left, he said in a phone interview. Neither
man was sued by the government.  Both were among CitiMortgage executives named in a suit
against Citigroup filed by the U.S. Justice Department earlier
this year which claimed the lender saddled taxpayers with losses
after falsely declaring defective home loans fit for a federal
insurance program. The government alleged that some bank
officials pressured other employees to change reports on faulty
loans. Citigroup paid to settle the claims in February.  “Jeff spent many years in various roles within risk, where
he worked tirelessly as a business partner with others in the
mortgage business,” CitiMortgage Chief Risk Officer Rajinder Singh said in the memo. “Jeff has been a valued member of the
global consumer-mortgage team and is a friend to many here at
CitiMortgage.”  Polkinghorne, who was in charge of loan quality, will
continue to work for Citigroup until the end of September,
according to the memo. He declined to comment.  Government Standards  The U.S. accused Citigroup of violating requirements of a
Federal Housing Administration program that allowed the bank to
decide which home loans would be federally insured against loss.
The lender, the third-biggest in the U.S., admitted to falsely
stating that some loans met FHA and U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development standards.  The U.S. joined a false-claims lawsuit filed by Sherry Hunt, a whistle-blower and CitiMortgage quality-control vice
president. She said that executives buried her findings on
defective loans into 2012.  Polkinghorne asked Hunt and a colleague to stay in a
conference room after a meeting in March 2011, she said in a May
article in Bloomberg Markets magazine. He told them that the
number of loans classified as defective would have to fall or it
would be “your asses on the line,” Hunt said.  “All a dishonest person had to do was change the reports
to make things look better than they were,” Hunt said. “I
wouldn’t play along.”  Citigroup Gatekeepers  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan  alleged that
Citigroup appointed internal “gatekeepers” to urge loan-
quality employees to change reports to reduce the number of
defective mortgages Citigroup was buying and selling without
improving their quality. Another employee e-mailed Polkinghorne
about the gatekeepers in 2010, claiming that this pressure was
‘increasing in intensity,” according to the complaint.  “Citi took no action to address this problem and the
intrusion of business interests into quality control only grew
worse,” according to the complaint.  Polkinghorne fielded objections from a subordinate about a
quarterly award ceremony for a team that had successfully
challenged negative loan reviews, the government complaint said.  Responsible Finance  Some CitiMortgage employees had pay incentives tied to
reducing the number of defective loans, part of a bank-wide
effort to practice what Citigroup Chief Executive Officer Vikram S. Pandit calls “responsible finance,” Sanjiv Das,
CitiMortgage’s CEO, said in a March 30 interview.  “We pay our people based on defect quality. We are very
proud of that,” Das said. “I get compensated based on
manufacturing quality. It all comes down to how you make
responsible finance effective throughout the company.”  Das declined to comment today.  Houghtalin was in charge of making sure CitiMortgage
followed government guidelines so it could continue issuing
U.S.-insured  home loans . He knew that CitiMortgage had broken
the rules when he certified -- or caused Polkinghorne to certify
-- in documents that the opposite was true, according to Hunt’s
false-claims suit.  In November 2009, Hunt said she found about 1,000 loans a
quality-control team had flagged for issues such as altered tax
forms, straw buyers and borrowers listing fictitious employers.
Some of the loans had been left in the queue for more than two
years without being checked for fraud, she said.  ‘A Battleground’  “What they told me was they’re doing some restructuring
and relocated my position to another location,” Houghtalin said
of his leaving Citigroup. He declined to comment further.  Scott McIlhaney, the unit’s director of operational risk
who was also named in the government’s complaint, referred
questions to the bank’s communications department. Rodgers, the
Citigroup spokesman, declined to comment.  Disagreement over quality-control reports remained “a
battleground” within CitiMortgage into 2012, with Citigroup
employees using “brute force” to pressure Hunt’s team to alter
their findings, the complaint said.  “Citi’s quality-control program lacks the basic
independence from business unit control that is required,”
according to the complaint.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Ivry in New York at   bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 