-- Court Reinstates Rule on`Issue-Ad’ Donors’ Secrecy
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-18T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/court-reinstates-rule-on-issue-ad-donors-secrecy.html
A U.S. appeals court reinstated a
 Federal Election Commission  rule that allows nonprofit groups
running “issue ads,” such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
Crossroads GPS, to keep their donors secret.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Washington today reversed a decision of a lower court judge, who
ruled that Congress, in passing the 2002 campaign finance law
known as McCain-Feingold, had intended that the donors’
identities be disclosed.  “The district court erred in holding that Congress spoke
plainly” when enacting the statute, the judges said in a five-
page order. “The statute is anything but clear, especially when
viewed in light of the  Supreme Court ’s decision in  Citizens
United  v. FEC.”  The disclosure rules apply only to what are known as
“electioneering communications,” ads that run before an
election and mention a federal candidate without urging viewers
to vote for or against the person. So-called independent
expenditures, which advocate support or opposition to a
candidate, aren’t affected by the FEC decision.  Sending the case back to the lower court for supervision,
the appeals judges asked the Federal Election Commission, which
didn’t participate in the appeal, “to explain the meaning and
the scope” of the rule, citing the advantages of allowing the
agency “to apply its expert judgment.”  The appeal was brought by the Center for Individual Freedom
and the Hispanic Leadership Fund, which argued disclosure of
donors’ names hurts political speech in an election year.  The lower court case is  Van Hollen  v. Federal Election
Commission, 11-0766, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington). The appellate cases are Van Hollen v. Federal
Election Commission, 12-5117 and 12-5118, in the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 