-- Coutts Hiring Private Bankers to Boost Mideast Business
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   D a l e   C r o f t s
-- 2012-09-18T14:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/coutts-hiring-private-bankers-to-boost-middle-east-business-1-.html
Coutts, the wealth management unit
of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , hired four private bankers
in the  Middle East  and said it plans further additions to tap
rising demand for wealth management services in the region.  Rishi Mansukhani joins as executive director from  HSBC
Holdings (HSBA)  Plc’s private banking unit and will co-lead a team in
Dubai focused on non-resident Indians, Coutts said today in an
e-mailed statement. Mahesh Ram is a former ABN Amro banker, Jai
Prakash Paliwal comes from ICICI Bank, and Amit Tyagi from HSBC.  Coutts, with offices in  Abu Dhabi , Dubai and Doha, last
year announced plans to make 20 new appointments in the Middle
East, with 15 of those in its regional hub of Dubai.  Coutts also hired three private bankers from  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and Bank Sarasin & Cie. in February to work in the region and
Geneva to serve Middle East clients, the bank said at the time.  The bank and rivals are recruiting private bankers as a
dearth of mergers and acquisitions and deals in the region
reduces demand for  investment banking . Deutsche Bank has
eliminated seven jobs at its investment banking division in
Dubai, two people familiar with the plan said yesterday.  The number of high-net-worth individuals in the Middle East
rose 10 percent to 400,000 in 2010, while their combined wealth
climbed 13 percent to $1.7 trillion, according to the  Capgemini
and Merrill Lynch 2011 World Wealth Report . The rate of growth
in the size and wealth of the region’s high-net-worth population
was higher than other regions, according to the June report.  Indians make up about a third of the population of the
 United Arab Emirates  of 8.3 million, with a large presence in
the country’s trade and financial services industry. India,
Asia’s third-biggest economy after Japan and China, is the
world’s top recipient of remittances, receiving about $64
billion in 2011, according to World Bank estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts in  Buenos Aires  at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  