-- Current-Account Gap in the U.S. Narrowed in Second Quarter
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-09-18T12:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/current-account-deficit-in-the-u-s-narrowed-in-second-quarter.html
The  current-account  deficit in the
U.S. narrowed more than forecast in the second quarter, helped
by a pickup in exports and a bigger income surplus.  The gap, the broadest measure of international trade
because it includes income payments and government transfers,
shrank 12 percent to $117.4 billion from $133.6 billion in the
prior quarter, a Commerce Department report showed today in
Washington. The  median  forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey called for a $125 billion deficit.  Overseas sales may be harder to sustain the rest of the
year as a slowdown from  Europe  to China reduces demand for
American-made goods. The balance of payments gap also is a
reminder that the world’s largest economy is dependent on
foreign investors for funding.  “We’re going to see the current-account deficit widen,”
said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
 West Chester , Pennsylvania, who projected a $118.8 billion
second-quarter gap. “Exports are going to weaken, a reflection
of the problems in Europe and slowing  emerging markets . Trade
may be neutral to a drag” on the economy, he said.  Estimates of the 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from a deficit of $137 billion to $118.8 billion. The first-
quarter shortfall was revised from a previously reported $137.3
billion.  U.S. stock-index futures fell and the euro weakened on
concern European leaders will struggle to resolve the debt
crisis. Spain’s two-year notes stayed lower after a bill auction
and commodities dropped.  Deficit, GDP  The gap represented 3 percent of gross domestic product
last quarter, compared with 3.5 percent in the prior quarter.
The deficit reached a record high of 6.5 percent of GDP in the
fourth quarter of 2005.  The  trade deficit  in goods and services, which accounts for
most of the current-account gap, decreased to $139.3 billion in
the quarter from $148.4 billion in the prior three months,
today’s report showed.  More recent figures indicate the current account balance
may worsen. The  trade gap  widened to $42 billion in July from a
revised $41.9 billion in June as exports fell, Commerce
Department figures showed on Sept. 11. The shortfall with the
European Union was the biggest in almost five years.  Manufacturers noting a slowdown in overseas demand include
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the biggest U.S. chemical maker. The Midland,
Michigan-based company this month announced a new global
business structure as it seeks to reduce costs.  ‘Challenging Environment’  “Industries and sectors worldwide are really in the midst
of what we consider an incredible challenging environment,”
 Andrew Liveris , chief executive officer, told investors at a
Sept. 11 conference.  Today’s report showed U.S. income on overseas assets
climbed by $1.4 billion to $186.1 billion in the second quarter.
Foreign earnings on assets in the U.S., including wages and
compensation, decreased by $6.7 billion to $130.6 billion.  That left a $55.5 billion surplus on  income payments , up
from $47.4 billion in the prior quarter. U.S. investments
overseas generally yield more than the  Treasury securities  that
foreign investors prefer to buy, helping maintain the income
surplus.  Payments by the U.S. government to foreigners and other
private transfers abroad exceeded official inflows from overseas
by $33.6 billion last quarter, compared with $32.7 billion in
the previous period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  