-- RBA Saw High Currency Dimming Growth Outlook, Minutes Show
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-09-18T04:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/currency-risk-to-growth-as-resources-drop-rba-minutes-show-1-.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  saw
the strength of the local currency and slowing growth in  China 
as risks to the domestic economy, signaling scope to cut
 interest rates  if necessary, minutes of its Sept. 4 meeting
showed.  “The current assessment of the inflation outlook continued
to provide scope to adjust policy in response to any significant
deterioration in the outlook for growth,” according to the
minutes released today in Sydney. The overnight  cash rate  target
was held at 3.5 percent.  While borrowing costs were unchanged for a third straight
meeting, the minutes signaled policy makers were monitoring
weaker commodity prices and a global economy still “subject to
significant downside risks.” In its assessment of the domestic
outlook, RBA officials discussed signs that labor demand had
softened “a little further,” housing showed some improvement
while a higher currency was taking a toll, according to the
minutes.  “Members discussed the possibility that the high level of
the  exchange rate  was weighing more heavily on the economy than
might be expected,” the minutes showed. “Overall, despite the
ongoing structural change, the  unemployment rate  had remained
relatively low to date.”  Mining Boom  Adding to the case for no rate change was a staff
assessment on mining investment plans that showed expectations
for “a substantial increase in resource investment over the
next year or so,” the minutes showed. There was also “no
evidence” yet that the national carbon tax introduced July 1
was raising medium-term inflation expectations, according to the
minutes.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board lowered the cash
rate by a total of 1.25 percentage points from November to June
to help shield the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis and slower
growth in China. At 3.5 percent, the benchmark borrowing cost is
still the highest among major developed economies.  The Australian dollar slid, fetching $1.0465 as of 2:44
p.m. in Sydney, 0.1 percent below yesterday’s close. The
currency has gained 2.5 percent this year and has closed above
parity with the  U.S. dollar  for all but 23 days in 2012.  Investors are pricing in a 72 percent chance the benchmark
rate will be reduced to 3.25 percent next month, swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  China’s Slowdown  In the minutes, the RBA policy makers said that recent data
on China’s growth were “a touch weaker, and this had been
accompanied by a sharp decline in spot prices for  iron ore  and
coking coal,” -- two of Australia’s biggest commodity exports.
If sustained, the declines would mean a larger fall in the terms
of trade than the RBA had previously forecast, the minutes
showed.  Australian commodity prices declined 4.3 percent in August
from the prior month and 18.5 percent from a year earlier in
Australian dollar terms, a  central bank index  showed this month.
The gauge reached the lowest level since April 2010.  Falling prices for iron ore and coking coal have eroded the
nation’s terms of trade -- a measure of windfall gains from
exports that reached a 140-year high last year.  “Members noted that most model-based estimates of the
currency generally placed a large weight on the terms of
trade,” according to today’s minutes. “With the terms of trade
still high by historical standards, these models suggested that
that Australian dollar may have been somewhat overvalued, but
not substantially so, although members also noted the
significant uncertainty surrounding this assessment.”  Job Losses  Since the RBA’s last policy meeting, government reports
have showed slower economic growth, domestic job losses and a
widening trade deficit.  Second-quarter  gross domestic product  advanced 0.6 percent
from the previous three months, when it rose a revised 1.4
percent, the Bureau of Statistics said Sept. 5. From a year
earlier, the economy expanded 3.7 percent, the strongest annual
pace since 2007 after a revised 4.4 percent growth in the first
quarter.  Australia’s  unemployment rate  in August unexpectedly fell
to 5.1 percent from 5.2 percent a month earlier, the statistics
bureau said Sept. 6. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 23 economists was for a rise to 5.3 percent. The
number of people employed fell by 8,800, compared with
economists’ forecast for an increase of 5,000. The participation
rate reached the lowest level in more than five years, a sign
that job seekers exited the  labor force .  In July, the nation’s trade shortfall swelled to A$556
million from a revised A$227 million deficit the prior month, a
government report showed Sept. 7. The  trade balance  has been in
deficit each month this year, the longest streak without a
surplus since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  