-- CVC Said to Sell 10% Stake to 3 Sovereign-Wealth Funds
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-09-18T16:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/cvc-said-to-sell-10-stake-to-three-sovereign-wealth-funds.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. agreed to
sell a 10 percent stake in itself to three sovereign-wealth
funds to finance investments and expand its infrastructure and
credit units, two people with knowledge of the move said.  The private equity firm briefed investors on the move at
its annual meeting in  London  last week, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are private.
One of the buyers is based in the  Middle East  and the other two
in  Asia , one of the people said. CVC didn’t provide a valuation,
the people said.  Closely held CVC, which owns motor championship Formula One
and Virgin Active gyms, follows competitors such as TPG Capital
and London-based Apax Partners LP in selling a stake to
sovereign-wealth funds. TPG, the firm started by  David Bonderman 
and  Jim Coulter , sold a minority stake to the Government of
Singapore Investment Corp. and the  Kuwait Investment Authority 
last year. Apax sold a 10 percent stake to China Investment
Corp., Australia’s Future Fund and the GIC.  The firms are seeking capital to expand beyond buyouts and
to secure money for new investments as they struggle to raise
money for new funds from their traditional investors. CVC is
preparing to raise another leveraged buyout from investors that
may be as big as the 10.8 billion-euro ($14 billion) pool it
amassed in 2008, people familiar with the matter said in May.
That would make it the largest fund being raised today.  A spokesman for CVC in London declined to comment.  Cordatus Unit  Outside shareholders also make it easier for founders to
cash out. CVC was started in 1981 as the European private-equity
arm of Citigroup Inc. predecessor Citicorp, before being
acquired by its managers in 1993. The firm, whose biggest office
is in London, is chaired by  Michael Smith , 59.  Other firms such as New York-based Blackstone Group LP and
Washington-based the  Carlyle Group  chose to sell stakes in their
management companies through initial public offerings.  In January, CVC bought Resource America Inc.’s leveraged-
loan investment unit to combine it with its own Cordatus debt
investment operation which it started in 2006. CVC also manages
leveraged buyout funds that focus on the Asia-Pacific region.  Buyout firms such as CVC typically use loans secured on the
targets they acquire to finance more than half of the purchase
price and cash from their own funds for the rest. The firms seek
to improve performance at the companies they acquire or expand
them before selling them within about five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  