-- Czech Liquor Ban in 4th Day as Police Chase Deadly Drinks
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-09-18T12:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/czech-liquor-ban-in-4th-day-as-police-chase-deadly-drinks.html
Czech officials will keep a
nationwide ban on hard-liquor sales for at least a “few” more
days as police probe an illegal alcohol network after spirits
laced with methyl-alcohol killed people across the country.  Police have charged 23 people with various crimes related
to making and spreading poisonous substances after raiding 40
premises, Deputy Interior Minister Jaroslav Hruska said today.  The worst case of mass alcohol poisoning in 30 years forced
the government to impose on Sept. 14 an indefinite ban on sales
of hard liquor across the country as police and customs officers
searched for the source of the contaminated beverages. While the
measure locked about 20 million bottles of spirits in warehouses
and hurt liquor makers and hospitality businesses, the
government isn’t considering easing it for now, Health Minister
Leos Heger told reporters in Prague.  “Declining profits, in the context of 19 and potentially
more deaths, are a lower priority at this moment,” Heger said.
Easing the ban “won’t be a matter for consideration in the next
few days.”  The Health Ministry has 19 confirmed deaths caused by
methanol, while police register 20 deaths and are awaiting
autopsy results from five more cases, Stepanka Zatloukalova, a
police spokeswoman, said by phone today.  Tainted Drinks  As many as 35 people have been hospitalized, with five new
cases of poisoning occurring in the past 24 hours, Heger said.  Police have uncovered a chain of producers and distributors
who supplied tainted drinks to retail outlets, bars and kiosks.  “The investigation conducted so far clearly shows that the
cases are related,” police President Martin Cervicek said
yesterday. “We have progressed to a group of people that may be
related to organizers, or possibly to importers of the base
material.”  Two people in neighboring Slovakia were hospitalized with
cases of “lighter poisoning” after drinking plum brandy bought
over the Internet in the  Czech Republic , Heger said. Slovakia
today joined  Poland  in banning the sale of liquor imported from
the Czech Republic. Both countries border the Czech Republic.  The ban on sale and serving of all spirits with more than
20 percent alcohol content “is prohibited until the recalling
of this extraordinary measure,” according to a statement posted
on the government’s website. The ban includes both domestic and
imported liquor, it said.  Budget Woes  The Czech ban is hurting the  budget  as the state collects
about 750 million koruna ($40 million) a month in taxes from
hard liquor sales, according to Ladislav Mincic, a deputy
finance minister. A longer ban would “complicate” efforts to
cut the budget gap, he said Sept. 16.  The tainted alcohol was sold in bottles under fake labels
from at least two Czech liquor makers and the bottles weren’t
properly sealed, according to police. The poisonous drink was
offered at discounts in bottles labeled as vodka or tuzemak, a
local rum-like alcoholic beverage. Several people went blind or
fell into coma after consuming it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  