-- Czech Yields Drop Before Bond Auction as Easing Signalled
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-09-19T16:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/czech-yields-drop-before-bond-auction-as-singer-signals-easing.html
The  Czech Republic  sold less bonds
than the maximum planned in a third successive auction as a drop
in yields in the past two days to near record lows pared demand.  The country raised 4.5 billion koruna ($237 million) from
fixed-rate bonds maturing in 2021 and floating-rate notes due in
2017, compared with the 4 billion-koruna to 6 billion-koruna
target, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. The average accepted
yield was 2.31 percent, compared with a record-low 2.14 percent
at the previous offering of the same maturity on Aug. 29. Bids
shrank to 6.3 billion koruna from 10.6 billion koruna.  Czech bonds have rallied in the past two days, cutting the
 extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year koruna notes rather
than comparable German bunds to a 15-month low yesterday, after
Governor Miroslav Singer signaled that the central bank may step
up monetary easing, including purchases of  government bonds .  “I regard yesterday’s rally as significantly overdone,”
Dalimil Vyskovsky, chief fixed-income trader at  Komercni Banka
AS (KOMB)  in Prague, said by phone after the auction results were
published. “The market may have overestimated the importance of
Singer’s comment. The yields are low and bonds at the long end
expensive, discouraging investors from buying more today.”  The koruna weakened 0.2 percent to 24.887 by 5:48 p.m. in
Prague after depreciating 1.2 percent yesterday, the most since
Feb. 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ’Official Commitment’  Singer indicated the Czech National Bank’s steps may lower
the yields on longer-maturity bonds, in an interview with Mlada
Fronta Dnes newspaper yesterday. He said the bank, which cut its
main  interest rate  to a record-low 0.5 percent in June, may
“attack the long end of the yield curve” through asset buying
and other stimulus measures. The economy shrank in the three
months to June, its third consecutive quarterly contraction,
according to data earlier this month.  “This may mean an official commitment to keep policy rates
lower for longer” and shows “willingness to expand the central
bank’s balance sheet and buy  government securities ,” Barclays
Plc strategists led by  Koon Chow  wrote in a report yesterday.
“We look for a 25 basis-point cut at the Sept. 27 meeting.”  Barclays recommended buying the 2021 debt as the yield may
fall to 1.90 percent, according to the research note.  Default Swaps  The country has the fifth highest rating at A1 from Moody’s
Investors Service, four steps above  Italy  and five above  Spain .
Czech bonds are the cheapest to insure with credit default swaps
in emerging  Europe . The contracts, which drop as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve, slid less than one basis point today
to 88, after reaching a 14-month low of 87 two days ago. That
compares with 94 basis points for Aaa-rated  France .  Czech yields, which reached all-time lows in August, jumped
in the first two weeks of September as investors turned to
higher-yielding assets on optimism the region’s financial crisis
will be contained. The government sold the least debt this year
at the last domestic auction two weeks ago as foreign investors
cut demand on record-low yields and concern Premier Petr Necas’s
plan to cut the  budget deficit  with higher taxes may fail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  