-- Czech Liquor Ban Hurts Pernod, Ahold as Search Drags On
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-09-19T12:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/czech-liquor-ban-costs-pernod-ahold-millions-as-search-drags-on.html
Siberian mining engineer Michail
Safronov wanted to try the local Czech alcoholic specialties
while visiting Prague, including plum brandy and  Becherovka , an
herb liqueur owned by  Pernod Ricard SA. (RI)  The plan didn’t work.  “I wanted to have a shot last night and they wouldn’t let
me,” Safronov said two days after the government indefinitely
banned the sale of hard liquor after dozens of people died from
methyl-alcohol poisoning. “This isn’t good news.”  Producers, retailers, bars and restaurants agree as
authorities try to uncover the source of the illegally bottled
liquor to stop further deaths. Business owners and executives
say the country’s widest ban in 20 years is costing the
hospitality and retail industry as well as the airport operator
millions of euros in lost revenue every day.  Producers including Paris-based Pernod complain that the
ban is unjustly punishing legal businesses while encouraging a
further spread of illegal alcohol on the black market. Pernod,
which sells high-end global brands like Chivas Regal whiskey,
Absolut vodka and Martell cognac, questioned the legality of the
ban and asked the European Union assist the government in
lifting it, said Anthony Schofield, the head of the French
company’s Czech unit.  “The government has hugely overreacted,” said Schofield
in a telephone interview. “To me, they are destroying Czech
brands and the Czech reputation abroad. It is very debatable
whether such a complete ban is even legal.”  Empty Shelves  Liquor shelves in bars and supermarkets including  Tesco AS (TSCO) 
and  Koninklijke Ahold NV (AH) ’s Albert outlets have been bare since
Sept. 14 because of the prohibition that may last for weeks.
Over 20 million bottles have been taken out of distribution as
police continue to search frantically for the source.  “The ban was a correct and necessary measure in order to
protect the health of our citizens and I fully stand behind
it,” Prime Minister Petr Necas said today during a press
briefing in Prague. “We wouldn’t want to be responsible for
even one death if we didn’t proceed with the ban.”  In the long run, though, the measure is hurting decent
liquor makers and pub operators and it’s the government’s top
priority to re-establish the spirits market in the country “as
soon as possible,” Necas said.  Twenty-three people died from poisoning in the country so
far and the cause one or two other deaths are awaiting autopsy
confirmation, police spokeswoman Stepanka Zatloukalova said by
phone today.  Pernod Ricard, which also sells Ballantine’s whiskey and
Havana Club rum, has suffered “significant financial effect,”
spokeswoman Petra Noskova said in an e-mailed message. Schofield
said the ban could “hugely damage” exports of Becherovka, the
best-known Czech liqueur.  Retail Losses  Ahold, which operates 282 Albert and Hypernova outlets in
the  Czech Republic , is losing about 1 million koruna ($54,000) a
day, according to spokeswoman Simona Caidlerova.  Sales of alcohol at duty-free stores dropped 85 percent
over the weekend as customers were prevented from purchasing
cognac, whiskey and local high-end alcohol, said Jana Volickova,
a marketing manager at duty-free shop operator Aelia, owned by
 Lagardere SCA. (MMB)   “Our customers show understanding, but they are very
disappointed, because local alcohol is the favorite souvenir
people like to bring back from the Czech Republic,” Volickova
said in an e-mailed message.  The tainted alcohol was contained in bottles under fake
labels from at least two Czech liquor makers and the bottles
weren’t properly sealed, according to police. The poisonous
drink was sold at discounts in bottles labeled as vodka or
tuzemak, a local rum-like alcoholic beverage. Several people
went blind or fell into coma after consuming it.  Slovak Poisoning  At least two people were hospitalized in neighboring
Slovakia after drinking plum brandy bought over the Internet in
the Czech Republic. The country halted sales of liquor imported
from the Czech Republic yesterday, following  Poland ’s ban for 30
days.  The Czech Republic ranked fourth in alcohol consumption,
defined as annual sales of pure alcohol in liters per person
aged 15 years and over, among the 34 members of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development. Consumption stood at
12.1 liters a year, compared with an average of 9.1 liters of
alcohol among the OECD states, according to the last available
statistics from 2009.  While the ban, applicable to drinks containing more than 20
percent of alcohol, may temporarily boost the consumption of
beer and wine, it is not beneficial to the industry in the long
term, said Jan Vesely, the head of the  Czech Beer and Malt
Association . Brewers agree.  Knock-On Effect  “Some pubs that rely on sales of drinks rather than food
may be endangered by this development if it lasts too long,”
said Petr Samec, the spokesman of Budejovicky Budvar brewery,
the maker of Budweiser Budvar. “In that case the impact on the
beer market would be negative.”  At least 40 people have been hospitalized, highlighting the
need for stricter laws over the alcohol industry and tougher
border controls, industry officials say. Health Minister Leos
Heger said the ban will remain in effect until further notice.  While under communism, which ended in 1989, alcohol-sale
bans were imposed occasionally, the last countrywide post-
communist prohibition was in 1992 for the last Czechoslovak
parliamentary vote, according to state CTK newswire.  In Poland, the city of Krakow banned spirit sales on the
day of the 2005 funeral of Pope  John Paul II , CTK reported. The
sale city and the capital Warsaw also halted sales during the
funeral of President  Lech Kaczynski  in 2010.  Estonian Case  In  Estonia , the government refrained from issuing a ban
after stolen methyl-alcohol sold as bootleg vodka killed 68
people and left 43 disabled in the Parnu region in the Baltic
state’s southwest in September 2001.  The Czech decision is “an extraordinary measure in
extraordinary times” and cannot last for much longer without
causing major damage, according to Jiri Janousek, a spokesman
for the Czech Union of Alcohol Importers, whose clients
represent over 80 percent of hard alcohol sold in the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in  Prague  at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  