-- Daimler, Jazz, Zaentz, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-18T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/daimler-jazz-zaentz-google-intellectual-property.html
DaimlerChrysler didn’t infringe
patent owned by Laserfacturing Inc., a federal appeals court
ruled yesterday. The dispute was over a method of welding using
a laser or electron beam, covered by patent 5,595,670. The
Washington-based  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
said a  Texas  federal court had correctly interpreted the patent.  The case was filed in Houston in January 2007 against old
DaimlerChrysler before it filed for bankruptcy  The lower-court case is Laserfacturing Inc. v. Daimler
Chrysler Corp., 4:07-cv-00207, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston). The appeal is Laserfacturing Inc.,
v. DaimlerChrysler, 09-01013, U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit.  Jazz Patent Fight With Roxane Wins Support in Federal Court  Jazz Pharmaceuticals Plc (JAZZ)  won a federal judge’s support in a
patent dispute over its best-selling medicine Xyrem to treat
narcolepsy.  U.S. District Judge Esther Salas sided with Jazz on the
interpretation of most disputed terms in eight patents in its
suit against Roxane Laboratories Inc.,  Corey Davis , an analyst
for Jefferies & Co., wrote in a note yesterday. In patent cases,
the judge’s interpretation of disputed terms forms the baseline
for all legal arguments that follow.  “At first blush this seems like a clear win for Jazz,”
wrote Davis, who is based in  New York .  The case was filed in November 2010 in federal court in
 Newark ,  New Jersey , triggered by Roxane’s application to the U.S
 Food and Drug Administration  for approval to market a generic
version of Xyrem. The drug brought in $233 million last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The two sides argued over how to interpret the patents in
April. No date has been set for further proceedings based on the
judge’s ruling, Bill Craumer, a Jazz spokesman, said.  The case is Jazz Pharmaceuticals Inc., v. Roxane
Laboratories Inc., 2:11-cv-06108-ES-CLW, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Zaetz Doesn’t Want Foie Gras Producer to Use ‘Rohan’ Trademark  A producer of foie gras sued Saul Zaentz Co., seeking a
court declaration it doesn’t infringe a trademark related to the
name of a fictional realm in J.R.R. Tolkien’s “Lord of the
Rings” series.  The suit, filed Nov. 13 in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey, asked the court to declare that  D’Artagnan Trademarks
LLC ’s use of “Rohan’ for a type of duck it sells doesn’t
infringe the Zaentz company’s IP rights. Zaentz is the holder of
rights to brands associated with J.R.R. Tolkien, including
“Hobbit.”  Newark-based D’Artagnan said the name “Rohan” was chosen
because it’s a variation on the word “Rouen,” a city in
 France ’s Normandy region famous for its ducks.  D’Artagnan said its intent was to use a name that “would
be reminiscent of, but different from, the  Rouen duck .”
According to the company’s website, it sells  Rohan ducks  for
almost $30 apiece.  It filed an application with the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office  to register the mark, and received notice that the Zaentz
company was opposed. In the Tolkein books, “Rohan” refers to a
realm of Middle Earth populated by the Rohirrim, who are farmers
and herdsmen famous for their horses.  According to the patent office database, Zaentz has
registered “Rohan,” “Riders of Rohan,” and “Rohan
Nutritional Services” for use with horse feed supplements for
horses, miniature action figures and entertainment services.  D’Artagnan’s application specifies that it would use
“Rohan” only for “poultry, namely duck.”  Appended to the company’s court filing is an e-mail from
counsel for Zaentz, telling the foie gras company that it had
considered licensing the name to D’Artagnan “and has concluded
that it is not interested in doing so at this time.” The e-
mail, written by  Elizabeth H. Cohen  of  Washington ’s Arent Fox
LLP, said that while Zaentz “would be willing to provide a
reasonable phase out period to transition to a new name,” it
wanted D’Artagnan to quit using the term.  Zaentz is based in Berkeley,  California . That state’s ban
on the sales of foie gras went into effect July 1.  In addition to a declaration of non-infringement,
D’Artagnan asked the court to state that Zaentz’s rights to the
trademark are limited to horse feed, plastic figures and
computer games. D’Artagnan also asked for awards of litigation
costs and attorney fees.  Earlier this year Zaentz threatened to sue a U.K. pub that
was using “The Hobbit” as its name.  The case is D’Artagnan Trademarks LLC v. Saul Zaentz Co,
2:12-cv-05741-DMC-MF, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Wins Court Delay in Digital-Book Copyright Litigation  Google Inc. (GOOG)  won a bid to delay a copyright lawsuit by the
Authors Guild of America over the company’s plans to digitally
scan millions of books while it appeals a decision that allows
the plaintiffs to sue as a class.  U.S. Circuit Judge Raymond Lohier of the U.S. Court of
Appeals in  Manhattan  yesterday granted Google’s request to stay
the lower-court trial.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, is being sued
over its plan, announced in 2004, to scan millions of books from
public and university libraries to provide snippets of text to
users of its Internet search engine.  Google sought the trial delay citing “the prospect of a
class-wide defeat -- with a judgment of potentially billions of
dollars -- or a greatly diminished victory,” according to a
court filing. “A stay is necessary to prevent this anomalous
result,” the company said.  In August U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin , sitting as a trial
judge in the case in Manhattan federal court, rejected Google’s
request to halt the trial. He ordered proceedings to continue,
noting the case was seven years old. In June, Chin had granted
the case class-action status, which Google is appealing.  Maggie Shiels, a spokeswoman for Google, declined to
comment on the stay. Paul Aiken, executive director of the
Authors Guild, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment about the ruling.  Chin in May rejected Google’s argument that lawsuits by the
Authors Guild and the American Society of Media Photographers
should be dismissed because the groups lacked standing to sue
for copyright infringement.  Google said in court papers filed last week that the class
“contains millions of different books written by hundreds of
thousands of authors, many of whom believe they benefit from and
approve of  Google Books .”  Without a halt to the lower-court case, Google said,
“class members will have an incentive to opt-out if Google
prevails but not if plaintiffs prevail, which would seriously
prejudice Google.”  Google also said in papers filed with the appeals court
last week that Chin is considering whether to grant summary
judgment, or a ruling before trial, in the case.  The case is Authors Guild Inc. v. Google Inc., 12-3200,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  The authors’ case in the lower court is Authors Guild v.
Google, 05-08136; the visual artists’ case is American Society
of Media Photographers v. Google, 10-02977; U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Wiley Sues Over BitTorrent Sharing of ‘Six-Figure Income’ Book  John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A) , publisher of technical and
scientific books, sued 48 unnamed defendants for infringing the
copyright to its book “The Six-Figure Income.”  According to the complaint filed yesterday in federal court
in Newark, New Jersey, Wiley accused the unknown defendants of
distributing copies of the book without authorization by using
the BitTorrent file-sharing protocol.  The Hoboken, New Jersey-based publishing house claims in
its pleadings that the unauthorized distribution of its book
“threatens the profitability” of the company, and that “the
amount of that lost revenue is enormous.”  The defendants are also accused of infringing Wiley
trademarks. The unauthorized copies of the book that are
circulating through the Internet could contain malicious
viruses, the company says, that this could cause harm to the
company’s reputation.  It asked the court to order the defendants to halt their
alleged infringement, and for awards of money damages, profits
derived from the infringement, and litigation costs and attorney
fees.  The case is John Wiley & Sons Inc., v. John Does 1-48,
2:12-cv-05738-JLL-MAH, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  Royal Canadian Mint Sought Payment for Use of Penny Image  Although the Royal Canadian Mint stopped making pennies in
May, it told a Nova Scotia-based singer he’d need permission and
make a payment of C$1,200 ($1,230) to use images of pennies on
the cover of his new album, Toronto’s Globe & Mail  reported .  The mint  backed down  on the initial royalty demand after
musician Dave Gunning talked about its demand on the Canadian
Broadcast Corp.’s Radio One network, according to the newspaper.  Gunning’s album, “No More Pennies,” was to be “a
heartfelt tribute to the passing of the penny,” the newspaper
reported.  Christine Aquino, who heads the mint’s communications
department, told the Globe & Mail that while it didn’t intend to
halt Gunning’s efforts to honor the end of the 1-cent coin,
“the issue is the use of the image” and he would have to take
a license in the future.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 