-- Danone Touts Yogurt in Asia as Europe Tightens Ad Rules
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y ,   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-09-18T23:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/danone-touts-yogurt-in-asia-as-europe-tightens-ad-rules.html
The dairy aisles of Chinese and
Indian supermarkets and corner stores are a riot of brightly
colored fermented milk drinks that promise health benefits.  Alongside local offerings such as Shuang Wai Wai and Amul’s
ProLife, shoppers can find  Yakult Honsha Co. (2267) ’s Yakult and
 Danone (BN) ’s Activia, which the companies say build immunity or
improve digestion because they contain probiotics -- bacteria
that encourage helpful microbes to flourish in the bowel.  Unlike Europe, where regulators have barred Danone and
Yakult from advertising some purported health benefits of their
products, dairy companies have broader leeway to make such
claims in  China , India, and elsewhere in the region.  “ Asia  is increasingly becoming the place to be for
probiotics producers,” said Martin Jochum of SAM Sustainable
Assets Management AG in Zurich, a unit of Robeco, which has 186
billion euros ($233 billion) under management, including shares
of Danone. “The regulatory environment there is a lot more
favorable than in  Europe  and you have a lot of consumers that
are demanding better-quality nutrition.”  Yakult, a household name in  Japan  for more than 50 years,
has climbed to No. 3 among probiotic dairy beverages in China,
with sales of $174 million in 2010, the most recent data
available, according to researcher  Euromonitor International .
Yakult says it can market its drink in parts of China with the
claim that it helps with “immuno-regulation and improving
intestinal flora.” In Taiwan the company can say it increases
beneficial bacteria.  Bollywood Ambassador  In India, which Yakult entered in 2008 and where it has a
joint venture with Danone, the company has hired Bollywood star
Kajol Devgan as a brand ambassador. And it employs 250 so-called
Yakult Ladies who zoom around cities on grey scooters to tell
buyers how the drinks can improve their health. Though its
Indian revenues are small -- about $2 million in 2010, according
to Euromonitor -- Yakult has increased its sales in the country
by at least 60 percent every year.  “It’s growing and it’s catching the attention of all the
market players,” said Euromonitor analyst Ewa Hudson.
“Companies want stronger exposure to markets where they can
make claims and talk about the benefits of probiotics.”  Yakult Balks  Yakult ’s growth potential hasn’t gone unnoticed in the
Danone boardroom. Danone, which owns 20 percent of Yakult, has
for several months been negotiating to raise its stake in the
Tokyo-based company, according to Japanese press reports.  An accord between the two companies, signed in 2004 and
 revised  in 2007, allows Danone to increase its holding this
year, though it’s prevented from taking “effective majority
control” of Yakult until 2017. The two companies also have a
joint venture in  Vietnam .  “The more we work with Yakult, the more we appreciate
working with them,” Danone Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse said on an April conference call. “We need to keep
developing and increasing these cooperations.”  The Japanese company is resisting the embrace. “We don’t
want Danone to increase their stake,” Deputy President
Yoshihiro Kawabata told reporters in May. Both companies
declined to comment on talks.  Marketing Claims  Danone in 2010 withdrew marketing claims in Europe that its
 Actimel  fermented drink could boost the immune system. The same
year, the European Food Safety Authority rejected the Paris-
based company’s claim that Actimel reduced the chances of
developing diarrhea. It also ruled Yakult couldn’t say its drink
wards off respiratory tract infections.  “There are some hints” that probiotics can help prevent
colds and flus, but confirming that with a clinical study could
be expensive and take years, said Eamonn Quigley, professor of
medicine at University College Cork in Ireland.  The global market for foods containing probiotics will
probably grow 51 percent to $42 billion by 2016, according to
Euromonitor. For fortified drinks like Actimel and Yakult, the
Asia-Pacific region is the No. 2 market after  North America ,
generating about $18 billion in sales last year, Euromonitor
says. Western Europe ranks third at $11 billion.  Yakult says that it hasn’t targeted any particular country
due to its ability to make health claims about its products. The
most important criteria are “whether the market has the
population size where many people will drink Yakult and whether
there is room for acceptance for the concept,” spokesman
Hisataka Omori wrote in an email. Danone said that it sees
opportunities to expand sales of probiotics in Asia.  Yakult Ladies  In India, which has strong growth potential due to a
tradition of yogurt drinks like lassi, companies can make
general claims such as “improves digestion” or “bolsters
immunity,” as long as they steer clear of suggesting their
products can heal specific diseases.  “The regulatory system governing health claims is at a
very nascent stage compared to the West,” said Deepak Kaushik,
an assistant professor of pharmaceutical science at Maharshi
Dayanand University in Rohtak, in northern  India .  Meenakshi, one of the  Yakult ladies  who zips around the
dusty streets of south Delhi to promote the dairy drink, says
health is her best sales pitch.  The 22-year-old student knocks on doors two days a week to
tell stay-at-home mothers, washing ladies and others living in
makeshift shacks how Yakult’s bacteria can help cultivate their
intestinal flora.  She has a short rehearsed speech -- the products’ 6.5
billion friendly bacteria help build immunity and protect
against constipation, diarrhea, and infections -- and passes out
corporate leaflets to back up her assertions.  “Customers do say their digestive systems have improved,”
says Meenakshi, who goes by one name only. “Regular customers
rarely get infections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  