-- Demand From Plus-Sized Women Spawns Fatshion Category: Retail
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-09-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/demand-from-plus-sized-women-spawns-fatshion-category-retail.html
For years, fashion advice for
larger women has come in one size: wear black and avoid stripes.
Now, many women are embracing their curves and demanding that
retailers cater to them, not the other way round.  Hot Topic Inc. (HOTT)  and  Fifth & Pacific Cos.’s (FNP)  Lucky Brand are
among several retailers selling clothes -- including striped
skirts -- to women who want to be just as fashionable as their
skinnier sisters. On blogs and social media, millennials -- who
are aged about 18 to 34 -- have appropriated the F Word and
dubbed the new looks “fatshion,” a rebuke to an industry that
still employs waif-like models to sell its wares.  Torrid, Hot Topic’s plus-size brand, has introduced figure-
hugging Stiletto skinny jeans made extra stretchy, boosted its
selection of intimates and added a “Look Book” section to its
website, highlighting such trends as fashionable work clothes
and pops of color.  “For so long, women have been told by the fashion elite
that they can’t wear horizontal stripes, everything they wear
should be loose and they should steer away from anything that’s
form-fitting and tailored,” said Catherine Moellering,
executive vice president of Tobe, a New York-based fashion
retail consulting firm. “This younger generation isn’t
interested in their rules.”  Retailers are betting that new fabrics and styles will help
lift U.S. sales of plus-size women’s apparel, which grew 1
percent in the year ending June 2012 to $15.4 billion, while the
overall women’s apparel industry grew 3 percent to $108 billion,
according to NPD Group, a  Port Washington , New York-based market
research firm.  Risk Leeway  The potential market is worth chasing because the average
American woman is a size 14, and plus-sizes, often classified as
14 to 34, account for 67 percent of the population, according to
Houston-based Plunkett Research Ltd.  Retailers investing in fashion-forward plus-size apparel
appear to have the leeway to take on additional risk. Hot Topic
trades at a 25 percent  premium  to the Standard & Poor’s 500
Retailing Index on a price-to-earnings basis while  Hennes &
Mauritz AB (HMB) , which has introduced an H&M plus-size line, trades
at a 13 percent  premium . Fifth & Pacific also trades at a
premium to the index.  Signs of a shift in attitudes toward plus-size women are
rife in the popular culture. Grammy-award-winning singer Adele Adkins and actress Queen Latifah, both full-figured women, urge
fans to embrace their shapes. Meanwhile, pop star Lady Gaga, a
slighter woman, has made acceptance a cornerstone of her image
with the hit album “Born This Way.”  Big Girl  Each month, fashion magazine Marie Claire exposes its 15
million readers to such subjects as “fool-proof layering” and
figure-flattering winter coats in its “Big Girl in a Skinny
World” column. InStyle magazine is introducing a “Great Style
Has No Size” page starting with its October issue.  The rise of a sharing culture where anyone can be a
celebrity is key to promoting fatshion and removing the stigma
associated with plus sizes, said Nicolette Mason, the 26-year-
old who writes the Marie Claire column.  “Every single person with an iPhone or an Instagram
account or Internet access can create a platform,” Mason said
in an interview. “It’s kind of normalizing and making things
more visible for the average person.”  After becoming Hot Topic’s chief executive officer last
year, Lisa Harper ditched Mr. Pinkerton, a canine mascot for the
retailer’s Torrid chain. The bespectacled dog wore a bowtie and
suit and told customers what to wear, which seemed
“patronizing” and “totally inappropriate,” she said.  Sultry Images  The 11-year-old brand replaced Mr. Pinkerton with an “I am
Torrid” campaign to reposition the chain as a fashion
destination for sexy, voluptuous young women. The campaign
features sultry black-and-white images of plus-size women
wearing intimate apparel and denim that’s tailored to their
bodies. Its Facebook page shares popular fashions, such as
chiffon tops and seasonal colors, without emphasizing that
Torrid targets women sized 12 and up.  “These girls that we’re finding are independent and have a
point of view and a voice and they’re becoming more bold,”
Harper said. “We’ve reworked the brand to refocus on fashion,
pure and simple, without the apologies, without the curvy
conversation, the body type or any of that.”  Retailers may find it challenging to jump into the market
because it’s expensive to make clothes for plus-size women, as
bodies tend to change in more ways above a size 14 than below
that. For designs to suit those changes, they require more
research and often additional and different fabrics. Eloquii, a
plus-size brand started last year by closely held The Limited,
offers five different body “shapes” on its website, of
diamond, teardrop, heart, infinity and emerald.  Contemporary Clothes  Researching fabrics for curvy women is a departure for
designers of contemporary clothes, who have less experience in
this area than their counterparts at such athletic-wear
companies as  LuluLemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) , said Liz Crystal, chief
marketing officer at Lane Bryant. The chain, which has long sold
plus-size fashion, is introducing a “Fashion, Fit Right”
marketing campaign this month to stress it has the latest trends
and best fits. Established in 1904, Lane Bryant has more than
700 locations.  Waistlines in the U.S. have long been growing, as more than
one-third of adults and 18 percent of children are obese,
according to the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. The total rate may rise to 42 percent by 2030.  Age Range  “Fifteen years ago, when I started, it was just older
women’s fashion,” said Marita Aikonen, who oversees an online-
only plus-size line for  Gap Inc.’s (GPS)  Old Navy brand. The full-
figured population now includes a range of ages, said Aikonen,
who started a similar collection at Levi Strauss & Co.  Rising numbers of larger women helped The Limited CEO Linda
Heasley pitch Eloquii to investors. Since rolling out inside the
company’s namesake stores, Eloquii has proved sufficiently
popular to expand to standalone locations next year, Heasley
said.  “This customer has a significant voice and a lot of that’s
been aided by social media,” she said. While women of all ages
are showing interest in plus-size fashion, “there are these
wonderful young women that are helping to remove the stigma
associated with it,” she said.  Hot Topic, based in City of Industry,  California , is
opening 45 Torrid stores this year and increasing its strip-mall
locations, CEO Harper said. The chain, which will end the fiscal
year at 192 stores, may ultimately be a 600-store concept, she
said.  “We definitely see that opportunity,” she said. “The
overwhelming message that comes out is: be comfortable with
yourself and dress yourself to your best advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  