-- DirecTV Said to Contemplate Bid for Vivendi’s GVT Unit
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-09-19T07:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/directv-said-to-contemplate-bid-for-vivendi-s-gvt-brazilian-unit.html
DirecTV is one of several companies
seeking information to evaluate a bid for  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Brazilian
phone unit GVT, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Europe’s biggest media and telecommunications group is
preparing a list of interested parties that will have access to
GVT’s financial data, said one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the talks are private. The deadline for a
first round of bids hasn’t been set, the person said.  DirecTV, the  largest  U.S. satellite-television provider, is
counting on surging demand for pay-TV and Internet service in
 Latin America  as growth subsides in its home market. The company
 lost  clients for the first time last quarter in the U.S., while
its Latin American customer base expanded 36 percent from a year
earlier.  Darris Gringeri, a spokesman for El Segundo, California-
based  DirecTV (DTV) , declined to comment, as did a Vivendi
representative who asked not to be named under company policy.  DirecTV’s conversations with Vivendi are still at an early
stage and may not lead to a bid, said one of the people familiar
with the matter.  Vivendi rose as much as 3 percent to 15.70 euros and traded
2.1 percent higher as of 9:53 a.m. in Paris. DirecTV fell 1.4
percent to $53.44 in  New York  yesterday.  Vivendi hired Rothschild and Deutsche Bank AG to study
options for GVT including a sale or an initial public offering,
people familiar with the situation said last month.  Brazil Internet  DirecTV, which trails only billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s
America Movil SAB in Latin American TV subscribers, began
offering high-speed  Internet access  last year in  Brazil  over a
wireless network. The company acquired rights to regional
airwaves for Internet services in a June government auction.  GVT, which Vivendi agreed in 2009 to acquire for $4.18
billion after trumping a bid from Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
has helped expand the Paris-based media company’s revenue and
may be worth 5.2 billion euros ($6.4 billion), according to
estimates in April by Morgan Stanley.  Vivendi Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou is analyzing an overhaul
of the company’s structure after the  stock  fell to a nine-year
low in April. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have
said that Vivendi’s debt rating may be cut unless it reduces
liabilities.  Fourtou assumed responsibility for strategy since Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy  was ousted in June. The
Vivendi chairman is evaluating whether to reduce the emphasis of
the group’s telecommunications businesses, which he believes
lack scale and require too much investment, people familiar with
the matter said in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  