-- Itochu to Pay Dole $1.69 Billion for Package Food, Asia Unit
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-09-18T04:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/dole-sells-packaged-food-asia-units-to-itochu-for-1-69-billion.html
Itochu Corp. (8001)  agreed to pay $1.69
billion in cash for two units of  Dole Food Co. (DOLE) , the world’s
biggest supplier of fresh fruit and vegetables, in its biggest
acquisition outside industrial commodities.  Itochu, Japan’s third-largest trading house, will take over
Dole’s packaged food and Asia fresh produce businesses, which
earned $2.5 billion in revenue last year, Dole said today in a
statement. The Tokyo-based company also gets exclusive rights to
the Dole trademark on packaged foods worldwide and on fresh
produce in Asia,  Australia  and  New Zealand ,  Westlake Village ,
California-based Dole said.  As Dole uses the sale to pare debts, Itochu is following a
list of Japan’s major trading houses buying food assets abroad
to help supply Asia’s growing population and wealth.  Marubeni
Corp. (8002)  offered to buy U.S. grain merchandiser Gavilon Group LLC
for $5.6 billion in May, while  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  took control of
Brazil’s Multigrain SA in 2011.  “Japan’s trading houses are positioning themselves for the
next round of growth in  China  and the broader Asia region, which
will be in consumer products,” Penn Bowers, an analyst at CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets in  Tokyo , said by phone. “Itochu is
looking decades ahead, and they clearly have synergies with
existing businesses.”  Itochu plans to disclose more information on the deal after
the “completion of required procedures,” it said in a
statement on its website today.  Food Profit  Itochu, which was started off as a linen trader in 1858 by
founder Chubei Itoh, aims to almost double profit to 40 billion
yen in three years from food businesses that include Japan’s
third-largest convenience-store chain  FamilyMart Co. (8028) , according
to the company’s annual report.  The food division had net income of 22.4 billion yen ($285
million) in the 12 months ended March 31, contributing 7.5
percent to the company’s 300.5 billion yen record profit for the
fiscal year. Itochu sells wheat, vegetable oils, soybean, sugar
and beverages and co-owns a Chinese beer business with  Asahi
Group Holdings Ltd. (2502)   The agreement with Dole would make the acquisition Itochu’s
biggest outside resource commodities on record and the most it
has paid by itself for an asset, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Itochu, which earns more than half its profit from
the sourcing and sale of metal and energy commodities, was part
of a group of investors including  KKR & Co. LP (KKR)  that bought oil
producer Samson Investment Co. for $7.2 billion in December, the
data show.  Del Monte Food  The two businesses Dole is selling had earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of $190 million
last year, the U.S. company said. That shows Itochu paid about
8.9 times Ebitda, which is more than the 8.3 times multiple that
investors including KKR paid to take Del Monte Food Co. private
in March last year, according to Bloomberg data.  “The price is a little more expensive than we’ve seen
recently, but versus the market caps of food companies out there
I don’t think it’s unattractive,” CLSA’s Bowers said. “Dole is
a name you look to on the shelf and Itochu’s certainly a company
that recognizes the value of brands.”  Itochu climbed 0.4 percent to 833 yen as of the 12:59 p.m.
in Tokyo, a fourth day of gains. Dole fell 0.7 percent to $13.70
yesterday in New York.  Consumer Companies  Outside food, Itochu owns 40.4 percent of Paul Smith Group
Holdings, a maker of high-end apparel, 20 percent of the Dean &
Deluca Inc. cafeteria chain business in Japan, and last July
paid 637 million pounds ($1 billion) to takeover U.K. tire
retailer Kwik-Fit Group Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer Masahiro Okafuji said in May that
while resources have helped the company forge ahead of rivals,
it will need to find more balanced growth to keep the momentum.
Itochu last year overtook  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  as Japan’s third-
largest trader after  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Mitsui.  The Asian operations of Dole, controlled by 89-year-old
Chairman David Murdock, include pineapple and banana farms in
the  Philippines  as well as ripening and distribution centers in
Japan, South Korea, China, Australia,  Taiwan  and Thailand,
according to a 2009 document on the  company’s website .  Dole said July 19 it was considering a potential sale or
spinoff of the packaged-foods unit and hired Deutsche Bank AG
and  Wells Fargo & Co . as advisers. It said at the time that
options under consideration included the separation of the
packaged-foods unit in combination with its Asian operations and
creating a stand-alone company either via a joint venture with
third parties or an initial public offering in  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  