-- Dutch Liberals, Labor Set to Talk as Rutte Urges More Austerity
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-09-18T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/dutch-liberals-labor-set-to-talk-as-rutte-urges-more-austerity.html
The Dutch Liberal and Labor parties
are set to start negotiations on forming a new Cabinet a week
after Sept. 12 elections, with caretaker Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  setting the tone by urging continued austerity.  “The austerity policy must continue; we’re not there
yet,” Rutte, who heads the Liberals, said in an interview in
 The Hague , where the 2013 budget was presented to Parliament
yesterday. “All I can say is that progress has been made and
steps have been taken.”  The Liberal and Labor parties, the two strongest groups in
Parliament after the elections, should explore forming a
coalition without including a third party, according to a formal
recommendation yesterday from the chief negotiator, Henk Kamp.
Talks still may prove difficult due to policy differences on how
to deal with  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Rutte rules out providing more money for  Greece , while
Labor leader Diederik Samsom has said he wants to give the
country more time to meet its targets for getting its finances
into shape. Rutte is in favor of continuing austerity to meet
deficit rules, while Samsom says the timescale for budget goals
can be eased.  Austerity Deal  The Netherlands’ 2013 budget, featuring about 12 billion
euros ($16 billion) in spending cuts, is based on an emergency
austerity deal struck after Rutte’s previous government
collapsed in April. The deficit will narrow to 2.7 percent of
gross domestic product from 3.7 percent in 2012, taking it below
the European Union limit of 3 percent for the first time in four
years, government planning agency CPB said yesterday.  The Dutch economy, the fifth-largest in the euro area, will
probably grow 0.75 percent in 2013 after shrinking 0.5 percent
this year, helped by a slight improvement in international
trade, according to the agency. The  European debt crisis  remains
an important risk, it said.  The expected recovery assumes that policy makers will
succeed in preventing an escalation of the euro-area crisis and
won’t shy away from unorthodox measures, CPB said.  “To be better prepared for possible future shocks in the
economy, the  budget deficit  has to come down and reforms to
strengthen the economy are needed,” caretaker Finance Minister
Jan Kees de Jager said in Parliament when presenting his budget
memorandum.  Election Results  The Liberals took 41 of the 150 seats in last week’s vote,
up from the 31 in the outgoing Parliament. Labor, which didn’t
support the emergency austerity deal, won 38 seats, up from 30.
Both party leaders met for the first time on Sept. 17 to explore
the possibility of a coalition.  De Jager, whose  Christian Democrats  lost eight seats in the
elections, taking them to 13, told reporters it is unlikely
he’ll return as finance minister.  Former Labor Finance Minister Wouter Bos and Kamp, a
Liberal and social affairs minister in the outgoing government,
will lead the coalition talks if Parliament adopts Kamp’s advice
tomorrow.  It has taken an average of almost three months to set up a
coalition since World War II. The Rutte Cabinet took 127 days of
negotiations following the 2010 election, the third-longest
ever. The record was set in 1977 when it took 208 days to form a
government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  