-- The Fed’s Best Rationale for QE3
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-09-18T22:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/the-fed-s-best-rationale-for-qe3.html
The basic case for the  Federal
Reserve ’s third round of  quantitative easing  is simple and
airtight. The fine print is more complicated, and the Fed’s
inability to explain itself makes this worse -- but don’t let
the details obscure the main point. QE3 was the right move.  The  U.S. economy  needs QE3 because it is suffering from a
deficiency of demand and because the Fed’s policy  interest rate 
is already at zero. It also is the right decision because the
paralysis in Washington rules out the first choice under such
conditions: further fiscal stimulus.  Nobody, as far as I know, is denying that with so many
workers and other resources idle, the economy needs more demand.
To oppose quantitative easing, you have to argue that it won’t
have the required demand-inducing effect.  That argument takes three forms: Two are intelligible; the
third isn’t.  The first intelligible argument is that QE itself is too
puny. Some think that when the Fed buys lots of assets --
including, in the case of QE3, mortgage-backed securities --
investors will adjust their portfolios in ways that leave
overall demand unchanged. To provide effective stimulus, you
need something stronger, such as a promise to allow higher
inflation even after the economy has returned to full
employment.  Diminishing Returns  There’s something to this idea. QE has been tried twice
before, and we may be seeing diminishing returns. The evidence
suggests it helped, but probably less potently (allowing for the
size of the program) the second time. The new phase of QE is
only moderately sized, at $40 billion a month, but open-ended.
The Fed says, albeit vaguely, that the purchases will continue
until the economy strengthens. This open-endedness increases the
potency, and QE3 is likely to spur demand as intended.  The second intelligible objection is that QE3 will have
unintended consequences. For instance, as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  mentioned at last month’s central bankers’ meeting in
 Jackson Hole, Wyoming , the sheer scale of these cumulative
operations might hobble ordinary market forces.  “Conceivably,” he said, “if the Federal Reserve became
too dominant a buyer in certain segments of these
markets, trading among private agents could dry up, degrading
liquidity and price discovery.” That could block the channels
through which ordinary monetary policy works. But Bernanke said
the Fed was watching this closely and saw “few if any
problems” so far.  QE3 is new terrain, it’s true. It would be foolish to rule
out unintended consequences. But the technical issues that
analysts and economists have raised look manageable. The costs
of allowing deficient demand to persist are both huge and
certain. They easily outweigh these risks.  The unintelligible objection to QE3 is, as you might
expect, the most popular in political circles. This is the idea
that the Fed’s new measures will directly result in higher
inflation without doing anything to increase demand and output.
Sure, once the economy is back at full employment and resources
begin to be stretched,  monetary stimulus  of any kind would be
inflationary. Sadly, the economy is nowhere near that point.  With so much of  productive capacity  idle, higher demand
will boost output. Any increase in inflation will be small and,
as long as the stimulus stops promptly, consistent with the
Fed’s long-term inflation goal.  A skeptic might argue that inflation expectations ticked up
when the Fed announced QE3, which they did. That’s all right,
because they needed to. According to the  Cleveland Fed’s
measure , 10-year expected inflation was well under the Fed’s
target of 2 percent before Bernanke made his announcement last
week. (Other measures of expected inflation, such as the
difference in yields between ordinary and inflation-protected
Treasury securities, give a slightly higher number, but they
don’t  measure expectations  as accurately.)  Inflation Expectations  Certainly the Fed will be watching to ensure that inflation
expectations don’t get out of control. There’s no question that
too much demand will eventually be inflationary. At the moment,
though, the economy is short of demand. It’s that simple.  A fairer criticism of the Fed is that it’s failing to
explain itself. If you doubt this, just sample some of the
commentary on the Fed’s new actions. There are almost as many
theories about what it’s “really” up to as there are Fed-
watchers.  We are left with this: QE3 is consistent with what the Fed
has done before, or it’s a historic innovation signaling a whole
new approach, or it’s something subtle in between. The Fed wants
higher inflation, or it is more willing to take a chance on
higher inflation (even though it would prefer to avoid it), or
it remains as vigilant on inflation as before. The Fed has
promised to keep  interest rates  at zero for three more years
regardless of what happens, or it has said only that it expects
this will be necessary (and would be delighted to be proved
wrong).  All through his time in the job, Bernanke has stressed the
need for clarity and openness in the Fed’s deliberations.
Clarity this is not.  I don’t blame him. In my book, he’s a hero. But the poor
guy is in an impossible spot. He isn’t an autocrat like his
predecessor,  Alan Greenspan , so he has to finesse disagreements
on the  Federal Open Market Committee  about whether and how to
provide new stimulus. He also has to deflect the mostly dumb
criticism he’s getting from Republicans in Congress.  Nonetheless, it matters that the Fed’s intentions aren’t
clear, for all the reasons Bernanke has emphasized in the past.
It’s easier for the central bank to push the economy where it
wants it to go -- bolstering growth when  unemployment  is high
while keeping inflation controlled -- if its intentions are
understood and its commitments are believed.  Unending Debate  It’s easier said than done. The debate about the right
target framework for Fed policy -- forward-looking or “ history
dependent ”; inflation targeting or nominal income targeting;
 paths, growth rates or hybrids ; rules, discretion, or something
in between -- is a long way from settled, and probably never
will be. And remember that whichever school of thought the Fed
decided to align with, there would be different ways of applying
it.  The confusion can’t be entirely dispelled. The Fed could
and should do more to clarify its approach, but the
controversies will never end.  Meanwhile, what matters is to focus on what shouldn’t be
controversial at all. Is demand in the economy too weak to keep
its resources adequately employed? Yes. Are inflationary
pressures building? No. Can QE3 deliver some stimulus? Yes.
That’s as much as you need to know to congratulate the Fed.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Romney’s 47 percent fallacy 
and on how  not to be tough in the Middle East ;  Ezra Klein  on
Romney and  the responsibility of the poor ;  Margaret Carlson  on
how  Romney isn’t necessarily doomed ;  Peter Orszag  on how the
Ryan budget would make it  harder for Medicare patients to find
doctors ; William Pesek on rising  tensions between China and
Japan ; Matthew Bryza on how  Europe can hang tough on Gazprom ;
Mel and Patricia Ziegler on  the creation of Banana Republic .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 