-- Teachers Union Votes to Suspend Chicago Schools Strike
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-09-18T23:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/teachers-union-votes-to-suspend-chicago-schools-strike-1-.html
Chicago teacher-union delegates
voted today to suspend the city’s first school strike in 25
years, a day after Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  sought a court order to
force educators back to work.  The decision by the union’s more than 800-member House of
Delegates means that 350,000 students will be back in class
tomorrow. The vote to end the walkout was about “98 to 2
percent,” said Karen Lewis, president of the 30,000-member
Chicago Teachers Union.  “We said it was time, that we couldn’t solve all the
problems of the world in one contract, and it was time to end
the strike,” Lewis said.  Emanuel called the settlement “an honest compromise,” in
remarks at Walter Payton College Prep, one of the system’s
premier selective-enrollment schools.  “It means a new day and a new direction for Chicago Public
Schools,” he said. “This time our taxpayers are paying less
and our kids are getting more.”  The contract carries an annual price tag of about $74
million, for a total of $295 million over four years, according
to a statement released during the weekend by the Chicago Board
of Education. The district faces a 2013 deficit of $1 billion.  The strike that began Sept. 10 was the most public
opposition to Emanuel since the former chief of staff to
President  Barack Obama  took office 16 months ago with a pledge
to restructure the city’s operations. Lowering labor costs is
central to Emanuel’s initiatives.  ‘Good Faith’  Asked what message she had for the mayor, Lewis said, “I
hope he agrees to this in good faith.”  The teachers had been negotiating with the mayor since
November over his efforts to lengthen the school day and year,
as well as the board’s decision to cancel a 4 percent pay
increase. In the last Chicago teachers strike, in 1987, union
members walked out for four weeks.  Rank-and-file members of the union will vote on the
contract “in a couple of weeks,” Lewis said. The delegates’
decision made moot a court hearing set for tomorrow to consider
the board of education’s demand that a judge force teachers back
to work.  The union cited the city’s court filing as an example of
Emanuel making it more difficult to reach an agreement, calling
it “a vindictive act instigated by the mayor.”  Rallying Supporters  Both sides sought to rally support even as the delegates
gathered to vote. Backers of Emanuel and the school board aired
television ads that included excerpts from local newspapers
applauding the contract’s longer school day and more control for
principals over teacher hiring.  Supporters of the union released an ad lauding “their
fight for students and parents.” Stand Up! Chicago, a coalition
of community and labor organizations, held several events where
parents and students expressed their support for the teachers.  The vote by union delegates came two days after they
declined to suspend the strike, even though Lewis had said
contract language would “assuage” members’ concerns about a
new teacher-evaluation process.  Teacher evaluations have been central to delegate
deliberations because the district’s deficit is expected to
result in the eventual closing of scores of schools. That will
be unavoidable, regardless of how the strike is settled, said
Paul Vallas, who was the Chicago schools chief executive officer
from 1995 to 2001 and now runs Bridgeport,  Connecticut , schools.  ‘Exhausted Reserves’  “This is a district that has exhausted its reserves,” he
said in an interview last week. “The settlement itself is going
to create pressure to cut even more, ultimately impacting more
teachers, impacting more schools. It’s inevitable. It’s like a
death spiral.”  Chicago Public Schools  issued details of the contract last
weekend that said it was for three years with an option for a
fourth. It stated that “student growth” will account for 25
percent of a teacher’s evaluation in the first two years of the
pact, and 30 percent in the third. A new state law requires the
30 percent benchmark.  A “student survey will be piloted” in the contract’s
second year and would contribute to 10 percent of the teacher
evaluation, according to the school system. The contract would
provide a pay increase of more than 16 percent over four years.  Emanuel previously extended  Chicago ’s school day to 7 hours
from 5 hours and 45 minutes at elementary schools, and to 7 1/2
hours from 7 hours at most high schools. The school year was
lengthened to 180 days, from 170, which had been one of the
shortest in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at   tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  