-- Health Care REIT Buys Out Sunrise Joint Venture Partners
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-09-18T12:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/health-care-reit-buys-out-sunrise-joint-venture-partners.html
  Health Care REIT Inc. (HCN)  agreed to
buy majority stakes in properties held by  Sunrise Senior Living
Inc. (SRZ)  joint ventures as part of its takeover of the company,
boosting the value of their combined real estate by 68 percent.  Health Care REIT and Sunrise have acquired, or agreed to
acquire, majority interests in 38 of 105 joint venture
properties, for a total additional investment of about $1.3
billion, Toledo, Ohio-based Health Care REIT said today in a
statement. That will increase the real estate value of their
merger to about $3.2 billion, compared with the $1.9 billion the
companies initially estimated.  “The ability to transform what was initially announced as
a $1.9 billion real estate opportunity into a $3.2 billion
transaction upon closing accelerates our portfolio quality
enhancement initiatives,” George L. Chapman, Health Care REIT’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Health Care REIT, the third-largest health-care real estate
investment trust by market value, agreed to acquire McLean,
Virginia-based Sunrise for about $845 million to expand its
assisted-living communities, the companies said on Aug. 22.  With the buyouts of the partners, the Sunrise acquisition
is now expected to include 58 wholly owned properties and 67
held in joint ventures. Fifty of those joint venture properties
are subject to purchase options that give Health Care REIT and
Sunrise the right to buy the majority partners’ interests.  Demand for assisted-living and senior housing is expected
to rise as the U.S.  population  ages. The number of residents
aged 65 and over will increase 79 percent through 2030, Health
Care REIT said in a quarterly regulatory filing, citing Census
Bureau data. The acquisition of Sunrise will expand Health Care
REIT’s presence in major markets such as  New York ,  Los Angeles ,
 Washington  and Philadelphia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  