-- Meijin Energy Group Makes A$435 Million Bid for Western Desert
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-09-18T05:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/meijin-energy-group-makes-a-435-million-bid-for-western-desert.html
Meijin Energy Group Co.,  China ’s
largest private coke producer, offered A$435 million ($455
million) for  Western Desert Resources Ltd. (WDR) , spurring the biggest
jump in the Australian company’s stock in four months.  The cash bid by the Qingxu, Shanxi-based producer at A$1.08
a share represents a 50 percent premium to its 30-day share
price average, Western Desert said today in a statement. The
offer is 26 percent higher than its last closing price of 85.5
Australian cents on Sept. 14.  Acquiring Western Desert would give Meijin iron ore, gold,
copper and uranium deposits that the Adelaide, South Australia-
based company explores in the Northern Territory. Western Desert
climbed as much as 17 percent to A$1.0, set for the biggest jump
in Sydney trading since May 17. The stock traded at 95.5 cents
as of 3:30 p.m. local time.  Meijin Energy has a capacity to produce 6.3 million tons of
a year of coke according to its  website . Coke is produce from
metallurgical coal and used for steelmaking. Its operations span
coal mining, coke production and steelmaking with branches in
Beijing,  Shanghai , Tianjin, Tangshan and Northern East China,
Western Desert said. Meijin’s Australian unit, MacMines, is
developing the 4.2 billion ton Galilee Basin coal deposit in
Queensland state, it said.  “This offer from a major Chinese corporation represents
excellent value for shareholders,” Western Desert Chairman Rick
Allert said in today’s statement.  The board of directors will appoint an independent expert
to assess Meijin’s proposal before recommending that
shareholders accept the offer in the absence of a higher bid,
the company said. It needs government and regulatory approvals
in both countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  