-- Emanuel Asks Court to Stop Teacher Strike as Union Balks
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/emanuel-asks-court-to-stop-teacher-strike-as-union-balks.html
The surprise rejection by  Chicago 
teacher-union delegates of the labor contract their leaders
approved sent the city’s school strike into a second week and
Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  to state court.  The mayor of the third-largest U.S. city yesterday sought a
court order to force educators back into classrooms. The Sept.
16 decision by the union to continue Chicago’s first public-
school strike in a quarter century means 350,000 students will
be out of class for at least a sixth day.  “I will not stand by while the children of Chicago are
played as pawns in an internal dispute within a union,” Emanuel
said last night in a statement.  The strike that began Sept. 10 is illegal under an Illinois
law that prohibits the union from striking over noneconomic
issues “such as layoff and recall rights, class size, and
length of the school day and school year,” according to the
filing by Chicago’s Board of Education in Cook County Circuit
Court. A hearing was set for tomorrow before Judge Peter Flynn.  The judge may deny the city’s bid for an injunction because
the motion shouldn’t have been filed directly with the court,
according to Professor  Martin Malin  of the  Illinois  Institute of
Technology Chicago-Kent College of Law.  Labor Board  Unfair labor practices are the jurisdiction of the Illinois
Educational Labor Relations Board, which has the power to seek
an injunction in court, Malin said.  State law “requires the board of education to go to the
labor relations board,” according to Malin, director of the law
school’s Institute for Law and the Workplace. The law provides
an exception for filing with the circuit court if there is a
“clear and present danger,” he said. The board of education
said the strike posed just such a threat, citing the loss of
school meals and the “risk of violence” to students when not
in school.  “This is a stretch,” Malin said in a phone interview.
“Clear-and-present-danger injunctions are rare.”  The city is seeking an injunction because “we believe our
kids should be in the classroom,”  Robyn Ziegler , a spokeswoman
for Emanuel, said in an interview.  ‘Vindictive Act’  The union called the injunction bid a “spur-of-the-moment
decision” and a “vindictive act” by Emanuel.  “The  Chicago Teachers Union  is striking over mandatory
subjects of bargaining such as compensation, evaluation
procedures and the conditions within our classrooms,” Stephanie
Gadlin, a spokeswoman for the union, said in a statement posted
on its website. “If this was an illegal strike the Chicago
Public Schools would have sought injunctive relief on day one.”  Two days after Karen Lewis, president of the 30,000-member
Chicago Teachers Union, said she hoped that classes would resume
yesterday, the organization’s House of Delegates voted to
continue the walkout while it studied the proposed employment
contract from the school board, which is controlled by Emanuel.  Seeking to maintain the support of parents, teachers on
picket lines handed out fliers yesterday that asked for
patience.  “We understand that our work stoppage has created
disruption and uncertainty in the lives of your children and
families,” it read. “Please trust that we are doing everything
we can to encourage a speedy conclusion to our contract talks.”  Meeting Today  The delegates aren’t scheduled to meet again until today.
Barring an order reopening schools, the earliest classes could
resume is the following day, Lewis said.  The decision by the union’s delegates, a body that has the
exclusive authority to cease or extend a strike, came after
Lewis said Sept. 14 that she was “very comfortable” with the
terms of a teacher-evaluation procedure that was a key point of
contention. She said the language probably would “assuage” the
concerns of union members.  Lewis backtracked after the meeting Sept. 16 at a south
side union hall.  “This is not a good deal by any stretch of the
imagination,” she said.  Chicago Public Schools  issued details of the contract about
90 minutes before the delegates voted. The proposed three-year
contract with an option for a fourth stated that “student
growth” will account for 25 percent of a teacher’s evaluation
in the first two years of the pact, and 30 percent in the third.  Teacher Evaluations  A “student survey will be piloted” in the second year and
would contribute to 10 percent of the teacher evaluation,
according to the school system. The contract would provide a 16
percent pay increase over four years.  The contract carried a price tag of about $74 million for
each year, for a total of $295 million over four years. The
district faces a 2013 budget deficit of $1 billion.  The strike has been the most public opposition to Emanuel
since the former chief of staff to President  Barack Obama  took
office 16 months ago with a pledge to restructure the city’s
operations. Lowering labor costs is central to Emanuel’s
initiatives.  The teachers had been negotiating with the mayor since
November over his efforts to lengthen the school day and year,
as well as the board’s decision to cancel a 4 percent pay
increase.  The school day was extended this year to 7 hours from 5
hours and 45 minutes at elementary schools, and to 7 1/2 hours
from 7 hours at most high schools. The school year was
lengthened to 180 days, from 170, which had been one of the
country’s shortest.  In the last such Chicago teachers strike, in 1987, union
members walked out for four weeks.  The lawsuit is Board of Education of the City of Chicago v.
Chicago Teachers Union, 2012-CH-35003, Circuit Court, Cook
County, Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at   tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  