-- Emerging Stocks Drop Most in 2 Weeks on China, Japan Spat
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-18T21:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/emerging-stocks-drop-most-in-2-weeks-on-china-japan-spat.html
Emerging-market stocks declined,
sending the benchmark  index (VXEEM)  to its biggest drop in almost two
weeks, as commodities retreated and concern deepened that a land
dispute between China and Japan may curb trade.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.6 percent to
1,006.84, the steepest slide since Sept. 5.  Dongfeng Motor (489)  Group
Co. slumped to an 11-month low, leading losses among Chinese
partners of Japanese carmakers.  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) , operator of
the nation’s largest onshore oilfield, slid the most since June
as oil retreated in  New York . Latin America’s largest
petrochemicals maker Braskem SA dropped the most this month as
Brazil’s Bovespa stock index was unchanged.  Energy companies were the  biggest drag  on the MSCI index as
oil slid for a second day amid concern that demand in the U.S.
and  Europe  will wane as the economies slow. Japanese retailers
in  China  closed their doors to thwart attacks as demonstrations
spread over Japan’s plan to buy islands claimed by both
countries, which have a $340 billion trade relationship. The
MSCI gauge rose to a four-month high on Sept. 14.  “If you were to have a break of trading between these two
giants, it is going to affect world growth,” Pablo Goldberg,
global head of emerging market research at HSBC Securities Inc.,
said by phone from New York. “There are risks out there, not
just between China and Japan. We had a very potent rally and it
is unlikely for us to see a straight line, but the trend is for
improvement in appetite for emerging market risk.”  Oil, Commodities Drop  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, was little
changed. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, slid 4.5 percent.  Oil retreated 1.4 percent in New York, following a 2.4
percent tumble yesterday. The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI index  of 24
raw materials declined 1.3 percent after losing 2.2 percent the
previous day.  Braskem lost 3 percent, the most since Aug. 29. Retailer
 Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4)  declined 2.1 percent.  Rising borrowing costs may force Spain to seek assistance
and submit to European Central Bank conditions for aid, ECB
Governing Council member Luc Coene said yesterday. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index fell to a
three-year low, a report showed yesterday.  Czech Koruna Sinks  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index declined 1 percent
while the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  retreated 0.2 percent,
snapping a nine-day stretch of gains. Russia’s Micex slipped for
a second day, falling 1 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  climbed 4 basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 290, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Index.  The  Czech koruna  weakened 1.6 percent versus the dollar,
the biggest drop among emerging market currencies.  Dongfeng Motor dropped 5.1 percent in  Hong Kong . Guangzhou
Automobile Group Co., which has ventures with Japanese
automakers including Toyota Motor Corp., retreated 1.8 percent.
A Chinese industry association said some dealerships that sell
Japanese cars have shut after outlets were attacked amid the
territorial dispute.  ‘Further Actions’  Japan “totally caused” the current crisis and should
“take responsibility,” China’s Defense Minister Liang Guanglie
told reporters in Beijing today in a joint appearance with U.S.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta . “In the future we will very
closely watch the evolution with regards to this dispute and we
reserve the right for further actions.”  China’s central bank said it’s placing more emphasis on
 price stability , boosting concern it will delay easing monetary
policy even as the economy slows. New home prices in China rose
in fewer cities in August, according to data released by the
statistics bureau today.  “More time will be needed until investors feel more
comfortable with weaker economic readings in China,” Kim Dae Young, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at KB Asset Management Co.,
which manages about $26 billion in assets, said by phone today.  Three Chinese bond issuers, including  China Development
Bank , have delayed or canceled debt sales in the past week amid
concern inflation will accelerate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  