-- Energy Industry to Suffer in Near Future, NEI’s Fertel Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-09-18T15:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/energy-industry-to-suffer-in-near-future-nei-s-fertel-says.html
U.S. energy industries that receive
government support including ethanol, wind and nuclear will
probably suffer in the near future from the nation’s worsening
fiscal position, the head of a nuclear-energy industry group
said.  “I think the suffering will go across the board,” due to
the looming debt situation and the possibility of higher taxes,
 Marvin Fertel , chief executive officer of the Nuclear Energy
Institute, said today at a conference in Washington. He cited
uncertainty over the continuation of a production tax credit for
wind energy and congressional opposition to subsidies for
ethanol as two examples of potential obstacles.  U.S. nuclear-plant developers have had to grapple with
competition from natural gas as they seek financing for new
facilities, which are costly to build. The  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  earlier this year approved the first construction
licenses for new units in 30 years, awarding them to projects
being developed by  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  of
Cayce, South Carolina.  Southern’s project has not received the Energy Department’s
final approval for an $8.3 billion loan guarantee, after it was
conditionally approved in February 2010. Fertel said he was
“perplexed” by the delay.  Fertel also said he doesn’t expect new reactor licenses to
be significantly affected by the NRC’s announcement in August
that, in response to a court order, it is freezing final
decisions for up to two years while it reconsiders waste-storage
risks. The agency can still conduct its analysis of licenses in
the interim, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  