-- Lenovo Makes First Software Buy to Expand in Cloud Computing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-18T09:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/lenovo-makes-first-software-purchase-to-expand-cloud-computing.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-largest maker of personal computers, agreed to buy
Stoneware Inc. of the U.S. to gain cloud-computing products in
its first acquisition of a software vendor.  Stoneware  produces software used mainly by governments and
schools to synchronize data across multiple mobile devices, Mark
Cohen, a Lenovo vice president, said in a telephone interview.
The closely held, Indianapolis-based company has 60 employees,
he said, without disclosing terms.  The purchase is Lenovo’s second in less than three weeks as
Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  expands the company to
take on rivals including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.
in smartphones, tablets and Internet-ready televisions. Lenovo
will use Stoneware to build a “public cloud” for consumers,
Cohen said. The service would compete with Apple’s iCloud, which
lets users store music, movies and applications and access them
by the Internet and wirelessly.  The acquisition “helps us access and interface with users
in a way that we haven’t been able to do,” Cohen said. “We are
not trying to remake ourselves into a  software company . What
we’re trying to do is selectively enter the software market
where we can make a difference for our customers, and to support
our overall strategy.”  Lenovo shares gained 0.5 percent to close at HK$6.35 in
Hong Kong trading, compared with a 0.3 percent drop in the
benchmark  Hang Seng  Index. They have gained 23 percent this
year, compared with a 12 percent rise in the Hang Seng.  Cloud Computing  Lenovo, whose headquarters are in Beijing and Morrisville,
 North Carolina , has focused previous acquisitions on hardware.
It bought the PC division of International Business Machines
Corp. in 2005. Last year, the company acquired control of  Medion
AG (MDN) , an Essen, Germany-based computer maker, and the PC unit of
Tokyo-based  NEC Corp. (6701)   On Sept. 5, Lenovo announced plans to buy the  Sao Paulo ,
Brazil-based consumer-electronics group known as CCE for about
$147 million.  Cloud computing refers to data and software stored in
“clouds” of servers that can be accessed anywhere by devices
with Web access, including smartphones and tablet computers.  Lenovo has been in a partnership to re-sell Stoneware’s
software for the past two years, during which time the company’s
revenue doubled, Stoneware Chief Executive officer Rick German
said in an interview, without supplying more specific details.  Tablets, Smartphones  “We hope to do far better than that as we come together,”
German said. The software maker is profitable and was founded in
2000, he said.  The transaction is expected to close by the end of this
year, Cohen said.  Lenovo will expand Stoneware’s cloud-computing offerings to
consumers in “the next couple quarters,” Cohen said. Owning
Stoneware will allow Lenovo to more closely integrate its
software with the company’s line of tablets and smartphones,
Cohen said.  “We’ll do it in a way that the device matters,” Cohen
said. “We’ll exploit the capabilities of the device with the
software, ensuring better devices that run better in the
cloud.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  