-- Merkel Resolve for Pan-European Projects Tested With EADS
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l ,   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-09-19T12:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/merkel-resolve-for-pan-european-projects-tested-with-eads-bae.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said she wants to overcome differences with France and “find a
solution” as the governments weigh their backing for a $45
billion merger between  Europe ’s two biggest aerospace companies.  “We know that progress in Europe depends in a major way on
our cooperation,” Merkel said in response to questions in
Berlin today. “So we have the task of finding solutions that
are good for Europe.”  Merkel said she will discuss the topic when she meets
French President  Francois Hollande  this weekend in  Germany , the
first time since  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  and
 BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  said on Sept. 12 that they plan to combine. The
Chancellor said she has a “trustful, good cooperation with the
French president” even with some “differences in interest.”  With  France  owning a 15 percent stake in EADS, and the U.K.
able to veto any takeover of BAE, the companies need government
backing for their merger that would mark the biggest attempt yet
at building a pan-European corporate champion.  Talks that include the U.K. focus on the structure of
special shares the two companies said they’d hand to the
governments to protect national security projects and direct
shareholdings in the combined company, people familiar with the
negotiations said. Failure to win backing from any one
government would derail the merger, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private.  Daimler Stake  EADS and BAE are attempting to build a European equivalent
to  Boeing Co. (BA)  that is balanced between civil aviation and
defense to help mitigate swings in earnings. EADS Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Enders  has said he wants to reduce
political involvement in EADS, and a merger that strengthens the
role of non-government shareholders would support that aim.  “It is all about the governments now, and that is where
the uncertainty is,” said Sash Tusa, a partner at Echelon
Research & Advisory in  London . “Negotiations could be prolonged
and therefore messy.”  While France owns a stake in EADS, the German government
controls no direct holding and the U.K. only has a so-called
golden share in London-based BAE that gives it veto powers in
takeovers and say over the nationality of top management. The
French stake would shrink to about 9 percent in the new
structure, people briefed on the talks said.  Complex Talks  EADS declined as much as 35 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 25.4
euros in Paris, and traded at 25.55 as of 2:33 p.m. The stock
fell 10 percent on the day after the combination plan was
unveiled, on concern the companies will struggle to reap
synergies. BAE rose as much as 1 percent to 343.3 pence in
London today, valuing the company at about 11 billion pounds
($17.89 billion).  The weekend before  Bloomberg News  first reported that the
companies were planning to merge, the German government was
wrapping up talks to buy a 7.5 percent EADS from Daimler AG
shares through state-owned bank KfW, said two people. It
suspended those plans, announced last year, in order to press
forward with merger talks, one of the people said.  The complexity of talks risk pushing the discussions beyond
an Oct. 10 deadline that requires the two companies to make a
formal merger proposal under U.K. takeover rules. Merkel told
journalists this week that her government plans to have
formulated a response to the combination before that date.  Commemorative Meeting  Among concerns in Germany is that the centers of decision-
making would be in France and the U.K., where the two companies
are currently based, and that Germany would risk being reduced
to a production site, one of the people said. Enders, who took
over in June, decided to move EADS’s headquarters to Toulouse in
southern France this year to be at the same location as Airbus
SAS, its biggest unit.  France is watching the merger talks “very closely,” Prime
Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said today. Speaking in an interview
after the weekly Cabinet meeting in Paris, Ayrault said French
discussions with Germany seek details on the potential impact on
industry. The two countries’ defense ministers, Jean-Yves Le Drian and Germany’s Thomas de Maiziere, met yesterday for a
lunch in Paris, though neither side would divulge what was said
about EADS.  Merkel and Hollande will meet in Ludwigsburg in Baden-
Wuerttemberg in southern Germany to commemorate the 60th
anniversary of a speech delivered by former French President
 Charles de Gaulle  to German youths that is considered a
milestone in the attempts to integrate postwar Europe.  Golden Shares  Apart from a special share and the direct stake, France
wants to safeguard programs such as its M51 nuclear missiles,
two people involved in negotiating the deal said. The U.K. is
seeking to retain the special share as well as the rights it
grants the holder, another person said.  Among companies that have issued special shares designed to
protect defense companies from takeovers are  Dassault Aviation
SA (AM) , the French maker of the Rafale fighter jet, and  Thales SA (HO) ,
which makes aviation components. Those precedents may facilitate
getting backing from European regulators in the EADS-BAE case,
one person with knowledge of the proposal said.  Adding a layer of complexity is the U.S. Department of
Defense, which requires non-U.S. defense companies to seek a so-
called special security arrangement in order to do business with
the Pentagon. Senior U.S. government officials were made aware
of the proposals early on and didn’t signal a strong objection
at that time, two people close to the talks said.  Pentagon Partner  To address U.S. security concerns, BAE Systems’s Pentagon
business, which represents half its sales, would continue to be
managed under a special security agreement to protect it from
foreign ownership and control, a U.S. company spokesman said.  BAE Systems is a major partner on the Pentagon’s largest
acquisition program, the $395.7 billion F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter. A formal U.S. government security review of combining
BAE with EADS won’t begin until merger plans are put forward.
Only then will the two companies learn what adjustments in the
U.S. operation the Pentagon may require.  After three years of working to salvage the project of a
single currency for Europe, Germany and France are now being
asked to back a dominant regional aerospace company, an
aspiration that first surfaced even before the euro became
reality a decade ago.  “They’re trying to double down on European unification at
a time of serious doubt about the whole concept,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virgina-
based aviation advisory company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  