-- Yunel Escobar of Blue Jays Banned Three Games for Anti-Gay Slur
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-19T04:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/escobar-of-blue-jays-banned-three-games-for-anti-gay-slur-1-.html
Toronto  Blue Jays  shortstop Yunel Escobar was suspended for three games after he wore eye-black
patches bearing an anti-gay slur in Spanish.  Escobar, a 29-year-old Cuban, will miss the team’s three-
game series against the  New York Yankees  at Yankee Stadium, the
Blue Jays announced in an e-mailed release. The suspension was
agreed on by  Major League Baseball  and its players union. Last
night’s scheduled first game of the series was rained out and
will be played today as part of a day-night doubleheader.  Several pictures posted online from the Blue Jays’ Sept. 15
game against the  Boston Red Sox  show Escobar with a Spanish
phrase that can be roughly translated as “you are a
homosexual” written in his eye-black patches, worn to reduce
the sun’s glare.  Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  said in a statement that
Escobar acknowledged his mistake.  “I consistently say that baseball is a social institution
with important social responsibilities,” Selig said. “I expect
those who represent Major League Baseball to act with the kind
of respect and sensitivity that the game’s diverse fan base
deserves.”  Escobar’s salary during his ban will be directed by the
Blue Jays to  You Can Play  and the  Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against
Defamation , the team said in the release.  “The Blue Jays want to reaffirm that discrimination of any
kind will not be tolerated,” according to the team’s statement.  Louder Voice  You Can Play is an organization dedicated to ensuring
equality and respect for all athletes regardless of sexual
orientation. The alliance’s website says it amplifies the voice
of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community, or LGBT
community, by “empowering real people to share their stories,”
and “holding the media accountable for the words and images
they present.”  “Today’s actions show that MLB and the  Toronto Blue Jays 
are committed to creating an environment that all fans and
families can enjoy, not a place where discriminatory language
and anti-gay attitudes are accepted,” GLAAD President Herndon
Graddick said in a statement.  Escobar will also participate in a program promoting
tolerance to others based on their sexual orientation, and a
sensitivity training program in accordance with the Blue Jays
and baseball, according to the release.  Athletes have made “tremendous progress” in their public
support of LGBT equality, Dan Rafter, a spokesman for the  Human
Rights Campaign , said in a telephone interview.  ‘Frustrating’ Message  “It’s always frustrating to see someone that is in the
public eye send that sort of message,” Rafter said of Escobar.
“This incident is certainly unfortunate, but it’s not at all
representative of what we’re seeing in the sports world.”  Rafter mentioned athletes, such as National Football League
linebackers  Scott Fujita  and Brendon Ayanbadejo and National
Basketball Association guard  Steve Nash , who have called
attention to LGBT equality issues in recent years.  He said his group, the largest civil-rights organization
working to achieve equality for LGBT Americans, had no plans to
attend the Blue Jays’ games in  New York , or organize a protest
of Escobar’s actions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  