-- Mets Moving Triple-A Minor-League Affiliate to Las Vegas
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-18T17:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/mets-moving-triple-a-minor-league-club-to-las-vegas-from-buffalo.html
The  New York Mets  have named the
 Las Vegas 51s  their new Triple-A affiliate.  The Major League Baseball team announced yesterday in an e-
mailed release that it had signed a two-year player-development
contract with the 51s of the  Pacific Coast League . The Buffalo
Bisons have spent the last four years at New York’s affiliate in
Triple-A, the highest level of baseball’s minor leagues.  “We are excited about our new partnership with the  Las
Vegas  51s and the city of Las Vegas, one which values equally
player development, winning and community involvement,” Mets
General Manager  Sandy Alderson  said in the statement.  The 51s play in 9,334-seat Cashman Field, located in North
Las Vegas. The team’s attendance has topped 4,000 fans per game
in each of its 30 seasons as a minor-league affiliate of three
MLB teams -- the  San Diego Padres  (1983-2000),  Los Angeles
Dodgers  (2001-08) and Toronto Blue Jays (2009-12).  The Blue Jays today reached a two-year deal to make the
Bisons their Triple-A affiliate for the 2013 and 2014 seasons,
the team said in an e-mailed release. Buffalo declined this
season to renew its agreement with the Mets in order to pursue a
deal with the Blue Jays, who play roughly 60 miles away,
according to MLB.com.  Long Distance  New York’s new deal puts its Triple-A players roughly 2,200
miles away from Citi Field in Queens. Las Vegas’s dry climate
and altitude -- the city is roughly 2,000 feet above  sea level  -
- also creates an environment in which statistics are harder to
evaluate because baseballs typically get hit farther.  “What you do is you use your scouts and your player-
development people to find the skill,” Mets manager Terry Collins said, according to MLB.com. “Sometimes you have to back
off the results.”  The Las Vegas franchise’s nickname comes from Area 51, a
military installation about 100 miles outside the city that some
people believe houses the U.S. government’s research into
unidentified flying objects. The team’s blob-shaped mascot with
eyestalks is named “Cosmo.”  Previous Mets Triple-A affiliates also include the New
Orleans Zephyrs, Norfolk Tides, Tidewater Tides and Jacksonville
Suns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  