-- EU to Present Proposal to Curb CO2 Emissions From Shipping
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-09-18T13:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/eu-to-present-proposal-to-curb-co2-emissions-from-shipping-1-.html
The European Union will present in
the coming months a proposal to curb emissions from ships in the
absence of an international solution, a European Commission
official said.  The  International Maritime Organization , created under the
United Nations system, has been unable to agree on measures to
curb emissions from ships for more than a decade. While IMO “is
the best entity to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from
international shipping” it has been slow to act, Elina Bardram,
head of the international carbon market unit at the European
Commission, told a seminar in Brussels today.  “We are including different types of measures, ranging
from measurement, reporting and verification, to technical
standards, to setting baselines. These options are all on the
table,” Bardram said. “The ETS-type schemes are part of the
options that are being considered.”  The EU emissions trading system is the world’s biggest cap-
and-trade carbon market. It imposes pollution limits on about
12,000 companies and expanded this year to include flights to
and from EU airports.  Global maritime transport accounts for almost 3 percent of
carbon-dioxide discharges, and emissions from ships are expected
to more than double by 2050, according to the commission, the
Brussels-based EU regulatory arm.  “We will not introduce a maritime proposal that would be
discriminatory or would result in distortions,” Bardram said.
“We are responsible and at the same time we have to ensure that
the European industry has a level playing field and that we’re
able to incentivize early actions, that we can make things
happen.”  IMO recognizes the “urgency” of the need to reduce
 greenhouse gases  from shipping, Andreas Chrysostomou, chairman
of IMO’s Marine Environment Protection Committee, told the
conference today. The organization has already introduced
mandatory efficiency measures, established a group to evaluate
proposals on market-based mechanisms and wants to continue their
development next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  