-- Missed Chances Stoke Skepticism Over EU’s Crisis Fight
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-09-18T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/eu-track-record-casts-doubt-on-crisis-fight-as-draghi-rally-ebbs.html
Mario Draghi  sees reason to be
``optimistic” about the euro-area financial crisis now that he's
committed the  European Central Bank ’s balance sheet to ending it.  That confidence depends on political leaders who have
rarely missed an opportunity to miss an opportunity since
Greece’s 2009 deficit blowout began upending the 17-nation  euro
zone . Their track record and the compromises required to put
their promises into action leave Juergen Michels, chief euro-
area economist at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in London, skeptical.  “There are still a huge amount of unanswered questions and
the region has to find a way back to growth and reduced debt,”
said Michels. “The journey is still very, very long.”  Time has been bought by ECB President Draghi’s pledge to
purchase  government securities  and the imminent birth of
Europe’s 500 billion-euro ($653 billion) bailout fund, the
European Stability Mechanism. To persuade global investors that
the euro area can make it through its second decade intact,
French socialists, German burghers, Catalan separatists, Italian
technocrats and Greek tax collectors have to forge a rainbow
alliance to meet the conditions demanded by markets, creditors
and the ECB.  Following an unproductive meeting of European finance
chiefs in Cyprus last week, a market rally triggered by Draghi’s
debt-buying plan has run out of steam. Spanish and Italian bonds
have surrendered some of their recent gains.  Spanish Yields  Spanish 10-year yields reached a euro-era record 7.75
percent on July 25, before Draghi pledged a day later to do
“whatever it takes” to safeguard the monetary union. Since
then, they have fallen below 6 percent, while those of Italy
have dropped more than a percentage point toward 5 percent. The
euro has gained 7 percent against the dollar since the start of
August.  “Politicians tend to act for their own good and that of
their countries rather than the greater good of Europe,” said
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “That’s an unfortunate case and if
it continues the markets will test the sovereigns again.”  Unresolved is whether Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
will trigger the ECB’s aid-for-austerity deal and if Greek
leader Antonis Samaras keep his constituents, coalition partners
and benefactors onside enough to keep aid cash flowing.  Looming is the vulnerability of Italy and the fragility of
unelected Premier  Mario Monti ’s coalition as Cyprus negotiates
the fifth bailout after Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain’s
financial system.  Banking Struggles  Outside the danger zone, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
must rally her bailout-allergic electorate and French President
 Francois Hollande  needs to recast his growth-model. Meantime,
European policy makers are struggling to meet a self-imposed
deadline of the start of 2013 to get a bank-supervisory regime
up and running. Merkel and Hollande are scheduled to meet Sept.
22 Ludwigsburg, near Stuttgart.  Crisis aside, they all share the urgency of finding an
economic elixir. Unemployment is at a record 11.3 percent in the
euro bloc and as high as 25 percent in Spain. The region is
bound for its second recession in three years.  “The region has to get down to the messy business of
implementation, and is likely to throw up problems along the
way,” said Alex White, an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
London.  Moment of Calm  Europe’s powers are, for now, enjoying a moment of calm
after the ECB revived bond buying, Germany’s constitutional
court blessed the ESM, an election in the Netherlands passed
without an anti-euro spasm and Greece’s prospects for help
stayed intact despite budget backsliding.  “Europe is stabilized,” Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter says. French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  sees
“light at the end of the tunnel.”  The lesson of the turmoil is nevertheless that pride has
always come before a fall. Leaders declared a turning point
six months ago before hitting reverse as Spain’s banks wobbled
and support for Greek anti-bailout parties forced two elections
there in a six-week span. In 2011, officials cheered the results
of a July summit and headed on vacation only to find their pact
in pieces before they returned.  The respite in markets won’t “last long” if Spain doesn’t
seek assistance, ECB Governing Council member Luc Coene said
Sept. 17. “Spreads will rise again, and then Spain will be
somewhat forced to come back on its decision and submit to the
conditionality program,” he said.  Rajoy’s Delay  Delay is the order of the day in Madrid. Rajoy, in power
for 10 months after winning the biggest parliamentary majority
in almost three decades, is balancing the need for aid with the
potential for political and economic fallout.  He has already reneged on promises not to cut firing costs
or  unemployment benefits , raise taxes and scrap a tax break on
mortgages. The leader of Catalonia, which accounts for 20
percent of the country’s economy, raised the specter of
secession even as he clings to a financial lifeline from Madrid.  “An imminent application for external assistance by the
government is unlikely,” said  Antonio Barroso , an analyst at
the Eurasia Group in London. “Rajoy’s priority is to limit the
number of conditions attached to another rescue package and
thereby limit the negative political spillover from accepting
additional external aid.”  German Conditions  Rajoy is first trying to pacify markets by promising to
detail new reform measures by the end of this month, including a
possible increase in the  retirement age , shift toward
consumption taxes and deregulation of closed professions. If
that’s not enough, he will have to decide on the size of a
bailout, with Germany advising against a full rescue given he
has already secured 100 billion euros for banks.  The more Spain digs in its heels, the more Germany may seek
harsher terms, said Andrew Benito, an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. While Germany’s top court backed the ESM and Merkel
endorsed Draghi’s Outright Monetary Transactions over the
resistance of Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, her public is
less sympathetic.  Their views -- reflected in an ARD-DeutschlandTrend poll
that showed just 13 percent supported ECB bond-buying -- will
count increasingly as Merkel gears up for re-election next year.  “The more the Spanish administration indulges domestic
political interests and is perceived to be taking undue
advantage of external support, the more explicit conditionality
is likely to be demanded,” said Benito. “This would add to
existing tensions.”  ‘Cliff Effect’  The risk of German antagonism could leave the ECB in a
tight spot if a bailed-out country then falls short of what’s
demanded. The Washington-based  Institute of International
Finance , which represents more than 450 financial companies,
this week warned of a “cliff effect” in which termination of
support prompts an “abrupt” market correction.  In another squabble that could delay a lasting solution,
Germany is pushing back against the timetable for greater
banking oversight, urging caution when assigning new duties to
the ECB. European Union leaders want a single supervisor by the
start of next year to break the negative feedback loop between
sovereign and banking debt.  That spat foreshadows a deeper divide as the bloc’s leaders
turn to closer cooperation on budget issues. “We’ve made little
progress on fiscal union, and that will be the next focus,”
said  Joachim Fels , chief economist at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in London.  Monti’s Reforms  If Spain does hit the aid button, attention would shift to
Rome where officials so far deny the need for help even as an
austerity-driven recession deepens. Monti is now overhauling the
labor market by easing the rules on firing workers during
difficult economic times without the risk of a court ordering
their reinstatement. Support for the government fell to a low of
17 percent, a poll by Rome-based IPR Marketing showed Sept. 17.  The need to quell a “contagion effect” will likely leave
Italy under pressure from governments and investors to sign up
for help if Spain does, said Tobias Blattner, director of
European economic research at Daiwa Capital Markets in London.  Europe’s original problem child, Greece’s three-way
coalition government is still trying to win aid blocked since
June. It has yet to to agree on a full package of 11.5 billion
euros of savings in the next two years.  “You want to be sure if something happens to Greece, you
want Spain and Italy under the umbrella,” Blattner told  Mark
Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.”  Greek Verdict  While late homework has typically meant punishment, Greece
is winning some respite and may get easier terms as Europe’s
chiefs try to cement the market rally and keep from reheating
the euro-exit trade. A verdict on the country’s fiscal plans
will now wait until October when European leaders next gather.  Even if the next chunk of a 240 billion-euro package is
released there remains a funding gap unlikely to be cut by
fiscal measures amid a fifth year of recession, says  Erik Nielsen , chief global economist at UniCredit SpA in London.  “My bottom line is that Greece will remain in limbo, drip-
fed by Europe and the IMF during the next six to 12 months, and
that crunch time is more likely to start next year,” said
Nielsen.  Longer-term,  Jennifer McKeown  of London-based Capital
Economics Ltd. warns it’s too soon to “sound the all clear.”
Europe may still find its financial firewall too small and while
bond-buying deals with the symptoms of the euro’s ills it
doesn’t tackle unsustainable debts and how to cut them without
deflating economies, she said.  “Our long held view that a limited euro-zone break up will
commence in the coming months is unaltered,” said McKeown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  