-- European Union Expands Duties on Chinese Aluminum Foil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-09-18T11:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/european-union-expands-duties-on-chinese-aluminum-foil.html
The European Union expanded tariffs
on aluminum foil from  China  by targeting low-weight rolls to
help German, French and other EU producers compete with cheaper
imports.  The duties as high as 35.4 percent punish Chinese exporters
such as CeDo Shanghai Co. for selling the wrapping in the 27-
nation EU below cost, a practice known as  dumping . The levies
cover aluminum foil in rolls that don’t exceed 10 kilograms (22
pounds) -- a type used for consumer packaging -- and follow EU
anti-dumping duties on heavier rolls from China.  European manufacturers of low-weight rolls including
 Germany ’s Fora Folienfabrik GmbH,  France ’s Sphere Group and
 Italy ’s Cuki Cofresco SpA have suffered “material injury” as a
result of dumped imports from China, the European Commission,
the EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in the  Official
Journal . The anti-dumping duties, due to take effect tomorrow,
are for six months and may be prolonged for five years.  Aluminum foil in small rolls is produced by rewinding,
cutting and packaging the foil on jumbo rolls. In 2009, the EU
imposed five-year duties as high as 30 percent on Chinese
aluminum foil in rolls with a weight exceeding 10 kilograms, a
step designed to help European producers such as  Poland ’s  Grupa
Kety SA (KTY)  and Bulgaria’s  Alcomet .  At the time, the bloc cited the risk that the Chinese
industry would shift production to consumer rolls as a result of
the trade protection and thereby threaten European “rewinders”
that are the main users of the heavier rolls.  Market Share  While European rewinders urged the EU to include consumer
rolls in the scope of the anti-dumping duties imposed in 2009,
the bloc rejected the request. It said any unfair trading by
China of consumer rolls would have to be examined separately and
any switch by the Chinese industry to this segment “in larger
quantities would very likely take some time.”  Chinese exporters increased their combined share of the EU
market for aluminum foil in low-weight rolls to 13.4 percent in
the 12 months through September 2011 from 4.5 percent in 2008,
the commission said today.  The six-month duties are the preliminary outcome of an
inquiry that the commission opened last December after a dumping
complaint by the  European Association of Metals  on behalf of
producers that account for more than 50 percent of EU output of
aluminum foil in low-weight rolls. The levies range from 13
percent to 35.4 percent, depending on the Chinese company.  EU governments, acting on a proposal from the commission,
must decide within six months whether to turn the provisional
anti-dumping duties into “definitive” levies lasting for five
years. The rates of any definitive duties can change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  