-- Ford Leads European Car Sales Drop as German Demand Falls
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-09-18T15:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/europe-august-auto-sales-drop-as-german-demand-weakens.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  led the steepest
decline in European car sales in six months as the region’s
economic woes hurt demand in  Germany .  Industrywide car registrations fell 8.5 percent from a year
earlier to 722,483 vehicles in August, the Brussels-based
 European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association , or ACEA, said
today in a statement. Ford’s European sales dropped 29 percent,
and the company accounted for 6 percent of the region’s
deliveries compared with 7.7 percent in August 2011.  The European car market has shrunk for 11 consecutive
months as governments grapple with a sovereign-debt crisis, and
the ACEA is forecasting a 17-year low for full-year sales.
Registrations in Germany,  Europe ’s biggest economy, fell 4.7
percent. Among the 10 companies that sell the most cars in the
region, only  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  posted growth in August, as gains at
its Audi and Skoda brands and the first-time inclusion of
Porsche luxury models made up for a decline at the VW marque.  “Most of the market share Ford lost in Europe probably
went to Volkswagen and Hyundai,”  Daniel Schwarz , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said by phone. “But Ford is one of
the strongest global manufacturers and has sufficient scale and
engine technology, so they have the potential to turn this
around, more than companies like Peugeot.”  Peugeot’s Drop  European sales by Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford fell to
43,401 cars in August. The U.S. company ranks fifth in Europe by
deliveries.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-biggest
carmaker after Volkswagen, posted a 12 percent drop to 81,562
vehicles. Volkswagen group registrations in Europe rose 1.6
percent to 204,034 vehicles as growth of 8 percent at Audi and
3.9 percent at Skoda made up for a 3.3 percent decline at VW.  Ford’s European business reported a second-quarter pretax
operating loss of $404 million compared with profit of $176
million a year earlier.  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the
Americas, is set to be promoted to chief operating officer,
assuming global responsibilities to help turn around the
carmaker’s unprofitable European operations, a person familiar
with the plan said earlier this month.  “August was even slower than usual this year, and there
was a lot of short-cycle business and heavy incentives that we
decided to largely refrain from,” Roelant de Waard, vice
president of marketing, sales and service at Ford of Europe,
said today in a statement. The U.S. company expects a “strong
rebound” in its European sales in September because of new
models such as a Focus equipped with a 1-liter EcoBoost engine.  Italian Contraction  The European car-market decline last month was the biggest
since a 9.2 percent contraction in February. Italy’s car
registrations plunged 20 percent, while sales in  France  dropped
11 percent. Sales rose 3.4 percent in Spain and 0.1 percent in
the U.K. Across the region, eight-month sales fell 6.6 percent
to 8.59 million cars. Registrations in July fell 7.5 percent to
972,860 vehicles, the ACEA also said today.  “We’ll probably see a continued weakness in southern
Europe and in addition to that an accelerated weakness in France
and Germany,”  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said today by phone. “That would be a
big problem next year as Germany and France are more profitable
than Italy and Spain.”  The ACEA compiles sales figures from the 27 European Union
countries plus Switzerland, Norway and Iceland. The group
forecast on June 6 that industry sales in the region will shrink
7 percent this year to the least since 1995 and 21 percent below
the 2007 peak. The market is likely to drop 9 percent this year
and 3 percent in 2013 before recovering in 2014, Goldman Sachs
said Sept. 12.  Plant Shutdowns  The declines have prompted Peugeot and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
Opel unit to announce the first French and German car-plant
shutdowns in decades. Peugeot will be removed from France’s
leading stock index after the Paris-based company’s shares
declined more than 50 percent in the last 12 months. The stock
has been trading near a 26-year low in recent months.  GM’s group European car sales, including Opel, its U.K.
sister brand Vauxhall and the Chevrolet marque, fell 18 percent
to 53,586 vehicles in August. Sales by Turin, Italy-based  Fiat
SpA (F)  also fell 18 percent, to 37,687 cars.  Renault SA (RNO) , France’s
second-biggest carmaker after Peugeot, posted a 13 percent
decline to 61,749 vehicles. European registrations at  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  fell 3.3 percent to 26,499 cars.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who
currently holds the rotating ACEA presidency, said Sept. 14 that
German carmakers remain opposed to his efforts to form a  united
front  to push the European Union to address overcapacity in the
region. Calls for coordinated efforts have “fallen on deaf
ears, certainly from my German colleagues, who do not see the
need,” he said.  Confidence Declines  Business confidence in Germany fell for a fourth straight
month in August as the European sovereign debt crisis curbed
economic growth. German gross domestic product expansion slowed
to 0.3 percent in the second quarter from 0.5 percent in the
first as the debt crisis damped demand for exports and prompted
companies to postpone investments.  “It’s a deteriorating picture, with also the German market
now heading in the wrong direction,” said  Jonathon Poskitt ,
head of European sales forecasting at LMC Automotive in Oxford,
England. “ Consumer confidence  is being hit with all that’s
going on in Europe. There’s no quick turnaround in sight.”  VW reduced its internal sales forecast for 2012 by as many
as 100,000 vehicles as the sovereign debt crisis saps demand, a
person familiar with the matter said this month. The lower
delivery target is focused chiefly on Europe and affects models
such as the Polo subcompact.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest luxury-car
maker, sold 42,894 cars in Europe last month, a 12 percent drop,
with the namesake brand’s registrations falling 11 percent.
 Daimler AG (DAI) , whose Mercedes-Benz ranks third in the luxury-
vehicle industry after the BMW and Audi brands, reported a 0.3
percent decline in August European sales to 39,464 vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  