-- Europe Takes On Gazprom at Last, Now Must Hang Tough
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r y z a
-- 2012-09-18T15:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/europe-takes-on-gazprom-at-last-now-must-hang-tough.html
The European Union’s antitrust
investigation of OAO  Gazprom (OGZD) , announced this month, is a
landmark case. It shows a new EU resolve to crack down on rent-
seeking by  Russia’s  natural-gas behemoth and, at long last, to
heed the complaints of the bloc’s smaller ex-Soviet members.  The European Commission  accuses  Gazprom of stifling
competition in European markets by restricting the interstate
trading of natural gas, limiting the diversification of gas
supplies by blocking rival gas-pipeline projects, and pegging
the price of natural gas to  oil prices  in long-term contracts.  These practices reflect Gazprom’s decades-old strategy of
seeking a monopoly, rather than competing under the free-market
rules that the EU has been developing as it tries to create a
single, 27-nation energy market.  Gazprom (OGZD) ’s business model has
long been to buy gas cheap from Central Asian producers that
have no alternative route to reach  Europe . Gazprom then moves
the gas through Russian pipelines and sells it to EU energy
companies at twice or three times the purchase price.  Such monopolistic arrangements have generated  enormous
revenue  for Gazprom and the Russian state, some of whose top
officials also sit on the boards of large Russian energy
companies. The monopoly profits that result are being earned at
the expense of European consumers and Central Asian producers.  The EU has long understood these market abuses and said it
wanted to right them. But because Russian leaders were able to
divide the Europeans by offering special deals to larger buyers
such as  Germany , little was done.  Diversifying Supplies  Now the EU is supporting several new options to diversify
its gas supplies. These include building more liquefied-natural-
gas terminals in order to open EU markets to more suppliers and
a network of new gas pipelines from the Caspian basin to Europe,
via  Turkey . The EU’s Sept. 4 antitrust case against Gazprom is
another element in this broader quest to diversify Europe’s
supplies of natural gas.  The decision to confront Gazprom contrasts sharply with the
EU’s approach when  Gerhard Schroeder  was the German chancellor.
In October 2005, Schroeder threw his country’s full support
behind Gazprom’s  Nord Stream  pipeline, which now bypasses the
Baltic nations and  Poland , thus weakening their hands in
negotiations with the company and the Russian state. He joined
 Nord Stream ’s board after leaving office.  Radek Sikorski, the Polish defense minister at the time,
dubbed Nord Stream the “Molotov-Ribbentrop pipeline,” reflecting
the deep sense of betrayal that was felt by millions of
Europeans from Poland to  Estonia . Sikorski was referring to the
secret 1939  nonaggression pact  that allowed  Adolf Hitler  to
invade Poland and carved up Eastern Europe between the  Soviet
Union  and  Nazi Germany .  The EU’s biggest players appear finally to have recognized
that by standing together and resisting Gazprom’s monopolistic
quest to divide and conquer their smaller allies, the bloc has
sufficient leverage to bring meaning to its well-worn statement
that Gazprom needs Europe as much as Europe needs Gazprom.  Europe and Gazprom really do need each other. But Europe
does not need the type of Gazprom that exists today. Rather, the
EU needs a reliable commercial partner that may drive a hard
bargain, but operates according to market principles. So the
EU’s goal is not, and should not be, to punish Gazprom, but to
use the force of competition to elicit market-based behavior.  Restraining Monopolies  Predictably, Russian leaders have  cried  foul. They say the
EU is singling out Gazprom in a fit of anti-Russian prejudice.
They should remember that the EU not long ago took on another
foreign behemoth, Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , to
end what it considered monopolistic behavior. Equally, in 1911
the U.S. government broke Standard Oil Co. into several
competing companies, some of which still exist as  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   Today, the EU isn’t calling for Gazprom’s breakup. And even
if it were, Russia’s leaders could take comfort in the success
of the U.S. oil companies that emerged from Standard Oil. If the
European Commission can keep its nerve and compel Gazprom to
follow EU antitrust laws, then Gazprom would be forced to hone
its competitive edge rather than rely on rent-seeking to pad its
balance sheet.  The result would be a stronger, more reliable and cheaper
natural-gas supplier for consumers, in Europe and Russia alike.
Gazprom would gradually have to improve its delivery of services
and open up its pipelines for independent Russian natural-gas
companies to use. Finally, a Gazprom that operates according to
market, rather than monopolistic, forces is less likely to be
used by the Kremlin as a geopolitical tool. The company played
directly into such fears in its statement after the EU’s
announcement on the antitrust investigation. Gazprom said it was
“ a business  entity empowered, according to the legislation of
the Russian Federation, with special social functions and the
status of a strategic organization, administered by the
government.” President  Vladimir Putin  followed a few days later
with a decree that forbids Gazprom, or any other Russian state-
owned company, from providing information to investigators
without the state’s permission.  In the past, such  Russian tactics  bullied Europe’s largest
countries into ignoring their smaller Eastern neighbors’ pleas
for support. In 2006, for example, when  Lithuania  was planning
to sell its sole oil refinery to Poland’s PKN Orlen SA, rather
than to a Russian company, the Russian pipeline supplying crude
to the plant allegedly suffered an accident that shut it down.
The sale went through and the pipeline never reopened. Lithuania
now imports oil for the refinery by sea.  Lithuania’s Example  Lithuania  appears  to have triggered the European
Commission’s decision to act, after the Baltic nation of about
3.2 million people carried out EU recommendations to “unbundle”
its domestic natural-gas and electricity markets, which would
prohibit energy producers from also owning transmission or
distribution networks. That affected Gazprom, and the company
responded by threatening, and then imposing, higher natural-gas
prices on Lithuania.  The threats failed, and Gazprom since came to a deal on
unbundling its Lithuania assets that will come into effect in
2014. The commission and the EU’s bigger members should take
note and stick with the antitrust case. It is the best route to
a relationship with a Gazprom that is no longer able to divide
and conquer within European energy markets.  (Matthew Bryza is a former U.S. ambassador to Azerbaijan,
director of the International Center for Defense Studies in
Tallinn, Estonia, and a nonresident senior fellow of the
Atlantic Council in Washington. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how Congress has let
companies  shortchange pension funds  and on the Obama
administration’s  trade dispute with China ;  Edward Glaeser  on
Obama’s missed chances for  long-term economic reform ; Adam
Minter on  China’s anti-Japanese riots ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on the
 makers versus takers election ; Shikha Dalmia on why  immigrants
can’t save U.S. cities  by themselves; Harvey S. Rosen on
economic growth from Romney’s  tax-reform plan .  To contact the writer of this article:
Matthew Bryza at  matthew.bryza@icds.ee .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 