-- Euro Falls on Debt-Slowed Economy; Yen Weakens
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-18T21:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/euro-weakens-versus-peers-before-german-confidence-data.html
The euro fell against most major
currencies after a survey showed German investor sentiment
stayed negative this month as the region’s economy struggles
amid the debt crisis.  The yen declined against the greenback after gaining
earlier after a Nikkei report speculated the  Bank of Japan (8301)  could
take steps to weaken the currency as soon as tomorrow. The euro
weakened from four-month highs versus the dollar and yen amid
concern  Spain  will delay seeking a bailout after the  European
Central Bank  pledged to buy bonds. The Dollar Index  rose  for a
second day, strengthening from a six-month low reached Sept. 14
after the  Federal Reserve  began its third round of monetary
stimulus.  “The market got a little bit ahead of itself with the one-
two punch from the ECB and the Fed in the last two weeks,” said
Michael Woolfolk, senior currency strategist in New York at  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  “It really hasn’t changed the
fundamental outlook for recession in Europe and weak growth in
the U.S.”  The 17-nation euro dropped 0.5 percent to $1.3048 at 5 p.m.
in New York after appreciating to $1.3172 yesterday, the
strongest level since May 4. The common currency declined 0.4
percent to 102.84 yen. It rose to 103.86 yesterday, the highest
since May 9. The yen weakened 0.1 percent 78.82 per dollar, its
third straight decline.  Further Weakening  The euro may continue to weaken against the dollar as the
pair’s 14-day relative strength index remained above the level
of 70 that some traders see as a sign an asset is overvalued and
may be poised to reverse direction. It was at 72.1 today.  The shared currency has appreciated 3.3 percent during the
past month, the best performer of the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
amid optimism the ECB will halt the spread of the financial
crisis. The single currency has weakened 4.3 percent during the
past 12 months.  The yen fell versus the majority of its 16 major
counterparts after a Nikkei report said the BOJ may take action
at its meeting today. The bank is expected to weaken its view on
exports, according to Nikkei, without citing anyone.  A escalating territorial dispute with  China  helped the
Japanese currency appreciate earlier. Japanese retailers
shuttered stores in China after protesters of  Japan ’s purchase
of uninhabited, disputed islands last week smashed store fronts
and overturned cars. The yen traditionally gains in times of
economic uncertainty due to the nation’s position as a net-
creditor.  Central Bank  Japan’s central bank started a two-day policy meeting where
five of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict policy
makers will announce further monetary easing tomorrow.  “If tensions continue to rise, you could see a further
flight out of emerging-market currencies, and perhaps the dollar
and yen would rise together against other major global
currencies,”  John Brady , managing director of global futures
and options at futures broker R.J. O’Brien & Associates in
 Chicago , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch
Money” with Julie Hyman and  Stephanie Ruhle . “I would suggest
that anything above 73 or 74 will be extremely painful and that
will probably hasten the BOJ to do something, but probably not
today or tomorrow.”  The BOJ increased the size of a fund to buy assets such as
government debt by 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) to 45 trillion
yen in July, and has kept its target for overnight lending
between zero and 0.1 percent since October 2010.  Rand Rally  South Africa ’s rand gained the most among its major
counterparts as talks between platinum miners and striking
workers boosted confidence in an industry that is the country’s
biggest foreign-currency earner.  The rand appreciated 1 percent to 8.1794 per dollar after
earlier rising 1.3 percent. The currency gained 1.6 percent to
10.6737 per euro after climbing 1.7 percent, its biggest
increase since April 17.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  rose for a second day, gaining 0.2 percent
to 79.183. The gauge, which is weighted 57.6 percent to
movements in the euro, tracks the dollar against six major
currencies.  The index is in a corrective stage after bouncing off
support levels in the 78.40 to 78.60 area, Niall O’Connor, a New
York-based technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote
today in a note to clients. The gauge should increase until it
reaches resistance at 79.65 to 80.15, according to O’Connor. The
index’s ability to break the area from 81 to 81.10 will
determine if the appreciation is further sustainable, he said.  Spain’s Debt  Spanish borrowing costs declined at a bill sale today, its
first auction since the European Central Bank on Sept. 6
announced a plan to buy the region’s government debt to contain
borrowing costs.  “If the ECB is promising to support their bond markets, do
they need support?”  Alan Ruskin , global head of G-10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “At
some point in time the market will push Spain to ask for help,
and the ECB will support the Spanish bond market. We could
possibly still need for Spanish yields to back up a little
bit.”  Spain will consider seeking a bailout if the conditions
imposed are acceptable, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de
Santamaria said, the strongest signal from the government that
it’s positioning to reach for the financial lifeline.  Germany ’s ZEW Center for European Economic Research said
its index of  investor and analyst expectations , which aims to
predict economic developments six months in advance, climbed to
minus 18.2 from minus 25.5 in August. The gauge of the current
situation fell to 12.6, the lowest since June 2010.  Economic growth in Germany will slow to 0.8 percent for
2012 from 3 percent last year, the Kiel-based Institute for the
World Economy said on Sept. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  