-- Yen Gains as Stimulus Seen Failing to Spur Growth
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-19T21:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/euro-remains-lower-before-pmi-data-spanish-debt-auctions.html
The yen strengthened after reaching
a four-week low versus the dollar as investors speculated the
 Bank of Japan (8301) ’s unexpected monetary stimulus expansion will do
little to augment economic growth.  The yen gained against almost all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts even after policy makers added 10 trillion yen
($127 billion) in stimulus, following measures by the  Federal
Reserve  and  European Central Bank  this month. South Africa’s
rand tumbled even as platinum miners agreed to return to work
following a strike. New Zealand’s dollar declined after the
current account deficit widened to the most in three years.  “It seems like the scale was a little more aggressive than
what people were expecting, so you had a little knee-jerk
reaction of the yen weakening,” said Carl Forcheski, a director
on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in
New York. “As people began to chew on it a little more,
everyone is easing right now. With the large move that we saw
overnight, you could be seeing some fiscal half-year
repatriation happening.”  The yen rose 0.6 percent to 78.38 per dollar at 5 p.m. New
York time after depreciating to 79.22, the weakest level since
Aug. 22.  Japan ’s currency gained 0.5 percent to 102.28 per euro.
It fell to 103.86 on Sept. 17, the lowest since May 9. The 17-
nation shared currency was little changed at $1.3049 after
dropping as much as 0.4 percent to $1.2993.  Yen Strength  The yen has appreciated 6.4 percent during the past six
months, the best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
dropped 1.2 percent and the euro fell 2.6 percent.  The Japanese central bank’s decision to enlarge its asset-
purchase fund to 55 billion yen was forecast by five of 21
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  between zero and 0.1 percent.  The yen’s losses were erased with Japanese companies
probably taking advantage of weaker  price levels  to purchase the
currency, according to  Greg Anderson , the North American head of
G-10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  The average in the past year is 78.81 per dollar, 3.8
percent stronger than the 82 yen per dollar level were Japanese
exporters can remain “profitable,” a Cabinet Office survey
showed in February.  Vice Finance Minister Takehiko Nakao told reporters in
 Tokyo  on Sept. 13 the recent surge in the yen against the dollar
has been “obviously speculative” and that Japan can’t overlook
such moves.  Current Account  New Zealand’s dollar declined 0.1 percent to 82.67 U.S.
cents before a  report  on the nation’s GDP, which grew at the
fastest pace in five years last quarter. A separate report today
showed the nation’s current account deficit was 4.9 percent,
compared with a revised 4.5 percent in the 12 months through
March and the 5.2 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell 0.2 percent to 79.115, declining for
the first time in three days.  The  U.S. dollar  was net-purchased today for the first time
in 12 trading sessions, according to Bank of New York Mellow
client data. Inflows into the euro “continue to decelerate
steadily” as “structural concerns related to the euro-zone
debt crisis have re-surfaced,”  Samarjit Shankar , a managing
director for the foreign-exchange group in Boston at Bank of New
York Mellon, wrote to clients today.  The euro’s 14-day relative strength index versus the dollar
fell below the 70 level for the first time in six days, the
longest streak since May 2011. The 70 level indicates an asset
may be “overbought,” having risen too far, too quickly and is
due for a correction.  Goldman Exits  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ended a trade recommendation to
buy the euro against the dollar. The shared currency rallied 3.3
percent against the dollar since Sept. 6 when ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said policy makers agreed to an unlimited bond-
purchase program to regain control of interest rates.  “With much of the expected developments now past us, our
initial target of $1.30 reached and a period of further
consolidation possible, we consider it prudent to close our
recommendation for a potential gain of about 7 percent,”
Goldman Sachs foreign-exchange analysts led by London-based
Thomas Stolper wrote today in an e-mailed report.  South Africa’s rand fell against its major counterparts as
violence continued at platinum mines even after an illegal
strike ended at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana site.  The rand sank 1.1 percent to 8.2727 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  