-- Ex-MF Global Equity Derivatives Head Bystrom to Open Fund
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-09-18T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/ex-mf-global-equity-derivatives-head-bystrom-to-open-fund.html
Daniel Bystrom, former head of
equity derivatives trading at MF Global Inc., and Neil Boyarsky
plan to start Hawksfield Capital LLC, a New York-based equity
volatility hedge fund, by the end of this month.  Hawksfield Capital will start with $10 million to $20
million of Bystrom and Boyarsky’s own money, as well as capital
from friends and family, Bystrom said in a telephone interview.  “The fund will deliver returns that are uncorrelated and
often negatively correlated to the returns of the typical hedge-
fund strategy,” Bystrom said. “The opportunity set expands
dramatically in times of higher volatility, when most other
asset classes are not performing well.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the VIX, has  fallen  38 percent this year. Lower volatility
may persist through the  U.S. presidential election  and then the
measure may rise by the end of this year and into the first
quarter of 2013 as investors react to high unemployment,  China ’s
economic slowdown and the European sovereign-debt crisis,
Bystrom said.  The Hawksfield Capital Volatility Opportunities Fund will
employ quantitative models for options valuation and volatility
analysis, according to a presentation about the fund that was
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Before MF Global, Bystrom, 41, was a portfolio manager at
AM Investment Partners LLC, where he co-managed the firm’s
Global Volatility Arbitrage Fund. Prior to that, he was a
director at Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. and BNP Paribas SA. He
started his career in trading at Susquehanna International Group
LLP.  ‘Right Opportunity’  Boyarsky, 40, has served as executive vice president of
Improved Funding Techniques Inc., an actuarial and benefits
consulting firm, for 12 years. He will be Hawksfield’s chief
executive officer and Bystrom will be chief investment officer.  Bystrom and Boyarsky first discussed starting a hedge fund
five years ago. After MF Global filed the eighth-biggest U.S.
bankruptcy under Chapter 11 on Oct. 31, Bystrom knew the time
was right to act on the plan, he said.  “It was an ongoing dialog and it was something I knew I
would always do at some point,” Bystrom said. “When MF did go
bankrupt, it presented me with the right opportunity to do it.”  Bystrom said it was “disappointing and frustrating” to be
part of an organization brought down by “external forces”
separate from his team. MF Global, run at the time by former New
Jersey Governor and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Co-Chairman  Jon Corzine , filed for bankruptcy after a wrong-way $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations.  Hawksfield’s prime broker is Goldman Sachs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  