-- Falcons Beat Manning’s Broncos 27-21 to Improve to 2-0 in NFL
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-18T04:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/falcons-beat-manning-s-broncos-27-21-to-improve-to-2-0-in-nfl.html
The  Atlanta Falcons  intercepted
 Peyton Manning  three times during the first quarter in defeating
the Denver Broncos 27-21 to close out the second week of the
National Football League season.  Matt Ryan  threw two touchdown passes for the Falcons, who
opened a 20-0 first-half lead after Denver had turnovers on four
of its first five drives at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta. Three
of Manning’s first eight passes were picked off, only the second
time that the four-time NFL Most Valuable Player has had three
interceptions during the opening quarter of a game.  “Disappointing start,” Manning said at a news conference.
“Anytime you come on the road and throw three interceptions in
the first quarter, it puts your team in a hole. Just three bad
decisions. I’d like to have all three of them back.”  The Falcons improved to 2-0, joining the  Philadelphia
Eagles ,  Arizona Cardinals , San Francisco 49ers, Houston Texans
and  San Diego Chargers  as the NFL’s remaining unbeaten teams.
The Broncos fell to 1-1, having won last week’s season-opener at
home against the Pittsburgh Steelers.  “Offensively we did just enough to get the win,” Ryan
said in a televised interview. “That’s a good team and good
quarterback. We weathered the storm.”  Rushing Touchdown  Michael Turner  added a rushing touchdown for the Falcons,
who sent Manning to a defeat in his second start for the Broncos.
After missing the 2011 NFL season following neck surgery,
Manning last week played in his first game in 19 months and
passed for 253 yards and two scores in a 31-19 home victory
against the Steelers. He completed 24 of 37 passes for 241 yards
and one score last night.  Manning had his second pass intercepted against the Falcons
and Turner scored on a one-yard run three plays later to give
Atlanta a 7-0 lead.  Manning’s fourth pass was also picked off, setting up a 37-
yard field goal by Matt Bryant. While the Falcons didn’t score
after Manning’s third interception, they tacked on another field
goal for a 13-0 lead after Knowshon Moreno fumbled on Denver’s
fifth possession.  Ryan threw a 1-yard touchdown pass to Tony Gonzalez with
4:45 left in the second quarter before Manning moved the Broncos
80 yards before halftime and capped the drive with a 17-yard
toss to  Demaryius Thomas .  The NFL’s replacement officials initially ruled that Thomas
was out of bounds before reversing the call, one of several
officiating mistakes during a game that had a 56-minute first
quarter because of referees huddling in confusion.  The Falcons extended their lead to 27-7 midway through the
third quarter on Ryan’s 4-yard touchdown pass to Roddy White.  A day after younger brother  Eli Manning  recovered from
three interceptions to pass for 510 yards and three scores in
the New York Giants’ 41-34 win over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers,
Peyton Manning tried to rally the Broncos in Atlanta. The
Broncos scored a pair of fourth-quarter touchdowns, both on 2-
yard runs by Willis McGahee, before the Falcons were able to run
out the clock and hold on for the win.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  