-- Fannie Mae Audit Finds BofA Wasn’t Overpaid for Servicing Rights
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-09-18T14:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/fannie-mae-didn-t-overpay-bofa-for-servicing-rights-audit-finds.html
Fannie Mae  didn’t give  Bank of
America Corp.  special consideration in agreeing to pay more than
$500 million to transfer servicing of 384,000 mortgages to firms
more likely to prevent foreclosures, a U.S. auditor said.  Still, the taxpayer-owned  company  paid more than legally
required to Bank of America and 12 other lenders when it spent
$1.5 billion for servicing rights on 1.1 million loans from 2008
to 2011, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ’s inspector general
said in a report released today.  The transfers were part of a Fannie Mae initiative to cut
losses on mortgages at greatest risk of default. The specialty
servicers hired to handle the loans, including  Ocwen Financial
Corp. (OCN)  and  Nationstar Mortgage LLC (NSM) , typically do more outreach to
distressed borrowers and have a better track record of keeping
loans current.  “The amount Fannie Mae paid was consistent with the
amounts it had paid to other servicers from which it had
purchased mortgage-servicing rights under the program,” the
inspector general’s office said in the report.  Bank of America ultimately got $421 million in the 2011
deal because some of the loans were paid off or refinanced by
the time it was completed.  Taxpayer Aid  The transaction drew attention because it came after Fannie
Mae had received $1.3 billion from Bank of America to settle
claims over defaulted mortgages. Members of the U.S. House of
Representatives including Republican  Darrell Issa  and Democrat
Maxine Waters, both of  California , sought the audit to ensure
Fannie Mae wasn’t funneling taxpayer aid to the bank.  Fannie Mae, based in  Washington , and smaller rival Freddie
Mac of McLean,  Virginia , have been operating under U.S.
conservatorship since they were seized by regulators amid
soaring losses in September 2008.  The audit found Fannie Mae paid lenders more than required
in most transactions because it wanted to negotiate a smooth
transfer. Holders of the servicing rights could have tried to
sell them elsewhere if Fannie Mae offered the minimum price.  In the Bank of America transaction, Fannie Mae sought to
buy servicing rights on a portfolio of loans with a delinquency
rate of 11 percent and an unpaid principal balance of $73.6
billion.  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  estimated that it would lose $10.9 billion
on the portfolio if the bank continued to service those loans
and would cut that loss by $1.7 billion to $2.7 billion if the
portfolio were handled by a specialty servicer.  Greater Scrutiny  The inspector general criticized Fannie Mae’s method of
computing the value of the loans and suggested that the FHFA
should step up its scrutiny of the servicing transfer program.  Jon Greenlee, FHFA’s deputy director of enterprise
regulation, said the program was intended to help borrowers stay
in their homes, not just to save money.  “The reason servicing transfer transactions such as the
one at issue are expected to save money is that the new servicer
is better equipped to work with troubled borrowers,” Greenlee
wrote in a response included in the audit report.  The FHFA inspector general released a second audit today
concluding that the agency should strengthen efforts to ensure
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  are better prepared for the failure
of the banks that sell and service loans.  The government-sponsored enterprises have lost $6.1 billion
from failures of four such lenders since 2008. The audit was
triggered in part by Freddie Mac’s $1.8 billion claim against
bankrupt Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., the inspector
general reported.  Regulatory Window  The inspector general’s audits should be viewed as a window
into the regulation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and not as a
sign that any major change in operations is imminent, Isaac Boltansky, a Washington-based policy analyst for Compass Point
Research & Trading LLC, said in a note to clients.  “The prospect for meaningful GSE reform is all but zero in
2013,” Boltansky wrote.  “For this reason, administrative
communications between the FHFA and the FHFA-OIG serve as
important mile markers for the implementation of the FHFA’s
regulatory framework over the GSEs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  