-- Faroe Petroleum Plans to Buy Stakes in Oil Exploration Projects
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-09-18T16:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/faroe-petroleum-plans-to-buy-stakes-in-oil-exploration-projects.html
Faroe Petroleum Plc (FPM) , an Aberdeen,
Scotland-based oil explorer focused on the U.K. and Norway,
plans to buy stakes in established exploration projects.  The company has already invested in the Darwin prospect,
buying a 12.5 percent stake in the  Barents Sea  area operated by
Spanish company Repsol, where drilling is planned to begin at
the end of this year.  “It’s quite new to us, we’ve been a very much organic
growth-oriented company, but we’ve always been open to potential
farm-ins,” Graham Stewart, Faroe Petroleum Chief Executive
Officer, said in a telephone interview. “We just haven’t done
them and it’s not because we wouldn’t, but opportunities were
not there. But opportunities are there and we’re looking at a
few now that are quite attractive”  Faroe Petroleum is interested in mature projects that lack
the money for further exploration. Although the company has not
made any oil discovery this year, it has a 50 percent success
rate for the period of 2009-2012.  “The definition of exploration is that it will not all
work,” Stewart said. “We are quite comfortable about farming
into other people’s licenses and I think that is a strength that
we have now given our strong balance sheet.”  High Profits  The company posted a profit after tax of 3.74 million
pounds for the first six months of this year, in comparison with
losses of 18.2 million pounds in the same period of last year.
Its revenue more than doubled to 90.6 million pounds, according
to a statement published today.  “We have undrawn credit facilities, we have strong  cash
flow , so we are looking into insuring we always have a large
number of choices for investing our money in wells,” Stewart
said.  Faroe has raised the lower limit of its production guidance
by 1,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day to 7,000 to 8,000
barrels a day and doesn’t exclude increasing its production even
more, its CEO said. “Don’t be too surprised if we add more
production in the next months, that’s a likely outcome.”  The company is searching for oil exploration opportunities
mainly in the so-called Atlantic Margin, the area north of
 Scotland  between Shetland and Faroe islands, but also in the
region of east Iceland and north  Norway .  Faroe has drilled eight wells in Norway since 2009, with
three commercial discoveries, but two of its most recent
projects, the Clapton and the Cooper wells in the  North Sea 
failed in finding any oil. In the Barents Sea, Faroe holds two
exploration licenses and has bought a share in the Darwin
project.  “The potential out there is huge, it is a truly vast
area,” Stewart said. “The well density is incredibly low and
that is something that will draw more and more companies in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  