-- Fed’s Evans Says QE3 Will Make Economy More Resilient
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-09-18T14:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/fed-s-evans-says-qe3-will-make-economy-more-resilient.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the central bank’s third round of
quantitative easing will help the economy keep growing despite
headwinds from  Europe ’s debt crisis as well as potential U.S.
tax increases and spending cuts.  “Given the slow and fragile recovery, the large resource
gaps that still exist, and the large risks we face, it remains
clear that we needed a more resilient economy,” Evans said
today according to prepared text of a speech in  Ann Arbor ,
 Michigan . The Fed’s actions last week “provided a more
accommodative monetary policy that can help us achieve such
resilience.”  Evans has been among the most outspoken advocates for
additional  monetary stimulus  from the Fed in the past year. In
an Aug. 27 speech he called for the  Federal Open Market
Committee  to engage in open-ended asset purchases, a strategy
that was adopted by the Fed in its Sept. 13 decision to purchase
$40 billion a month in mortgage debt until the labor market
improves.  “We’re going to look at the labor market and the way the
economy is going and also inflation pressures, and if it seems
like we need to continue to do this, we’ll continue to do this
next year,” Evans said in response to audience questions.  Operation Twist  The central bank will have to consider continuing the
mortgage-debt purchases into 2013 and should purchase additional
Treasuries once the central bank’s Operation Twist program
expires in December, Evans said.  The Fed maintained Operation Twist, selling about $45
billion of short-term  Treasury securities  a month and buying
about $45 billion of longer-term Treasuries, even as it began
purchasing $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed securities.  Evans told reporters after the speech that a pace of $85
billion in mortgage-backed securities and Treasury securities
may be appropriate into 2013.  “We’re looking for stronger employment growth, some
beginning declines in the unemployment rate and stronger
growth,” Evans said. “I’d be surprised if we would see enough
evidence of that by the end of this year. So under that
conditioning, I would expect that we would continue at something
like an $85 billion pace of purchases post December.”  The Chicago Fed chief renewed his call for the policy
makers to provide accommodation as long as  unemployment  remains
above 7 percent and the inflation outlook is under 3 percent.
Evans said that although the Fed did not adopt this policy last
week he supports the QE3 decision “wholeheartedly.”  Disappointing Growth  Evans said the Fed’s actions will help strengthen a pace of
growth that has been “disappointing” and help counteract
“greater downside risks posed by the slowdown in global
economic growth, the economic turmoil in Europe and the fast-
approaching U.S. fiscal cliff.” If Congress doesn’t act, more
than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts
will take effect starting in January.  Evans raised his growth and inflation forecasts in response
to the Fed’s new program and now sees the  unemployment rate 
falling faster, the policy maker told reporters.  “My own projections did have somewhat stronger growth
because of that,” Evans said. “If I’m looking for -- as one
benchmark -- seeing the unemployment rate fall below 7 percent,
I think it will happen much sooner than if we had not undertaken
that action.”  ‘Heroic Forecast’  Evans said unemployment could fall below 7 percent by the
end of 2014.  “I don’t think that’s a heroic forecast,” he said.  The FOMC took action last week following a Sept. 7 Labor
Department report showing the economy added 96,000 jobs in
August. The unemployment rate dropped to 8.1 percent from 8.3
percent as 368,000 people left the  labor force .  Evans said that the central bank’s policy has been unable
to have its full effect on the economy because not all mortgage
holders have been able to refinance.  “We’ve been fighting against a variety of issues that are
clogging the effectiveness of the monetary policy transmission
channel,” Evans said in response to audience questions.
“Normally it’s the case that when you have such a large amount
of monetary stimulus in place we would have seen an enormous
refinancing wave of mortgages.”  Underwater Borrowers  Yet many borrowers who are underwater, or owe more on their
mortgage than the value of their home, are unable to refinance
and “if there were adjustments made in those refinancing
programs we could deliver much more effectiveness of our policy
accommodation,” he said.  In addition to undertaking QE3, the Fed said last week that
economic conditions would likely warrant holding their target
interest rate  near zero  through at least mid-2015, extending a
previous date of late 2014. The Fed said low  interest rates  will
remain appropriate for a “considerable time” after growth
strengthens.  The Fed is contending with a slowing economy. Gross
domestic product climbed by 1.7 percent in the second quarter,
down from 2 percent in the first quarter and 4.1 percent in the
fourth quarter of last year.  Highly Accommodative  “Stating that we expect to keep a highly accommodative
stance for policy for a considerable time after the recovery
strengthens is an important reassurance to households and
businesses that Fed policy will not tighten prematurely,” Evans
said.  Stocks and commodities have rallied since the Fed said on
Aug. 1 that it would “provide additional accommodation as
needed to promote a stronger economic recovery,” foreshadowing
the launch of QE3 last week.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index rose 6.3 percent from Aug.
1 to yesterday. The S&P GSCI  index  of 24 commodities has risen
6.4 percent in that time period.  Evans said the Fed should be willing to risk a little more
inflation in order to help improve the labor market. The Fed
should “not be resistant” to policies that lower unemployment
closer to its longer-run level “but run the risk of inflation
running only a few tenths above our 2 percent goal.”  Evans, 54, became president of the Chicago Fed in 2007
after serving as the bank’s director of research. Fed presidents
rotate voting on monetary policy with Evans voting next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Mark Clothier in Ann Arbor, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  