-- Fed’s Dudley Says Easing Vital to Spur Too-Slow Growth
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-09-18T22:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/fed-s-dudley-says-easing-vital-to-spur-too-slow-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said the central bank’s new stimulus
is vital for boosting “unacceptably slow” improvement in
economic growth.  “In the absence of further monetary easing, I concluded
that growth would remain too subdued over the next several years
to make big inroads into the spare capacity that remains from
the Great Recession,” Dudley said today in a speech in  Florham
Park , New Jersey. “As a result, unemployment would remain
unacceptably high, with economic risks skewed to the downside.”  After 43 straight months of unemployment above 8 percent,
the  Federal Open Market Committee  announced on Sept. 13 its
third round of large-scale asset purchases since 2008. The FOMC
for the first time didn’t set a limit on the amount the Fed will
buy or the duration of purchases. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
that day at a press conference he’ll add to the record stimulus
until achieving “sustained improvement” in the labor market.  “Linking our purchases more closely to economic outcomes
underlines our determination to generate the kind of recovery
that will deliver more rapid progress towards maximum employment
in the context of price stability,” Dudley, who is also vice
chairman of the FOMC, said before the Morris County Chamber of
Commerce.  Dudley said he will weigh whether it’s “appropriate” to
continue buying longer-term Treasuries at the end of the year
when the Fed’s program to swap short-term debt with longer-
maturity securities expires.  Big Improvement  “This will depend on whether we have seen a substantial
improvement in the labor market outlook in the interim and any
further evidence about the costs and benefits of continuing such
purchases,” Dudley said.  Dudley said in response to audience questions after his
speech that the Fed’s policies are “pushing hard” to boost
economic growth, which will ultimately allow the central bank to
normalize interest rates. The Fed’s policies aren’t intended to
encourage too much borrowing and policy makers are monitoring
whether low interest rates are fueling excesses, he said.  Treasuries rose for a second day amid speculation economic
growth will fail to fuel  job creation , and most U.S. stocks
retreated. Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields declined three basis
points today to 1.81 percent while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index declined 0.1 percent to 1,459.32 at 4 p.m. in New York.  Near-Zero Rates  While announcing it would buy $40 billion of mortgage debt
a month, the Fed last week extended the prospect of near-zero
 interest rates  until mid-2015. The central bank also said policy
will stay accommodative “for a considerable time” even after
the economy strengthens.  “I am pleased that we have drawn a sharper distinction
between what we expect the economy to look like in a few years
time and how we expect to set policy based on that outlook,”
Dudley said.  The extension of the plan to keep rates near zero until
mid-2015 doesn’t represent “greater pessimism” about the
outlook, as shown by Fed officials’ increased projections for
growth, Dudley said.  “Combining the statement and our projections, the proper
inference is that we were acting to secure a better outcome --
more rapid progress towards full employment and  price
stability ,” Dudley said.  Falling Short  Inflation is falling short of the Fed’s 2 percent goal as
measured by the personal consumption expenditures price index,
which rose 1.3 percent for the 12 months ending in July. Dudley
said he concluded at last week’s FOMC meeting that “with
substantial slack in labor markets and inflation expectations
stable, inflation was likely to remain a bit below our 2 percent
longer-run objective.”  “Near term, the economic outlook is that the growth pace
is likely to remain disappointing,” Dudley said.  Employers added 96,000 workers to payrolls in August,
missing the median forecast of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News , while the jobless rate has been stuck above 8 percent
since February 2009. The  unemployment rate  declined to 8.1
percent from 8.3 percent in July.  Prospects for businesses are “particularly worrisome,”
with weakness in fixed investment, he said. Manufacturing has
declined in part because of slower growth abroad and
“uncertainties” about government cutbacks and tax increases in
 Washington , he said.  Manufacturing Contraction  Manufacturing in the New York region contracted more than
forecast this month amid declining orders, as the New York Fed’s
general economic index dropped to minus 10.41, the lowest since
April 2009, from minus 5.85 in August, the bank said yesterday.
Readings less than zero signal contraction in the so-called
Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern New Jersey
and southern  Connecticut .  While monetary policy isn’t a “panacea,” a “nudge in the
right direction will move us closer to a self-reinforcing cycle
of more hiring, more spending, more growth, and more
investment,” Dudley said.  Dudley said in response to questions after a second speech
in Montclair,  New Jersey , that the economy would have performed
“far worse” without the Fed’s first two rounds of asset
purchases.  The central bank isn’t out of stimulus measures and if the
economy needs more “medicine,” policy makers will provide it,
Dudley said in response to audience questions. He said the Fed’s
tools for easing aren’t “perfect.”  Latest Round  The Fed has so far determined that the cost of lowering the
 interest rate  it pays on excess reserves outweighs the
“modest” benefits of doing so, he said. One cost of the Fed’s
latest round of mortgage buying is that it increases the
 interest-rate  risk of the central bank’s portfolio, he said.  As president of the New York Fed since January 2009,
Dudley, 59, holds a permanent vote on the FOMC.  In New Jersey, “economic activity in the state did not
begin to recover until November 2010, more than a year after the
nation and  New York City ,” Dudley said. “Since then, activity
has recovered at a moderate pace, although we are still
operating below our previous peak.”  Unemployment in New Jersey “remains high” and the housing
crisis “continues to take a toll,” Dudley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  