-- Finnish Power Imports From Russia Drop 63% in First Eight Months
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-09-18T14:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/finnish-power-imports-from-russia-drop-63-in-first-eight-months.html
Finnish electricity imports from
 Russia   dropped  by 63 percent this year through August as Russian
exports to the Nordic region have become less viable.  Finland imported 2.8 terawatt-hours from Russia in the
eight months, down from 7.5 terawatt-hours in the year-earlier
period, according to data released today by the Finnish Energy
Industries association on its website.  Russia increased both its capacity tariffs and natural-gas
prices, often making it unprofitable to sell electricity to
Finland, its biggest market. Imports from Russia dropped 7.5
percent to 10.8 terawatt-hours last year, according to data on
 Fingrid’s website .  “Russia levies a monthly capacity tariff of 25 to 30 euros
per megawatt-hour on power exports for peakload demand hours,
which limits the viability of shipping power to  Finland ,” Risto
Lindroos, leading expert at grid operator Fingrid, said by phone
from Helsinki.  OAO Inter Rao UES unit Rao Nordic Oy and  Sweden ’s Inter
Green Renewables & Trading AB control 320 megawatts and 980
megawatts, respectively, of 1,300 megawatts commercially
available capacity on links between Russia and Finland.  Net imports from Norway and Sweden were 9.7 terawatt-hours
amid a water glut in those countries. That compares with net
exports of 475 gigawatt-hours in the year-earlier period, the
energy association’s data showed. Coal-fired power production in
Finland fell by 47 percent to 4 terawatt-hours.  The average Finnish power price for baseload delivery is
35.07 euros a megawatt-hour this year, compared with a Nordic
average of 29.18 euros, according to data from the Nord Pool
Spot AS exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  