-- Florida Loses Bid to Toss Suit Challenging Voter Purge
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-09-18T17:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/florida-loses-bid-to-toss-suit-challenging-voter-purge.html
Florida  Governor  Rick Scott  lost a
federal court bid to throw out a challenge to his initiative to
purge non-citizens from voter registration rolls ahead of the
Nov. 6 presidential election.  U.S. District Judge James Whittemore in Tampa today ruled
Mi Familia Vota Education Fund and two state residents may
proceed with a complaint alleging the program requires pre-
clearance under the Voting Rights Act. Florida is one of 16
jurisdictions with a history of voting rights violations that,
under the act, must obtain pre-approval of some laws by either
the Justice Department or a panel of federal judges.  The lawsuit was initially filed over Florida’s plan to use
a motor vehicle database to identify non-citizens in its voter
registration system. The state later opted to use a U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services database, which the
plaintiffs also contend needs to be cleared under the federal
voting law.  The allegations “state a claim to relief that is
plausible on its face,” Whittemore said in the ruling allowing
the lawsuit to stand. The judge wrote that he will rule at a
later date on whether the state effort to purge voter rolls is
subject to the federal voting law.  Florida, with about 11.5 million voters, is among a handful
of states that both the campaigns of President  Barack Obama  and
ex-Governor  Mitt Romney  see as winnable. Florida’s attempt to
purge non-citizens from voter rolls, championed by Scott, a
Republican, suffered a setback this month when a list of
ineligible voters was cut by more than 2,000 residents to about
200 after the state received access to federal immigration data.  Multiple Lawsuits  The Florida program is the subject of multiple suits by the
federal government and voting rights groups in federal courts
across the state. Similar efforts by Republican state officials
to remove ineligible voters from the rolls, impose voter
identification requirements and limit early voting are being
challenged across the country.  The Florida court decision isn’t significant, according to
Michael Carvin, a lawyer for the state. Even if the judge
determines the program is subject to the Voting Rights Act, the
federal government would then have to evaluate whether there is
a violation, he said in a telephone interview.  “The  Justice Department  cannot reasonably conclude that a
database created by the federal government to identify citizens
is not an appropriate means for states to use to determine
whether people on their voting rolls are non-citizens,” Carvin
said.  ACLU Lawyer  “Regardless of anything else that the state says about the
voter purge, the fact of the matter is it’s a change to voting
law and it needs to be pre-cleared,” said Baylor Johnson, a
spokesman for the  American Civil Liberties Union , which is
representing the plaintiffs in the suit.  Florida stopped the voter purge effort in April after local
officials complained about using driver’s license data to
determine voter citizenship, since that information isn’t
regularly updated.  The case is Mi Familia Vota Education Fund v. Detzner, 12-
cv-1294, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida
(Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  