-- Ford CEO Says He Has No Plans to Retire From Company
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-09-18T20:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/ford-ceo-says-he-has-no-plans-to-retire-from-company.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  said today he has no plans to retire from
the second-biggest U.S. automaker.  “Please don’t write me off yet,” Mulally, 67, told
reporters after a press conference in  New York ’s Times Square to
discuss the redesigned Fusion’s fuel economy. “I mean, I love
it here.”  Mulally has won acclaim for saving the automaker without a
federal bailout or bankruptcy. The CEO has declined to say when
he will retire or who will replace him. Ford’s board is
preparing to promote  Mark Fields  to chief operating officer from
president of the Americas, as part of a plan to have him
eventually succeed Mulally, according to a person familiar with
the deliberations.  “My plan is to continue to serve as the CEO of Ford,”
Mulally said, adding that uncertainty over his retirement isn’t
hurting the automaker’s share price. “I’m really clarifying
that now. If I had any plans to do anything differently, I’d
share it with everybody.”  Ford rose 0.3 percent to $10.42 at the close in New York.
The shares have slipped 3.2 percent this year.  Fields, 51, a 23-year veteran of the automaker, helped lead
a transformation of its North American operations from record
losses four years ago to record profits this year. The company
earned $4.14 billion in  North America  in 2012’s first half and
had an operating profit margin of 10.8 percent in an industry
where a 5 percent margin is considered respectable.  ‘Strongest Bench’  Asked to assess Fields’ leadership potential, Mulally
instead spoke of Ford’s deep roster of executive talent.  “All of our leaders are growing, they’re developing,”
Mulally said. “I think Ford has probably the strongest, many
people believe it has the strongest bench ever.”  Ford lost $465 million overseas in the second quarter, as a
worsening recession in Europe dragged down results. The company
projects more than $1 billion in European losses this year. Ford
is also losing money in Asia, as it spends $4.9 billion to
expand in China, where it has less than 3 percent market share.  “They still have an awful lot of work to do,” said
 Rebecca Lindland , a Boston-based analyst for consultant IHS
Automotive. “They’re not out of the woods yet.”  Ford avoided bankruptcy because it borrowed $23.4 billion
in late 2006, less than four months after Mulally arrived from
 Boeing Co. (BA)  The automaker put up all major assets, including its
blue oval logo, as collateral. It recovered control of those
assets in May after Moody’s Investors Service followed  Fitch
Ratings  in upgrading Ford’s debt to an investment-grade  credit
rating .  Fuel Economy  Ford continues to benefit from not taking a bailout,
Mulally said.  “The response we’ve got over the last five years has been
incredible,” he said. “The fact that we did it and that we
didn’t access precious taxpayer money really helped everybody
understand what Ford is really about.”  In the U.S., Mulally revived the Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker by focusing on quality, fuel economy and technology.
He also cut jobs and sold off European luxury brands Jaguar,
 Land Rover ,  Aston Martin  and Volvo. Ford lost $30.1 billion from
2006 through 2008 and earned $29.5 billion in the last three
years, mostly in Fields’ North American operations.  The new Fusion Hybrid promoted today gets an Environmental
Protection Agency-certified rating of 47 miles (76 kilometers)
per gallon in city and highway driving.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in New York at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  