-- LG Keeps Annual Smartphone Sales Goal After Shipments Lag
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-09-18T05:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/lg-keeps-annual-smartphone-sales-goal-after-shipments-lag.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  said it will
maintain this year’s smartphone sales target after estimated
shipments through the first half lagged behind the goal amid
competition with Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc.  The target “is valid so far,” Park Jong Seok, head of the
 mobile-phone business , said at a Seoul briefing to introduce a
new Optimus smartphone running Google Inc.’s Android operating
system. “There will be the full-on impact of new products. We
are still giving it a shot.”  LG targets sales of 30 million to 35 million smartphones
globally this year amid intensifying competition as Apple and
Samsung introduce new models. Seoul-based LG sold 10.7 million
smartphones in the first half, according to estimates by Dongbu
Securities Co. and IBK Securities Co.  The latest 4.7-inch Optimus phone, first announced last
month, runs on a processor made by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  to operate on
fourth-generation Long Term Evolution, or LTE, networks that
offer faster Internet connections. The model goes on sale in
 South Korea  next week and will be released overseas in October,
starting with  Japan , according to a statement today.  The product will contribute to an estimated 10.6 percent
year-on-year rise in fourth-quarter revenue at LG’s handset
business, Kwon Sung Ryul, a Seoul-based analyst at Dongbu
Securities, wrote in an Aug. 29 report. Marketing costs may
increase in the third quarter and eat into  earnings  as LG faces
competition from new devices from Samsung and Apple, Park said.  The company doesn’t have a plan to use Microsoft Corp.’s
operating system in its phones, Park said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  