-- Gafisa Gains 70% as Builders’ Cash Crunch Ebbs: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-09-18T20:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/gafisa-gains-75-as-builders-cash-crunch-ebbs-corporate-brazil.html
Gafisa SA (GFSA3) ,  Brazil ’s sixth-biggest
homebuilder by revenue, is on track to post a record quarterly
gain, leading an industry  rebound  driven by more deliveries of
apartments and offices and fewer new projects as growth wanes.  Gafisa has climbed 70 percent this quarter, making it the
third-best performing stock on the Bovespa index.  PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes (PDGR3) , Brazil’s biggest homebuilder,
and  Brookfield Incorporacoes SA (BISA3)  also are rallying.  Four (IBOV)  of the
10 worst performers in the first half of the year were real-
estate shares.  Last year’s glut of new projects at a time of fewer
deliveries drained cash from Brazilian homebuilders, prompting
companies from Brookfield to PDG to unveil plans to raise
capital. Gafisa surged 15 percent on Aug. 10 when it posted a
second-quarter profit that  topped  analyst estimates after the
company shifted its strategy to focus on more expensive
properties as the expansion in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
slowed to 0.4 percent from 0.56 percent a year earlier.  “Several contractors halted construction of projects
because of cash-flow problems” after the global financial
crisis in 2008 and 2009, said Jose Luiz Garcia, who helps manage
3.1 billion reais ($1.5 billion) of assets at Rio de Janeiro-
based investment fund Mercatto Gestao de Recursos. “There’s
potential for the sector to recover its status and show good
growth.”  Gafisa fell 2.4 percent to 4.48 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo today, while PDG Realty rose 4.1 percent to
4.07 reais and Brookfield climbed 1.7 percent to 4.14 reais.  Surprising Analysts  Gafisa said Aug. 10 it had a profit of 1.05 million reais
in the second quarter, surprising analysts who had forecast a
third consecutive quarterly loss. The company in the period
focused less on its low-income housing unit, Tenda, where cost
overruns and home-sale cancellations after preapproved buyers
failed to get subsidized mortgages contributed to a 1.03
billion-real loss in the fourth quarter.  “It seems the worst is over for Gafisa,” Erick Hood, an
analyst at brokerage SLW Corretora, said in a Sept. 10 telephone
interview. “The market now sees a trend for better results and
cash-flow generation.”  Demand for mortgages has surged as the central bank cut
 interest rates  and the government increased subsidies for first-
time home buyers. Outstanding mortgages rose 40 percent in the
past 12 months through July, according to the central bank.  Expensive Stock  Gafisa, based in Sao Paulo, has become the most expensive
stock on the Bovespa index with shares trading at 189 times
estimated 2012 earnings. Rio de Janeiro-based Brookfield trades
at 22 times, while Sao Paulo-based  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes (CYRE3)  trades at 9.7. Rossi is the
cheapest homebuilder with a ratio of 5.1, compared with an
average of 20 for all companies on the Bovespa index.  Recent gains among homebuilders probably are connected to
the overall rebound in Brazilian equities rather than renewed
confidence in the industry, said Marcos Paulo Fernandes, an
analyst at brokerage Votorantim Corretora. The Bovespa index is
up 14 percent this quarter. The benchmark fell 0.5 percent
yesterday to 61,805.98, and closed little changed today.  Recovering Profits  “Even though homebuilders are taking action to resolve the
problems they faced in recent quarters, they can’t guarantee
they are going to recover profitability,” Fernandes said by
telephone from  Sao Paulo . Fernandes said he has a buy rating on
Gafisa, PDG and Belo Horizonte, Brazil-based MRV  Engenharia e
Participacoes SA because of the steps they are taking to reverse
losses.  Gafisa, PDG and Rossi press offices didn’t respond to phone
calls for comments. Brookfield Chief Financial Officer Cristiano Machado said recent measures should be sufficient to help it
return to a profit and reduce uncertainty.  “When announcing the second quarter results, we cut
launchings guidance and disclosed plans for a capital increase,
so the market could understand better the company’s strategy,”
Machado said in a phone interview yesterday. “That
clarification helped Brookfield to recover investors’
confidence.”  Gafisa said Sept. 10 it may sell a stake in its Alphaville
unit, while Rossi said Sept. 5 it’s planning a 500 million-real
capital increase through a private placement. Brookfield
approved a capital increase of 400 million reais through a
private placement, according to a regulatory filing on Aug 15.  Brookfield approved a capital increase of 400 million reais
selling as much as 130 million shares at 3.06 reais each in a
private placement, according to a statement today. Shares fell
as much as 6.4 percent to 3.81 reais in the steepest intraday
decline since Aug. 14.  Home Prices  Gafisa announced 61 percent fewer new projects in the
second quarter compared with a year earlier as home prices rose
at a slower pace. Average home-price growth in Brazil slowed to
a 1 percent monthly pace in August from a high of 2.69 percent
in April 2011, according to the Fipe Zap index.  Homebuilders also declined in the first half of the year
amid slowing growth in Brazil. Relatively low unemployment and
rising incomes may help sustain the rally going forward, said
Eduardo Silveira, an analyst at BES Securities. The  unemployment
rate  fell to  5.8 percent in May from 6 percent the month
before.  “Most companies went through a tough adjustment,” SLW’s
Hood said. “Once economic growth picks up, they should be able
to post better results.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  