-- Gas-Export Study Delay Puts U.S. Projects in Limbo for This Year
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-09-18T19:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/gas-export-study-delay-puts-u-s-projects-in-limbo-for-this-year.html
The Energy Department’s delay in
releasing a report on liquefied natural-gas exports puts in
limbo for this year as many as 12 applications including
projects backed by Dominion Resources Inc. and  Sempra Energy. (SRE)   The department commissioned the study last year to assess
the economic impact of exports on domestic energy use after
granting  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  permission to ship gas from
 Louisiana . It said future permits won’t be issued until the
study is completed.  The first part of the study is complete, and a second
portion was scheduled to come out in the first quarter. That
date was pushed back to late in the U.S. summer, which ends
Sept. 22. A posting on the department website now says it will
be “complete by the end of the year.”  “It is really unfortunate, but I don’t think anything
happens until we see the results of that report,” said Bill
Cooper, president of the Center for Liquefied Natural Gas, which
advocates for gas shipments. The Washington-based group includes
LNG producers, shippers and terminal operators.  “None of the applicants, I’m certain, want to see a delay
in the regulatory process,” Cooper said in an interview.  The study was started after lawmakers led by Representative
 Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, and Senator  Ron Wyden ,
an Oregon Democrat, said overseas sales might increase domestic
energy prices.  The delay probably will push release of the Energy
Department’s report until after the election in November.  ‘Complicated Analysis’  “This is a complicated economic analysis assessing a
dynamic market,” Jen Stutsman, an Energy Department
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We take our responsibility to
issue these determinations seriously and want to make sure the
necessary time is taken to get it right.”  Investors including Sempra Energy in partnership with
Mitsubishi Corp. and Mitsui & Co. Ltd., Freeport LNG with
Macquarie Group Ltd., and Dominion Resources, have applied for
approvals from the Energy Department.  U.S. permits are required to sell gas to countries that
aren’t free-trade partners with the U.S., a group that includes
Japan and  Spain .  As natural-gas prices soared in the last decade, energy
companies sought permission to build import terminals. Hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, for natural gas has opened access to
reserves that previously couldn’t be produced economically,
driving prices to a decade low and letting companies shift gears
and seek overseas buyers for the fuel.  In fracking, oil and gas companies shoot a mixture of
water, sand and chemicals underground to crack shale rock
formations and free fossil fuels trapped inside.  Reuters reported on the delay yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  