-- German City Needing Aid Shows Debt-Crisis Tentacles: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-09-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/german-city-needing-aid-shows-debt-crisis-tentacles-euro-credit.html
Offenbach, a city of about 120,000
people neighboring  Germany ’s financial capital  Frankfurt , is so
mired in debt it had to ask the state of Hesse for a 211
million-euro ($277 million) bailout in June.  In so doing, it became one of the largest of 102
municipalities to tap 3.2 billion euros of aid Hesse is making
available as the first of Germany’s 16 federal states to
introduce a formal rescue fund for struggling towns and cities.  Offenbach, in Frankfurt’s shadow as the financial center
rose to prominence during the past two decades, has lost its
place as an industrial hub as household goods maker Rowenta
Werke GmbH and printing-press maker Manroland AG cut production
at their factories. As Germany, the biggest national contributor
to euro-area bailouts, pressures indebted European countries to
cut down on spending, its own cities are buckling in the absence
of a mature municipal  bond market  and as public-finance lending
shrinks in the wake of  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  “The financial situation of Offenbach is not
sustainable,” said Michael Beseler, who was the city’s
treasurer until Sept. 6. “The rescue package by the federal
state of Hesse is not enough and is only a step in the right
direction.”  The debt crisis is prompting banks to take a more prudent
view of default risks,  Michael Kemmer , the general manager of
the BdB Association of German banks, said in an e-mail in June.
“In addition, the new regulatory framework has consequences for
loan commitments.”  Increasing Pressure  New Basel capital and liquidity rules for commercial banks
and institutions specializing in covered bonds that come into
force in January are increasing the pressure on over-indebted
German municipalities.  The overhaul, known as Basel III, was designed to prevent a
re-run of the crisis that cascaded across financial markets
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
“With the advent of Basel III, banks tried to push  interest
rates  up for our loans,” said Offenbach’s Beseler. “We rely 100%
on bank loans.”  A second bailout for  Greece  that involved private investors
writing down the value of sovereign bond holdings has altered
lenders’ perceptions of what had previously been deemed risk-
free assets.  “The new normal is that banks have begun to look at
municipalities through a different lens, with a greater emphasis
on risk,” Martin Junkernheinrich, a professor of applied
environmental research and public economics at the University of
Kaiserslautern, said in a phone interview. “The Greek debt
crisis shows that states and, of course, cities can go bust.”  Running Deficits  One-third of all German cities spend more than they earn,
and there is no reversal of this trend in sight, according to an
April survey by state development bank KfW Group, which is based
in Frankfurt.  “Those cities that face financial problems expect the
situation to worsen,” KfW said in its  annual survey of cities .
“Above all, big towns with more than 50,000 inhabitants are
affected.” In that group, the proportion of municipalities
running deficits reaches two-thirds, the study showed.  The state of Hesse, home to affluent cities including
Frankfurt and the capital Wiesbaden as well as Germany’s single-
biggest employment location at  Frankfurt Airport , is leading the
charge on municipal bailouts.  Under the proposed debt restructuring, municipalities can
receive aid equal to as much of 46 percent of their debts from
Jan. 1, 2013, delivering on an election promise by Hesse’s Prime
Minister Volker Bouffier two years ago. A total of 106, or 25
percent, of Hessian municipalities qualify for the assistance
and 102 have applied, according to a July 4 statement by the
 finance ministry .  Rescue Mechanism  “Hesse has acknowledged that there are many municipalities
which cannot solve their financial problems on their own,”
Stefan Loewer, a finance ministry spokesman, said. “The rescue
mechanism aims to facilitate a partial debt restructuring and
will help the cities to stand on their own feet financially in
years to come.”  Until the 1950s, Offenbach was the center of Germany’s
leather industry with more than 10,000 workers, according to
city records. Frankfurt’s neighbor was also a manufacturing hub,
counting on companies such as Rowenta, owned by French SEB Group
since 1988, and Manroland for tax revenue.  “The first recession after the second World War in the
late 1960s, followed by the oil crisis in the 1970s, prompted
the decline of many industrial and leather companies,” Juergen
Eichenauer, the head of Offenbach’s city museum, said. “The
demise of all these companies has laid the foundations for the
city’s debt burden as high unemployment pushed up social
costs.”  Crisis Outbreak  Since the outbreak of the 2008 financial crisis, Offenbach
has lost 20 percent, or 13 million euros, in corporation  tax
revenue . Manroland, which once employed more than 5,000 people
in the city, filed for insolvency protection last year. Chemical
makers Invista Resins & Fibres and Allessa closed their last
production sites in 2009 and 2010, respectively, the city said.  Offenbach’s unemployment rate was 10.6 percent in August
2012. That compares with an average 5.7 percent for the state of
Hesse, according to the German labor office. Without 438 million
euros of short-term loans, almost four times what it borrowed in
2000, this one-time stronghold of German manufacturing can’t pay
its bills.  Tightening Bottleneck  Some of the biggest providers of public finance are ceasing
operations in the wake of the debt crisis, tightening the
bottleneck further for municipalities.  Franco-Belgian lender  Dexia SA (DEXB) , once the world’s biggest
municipal lender, is being broken up after Europe’s debt crisis
reduced its ability to obtain funding. Depfa Bank Plc, the Irish
unit of bailed out German lender Hypo Real Estate and once one
of the biggest lenders to German municipalities, halted new
business after a July 2011 ruling of the European Commission.  Commerzbank AG announced on March 30 that it will wind down
all public-finance activities to comply with European Union
regulations for its Eurohypo unit, which provided 256 billion
euros in annual real-estate and public financing at its peak in
2008, according to spokesman Heinrich Froemsdorf.  Banks will increasingly differentiate on the basis of
municipalities’ risk profiles, the Association of Covered Bond
Banks spokesman Christian Walburg said on Aug. 27. The volume of
German public covered bonds, which banks use to finance their
loans to public creditors, may drop to a more than 20-year low
of 326 billion euros in 2012, according to the group.  German Pfandbriefe  The volume of covered bonds backed by public funds declined
39 percent to 356 billion euros from 2008 to 2011. The volume of
covered bonds backed by real estate loans rose 3 percent in the
same period, according to the association.  While Spanish 10-year bond yields reached a euro-era high
on July 24 climbing to 7.62 percent, German Pfandbriefe, which
are backed by mortgages or public-sector loans and are
guaranteed by the borrowers, touched a record low of 1.81
percent on Aug. 30 as Europe’s debt crisis prompted investors to
shun peripheral euro-area sovereign debt.  Benchmark 10-year German bund yields slid to a record 1.167
percent July 20, while two-year securities dropped to negative
yield July 11.  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest lender, on the other
hand, is sticking with municipal lending, albeit under more
stringent criteria. For the past 10 years, the bank has
implemented internal credit ratings on municipalities.  “The creditworthiness assessment gives the municipalities
the opportunity to figure out their weak spots,” Frank Hartmann, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, said in an e-mail.
“Municipalities can figure out, based on the assessment, how
they can become more attractive for potential external investors
such as insurance companies or pension funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  