-- German Minister Sees Euro Crisis ‘Turning Point’ This Month
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-09-18T12:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/german-minister-sees-euro-crisis-turning-point-this-month.html
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said progress made this month on European bailout
funding and central-bank intervention may prove to be the
turning point in tackling the debt crisis in the euro zone.  Westerwelle cited  Germany ’s Federal Constitutional Court
decision freeing the way to the permanent bailout fund, the
 European Central Bank ’s plan to lower bond yields and election
victory for pro-European parties in the Netherlands as events
that point to success in wresting control of the crisis almost
three years after it surfaced in  Greece .  “Taken together, it could be that we look back on
September 2012 as the month of the turning point in the  European
debt crisis ,” Westerwelle said at a conference today in Berlin.
“We haven’t overcome the crisis yet, but these signs are a
silver lining on the horizon.”  A market rally last week on the back of the September
breakthroughs raised the prospect of taming the debt crisis,
though the surge was restrained by policy disagreement as
finance ministers squabbled over a more unified banking system
at a weekend meeting and Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
stalled over whether to request more international aid.  Westerwelle lauded Ireland’s return to the markets,
Portugal’s budget surplus and Greece’s receding deficit as
examples of crisis-fighting measures taking hold. Missing from
the list was  Spain , which is considering requesting bailout
assistance after already securing 100 billion euros ($131
billion) to prop up its sagging banking sector.  Polish Proposals  The German foreign minister and his Polish counterpart,
Radoslaw Sikorski, sought to build momentum with a raft of
proposals to fight the crisis and establish the European Union
as a stronger global power. Creating a European monetary fund
and electing a European president were part of their plan.  “Budgetary discipline is key” to strengthening the 17-
nation shared currency and a system “to ensure that all member
states abide by the rules is essential,” Westerwelle and
Sikorski wrote today in an op-ed published in the International
Herald Tribune.  “Containing the crisis is our responsibility,” they said.
“And we will deliver on it. But beyond that our ambition is to
ensure that  Europe  plays a global role that corresponds to its
economic power.” That includes not “shying away from military
capabilities.”  European IMF  The euro area’s permanent financial-rescue fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, should be further developed into a
European Monetary Fund, the ministers said. Westerwelle said the
region had to rely less on the  International Monetary Fund ,
which effectively diverts financing from poorer countries.  The op-ed contained the conclusions of meetings this year
by the foreign ministers of Belgium,  Denmark , France, the
Netherlands, Italy, Luxembourg,  Austria , Poland, Portugal and
Spain, according to the statement.  Poland backs Germany in slowing a timetable for a so-called
banking union, against countries including France, Italy and
Spain that support a European Commission plan to begin joint
banking supervision at the beginning of the year.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has reached out to Poland
as a partner in stemming the crisis, seeking to strengthen ties
held back for decades by the legacy of the Nazi occupation of
Poland during World War II and German death camps built on
Polish soil to carry out the Holocaust.  “Our two countries have become very close” and Poland’s
post-communist economic overhaul in the 1990s is a model for
euro-area countries such as Greece by showing that “as painful
as the efforts were, they paid off,” Merkel said at a ceremony
honoring Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk in Berlin on May 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  