-- German Stocks Fall for Second Day as Deutsche Bank Drops
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-18T16:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/german-stocks-fall-deutsche-bank-commerzbank-lead-drop.html
German stocks  fell for a second day
as uncertainty over whether  Spain  will seek a bailout outweighed
a report showing that investor confidence improved for the first
time in five months in Europe’s largest economy.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  slid 4.9 percent, the most in six weeks,
as Banco Espirito Santo SA reduced its recommendation on the
shares.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  lost 2.3 percent after a report showed
European car sales dropped in August.  Merck KGaA (MRK)  slipped 1
percent after the company abandoned an attempt to get approval
for a cancer treatment.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 0.8 percent to 7,347.69 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt. The equity benchmark has still  rallied
23 percent  from this year’s low on June 5, closing at its
highest level in 14 months last week as European Central Bank
policy makers approved a bond-buying program and the  Federal
Reserve  started a third round of asset purchases. The broader
HDAX Index lost 0.7 percent today.  “Stimulus plans and policy measures have been digested,
the backstops are understood, but the confidence in banks and
the general economy is still being questioned,” said Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities GmbH in
Munich, who helps manage 70 million euros ($91.4 million).  The DAX’s rally this year has pushed the gauge’s valuation
to 11.2 times the estimated earnings of its constituent
companies, close to its highest multiple since May 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ECB Governing Council member Luc Coene said Spain may have
to ask the European Commission for aid and submit to conditions
imposed by its creditors if bond yields continue to increase.
Coene spoke at a panel discussion in London yesterday.  Spain’s Bonds  Spain’s bond yields  climbed to more than 6 percent
yesterday for the first time since Sept. 7, the day after policy
makers approved ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s plan to buy
government debt to ensure the transmission of  interest rates .  The Spanish government sold 4.6 billion euros of bills at
an auction today, more than its maximum target.  German  investor confidence  rose for the first time in five
months in September. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said its  index of investor and analyst
expectations , which aims to predict economic developments six
months in advance, climbed to minus 18.2 from minus 25.5 in
August. Economists had forecast a gain to minus 20, according to
the  median of 41 estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey.  Banks Fall  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank, declined 4.9 percent
to 32.40 euros after Espirito Santo cut its recommendation on
the shares to sell.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the country’s second-largest
lender, lost 3.4 percent to 1.59 euros.  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest carmaker, fell 2.3 percent to
148.10 euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the  largest maker of
luxury vehicles , slid 2 percent to 60.45 euros.  European car sales dropped in August as the region’s
economic woes hurt demand in Germany, which had helped to offset
declining sales in other countries. Registrations fell 8.5
percent to 722,483 vehicles from a year earlier, the Brussels-
based European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association said.  Merck retreated 1 percent to 93.88 euros. The Darmstadt,
Germany-based company said it will no longer seek permission to
sell its Erbitux drug to lung cancer patients after a European
regulator asked for more clinical data.  Merck said it withdrew its application to the European
Medicines Agency. The drugmaker won’t refile with extra data,
Gangolf Schrimpf, a spokesman said.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-biggest
semiconductor maker, sank 4.1 percent to 5.71 euros, its largest
retreat in six weeks.  Suedzucker AG (SZU) , which makes sugar, starch and bakery
additives, gained 2.8 percent to 26.59 euros as a gauge of food
and drink companies posted the second-largest advance of the 19
industries in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  