-- German Investor Confidence Rises First Time Since April
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-09-18T10:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/german-investor-confidence-rises-for-first-time-in-five-months.html
German investor confidence rose for
the first time in five months in September after the  European
Central Bank  unveiled a plan to buy  government bonds  to stem the
sovereign debt crisis.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index of investor and analyst expectations , which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, climbed
to minus 18.2 from minus 25.5 in August. Economists forecast a
gain to minus 20, according to the median of 41 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey .  German  stocks  have risen to a 14-month high since ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said on Sept. 6 the bank may buy
unlimited amounts of government bonds to contain yields in
countries that seek assistance from Europe’s bailout fund.
Market sentiment has also been boosted by  Germany ’s
constitutional court clearing the way for ratification of the
permanent rescue fund, and by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
announcement of a third round of asset purchases to stimulate
growth and employment in the world’s largest economy.  “Draghi may have saved Germany,” said  Holger Schmieding ,
chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “The gain in ZEW
investor confidence today is the first tentative sign that the
ECB, by vowing to run an effective rather than a toothless
monetary policy in the future, will keep Germany out of
recession.”  Current Situation  Still, ZEW’s gauge of the current situation fell to 12.6,
the lowest since June 2010, from 18.2 in August. The euro
declined after the report to at $1.3060 at noon in  Frankfurt ,
down 0.4 percent on the day.  European stocks dropped the most in two weeks amid mounting
concern that bond yields will rise if  Spain  delays seeking a
bailout, signaling the region’s debt crisis is far from over.
The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  lost 0.7 percent to 273.01. U.S.
index futures and Asian shares also fell.  The rise in the main ZEW index “clearly reflects the
positive reaction to the ECB’s announcement of the new bond-
buying program,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro
NV in Amsterdam. “Nevertheless, we expect the German economy to
grow only moderately in the second half this year, as exports
and the industrial sector will continue to feel the consequences
of a weak euro-zone economy and sluggish world trade growth.”  Slower Growth  Growth in Europe’s largest economy will slow to 0.8 percent
this year from 3 percent last year before picking up to 1.1
percent in 2013, the Kiel-based Institute for the World Economy
said on Sept. 13. The pace of expansion eased to 0.3 percent in
the second quarter from 0.5 percent in the first as budget cuts
and recessions in euro-area trading partners eroded demand for
German exports.  Germany’s  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, has
reduced its internal sales forecast for 2012 by as many as
100,000 vehicles as a result of the debt crisis, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  At the same time, industrial production, factory orders and
exports all rose in July, suggesting the economy made a good
start to the third quarter. Unemployment at a two-decade low is
also bolstering domestic demand, helping Germany to outperform
its neighbors.  While those indicators show “the relative robustness of
the economy,” weaker demand for German exports “should
increasingly dampen growth in the period ahead,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels.  U.K. Inflation  At least five of the 17 nations using the euro are in
recession, including Spain and Italy. The European Commission
forecasts a 0.3 percent contraction for the region as a whole
this year.  In the U.K., inflation slowed to 2.5 percent in August from
2.6 in July, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The  Bank of England  has forecast that inflation will
continue to ease toward its 2 percent target.  In  China , a report showed prices for newly constructed
homes rose in fewer cities in August than in the previous month,
reducing the likelihood that policy makers will strengthen steps
designed to constrain property prices.  The U.S. may today report a $125 billion current-account
deficit for the second quarter, down from $137.3 billion in the
first three months of the year, a survey of analysts shows.  While additional stimulus from the ECB and the Fed may
improve sentiment, “the fundamental outlook remains
challenging, especially given the global trade cycle,” said
 Nick Matthews , a senior European economist at Nomura
International in London.  After the ECB injected more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) into the banking system earlier this year, “the ZEW
jumped about 30 points, but then we had an escalation in market
tensions and it took back all that ground,” Matthews said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  