-- GM, Chrysler Talks With Canada Auto Union Extended
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-09-18T20:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/gm-chrysler-talks-with-canadian-auto-workers-union-extended.html
Talks between the Canadian Auto
Workers, Chrysler Group LLC and  General Motors Co. (GM)  were extended
past a strike deadline of midnight yesterday as the union said
the parties needed more time to reach a deal.  The deadline has been extended indefinitely, and the union
will give the companies 24 hours notice if workers plan to
strike, CAW President  Ken Lewenza  told reporters at a Toronto
hotel late yesterday.  “We can still provide the companies 24 hours notice if in
fact we want to strike,” Lewenza said. “Since day one we
weren’t looking for a strike we were looking for a settlement.”  The extension with GM and Chrysler comes after the union
reached a tentative four-year deal yesterday with  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
that mostly eliminated cost-of living raises in favor of bonuses
and won 600 new jobs for the union. GM and Chrysler are
examining the Ford deal after talks went late into the night,
Shannon Devine, a CAW spokeswoman, said in a phone interview.  The union asked the companies to accept the same terms as
Ford and threatened a strike if no agreements were reached by
the initial deadline of 11:59 p.m. yesterday.  The talks with GM and Chrysler cover about 14,200 workers
at factories around Ontario which produce models such as GM’s
Chevrolet Camaro, and Chrysler Town & Country minivans.  “We have agreed with the CAW to extend the agreement,”
Chrysler said in a statement, declining further comment. “We
are currently reviewing the tentative agreement that has been
reached with Ford.” GM, in a statement, called the dialogue
“constructive.”  Loonie’s Surge  GM rose 2.6 percent to $24.43 at the close in  New York .
Ford gained 0.3 percent to $10.42.  Manufacturing in Canada has become more expensive as the
nation’s currency has risen about 60 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  during the past 10 years. The CAW accepted a pay freeze
and gave up bonuses and time off along with other concessions as
part of the restructuring that brought GM and Chrysler out of
bankruptcy in 2009. The union has said it would resist
concessions in this year’s talks, citing the U.S. automakers’
return to profitability.  GM and Ford have moved to reduce operations in Canada
during the past year. Ford last year closed its St. Thomas,
Ontario, factory that made the Ford Crown Victoria and Lincoln
Town Car sedans.  Profit Record  GM said that it plans to shut its consolidated assembly
line in Oshawa, Ontario, in June 2013, which will eliminate
2,000 jobs, according to the CAW. The company plans to shift
production of its Chevrolet Equinox sport-utility vehicle from
the plant to  Tennessee , where most workers will be paid less
than $16 an hour. Oshawa is also where GM makes the new Cadillac
XTS full-size luxury sedan.  Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills ,  Michigan , has about 8,000
production workers at Ontario vehicle-assembly plants in
Brampton, near Toronto, and Windsor, outside of  Detroit . GM,
based in Detroit, has about 6,200 CAW-represented workers in
Ontario, including a vehicle-assembly factory in Oshawa.  Last year GM set a full-year profit record and Ford earned
more than in any year since 1998. This year both companies’
first-half net income was cut in half as continued strength in
 North America  failed to offset economic turmoil in  Europe .  Fiat SpA (F) , Chrysler’s majority owner, posted first-half net
income of 737 million euros ($961 million). Without Chrysler,
the Italian manufacturer’s loss would have been 519 million
euros. Fiat gained control of Chrysler during the U.S. company’s
2009 bankruptcy.  Canada will probably lose new-vehicle assembly work to
lower-cost  Mexico  through the next decade, according to industry
researcher R.L. Polk & Co. Canada’s share of North American car
and light-truck assembly may slip to 12.6 percent in 2017 and
12.1 percent in 2022, from 15.8 percent this year, Polk said in
a July 9 report on its website.  GM was the last carmaker to be hit by a strike in  Canada ,
in 1996. That walkout lasted 20 days, paralyzing the company’s
Canadian operations and forcing layoffs at other North American
plants. Canada, which ranked as the world’s fourth-largest car
producer in 1999, has slipped out of the top 10, the union said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  