-- Goldman Sachs Allowed to Move Murals to Build London Offices
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-09-18T16:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/goldman-trading-murals-for-london-office-faces-flood-hotspot-2-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will be
allowed to move a set of protected murals from a building in the
City of London financial district, a decision that may clear the
way for the investment bank’s new European headquarters.  The vote by the City’s council gives a Goldman Sachs unit
the option to develop an office building at 70 Farringdon
Street, about a minute’s walk from its existing London
headquarters on Fleet Street.  Planning permission for a 54,400-square-meter (585,500-
square-foot) office development at the Farringdon Street site
was first granted in 2005 and renewed in September 2011. The
murals, nine semi-abstract ceramic panels by artist Dorothy
Annan, were listed for preservation last year and “incorporate
stylistic images of telecommunications equipment,” according to
documents given to council members in advance of the vote.  Goldman Sachs had been “somewhat concerned that their
development may be scuppered” by having to keep the murals in
place, Peter Rees, chief planning officer for the City of
 London , told council member’s today.  Joanna Carss, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in London,
declined to comment.  The murals will initially be stored and may eventually be
displayed near the Guildhall School of Music, about a mile from
the Farringdon Street site, the documents provided to the
council said. Goldman Sachs’ new office building is unlikely to
be a suitable location for the murals “at least in the view of
the developers,” Rees said at the meeting.  ‘Sewer Overload’  Goldman Sachs bought an adjoining site at Plumtree Court in
February, according to documents filed with the U.K.’s Land
Registry. An application is expected for a “comprehensive
redevelopment” of the sites, the  City of London  said in the
documents provided to the borough’s council.  Goldman Sachs will have to show how it plans to “reduce
the risk of sewer overload in this area” during development,
the City of London told the New York-based bank’s planning
adviser DP9 Ltd. in an Aug. 30 letter. The area is a “flood
risk hotspot,” according to the letter.  Vibrations during construction may also lead “to water
main bursts and or sewer collapses,” the City wrote. The
borough released the letter following a request by  Bloomberg
News .  Goldman Sachs’s London Property unit had assets of 73.7
million pounds ($120 million) through December and paid 103.4
million pounds for a development site this year, according to a
filing with  Companies House  in August.  Chinese Estates Holdings Ltd., controlled by Hong Kong
billionaire Joseph Lau, bought River Court, part of Goldman
Sachs existing European headquarters, from a group of Irish
investors advised by Warren Private Clients Ltd. for about 280
million pounds last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 Rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  