-- Gold Medalist Shaun White Apologizes for Intoxication Charge
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-18T18:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/gold-medalist-shaun-white-apologizes-for-intoxication-charge.html
Olympic gold medal-winning
snowboarder Shaun White apologized for an outburst at a
Nashville, Tennessee, hotel that led police to charge him with
vandalism and public intoxication.  White, 26, was alleged to have pulled a fire alarm while
staying at the Loews Vanderbilt Hotel, causing the evacuation of
all guests, and an employee said he saw White destroy a hotel
phone, according to the  Metro Nashville Police Department .  “I want to apologize for the unwise choices I made over
the weekend and for any inconvenience it caused my family,
friends, business partners, the hotel and their guests,” White,
who is also a professional skateboarder, said in a statement on
his  Facebook page .  White won Olympic gold medals in men’s snowboard
competition in 2006 at Turin,  Italy , and in 2010 at  Vancouver .
He also has won 12 Winter X Games gold medals for snowboarding
and two skateboarding golds in the X Games. He’s also known for
his appearance, with long, curly red hair gaining him the
nickname “Flying Tomato.”  Police said that White allegedly attempted to leave the
hotel in a cab and then fled on foot after kicking a man who
attempted to stop him. White got a black eye when he struck his
head on a fence and was transported to a local hospital for
treatment, according to the Nashville police, who said
responding officers reported that White appeared extremely
intoxicated and smelled strongly of alcohol.  Arrest warrants charging White with vandalism and public
intoxication were issued on Sept. 16 after he refused to sign
misdemeanor citations.  “I was celebrating a happy occasion with a ton of family
and friends and got carried away,” White said. “I’m truly
sorry for my poor behavior.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  