-- Google’s Motorola Case Against Apple at ITC to Be Probed
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-09-18T14:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/google-s-motorola-case-against-apple-at-itc-to-be-probed-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s patent-infringement
complaint targeting  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  devices, including ones that have
the Siri voice-recognition program, will be investigated by a
U.S. trade agency.  The U.S. International Trade Commission today said it has
begun a formal probe of the complaint filed Aug. 17 by Google’s
Motorola Mobility unit.  Notice  of the investigation was posted
on the agency’s website.  Motorola Mobility has said it hopes the complaint puts
pressure on Apple to negotiate a cross-licensing deal. The
companies have been fighting since at least 2010 after licensing
talks failed. Google bought Motorola Mobility to get access to
its trove of patents as a bulwark against Apple claims that
devices running on Google’s Android operating system are copying
unique features of the iPhone.  The handset maker, which Google bought in May for $12.5
billion, claims Apple infringed seven of its patents on features
including interactive voice commands, location reminders, e-mail
notification and phone/video players. The case seeks a ban on
U.S. imports of devices including the iPhone, iPad and Mac
computers. Apple’s products are made in  Asia .  The complaint filed last month didn’t name the iPhone 5
because it won’t be in retail stores until Sept. 21. ITC rules
could let Motorola Mobility add the iPhone5 to the list of
devices accused of infringing the patents.  Patent Licensing  Apple has said Motorola Mobility is making unreasonable
demands for royalties of 2.25 percent of the retail price of
every device. The Cupertino, California-based company is
appealing an ITC case it lost that claimed Motorola Mobility’s
Android phones infringed Apple patents.  Motorola Mobility has a second case against Apple at the
agency. It lost on the issue of whether Apple devices infringed
Motorola Mobility patents that cover wireless technologies used
throughout the industry. The commission last month ordered a
judge to review whether there was infringement of a patent
related to a sensor that prevents accidental hang-ups or
dialing.  The new case is In the Matter of Wireless Communication
Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing devices, Computers,
and Components Thereof, 337-856, and the earlier case is In the
Matter of Certain Wireless Communication Devices, Portable Music
Data, Processing Data Devices, Computers and Components Thereof,
337-745. Both are in the U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  