-- Greece Said to Plan Sale of London Diplomat Home, Palace
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-09-19T10:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/greece-said-to-plan-sale-of-london-diplomat-home-palace.html
Greece  plans to sell diplomatic
offices and houses in cities from  London  to Belgrade
as the government pursues an asset sale plan key to getting
further international aid, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  The state’s list of assets for sale, previously restricted
to domestic real estate, will now include the Greek consul’s
residence in the U.K.’s second-most expensive borough as well as
office buildings in Brussels and Belgrade, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the matter is private. In
addition, a former royal palace near Athens may be sold or
leased, they said.  Greece has pledged to raise 50 billion euros ($64 billion)
from state assets, around half of which is real estate, by 2020
to meet conditions tied to 240 billion euros in foreign aid
received over the past two years. The Hellenic Privatization
Fund last week said it plans to accelerate asset sales as
international inspectors in  Athens  assess the country’s fitness
to receive the latest aid payment.  The 947-square-meter (10,000-square-foot) London property
is a 115-year-old Victorian townhouse in the  Holland Park  area
of Kensington & Chelsea, the U.K.’s wealthiest borough after the
City of Westminster, according  Marsh & Parsons Ltd ., the London-
based real estate agency. Residents of Holland Park include
Richard Branson, founder of Virgin Group Ltd., and television
show host  Simon Cowell .  London Prices  Selling prices of prime central London homes have risen 9.9
percent this year and 49.9 percent since March 2009, according
to broker Knight Frank LLP. Property website Rightmove Plc
advertises homes  similar  to the Greek property in the area for
rent at 25,000 pounds a week ($41,000). Marsh & Parsons recently
sold a 4,000-square-foot property in the area for 12 million
pounds, according its website.  Richard Branson  paid 26 million pounds for his property in
the area, according to Marsh & Parsons.  Selling prices of prime central London homes have risen 9.9
percent this year and 49.9 percent since March 2009, according
to broker Knight Frank LLP. Property website Rightmove Plc
advertises homes similar to the Greek property in the area for
rent at 25,000 pounds a week ($41,000). Marsh & Parsons recently
sold a 4,000 square foot property in the area for 12 million
pounds, according its website.  Royal Palace  In Greece, the fund proposes to sell or lease the Palace of
Tatoi, a country home surrounded by forest 27 kilometers (16
miles) from the Athenian Acropolis, the people said. It was used
by the royal family until they fled the country in 1967 before
the monarchy was abolished and the Hellenic Republic was
proclaimed in 1974. The estate includes 40 outbuildings, stables
and a cemetery where Greek royalty dating back to 1880 are
buried, the people said. A sale may be hindered by popular
opposition and the condition of the estate, which has fallen
into ruin, according to the people.  Buildings slated for sale by the fund include an eight-
story 2,850 square-meter, office building in Brussels; a 2,376
square-meter Baroque building in the Serbian capital, a 1,215
square-meter listed property in the Slovenian capital,
Ljubljana, and an 8,000 square-meter strip of land in Nicosia,
the capital of Cyprus, according to the people.  Too Slow  Greece has raised about 1.8 billion euros from its asset
sales program, sparking criticism from European officials that
the government isn’t moving quickly enough to reduce debt. Sales
have been held back by months of negotiations over the country’s
largest-ever debt restructuring earlier this year and two
general elections that threatened Greece’s membership in the
euro currency. The fund has said it expects to complete 300
million euros of asset sales this year.  The fund last week chose six groups, including London &
Regional Group Holdings Ltd. and NCH Capital Inc. to enter a
second round of bidding to develop a strip of land on the island
of Rhodes. A preferred bidder for 1.85 million square-meter
site, including an 18-hole golf course, is expected to be chosen
by the end of February.  The fund also selected Qatari Diar Real Estate investment
Co., London and Regional, Elbit Cochin Island Ltd. and  Lamda
Development SA (LAMDA)  for the second round of bidding to buy a majority
stake  Hellenikon SA , which will develop and exploit the site of
the former Athens International Airport. At 6.2 million square
meters, the site is more than three times the size of  Monaco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Athens at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 