-- Iceland Tempers Euro Adoption Goal as Debt Crisis Raises Doubts
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-09-18T07:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/iceland-tempers-euro-adoption-goal-as-debt-crisis-raises-doubts.html
Iceland’s goal of joining the euro
will depend on the debt crisis in  Europe , where it remains to be
seen what form the single currency will take once the turmoil is
resolved, central bank Governor Mar Gudmundsson said.  His bank published a report yesterday offering an analysis
of the benefits and disadvantages of a currency switch. The main
conclusion was that Iceland, which started European Union
membership talks in 2010, can’t contemplate a new currency
regime until both the krona and the euro have stabilized.  A stable krona “will also be of use for us if the EU
accession process leads to Iceland deciding that the country
wants to join the  euro zone ,” Gudmundsson said in an interview
in Reykjavik yesterday. “Of course, we won’t know what happens
in that regard for at least two or three years, and by that time
the euro zone may well be completely different from what it is
today.”  The government has said that Iceland’s krona won’t be
restored to a free float before a new currency regime is
adopted.  Capital controls , enforced after the island’s 2008
banking meltdown triggered an 80 percent offshore krona slump
against the euro, have since prevented international investors
from offloading $8 billion in krona holdings. The fate of those
assets depends on Iceland’s choice of currency policy.  ‘Seek Clarification’  “Icelanders now have to seek clarification on two
options,” Gudmundsson said. “Whether the euro zone manages to
resolve its crisis, on the one hand, and whether Iceland manages
to build a better framework around the krona. So this is a race
between a better krona and a better euro.”  Europe’s handling of its debt woes has so far failed to
resolve the crisis, which is now in its third year. While the
 European Central Bank ’s pledge last week to purchase unlimited
quantities of euro-zone bonds initially stabilized markets,
yields on Spanish and Italian debt have started to rise again.
In  Greece , official creditors have yet to sign off on austerity
efforts needed to keep bailout funds flowing, as the region’s
most indebted nation continues to pose a threat to euro
stability.  The euro weakened 0.2 percent against the dollar as of 8:29
a.m. in  London  before a German report forecast to show investor
confidence hovered near its lowest level this year.  Krugman Praise  “Previously I’ve said that I’m inclined to believe that
it’s better for us to connect to this larger currency union,”
Thorarinn Petursson, chief economist at the central bank, said
in an interview yesterday. “That doesn’t mean that the opposite
opinion is wrong. You can’t calculate yourself to a definite
outcome.”  Iceland’s handling of its crisis has won praise from Nobel
laureate  Paul Krugman  and the  International Monetary Fund  as a
model for economic resurrection. The government’s commitment to
its bailout terms, its decision to require bank creditors to
share losses and to safeguard welfare benefits to protect its
citizens proved key in Iceland’s successful rebound from its
turmoil, Daria V. Zakharova, IMF mission chief to the island,
said in an interview last month.  Iceland’s economy will grow 2.4 this year, the Washington-
based fund said in April. That compares with an estimated 0.3
percent contraction in the 17-member euro area.  Losing Sleep  The central bank left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at 5.75 percent last month, after raising rates five times over
the previous 12 months. The bank is trying to ease capital
controls in stages without weakening the krona and fueling
above-target inflation. Currency auctions, designed to help
foreign krona holders exit their positions, have coincided with
a 7.6 percent krona depreciation against the euro since an Aug.
10 high. Inflation was 4.1 percent last month, compared with the
bank’s target of 2.5 percent.  The krona’s weakness “still hasn’t reached a point where I
lose any sleep over it,” Gudmundsson said. “We don’t have a
certain  exchange rate  target, so to speak. We have an inflation
target.”  The bank’s decision at its next rate meeting will be “not
only based on the developments of the exchange rate but also
based on developments of other matters,” he said. “We’ve
always been aware of the fact that the krona may come under
considerable pressure over the next weeks and months,” as
companies and municipalities pay off debt they’ve been unable to
roll over, he said.  “But as of now there’s no need for panic and I’m not
panicking over this,” Gudmundsson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  