-- Iceland Neglected U.K., Dutch Icesave Clients, Watchdog Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-09-18T14:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/iceland-neglected-u-k-dutch-icesave-clients-watchdog-says-1-.html
Iceland violated  European Union law 
by failing to take measures to ensure U.K. and Dutch depositors
were compensated for their losses from the collapse of
 Landsbanki Islands hf , regulators told a court today.  Iceland has a duty under EU law to guarantee a minimum
compensation within a time limit and how this is achieved is up
to the government,  the European Free Trade Association ’s court
was told today. Neither a “force majeure,” nor financial
considerations could justify Iceland’s failure to ensure
adequate compensation, the EFTA Surveillance Authority told the
Luxembourg-based court.  “Iceland seemed to have discharged its duty to supervise
the deposit guarantee scheme by actually doing nothing at all,”
said Xavier Lewis, lawyer for the authority. The purpose of  EU
law  “is to prevent a run on banks. The consequence of
Iceland’s argument is the greater the risk of a run on banks,
the lesser the protection provided.”  The U.K. and the Netherlands ended up compensating their
citizens and are now demanding that Iceland repay the full
amount, with interest. The surveillance authority, the agency in
charge of supervising Iceland’s compliance with European rules,
sued the island in December over its failings.  While domestic Icesave depositors were fully protected and
never lost access to their money, U.K. and Dutch depositors were
“left with nothing at all,” said Lewis. “Distinction based on
place of deposits amounts to discrimination.”  EU Law  Iceland rejected the authority’s arguments that it violated
EU law by not honoring $5.4 billion in depositor guarantees on
accounts held by British and Dutch savers.  The authority’s stance meant that “if all else fails, the
state must step in,” said Tim Ward, a lawyer representing
Iceland.  “If the state were required to pay compensation where all
else fails, the exposure would be vast,” Ward told a three-
judge panel. “The states would plainly have to make very large
provisions for this exposure.”  Ward said EU law obliged Iceland to set up and supervise a
deposit guarantee program “but not” to pay.  Landsbanki, which had sought to attract foreign depositors
through high-yielding internet accounts that saved it the
trouble of opening subsidiaries abroad, collapsed in October
2008 with the rest of Iceland’s debt-laden banking industry.  Priority Claims  The caretakers of the Landsbanki estate began repaying
priority claims to British and Dutch authorities last year and
said in May they had covered 43 percent of all such obligations.
The bank’s winding-up committee said last year assets will cover
the full $11 billion that depositors risked losing when the bank
collapsed, more than double the guarantee.  Iceland is obliged under European rules to guarantee
minimum compensation of 20,000 euros ($26,120) to Dutch and
British holders of Landsbanki’s high-yielding Icesave accounts,
according to the authority.  The agency checks that Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein
comply with European rules governing the European Economic Area,
which consists of the three countries plus the 27-nation EU.  About 350,000 U.K. and Dutch depositors risked losing their
savings when Landsbanki collapsed together with the rest of
Iceland’s debt-laden financial industry in October 2008. At
their peak, Landsbanki,  Kaupthing Bank hf  and  Glitnir Bank hf 
had combined debts that swelled to 10 times Iceland’s $12
billion economy.  The $85 billion default of the lenders plunged Iceland into
its worst recession in six decades. The government escaped a
sovereign bankruptcy by refusing to back the banks and has since
started repaying the  International Monetary Fund  and its Nordic
neighbors for rescue loans it took on after the 2008 collapse.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive agency, is
supporting the EFTA authority in the case. The governments of
Norway and Liechtenstein are backing Iceland.  Lewis said the court should send a message to all
depositors in the EEA, that “whatever happens next, your
deposits are guaranteed and safe.”  The case is: E-16/11, EFTA Surveillance Authority v.
Iceland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  