-- Microsoft Hires Ex-CBS Executive to Oversee Xbox Content
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-09-18T20:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/microsoft-hires-ex-cbs-executive-to-oversee-xbox-content.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  hired former  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  television executive Nancy Tellem to oversee content
produced for the company’s Xbox entertainment console.  Tellem, who was president of CBS Network Television
Entertainment Group, has joined Microsoft as entertainment and
digital media president, according to a statement today from the
Redmond, Washington-based company.  The appointment highlights Microsoft’s increased emphasis
on delivering movies, sports and television shows through the
Xbox 360, a gaming console about to enter the seventh year since
its release. It has more than 65 applications that connect to
such services as Netflix, Hulu Plus and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO
GO.  Xbox Live ’s 44 million subscribers spend on average 80 hours
a month consuming online video, said Phil Spencer, corporate
vice president of Microsoft Studios.  “The box has really evolved into a platform for creators
and consumers to find all the content they love,” Spencer said
in a telephone interview.  Tellem, who will head a new production studio in Los
Angeles, will examine Microsoft’s portfolio of games for sources
of content, and also will mine Hollywood for movies, television
shows and Web content, she said, speaking in the same interview.  “It’s all about creating compelling content,” Tellem said.
“We’re opening our doors to all types of talent.”  Though the executives declined to discuss specific budgets
for such content, Spencer said the company plans to make a
significant commitment since “being state-of-the-art and
extremely high-quality is critical to gaining consumer mind
share.”  Tellem oversaw network entertainment at CBS until 2009,
when she stepped down to become an adviser to Chief Executive
officer  Leslie Moonves .  Microsoft was little changed at $31.18 at the New York
close. The shares have risen 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  