-- Microsoft Said to Face EU Antitrust Complaint on Browser Choice
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-18T14:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/microsoft-said-to-face-eu-antitrust-complaint-on-browser-choice.html
European Union regulators are
preparing an antitrust complaint over  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s failure
to comply with a settlement to give users a choice of web
browsers, according to two people familiar with the matter.  There’s no set timing for the European Commission to send
the statement of objections, said the people who asked not to be
identified because the complaint isn’t public. A statement of
objections lists alleged violations of competition rules and is
a precursor to possible fines.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in July
that Microsoft may have misled regulators by failing to display
a browser choice screen to users of the  Windows operating system 
since February 2011. The world’s largest software company blamed
a technical error for not showing the screen to some users and
offered to extend until March 2016 a commitment to show it.  Microsoft has already been fined 1.68 billion euros ($2.2
billion) in EU antitrust probes, including an 899 million-euro
penalty for failing to obey an order to share data with
competitors. The Redmond, Washington-based company agreed to
offer access to rival browsers as a part of a 2009 settlement to
repair its relationship with the bloc’s regulators. It told
regulators last December that it was complying with its
commitments.  Microsoft’s press office in Brussels declined to comment
beyond a July statement in which the company expressed its
regret that the error occurred and understood that regulators
may penalize it.  Technical Error  The company  said  it only learned in July that it didn’t
offer its browser choice software to some 28 million computers
running Windows 7 Service Pack 1, or 10 percent of the computers
that should have received it. It blamed a technical error and
said it has already started distributing a fix.  The European Commission declined to comment.  Under the terms of Microsoft’s 2009 pledge, consumers who
buy personal computers were given a choice of the 12 most widely
used browsers to install in addition to, or instead of,
Microsoft’s Internet Explorer.  Any fines for Microsoft may take into account repeat
offenses, Almunia said in July in a reference to the EU’s 2008
penalty for the company’s failure to obey an earlier EU
decision. That ruling also ordered it to provide information to
software developers to make compatible products. EU antitrust
fines are usually capped at 10 percent of yearly revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 