-- IGT Folding Online Poker in Europe Spells Trouble for U.S
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-09-18T20:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/igt-folding-online-poker-in-europe-spells-trouble-for-u-s.html
International Game Technology (IGT)  is
shutting down its online poker operation in Europe after
regulatory changes killed the business model.  IGT, the world’s largest slot-machine maker, is halting
online poker overseas after some countries barred residents from
playing with customers in other nations, Chief Executive Officer
Patti Hart said today in a telephone interview.  The business “shifted from dot-com to dot-country,” Hart
said. “There’s less profitability and the product becomes less
interesting.”  IGT, based in Reno, Nevada, paid $115 million last year for
Entraction Holding AB, a Swedish company that provided poker
online in Europe. IGT still plans to offer online bingo, slot
machines and sports betting in Europe, and is evaluating its
staffing in the region, Hart said.  IGT fell 1.2 percent to $12.86 at the close in  New York .
The stock has  declined  25 percent this year.  Europe provides a lesson for the U.S., where the
legalization of online poker is proceeding on a state-by-state
basis rather than at the federal level, Hart said.  Companies planning to offer online poker in the U.S. will
“have to look at their own economics,” she said. “It’s much
more challenged when it’s a single state.”  Nevada last year became the first state to authorize
Internet gambling. Two dozen companies have sought licenses for
online poker there, including  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  and
 MGM Resorts International (MGM) , the largest operators of U.S.
casinos.  Online gambling generated  24.6 billion euros  ($32.1
billion) in revenue worldwide last year, with Japan, the U.K.
and Germany the largest contributors, according to researcher H2
Gambling Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  