-- Military Substance-Abuse Programs Critiqued by Panel
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-09-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/military-substance-abuse-programs-critiqued-by-panel.html
The U.S. military’s approach to
treating alcohol and substance abuse is outmoded, according to
an  Institute of Medicine  report citing data showing prescription
drug misuse is surging and heavy drinking is common.  Roughly 20 percent of active-duty service members reported
heavy drinking in 2008, the latest year for which data was
available, according to the  report  released yesterday, while
about 47 percent reported binge drinking. In addition, 11
percent of those on active duty misused  prescription drugs  in
2008 versus just 2 percent in 2002, according to the findings.  The military doesn’t consistently follow its own guidelines
for treating substance abuse, often doesn’t always provide up-
to-date treatment options, and generally won’t allow long-term 
use of common drugs that can help treat abuse, according to the
 Institute of Medicine , part of the  National Academy of Sciences 
that advises the government on health-related issues.  At some bases, “there was a tendency to be kind of stuck
in a time warp” on treatment and counseling, said Charles
O’Brien, an addiction specialist at the Perelman School of
Medicine at the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia who
led the panel that wrote the report.  The  Department of Defense  funded the study, and Cynthia O.
Smith, a spokeswoman, said it is in the process of analyzing its
findings and recommendations.  “If there are areas in need of improvement, then we will
work to improve those areas,” Smith wrote in an e-mail. The
health and well-being of our Service members is paramount.”  Among the report’s suggestions is for the armed services to
make screening for abuse routine during physical exams and for
Tricare, the military’s health insurance plan, to start allowing
long-term use of certain medications that treat alcohol and
substance abuse.  The findings “constitute a public health crisis,” the
panel said in a summary. The panel also said that all branches
of the military should create programs where alcohol abuse can
be treated confidentially.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  