-- Illumina CEO Says Roche’s $6.7 Billion Bid Limited Talks
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-09-18T20:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/illumina-ceo-says-roche-s-6-7-billion-bid-limited-talks.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s $6.7 billion
public bid to buy  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  stopped the gene-sequencing
company’s board from discussing what price would be acceptable
and may have scuttled a possible deal, according to Chief
Executive Officer  Jay Flatley .  Flatley, 59, who called the $51-a-share offer “woefully
inadequate,” said yesterday that the directors didn’t want to
openly talk about a sale amount after Roche’s hostile bid was
made public in January because they would have needed to
disclose those discussions.  “We never took an entrenched position that we wanted to be
independent, it really came down to the pricing of the
transaction,” said Flatley, speaking in an interview at the
company’s  San Diego  headquarters. “Had that bid risen into a
range where we thought it was the right deal for our
shareholders, then we would have supported the deal. But we
never got into that range.”  Illumina itself is a “very active” acquirer, buying three
to five smaller companies annually with a larger purchase about
every five years, such as its $600 million Solexa Inc. deal in
2007, Flatley said. While potential cuts in  government spending 
next year may hurt the company, a wave of new genetic tests for
Down Syndrome will help drive revenue, he said.  DNA Transcript  The company makes machines that can provide a full
transcript of a person’s DNA, information used to diagnose rare
disease, identify the risk for a genetic condition, or match
cancer treatments to patients’ tumors.  Illumina rose less than 1 percent to $47.90 at the close of
trading in  New York , or 6.1 percent below Roche’s $51 offer. The
shares have gained 57 percent this year.  Speculation about a deal with Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche leaked in December, and Roche formally made its interest
known a month later by publicly offering $44.50 a share, after
it said Illumina was “unwilling to participate in substantive
discussions.” After the Swiss drugmaker increased the offer in
March, investors voted down its attempt to gain control of
Illumina’s board at an April 18 shareholder meeting.  “At no time during the process were we able as board
directors to debate what price we would take,” Flatley said.
“Because the offer became public, we were very limited what we
could discuss internally, because we had to disclose almost
everything that we talked about.”  Alexander Klauser, a spokesman for Roche, the world’s
largest maker of cancer medicines, declined to comment today.  Huge Potential  Illumina had $1.3 billion in  cash and equivalents  at the
end of the second quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, giving it room to make acquisitions.  “It’s a very attractive industry, it’s growing fast,
there’s huge potential in so many areas for sequencing that I
think it’s drawn a lot of attention, so there’s been some
attempts at consolidation,” Flatley said.  Yesterday,  Mountain View , California-based  Complete
Genomics Inc. (GNOM) , which is being sued by Illumina for patent
infringement, agreed to be acquired by BGI-Shenzhen, a Chinese
operator of genome-sequencing centers, for about $117.6 million.  “Complete Genomics is a company that’s had some
interesting technology, but they’ve been under financial
pressure, and clearly haven’t established a workable business
model yet,” Flatley said. “I’m kind of surprised it wound up
being the Chinese in this case, particularly with the
intellectual property lawsuit we have going.”  Down syndrome  An expanding opportunity for Illumina is the $1 billion
market for Down syndrome tests. Three companies, including
 Sequenom Inc. (SQNM)  in San Diego, sell the blood tests that are
accurate in detecting Trisomy 21, the genetic chromosomal
abnormality that most commonly causes the condition, 99.1
percent of the time as early as 10 weeks into a pregnancy.  “It’s a competitive market and everybody’s using our
technology there,” Flatley said. “We think in a few years it
will overtake amniocentesis, as the way to test for Down
syndrome.”  Illumina’s revenue next year may be hurt by the U.S.
government’s $1.2 trillion in looming spending cuts, known as
sequestration, which are set to start in January. The  National
Institutes of Health , which provides medical research grants
that have been spent on sequencing products and services, would
lose $2.5 billion if Congress doesn’t block the reduction.  Flatley said one-third of the company’s customers will be
affected if the cuts go through as planned.  “Our view is, even if it goes into place, it’s going
probably pretty short-lived,” he said. “NIH is widely
supported in both parties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  