-- Images for Aliens to Orbit Earth for Five Billion Years
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-09-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/images-for-aliens-to-orbit-earth-for-five-billion-years.html
There’s a ring of man-made
satellites orbiting the earth that will outlast human
civilization.  To send a message to the future, artist Trevor Paglen
decided to micro-etch 100 images on an ultra-archival disc
created by Massachusetts  Institute of Technology  engineers and
blast them up there.  (For a slideshow featuring the images, click  here .)  With the support of  Creative Time , Paglen finished the
five-year project, and “The Last Pictures” will soon launch on
the satellite EchoStar XVI.  Encased in a gold-plated shell, the images will circle the
earth for the next five billion years -- ready to be found by a
curious extraterrestrial.  I met Paglen at his book-filled downtown apartment
overlooking a giant swath of  New York  harbor.  Lundborg: How did you come to conceive of this idea?  Paglen: I was interested in secret satellites, the idea
that you could go out and see things that aren’t acknowledged to
be there.  I wanted to know how long it takes for a satellite to come
down once it’s been put up into orbit. And then I realized that
once you go up to very high altitudes, particularly in the
geostationary orbits around 36,000 kilometers (22,356 miles),
they never come down.  Lundborg: So you thought, let’s put some art among the dead
machines?  Poetic Gesture  Paglen: I thought maybe we should insert some humanity into
that, make some kind of cultural mark on one of these spacecraft
to acknowledge the fact that we’re putting these things out into
time.  I thought this would be sort of a poetic gesture.  Lundborg: The first problem was finding the material for
your pictures?  Paglen: How do you produce an image that can last four or
five billion years?  Materials engineers at MIT figured out how to make these
ultra-archivable images with a crystalline atomic structure,
something that wouldn’t come apart on its own.  Lundborg: How did you choose the images?  Eternal Machines  Paglen: Most people would imagine that what we should do is
make a representation of humanity, explain what humanity was all
about.  It didn’t feel right to me. I didn’t want to create some
kind of grand narrative about civilization.  I started thinking what does it mean that we’ve built these
exquisitely engineered machines that will stay there forever and
outlive us.  Lundborg: You mean the human race?  Trevor: Yes. That seems typical of the contemporary moment
where we are building things whose long-term future we don’t
necessarily think about.  A Styrofoam cup thrown in a landfill won’t biodegrade for
another million years. That’s a better story to tell.  Lundborg: So you’re going to send out a message about our
ignorance and incompetence?  Trevor: It’s more poetic than that, but that’s the place my
head was coming from.  Lundborg: You talked to a lot of people, scientists and
philosophers among them?  Paglen: We looked at everything from alchemy in the Middle
Ages to cybernetics, from advertisements for agribusiness in the
1960s to messages in bottles.  Metaphorical Mathematics  Lundborg: What made the biggest impression on you?  Paglen: Rafael Nunez, who’s at the  University of California 
at  San Diego , shows how mathematics is a series of metaphors
that we use, that it is a human artifact. Mathematics is just as
much a human language as English or Swahili or Japanese.  Lundborg: But it’s the language of science?  Paglen: It is the language of science but it is a language.
Mathematics for him is not something that is inscribed in the
universe.  Lundborg: Many of the images you chose benefit from
explanation, so are you including context?  Paglen: No. I thought about cave paintings. There are
animals, but the vast majority are not figurative paintings. We
don’t know what they are -- dots and lines and dashes. They’re
deeply enigmatic.  We are making cave paintings for the future.  Agent Orange  Lundborg: Why did you include the Vietnamese family with
the abnormal child, still suffering from the effects of  Agent
Orange ?  Paglen: It’s complex, but one thing I wanted to point out
with that image is obviously the lingering violence of warfare,
and how war becomes a part of bodies, of the land and of the
chemicals that are all around us for much longer than when the
peace treaty is signed.  Lundborg: Another photograph shows smiling little girls,
but they are actually in an internment camp.  Paglen: What does it mean that we put children in
concentration camps? And what does it mean that they can smile
inside the concentration camp?  There’s something exquisitely and very intimately human
about the image and at the same time something extremely inhuman
about it.  Lundborg: All your images are designed to evoke a complex
response?  Paglen: For this collection of pictures, the audience is
actually here and now. The odds that it will ever be found are
very, very remote.  But I hope it’s a project that poses questions that are
worth thinking about for a while.  On Sept. 19, Paglen will be speaking about his work with
filmmaker  Werner Herzog  and poet Tracy K. Smith in  Bryant Park ,
at 42nd St. between Fifth and Sixth Avenues, under the auspices
of the  New York Public Library .  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  For more information about the project:
 http://creativetime.org/projects/the-last-pictures .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 