-- Imerys CEO Focuses on Growth Markets as Europe Suffers Doldrums
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-09-18T11:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/imerys-ceo-focuses-on-growth-markets-as-europe-suffers-doldrums.html
Imerys SA (NK)  plans to expand in growth
markets, and the French minerals processor and maker of building
materials may increase debt without undermining its  credit
rating , Chief Executive Officer Gilles Michel said.  “We need to increase the company’s presence in some
 emerging markets  such as China, Brazil and  India , where there’s
still a strong growth potential, and in some industries,”
Michel said in an interview at the company’s Paris headquarters.  Imerys is looking at new markets after a second-quarter
drop of 3.1 percent in like-for-like sales at comparable
exchange rates as French housing starts slumped,  Europe  steel
production fell and emerging markets slowed.  “Even if the environment is less supportive in 2012 and
2013, Imerys can develop geographically and in industries where
we weren’t before and where growth is strong,” such as ceramics
used for the recovery of oil and gas in the U.S., Michel said.
There are also growth opportunities in cars, packaging, energy,
electronics, “or even health and home care as well as
agriculture, where we’re not very exposed,” he said.  Michel, 56, joined Imerys in 2010 and took the top job in
April last year.  Moody’s Investors Service raised Imerys’s credit  rating  one
step in May 2011 to Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade,
with a stable outlook.  “I don’t want to undermine the strength of our rating,”
Michel said. “It’s a lethal sin to be vulnerable against a
backdrop that offers little support.” If Imerys plans an
acquisition, “I would clearly look at the impact on our
rating,” he said.  Debt Ratio  The company, which bought the talc business of Rio Tinto
Plc for $340 million in 2011, expressed an interest in
aluminates maker Kerneos, three people with knowledge of the
matter said in July.  The CEO declined to talk about Kerneos, which makes cement
aluminates used as binders for cement used in construction, pipe
anti-corrosion protection, refractories and steel production.  “The world is more uncertain,” Michel said. “That’s
leading us to be more selective in our development with higher
profitability criteria when risks are higher.”  The company is “keeping a tight rein” on fixed costs and
on expenditure for maintenance and investment, Michel said.  Imerys’s net  debt  was 1 billion euros ($1.31 billion) at
the end of June, or 1.5 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. That was down from 2.5 times
three years earlier. The company said it has spent 1.8 billion
euros on 71  acquisitions  since 2000.  “If justified, the company’s financial robustness allows
it to take on more debt and have higher ratios than today,”
Michel said.  Profit Forecast  The CEO reiterated a forecast that net income from current
operations in 2012 will be “at least comparable” with 2011.  “ Italy ,  Spain ,  Portugal  and  Greece  account for less than 7
percent of our sales,” Michel said. “We’re not materially
exposed to a large disruption in these markets.”  Still, the possibility of trouble in the economy remains a
threat, Michel said.  “We live in a world where systemic risks exist,” he said.
“While we would have laughed if one had said five or seven
years ago that Europe or the euro could unravel, or that a
developed country might collapse, we now know that it’s
possible, which implies a lot of uncertainty.”  Imerys shares have advanced 24 percent in Paris trading
this year, giving the company a market value of 3.33 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  