-- IMF to Put Argentina on Path to Censure Over Inflation Data
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-18T20:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/imf-to-put-argentina-on-path-toward-censure-over-economic-data.html
Argentina is on track to be the
first country ever censured by the  International Monetary Fund 
for not sharing accurate data about inflation and the economy.  The IMF’s board of directors, meeting yesterday in
 Washington , gave the country until Dec. 17 to respond to
concerns about the quality of its official data, it said today
in an  e-mailed statement . If the deadline is missed, the board
can issue a declaration of  censure , a warning that has never
been used and which means sanctions may be applied if the
concerns aren’t addressed.  “The Executive Board regretted the lack of sufficient
progress in implementing the remedial measures since its Feb. 1,
2012, meeting and expressed to the authorities its concern that
Argentina has not brought itself into compliance with its
obligations,” according to the statement. The board “took note
of the ongoing dialogue between the IMF and the authorities
regarding the measures, and called on  Argentina  to implement the
measures without delay.”  The IMF’s decision puts Argentina, a member of the Group of
20 nations, closer to sanctions that could eventually force
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government into a
“compulsory withdrawal” from the 188-country institution.  Officials at Argentina’s Economy Ministry, who aren’t
authorized to speak publicly, declined to comment.  Argentina’s dollar bonds due in 2017 declined on the news,
with the yield on the notes climbing 44 basis points to 9.27
percent at 5:12 p.m. in Buenos Aires.  ‘No Further Wiggle Room’  Argentina is the only member of the G-20 that has refused
to allow the IMF to do its annual review of the country’s
economy, a procedure known as an Article IV consultation.
Fernandez’s late husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner ,
accused the IMF of pushing the  South America ’s second-biggest
economy into a financial crisis that led it to default on $95
billion of bonds in 2001.  “Instead of censuring them as they should, they gave them
three more months,” said Claudio Loser, a former Western
Hemisphere director for the IMF who now runs Washington-based
Centennial Group research company. At the same time, the
statement “means they have no further wiggle room” before
censure.  Declining Support  The IMF’s move comes as public support for Fernandez
dwindles in the face of 24 percent inflation, the fastest in the
hemisphere, and growing frustration over crime and restrictions
on dollar purchases. Demonstrators on Sept. 13 turned out in the
streets of  Buenos Aires  in the biggest protests against
Fernandez since 2008.  Fernandez’s popularity fell to 30 percent in August from 64
percent in September 2011, the month before she was re-elected
to a second term, according to an Aug. 11-21 survey by Buenos
Aires-based Management & Fit.  Argentina’s inflation data has been under question since
2007, when Kirchner began replacing personnel at the national
statistics agency in a bid to “improve operations.” Last year
the government fined more than a dozen researchers as much as
500,000 pesos ($107,000) each for reporting inflation rates that
were higher than official data.  Opposition Reports  To avoid fines, economists now share their research with
opposition lawmakers, who release a monthly report based on the
data. The September report said prices rose 24 percent in August
from a year earlier. Two days later, the statistics agency said
annual inflation was 10 percent.  Argentina has about $37.6 billion of bonds tied to the
 official inflation  index, which account for 21 percent of
government debt, according to Barclays Plc. The government’s
decision to underestimate inflation has cost investors almost $7
billion in returns the past five years, according to ACM
Consultores, which is run by former central bank manager
Maximiliano Castillo.  According to IMF rules for countries that either fail to
provide information or provide inaccurate information, a
declaration of censure may follow several failed attempts to
have the country that breached its obligations take remedial
measures. Later steps can declare the country ineligible to use
the fund’s general resources and suspend its  voting rights .  The board already met several times over the past few years
to discuss Argentina’s case and a technical team visited the
country in 2011, leaving a report “with specific
recommendations on the design and methodology for developing a
new national”  consumer price index . In February, the board gave
Argentina 180 days to address the quality of its inflation index
and of its gross domestic product data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  