-- IMF Starts Talks With Yemen, Ready to Send Team for Egypt Talks
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-09-18T14:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/imf-starts-talks-with-yemen-ready-to-send-team-for-egypt-talks.html
The  International Monetary Fund  is
starting talks with Yemen on additional assistance that may be
needed to supplement a $93.7 million credit earlier this year,
the lender’s regional chief said.  Discussions with Yemen “are now starting up, so I would
say between now and the end of the year we would have a clearer
sense of how they would like to proceed,”  Masood Ahmed ,
director for the  Middle East  and Central Asia, said in an
interview today in Doha, Qatar. “If they need financial support
or a framework within which financial support can be structured
for others, then the fund would be ready to work with them.”  The fund is also ready to send a technical team to Egypt,
which has requested a $4.8 billion loan, “as soon as the
Egyptians have themselves gone through the internal process,”
Ahmed said. “For us, it’s very important that any program that
we support is one that is fully developed and owned by the
authorities themselves, and that process is ongoing.”  Egypt and Yemen are seeking IMF loans as their economies
struggle to recover from popular uprisings last year that ousted
rulers in both countries.  Egypt ’s foreign-currency reserves have
plunged by more than half while Yemen, the poorest Arab country,
has said it needs $11 billion in external financing.  Last month, the IMF’s executive board approved a $6.2
billion liquidity line for Morocco and a $2 billion standby
arrangement for Jordan. Jordan’s King Abdullah II earlier this
month scrapped a planned increase in fuel prices, part of the
IMF-backed effort to trim the  budget deficit , after protests
broke out.  Raising fuel prices “is socially and politically
difficult,” Ahmed said. The government must decide “how best
to make the trade-offs that will enable them to meet the
benchmarks they have set.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  