-- Indian Mines Ministry Seeks Lower Iron Ore Tax to Clear Stocks
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-09-18T07:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/indian-mines-ministry-seeks-lower-iron-ore-tax-to-clear-stocks.html
India ’s mines ministry is seeking a
lower export tax for  iron ore , helping  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , NMDC Ltd.
and rival producers of the raw material clear stockpiles amid
waning demand and  prices  in China.  The ministry will recommend lowering the 30 percent tax on
low-grade iron ore fines to the finance ministry, Mines
Secretary Vishwapati Trivedi said in an interview, without
elaborating. Rising freight costs and a drop in prices have
inflated stockpiles, increasing pollution, he said.  “Iron ore fines are rarely used by the local  steel
industry  and stocks are piling up at various mines,” Trivedi
said. “It’s damaging to the environment. A lower tax on exports
could help companies ship these stocks out.”  Indian iron ore companies have been weighed down by
government moves to restrict output in two of the nation’s
biggest ore producing states to check illegal mining and
environmental breaches. A 30 percent export tax and weakening
sales to China are expected to reduce exports to the lowest in
12 years in the year ending March 31, the Federation of Indian
Mineral Industries said.  Shares of Sesa Goa, a unit of  Vedanta Resources Ltd. (VED) ,
gained as much as 1.2 percent to 178.40 rupees and traded at
177.70 rupees as of 12:09 p.m. in Mumbai. The stock has gained
7.9 percent this year, compared with a 20 percent surge in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Falling Prices  Ore containing 62 percent iron has fallen 24 percent this
year at China’s Tianjin port, a global benchmark, as the
nation’s economy slowed. Ore prices that neared a three-year low
on Sept. 5 rallied 21 percent after China announced plans to
build more subways and highways, projects that Nomura Holdings
Inc. estimated would cost about 1 trillion  yuan  ($158 billion).  Economic growth in China is expected to accelerate toward
the end of the year as the biggest global metals consumer eases
credit restrictions and boosts spending, David Peever, managing
director of London-based Rio Tinto Group’s Australian business,
said today.  Low-grade Indian fines are used mostly by steelmakers in
China that have the facility to use them in their furnaces.
Indian mills typically use high-grade lumps.  “A cut in export taxes alone won’t boost shipments,” said
R.K. Sharma, secretary general at the  Federation of Indian
Mineral Industries . “Higher export taxes and lower prices have
made Indian shipments unviable, leading to a cut in output and
layoffs at mines.”  India’s ore exports may drop 33 percent to 40 million tons
in the year to March 31, Sharma said on July 3. The association
has also sought a cut in export taxes from the  finance ministry ,
he said today.  Goa Stockpiles  Goa, India’s biggest iron ore exporter, alone has iron ore
stockpiles of about 700 million tons, G.S. Gundewar, controller
general at  Indian Bureau of Mines , said today in an interview.
Some of this stock has iron content of 45 percent or less and
needs to be processed for consumption.  India’s  Supreme Court  imposed a ban on mining in the
southern state of Karnataka in July last year, citing
environment degradation due to mining. The court’s decision
followed the state ombudsman’s report saying illegal mining and
sales of the mineral by companies including  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  and
 Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE)  in the state had caused a loss of 160
billion rupees ($2.96 billion).  Last week, the western state of Goa, which exports more
than half of India’s iron ore, banned all mining after a panel
said the province’s government lost an estimated 349.4
billion rupees because of illegal mining. Goa will permit
exports of the material from the first week of October, the
 Press Trust of India  reported on Sept. 12, citing Chief Minister
Manohar Parrikar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  