-- India’s One-Year Swaps at Six-Week Low After Reserve-Ratio Cut
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-09-18T12:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/india-s-one-year-swaps-at-six-week-low-after-reserve-ratio-cut.html
India ’s one-year  interest-rate
swaps  fell to the lowest level in six weeks after the central
bank reduced the amount of deposits lenders must set aside as
reserves to free up funds and spur economic growth.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut the cash reserve  ratio  to 4.5
percent from 4.75 percent, effective Sept. 22, adding about 170
billion rupees ($3.1 billion) to the banking system, the  Reserve
Bank  of India said yesterday. Asia’s third-largest economy
 expanded  5.5 percent in the three months through June 30, near
the 5.3 percent growth in the previous quarter that was the
slowest since 2009.  “This measure could be a more preferred route to signal a
bias towards easing of the monetary policy stance without
deviating from the anti-inflationary stance,”  Kotak Mahindra
Bank Ltd. (KMB)  economists including Indranil Pan wrote in a research
note today. “Additional CRR cuts to signal an easier monetary
stance is not ruled out and will depend on the overall liquidity
trajectory.”  The fixed payment to lock in one-year borrowing costs fell
two basis points to 7.71 percent in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since Aug. 7.  Three of 39 economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast
the reduction in lenders’ reserve requirements to the lowest
level since 2004. The rest predicted there would be no change,
after two earlier cuts in 2012.  At yesterday’s policy review, the central bank left the
repurchase  rate  unchanged for a third meeting to fight
inflation.  Consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in three months in
August as costs of vegetables and sugar increased. The consumer-
 price index  climbed 10.03 percent from a year earlier, compared
with a 9.86 percent advance reported earlier for July, the
Statistics Office said in  New Delhi  today.  The rate at which banks borrow overnight from the monetary
authority was last cut by 50 basis points to 8 percent in April.  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 dropped
one basis points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.17 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  