-- India’s Rupee Gains to Strongest Close Since May on Reform Steps
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-09-18T13:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/india-s-rupee-gains-to-strongest-close-since-may-on-reform-steps.html
India ’s rupee closed at the
strongest level since May on optimism efforts by policy makers
to consolidate government finances and lure foreign investors
will spur growth, boosting capital inflows.  Purchases by overseas funds in local shares yesterday and
Sept. 14 totaled $951 million, data from the market regulator
show, the biggest two-day purchase in almost nine months. Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  raised diesel prices last week for the
first time since July 2011. The administration also allowed
foreigner retailers to own as much as 51 percent stake in retail
stores and 49 percent in airlines, the biggest change to
overseas ownership rules in eight years.  “These are steps in the right direction and may help lure
capital inflows and underpin growth,” said  Gaurav Kapur , a
senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Mumbai.
“The measures are well timed as they coincide with efforts by
the developed world also to revive their economies.”  The rupee ended little changed at 53.9950 per dollar in
Mumbai, the strongest close since May 15, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The market is closed tomorrow for a
public holiday.  Asia ’s third-largest economy expanded 5.5 percent in the
three months through June 30, near the 5.3 percent growth in the
previous quarter that was the least since 2009.  Last week, the  Federal Reserve  unveiled additional measures
to stimulate growth in the U.S. The Fed said Sept. 13 it will
expand holdings of long-term securities with open-ended
purchases of $40 billion of mortgage debt a month and hold the
federal funds rate near zero “at least through mid-2015” to
create more jobs.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 54.71 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 54.78
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  