-- International Demand for U.S. Assets Rises on Europe
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-09-18T15:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/international-demand-for-u-s-assets-rises-on-europe-crisis.html
International purchases of U.S.
financial assets rose more than sevenfold in July as investors
sought shelter from the debt crisis in  Europe .  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$67 billion during the month, up from net purchases of $9.3
billion in June, the  Treasury Department  said today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected net
buying of $27.5 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate.  “The data suggest that European private investors used
Treasuries and agencies to protect against deterioration in the
euro financial markets in July,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-
income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “That trend will likely continue into August’s
data.”  U.S. assets have maintained their attraction as Spanish
banks are hemorrhaging deposits and European leaders are still
squabbling over the next steps needed to overcome the sovereign
debt crisis. A Sept. 14 European Union finance ministers meeting
in the Cypriot capital of Nicosia deadlocked over the timetable
for a more unified EU banking sector.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners bought a net $73.7 billion in July, compared with net
purchases of $15.1 billion the previous month.  Spain Backstop  Spain ’s financial industry is already backstopped by Europe
to the tune of 100 billion euros ($131 billion), and is reliant
on 412 billion euros of gross borrowings from the ECB. Shrinking
deposits are undermining the ability of banks to support
economic growth even as the government debates whether to seek a
bailout.  Estimates of foreign purchases of long-term U.S. assets in
July ranged from net buying of $20 billion to $70 billion,
according to four economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the
report.  China remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in July after its holdings rose $2.6 billion to $1.15 trillion,
according to the Treasury.  Hong Kong , counted separately from
 China , raised its holdings of Treasuries by $700 million to
$136.7 billion.  France  increased its holdings of Treasuries by 32 percent
to $64.8 billion, and the U.K. raised its holdings to $140.9
billion from $137.8 billion.  Switzerland ’s holdings of
Treasuries rose 10.7 percent to $190.1 billion.  U.S. Treasuries  International net purchases of U.S. Treasuries rose to $50
billion in July from $32.4 billion the month before.  The Treasury Department’s data capture international
purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt
and securities issued by U.S. agencies.  Treasuries rose for a second day amid speculation economic
growth will fail to fuel job growth, while European stocks and
the euro fell on concern leaders will struggle to tame the debt
crisis. U.S. equities fluctuated.  Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields declined five basis points to
1.79 percent as of 10:41 a.m. in  New York . The Stoxx Europe 600
Index retreated 0.4 percent while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index was little changed near 1,460. The euro slid 0.4 percent
to $1.3059.  The Treasury said in February it was shifting from a
transaction-based survey to a custodial survey to keep track of
foreigners’ holdings. As a result, month-to-month comparisons
are not comparable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  