-- Intel-Based Motorola Smartphone to Debut in Europe in October
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-09-18T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/intel-based-motorola-smartphone-to-debut-in-europe-in-october.html
Intel (INTC)  Corp.’s effort to land chips
in smartphones is getting a boost from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola
Mobility, which plans to start selling devices featuring Intel
processors in Europe and  Latin America  next month.  Motorola Mobility plans to sell the Razr i in the U.K.,
France, Germany, Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, the companies
said today. The handset is the first to boast a 2-gigahertz
version of Intel’s Atom processor, which is designed to speed up
such tasks as taking pictures and toggling between applications.  Motorola Mobility becomes the second top-ten smartphone
maker to introduce an Intel-based mobile phone, after China’s
 ZTE Corp. (000063)  released one in Europe this month. While Intel is
establishing a beachhead in mobile chips after a decade of
failed attempts to persuade phone makers to use its products, it
doesn’t expect material sales from the effort until 2013.  Intel has less than 1 percent of the market for mobile-
phone processors, said  Will Strauss , an analyst at Forward
Concepts Co., a Mesa, Arizona-based research firm.  Intel lags in mobile chips behind Qualcomm Inc., Samsung
Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. Its new device will square off
against Apple’s iPhone 5, which goes on sale in parts of Europe
on Sept. 21, as well as other, more established brands.  Not all of Intel’s announced partners end up bringing
Intel-based phones to market. That was the case with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   Fast Camera  The Motorola Mobility phone will be capable of loading the
camera function and taking multiple pictures instantaneously,
said Jim Wicks, a vice president of mobile devices at Motorola
Mobility.  “It will build on the Razr brand,” Wicks said in an
interview.  Intel  shares  fell less than one percent to $23.31 in New
York trading yesterday, leaving them down 3.9 percent this year.  India’s  Lava International Ltd.  became the  first company  to
offer an Intel-based phone, rolling out a model called the XOLO
X900 that runs Google’s Android software in April.  Intel has also said that  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange and
 Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  are phone-chip customers.  -- Editors: Tom Giles, Reed Stevenson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 