-- Intuit’s Smith Says Software Maker Didn’t Bring ‘A Game’
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-09-18T22:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/intuit-s-smith-says-software-maker-didn-t-bring-a-game-in-2012.html
Intuit Inc. (INTU)  Chief Executive Officer
 Brad Smith  said the company didn’t bring its “A-game” last
year and will speed up development of mobile software and
undertake other initiatives to turn more online shoppers into
paying customers.  Refining products such as TurboTax and QuickBooks can bring
Intuit more users and translate into at least 5 percentage
points of sales growth, Smith said at a meeting with financial
analysts today at its headquarters in  Mountain View , California.  “It was a solid year -- it was not our best year,” Smith
said of fiscal 2012, which ended in July. “We did not bring our
A-game.” The company affirmed its forecast that sales for the
current fiscal year may grow at least  9.6 percent .  Intuit, which makes the TurboTax, Quicken and QuickBooks
tax and financial-planning software, has been aiming to boost
the number of repeat customers to reach Smith’s goal of adding
as many as 5 million users and increasing annual revenue by $1.7
billion over three years. Intuit must rely on its own
initiatives to boost sales growth because it is assuming no
improvement in the economy for consumers and small businesses
during fiscal 2013, Smith said.  “Things are not getting materially better for consumers
and small businesses over the last four years,” he said today.  Spreading Out  Smith has been using  acquisitions  to move the company
beyond its roots in financial-management and tax software, which
account for about  70 percent  of revenue. It has bought seven
companies in the past three years to diversify into mobile
applications, Web banking and other areas.  The company is redesigning TurboTax to appeal to users
switching from storefront tax preparers, Dan Maurer, Intuit’s
senior vice president, said at the analyst meeting. Its
smartphone and tablet payments products also compete with
offerings from Square Inc. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit.  Intuit is also expanding its QuickBooks Online Web software
for small businesses so it’s available in 96 countries, Alex Lintner, senior vice president for Intuit’s global business,
said in an interview. More than 360,000 small businesses in
countries including  India ,  Singapore ,  Australia  and the
 Philippines  are using the global version, he said.  Higher Outlook  Sales for the fiscal year that began Aug. 1 may rise to
$4.55 billion to $4.65 billion, the company said last month.
Profit may increase to $3.32 to $3.38 a share, excluding some
items.  The average  estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is
for Intuit’s sales to increase 11 percent this year to $4.59
billion, while profit is projected to rise to $3.35 a share.
Revenue last year increased 10 percent to $4.15 billion.  The company is simplifying questionnaires on tax-
preparation software to demand less data up front, and using
plainer language to keep potential customers from dropping off
before they file their returns via Intuit, Smith has said.  Intuit fell 1.3 percent to $59.36 at the close in New York.
The  shares  have gained 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  