-- Investors Most Bullish on Europe Since 2011, BofA Says
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-18T12:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/investors-most-bullish-on-europe-since-2011-bofa-says.html
Global investors are the most
optimistic on euro-area equities in 18 months after the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying program prompted money managers to
reduce cash holdings, a  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  survey showed.  A net 1 percent of money managers, who together oversee
$524 billion, had a so-called overweight allocation in European
stocks in September, according to a report published today.
That’s the first time they have owned more of the region’s
shares than a represented in global benchmarks since April 2011.  “The ECB has done an amazing job in averting disaster and
investors really don’t want to stand in the way of that,” John Bilton, European investment strategist at Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch unit, said at a press conference in  London . For
the first time since April 2011,  Europe ’s debt crisis is not
investors’ biggest fear, with concern about impending fiscal
tightening in the U.S. now at the forefront, he said.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has gained 12 percent
this year, touching a 15-month high last week, amid expectations
that central banks will introduce more stimulus measures to
support economic growth. That compares to a 16 percent rally for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The Stoxx 600 surged the most in a month on Sept. 6 after
ECB policy makers agreed to an unlimited asset-purchase program
in bid to regain control of rising bond yields. Markets extended
the rally after the  Federal Reserve  announced a third-round of
quantitative easing on Sept. 13, the same day that Bank of
America’s survey was completed.  Fed Action  The Fed said it will expand its holdings of long-term
securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month and hold the federal funds rate near zero “at
least through mid-2015.”  Cash holdings fell to a six-month low in September with a
net 13 percent of the 186 respondents in the survey now
overweight the asset class. That’s down from 25 percent in
August and 33 percent in July, the report showed.  Total allocation in equities climbed to a four-month high
with a 15 percent now overweight stocks versus 12 percent in
August. That’s still below the 10-year average of 25 percent,
according to the report.  “European investors are starting to shift from a sell-the-
rally mentality to a buy-the-dips mentality,” said Bilton.
“But it would still take a substantial change in growth
expectations to really bully investors to go all in now.”  Global growth expectations declined in September while
inflation concerns rose to a 15-month high. Seventy percent of
investors still expect a deflationary environment of below-trend
growth, according to the report. Profit expectations also
deteriorated with a net 28 percent expecting earnings growth to
slow versus 21 percent last month.  Emerging markets  remained investors’ most preferred region
for equities, with 19 percent overweight. Money managers
reduced holdings in U.S. stocks for a third straight month to 11
percent overweight. More than half of respondents now say the
region is overvalued, according to the report.  The survey was conducted from Sept. 7 to Sept 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  