-- Hitachi Metals Rare-Earth Magnet Complaint to Be Probed by U.S.
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-09-18T14:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/hitachi-metals-rare-earth-magnet-complaint-to-be-probed-by-u-s-.html
Hitachi Metals Ltd.’s (5486)  complaint
seeking to block U.S. imports of competitors’ rare-earth magnets
used in electronics, golf ball markers and power tools will be
investigated by the International Trade Commission.  The commission today said it started a probe into the case
filed Aug. 17 by the Japanese maker of specialty-metal products
against more than two dozen companies.  Notice  of the decision
was posted on the agency’s website.  The dispute is over patented inventions related to the
manufacture of sintered rare-earth magnets, which are light and
powerful compounds used in batteries, magnets and computer hard
drives. Hitachi is seeking to block products that are using
rare-earth metals from China, where 95 percent of all such
materials are mined and processed.  Hitachi Metals, based in  Tokyo , said in the complaint it
has an agreement to make the magnets with  Molycorp Inc., (MCP)  the
owner of the only rare-earth mine in the U.S., and plans to
begin production in 2013.  Companies named in the complaint objected, saying any
import ban would harm public health because the magnets are used
in robotic surgical systems, radiation equipment, surgical
microscopes and insulin pumps.  “Hitachi Metals seeks a dramatic remedy threatening a
massive upset to the national economy,” audio-equipment seller
 Skullcandy Inc. (SKUL)  said in a filing with the agency.  Rare Earths  The complaint names Chinese companies that mine or use the
metals, as well as firms that import or make products that use
them. They include Skullcandy,  Harman International Industries
Inc. (HAR) , and Bose Corp.; and athletic-gear makers  Callaway Golf
Co. (ELY) , Taylor Made Golf Co., and  Adidas AG. (ADS)   Molycorp is working to reopen a rare-earth mine in Mountain
Pass, California, that closed in 2002 because Chinese exports
caused global prices to plunge, according to Hitachi Metals.
More recently, prices have risen and the  U.S. Congress  has been
calling for an increase in domestic production.  Hitachi Metals said it and other suppliers would be able to
make up for any loss of available products if the rare-earth
magnets from China are halted at the U.S. border.  The case is In the Matter of Sintered Rare Earth Magnets,
337-855, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  