-- Itau, Bradesco Workers to Stop Work Amid Banking Strike
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-09-18T03:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/itau-bradesco-workers-to-stop-work-amid-banking-strike.html
Workers at  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) 
and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,  Latin America ’s two biggest lenders by
market value, are set to stop work as part of a nationwide
banking strike.  Employees voted last week to walk off their jobs starting
today after the country’s bank federation, known as Fenaban,
rejected their request for a 10.25 percent salary increase and
instead offered to boost wages by 6 percent, the nation’s bank
union said in an e-mailed statement.  Bank workers have gone on strike every year for the past
eight, and 2011’s work stoppage shut companies for about three
weeks. Employees are joining university professors, central bank
workers and other government agencies in striking for better pay
packages as part of annual talks to negotiate wages and
benefits, known as the dissidio adjustment.  “The banks pushed us into the strike,” Juvandia Moreira,
president of the union representing bank workers in the  Sao
Paulo  metropolitan area, told reporters in Sao Paulo yesterday.
“The strike will be strong to solve the wage campaign as fast
as possible.”  Magnus Apostolico, Fenaban’s director of labor
relations, said in an e-mailed statement that negotiations have
been ongoing between banks and workers. Bradesco declined to
comment, according to an e-mail. Itau didn’t immediately return
phone calls and an e-mail for comment.  In the first half of this year, 96.5 percent of the
employees that negotiated their wages got increases above the
national  consumer price index , according to a survey published
last month by Dieese, a trade union research institute. That was
the highest level since 1996, when Dieese started the research.  Banks in  Brazil  have about 506,000 employees, with 138,000
in Sao Paulo, Moreira said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  