-- Little Sign of QE3 Liquidity Flooding Into Asia, World Bank Says
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-09-18T04:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/little-sign-of-qe3-liquidity-flooding-into-asia-world-bank-says.html
Mahmoud Mohieldin,  World Bank  Group
managing director, comments on the  Federal Reserve ’s latest
round of so-called quantitative easing, known as QE3. He also
speaks on risks to global growth, fund flows and rising demand
for  Islamic finance .  Mohieldin made these comments to reporters at a conference
in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  On whether QE3 might drive a flood of liquidity from the U.S. to
Asia and push up asset prices in the region:  “We’re not seeing the signs of that yet. We’ve seen the
kind of good coordinated efforts by the economic authorities in
the U.S. to deal with such challenges coming primarily from
concerns related to the U.S. economy, but definitely they will
have the impact if the kind of measures being undertaken
recently are going to be supported by the other measures and
actions needed to support the American economy in the future.”  On whether QE3 poses any risk to Asia:  “We have seen this kind of action is being undertaken by
the Fed in the context of supporting the  U.S. economy . This is
the right thing to be undertaken, but this is not going to be
sufficient alone. Major work is being needed in the real economy
side and on the fiscal front to make these measures undertaken
useful and effective.”  On global growth in Islamic financial assets:  “The estimate is ranging from 10-15 percent growth for the
forthcoming three years. The supply side is being very much
driven by more competition, more branches, more banks.  “Despite the challenges during the global economic
developments and the tough times, we’ve seen many countries in
the Muslim world doing well because their economies are
commodity-based and they have been gaining fortunes.  “The third factor is about the diversity of the products.
Unlike 10-15 years ago, you can now see a good variety of
activities from banking instruments to non-bank financial
services. There has been a great deal of development as far as
the harmonization of standards and regulations which have
encouraged many market participants to be involved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  in  Hong Kong  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  