-- J&J CEO Should Be Forced to Testify, Teen’s Lawyers Say
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-18T20:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/j-j-ceo-should-be-forced-to-testify-teen-s-lawyers-say.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s top executive
should be forced to testify about claims that the company
illegally marketed the antipsychotic drug Risperdal, which
allegedly caused boys to grow breasts, lawyers for a teenager
suing the drugmaker said in a court filing.  Alex Gorsky, J&J’s chief executive officer, once ran the
unit responsible for making and selling Risperdal and has
intimate knowledge of the company’s illegal marketing efforts
targeting doctors who treat troubled youths, lawyers for a 15-
year-old Texas boy said in a filing in a Philadelphia state
court. J&J attorneys contend Gorsky will be out of the country
when jurors begin hearing evidence in the trial of the boy’s
claims Sept. 24.  “There is no question that Mr. Gorsky had significant,
direct and important involvement in the conduct that gave rise
to this litigation,” Steve Sheller and Brian McCormick, two
Philadelphia-based lawyers for the teen, said in a filing
yesterday.  The suit is one of more than 400 against  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J and its Janssen unit alleging personal injuries
caused by Risperdal, the company said in a regulatory filing
last month. Last week, J&J settled the first case slated for
trial over the breast-development claims.  Teresa Mueller , a J&J spokeswoman, said the company
contends that Gorsky already has testified about his handling of
Risperdal marketing strategies in connection with the teen’s
case.  “Mr. Gorsky testified by deposition for seven hours in
regard to this matter,” she said in a telephone interview.  Witness Stand  The CEO won’t be able to completely avoid testifying in the
litigation over boys’ claims that Risperdal caused them to
develop breasts, said  Erik Gordon , a  University of Michigan 
business professor who follows the pharmaceutical industry.  “Sooner or later, Mr. Gorsky is going to be compelled to
take the witness stand in front of jurors and be cross-
examined” on his oversight of the company’s Risperdal marketing
practices, Gordon said in an e-mail. “That is, unless he orders
JNJ to settle these cases to avoid that risk.”  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. It generated
$3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of J&J’s revenue,
according to company filings. Sales of the drug fell to $527
million in 2010, according to earnings reports.  Government Investigations  J&J and Janssen’s marketing of Risperdal has also been the
target of government investigations and litigation. Federal
prosecutors have been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations that the company marketed the
drug for unapproved uses, J&J executives said in a regulatory
filing.  J&J officials have reached an agreement with the U.S.
Justice Department to pay as much as $2.2 billion to resolve
probes of its sales of drugs, including Risperdal, according to
people familiar with the matter,  Bloomberg News  reported earlier
this year.  The company last month agreed to pay $181 million to
resolve claims by 36 states that it improperly marketed and
advertised Risperdal and Invega, another antipsychotic.  Gorsky was named in February to take over as J&J’s CEO,
succeeding Bill Weldon. He had been vice president of sales and
later president of J&J’s Janssen unit. Gorsky started as a
member of J&J’s sales force in 1988, according to the filing.  Expanded Sales  The executive has touted his work with Risperdal on his
resume, noting that he expanded the drug’s U.S. sales by
$300 million, the teen’s lawyers said in the filing.  Risperdal’s sales climb was tied to J&J’s illegal marketing
of the drug for so-called “off-label” sales, according to the
filing.  Under U.S. law, a doctor can prescribe a medicine for any
condition, as long as it’s licensed by the FDA and proven safe
and effective against at least one ailment. Drug companies,
however, aren’t allowed to promote a drug for uses other than
those approved by the FDA.  Gorsky oversaw a sales force that was trained to market the
drug to pediatricians for uses in children that hadn’t been
approved by regulators at the time, the teen’s lawyers said in
the filing.  A 2001 J&J business plan stated that one of the company’s
goals was to “grow awareness of Risperdal use in
child/adolescent market via medical education,” the lawyers
said in the filing.  Free Trips  “Janssen promoted Risperdal off-label by, among other
things, offering free trips to hotels and vacation locations,
free meals, free samples of Risperdal and other perks to further
advance the educational information it was providing doctors,”
the attorneys said in the filing.  They added that an internal Janssen e-mail from February
2003 said “these issues (off-label prescriptions to children)
leave  Alex Gorsky  awake at night.”  Since Gorsky was “in the middle” of the Risperdal
marketing strategy, his testimony is crucial to making out a
case over the drug’s illegal sales, the lawyers added.  The case is In re Risperdal Litigation, March Term 2010,
No. 296, AB, a minor v. Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Jan. Term 2010,
No. 00649, Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  