-- J&J Centers to Look for Acquisition, Licensing Deals
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   C o r t e z
-- 2012-09-18T20:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/j-j-centers-to-look-for-acquisition-licensing-deals.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest maker of health-care products, is setting up four
centers around the world to scope out early-stage acquisitions,
partnerships and investment opportunities.  The innovation centers, in  San Francisco , London,  China  and
Boston, will connect business development executives from J&J’s
drug, device and consumer units with local scientists and
entrepreneurs, the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company said
today in a statement.  The idea follows similar actions by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Sanofi (SAN)  and
Merck & Co., who have set up shop close to academic and research
communities to ferret out early-stage products. J&J, which has
made nine  acquisitions  over 12 months, joined with Index
Ventures and GlaxoSmithKline Plc earlier this year to form a
$200 million fund to invest in early biotechnology.  “The objective is to strengthen significantly our
capabilities to bring on board more products from the
biotechnology and academic community,” Paul Stoffels, J&J’s
worldwide chairman of pharmaceuticals, said by telephone. The
current process “is fragmented and we absolutely believe there
is more strength in organizing that in a combined way.”  J&J rose less than 1 percent to $68.55 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 6.1 percent in the past 12 months.  The company will assemble experts on research and
development, licensing and investment, business capital and
legal intellectual property at the centers to facilitate deal-
making, Stoffels said.  Typical Path  The typical development path begins with a breakthrough at
an academic center, which is then transferred to a small or
newly created company, Stoffels said. Venture capitalists and
other investors provide funding to support additional research,
and eventually the product or the company is acquired.  “We want to be partners when they emerge in academics,
during the venture capital rounds,” Stoffels said. “We have a
lot of known-how we can deploy. We want to be part of the whole
process, which typically takes years.”  The innovation centers may take five to 10 years before
they start yielding new  products  for J&J’s sales force, Stoffels
said. The company will focus in areas where it’s already strong,
such as immunology, oncology and infectious diseases, while
looking for breakthroughs in “white space,” or new areas that
address unmet medical needs, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  