-- Jail, Censors Leave Imprint on Exiled Myanmar Artist
-- B y   S h a u n   R a n d o l
-- 2012-09-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/jail-censors-leave-imprint-on-exiled-myanmar-artist.html
Artist Chaw Ei Thein spent a few
days in a dank Burmese jail for conducting a performance piece
on the streets of Rangoon. She fled to the U.S. in 2009 and was
awarded political asylum.  We met in her one-bedroom apartment in Queens,  New York ,
which doubles as a studio for her and her roommate, another
Burmese artist. It’s also where  art@apt , a collective of Burmese
artists, gathers weekly to discuss art, politics and living far
from home.  Space is tight. Thein sleeps in a bunk bed. Paintings are
stacked against the wall or tucked under the bed. The works on
display are striking and reflect war and peace themes.  One corner is full of photographs, drawings and art
dedicated to Aung San Suu Kyi, the Myanmar politician and Nobel
Peace Prize laureate, who will address Burmese exiles in New
York on Sept. 22. Thein and members of art@apt are part of the
planning and welcoming committee.  Thein, born in 1969, sits on a black leather couch, her
hair pulled back into a bun, her hands resting lightly on her
knees. Soft-spoken, she leans into every question as if to make
sure she is heard.  Randol: With the election of  Aung San Suu Kyi  to
parliament, do you feel optimistic or pessimistic about your
country’s future?  Thein: I am optimistic. But I don’t trust the government.
You can see now some parts of  Burma , like in Kachin state or
Rakhine state, that crises are still going on. Why are
government troops and ethnic groups fighting if we are heading
toward democracy?  Artistic Freedom  Randol: If you could change one thing in Burma right now,
what would that be?  Thein: Grant people the freedom of expression. The
government should hear our voice so they can do what needs to be
done for the people. Freedom of expression, that’s what we need.  As a foreigner, you may think things are changing in Burma.
Even  Hillary Clinton  talks about how Burma has changed. But
whenever I call my friends, my family, they say, “Don’t see
your country like others see it. It’s not like that.”  Randol: How does Burmese politics affect your art?  Seeking Escape  Thein: I am always thinking about my country, about
brutality, and about how I lived under that system. Sometimes I
really want to escape from those things, escape from myself. But
whenever I try to create something, all those related issues
come up.  In Burma, you have to self-censor first. The same thing
happens in New York. I lived under that situation for such a
long time that self-censorship is second nature. When I try to
create something, I cannot really explore.  Randol: Do you want to go back?  Thein: Yes, I have that plan, but I am now attending  Hunter
College . After that I will definitely go back. There are so many
things to do.  Randol: Do you consider yourself a political artist?  Thein: I don’t know if I am a political artist or not.
Maybe. Most of the time I think about Burma, and I think about
what we can do to be free from that regime. So most of my work
is really about that.  Other Issues  On the other hand, I make art about other issues, more
personal issues, about seeing the world as a human being. We
will die one day, so I am always thinking, “This is me. This is
my time. Before I die, what can I contribute to the world?”  I express what I don’t like about society. I share with
other people who do not have those experiences, what is
happening in other areas, other countries, other parts of the
world.  Randol: Do you feel like an artist in exile?  Thein: I feel something like that, exactly. I don’t like
it, but that is reality.  (Shaun Randol is a freelance writer. The opinions expressed
are his own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology,
 Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaun Randol at  srandol1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 