-- James Cameron on ‘Solid Footing’ With Fox Post-Rothman
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-18T20:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/james-cameron-on-solid-footing-with-fox-post-rothman.html
“Avatar” director  James Cameron 
gave a vote of confidence to Jim Gianopulos, who takes over as
sole head of News Corp.’s Twentieth Century Fox film studio when
co-chief Tom Rothman steps down at year-end.  Cameron, who is developing at least two sequels to
“Avatar,” said in an e-mail his plans remained “rock solid.”
The 3-D picture about a mining company’s treatment of an alien
species in a distant world is the top-grossing movie in history,
with $2.78 billion in worldwide ticket sales. Rothman said on
Sept. 14 he would step down at the end of 2012.  The studio’s relationship with Cameron runs deeps. The
first “Avatar” sequel is scheduled for release in 2015. The
director is also developing two other movies at Fox, the
science-fiction thrillers “Battle Angel” and “Fantastic
Voyage.” Cameron’s past films with Los Angeles-based Fox
include “Aliens” and “The Abyss.”  “I also have a fantastic working relationship with Jim
Gianopulos, to say nothing of a friendship going back over two
decades,” Cameron said. “So I know our footing with Fox on
future ‘Avatar’ films will still be rock solid.”  The original “Avatar” surpassed Cameron’s “Titanic” to
become the top-grossing movie of all time. “Titanic,” released
in 1997 and distributed overseas by Fox, has taken in $2.19
billion globally, including ticket sales from a 3-D version
released in April.  “Avatar” was estimated to generate as much as $1 billion
in profit for  News Corp. (NWSA)  and its partners, people familiar with
the matter said during the film’s 2009-2010 run in theaters.  ‘Titanic’ International  Gianopulos, 60, who shared the role of chairman and chief
executive officer of News Corp.’s film unit with Rothman for 11
years, has worked closely with Cameron as a Fox executive since
the 1990s. He oversaw the international distribution of
“Titanic,” which has accounted for $1.53 billion of the film’s
total sales, according to Box Office Mojo, an industry
researcher.  “That relationship was forged on ‘Titanic’ and Jim has
always been the Cameron connection at the studio,” said Tom Sherak, who was the studio’s domestic distribution chief at the
time.  Rothman was head of production for Fox while “Titanic”
was being shot at a special facility in  Mexico ’s  Baja
California . They also worked together on “Avatar.”  “We forged a strong bond of mutual respect and creative
partnership in that crucible of fire,” Cameron said of Rothman.
“Our mutual love of film and filmmaking kept us friends and
good partners, as did his great sense of humor.”  News Corp., based in  New York , fell 0.5 percent to $24.48
at the close in New York. The Class A shares have gained 37
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  