-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Rise Before BOJ Decision
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-18T23:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/japan-australian-stock-futures-rise-before-boj-decision.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  rose as investors awaited to see if the  Bank of Japan 
will provide additional stimulus to support the economy.  American Depository Receipts of Toyota Motor Corp., Nissan
Motor Co. and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  rose, indicating carmakers may
recover some of yesterday’s losses amid violent protests in
 China  targeting Japanese companies following a dispute over
control of a group of islands. Shares of  Japan  Airlines Co. may
be active as it begins trading on the Tokyo stock exchange today
following the largest initial public offering since Facebook
Inc.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 9,105 in Chicago yesterday, up from 9,070 in
 Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,120 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index advanced 0.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was
little changed in Wellington.  “We will see sustainable global growth at some stage as
long as central banks don’t give up,” said Nader Naeimi,
Sydney-based head of dynamic asset allocation at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages almost $100 billion. “You have to
avoid deflation and risk having inflation until we embark on
sustained growth.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 8.1 percent this year
through yesterday compared with a 16 percent gain on the  S&P 500 
and a 12 percent advance for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index amid
speculation central banks will step up measures to promote
global economic growth. The Asian benchmark traded at 12.8 times
estimated earnings compared with 14.1 for the S&P 500 and 12.1
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.1
percent today. Most stocks on the S&P 500 fell yesterday as
FedEx Corp. slumped and concern grew that European leaders will
struggle to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  Sixteen of 21 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  say the
BOJ will ease policy by October, with five expecting a move at
today’s meeting. Easing by the BOJ, which ends a two-day meeting
today, has so far failed to turn around a decade of falling
prices that weighs on growth. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has
joined the deflation fight, pledging to beat it within a year as
he faces party elections on Sept. 21.  Concern that risks to the economy are growing may prompt
the BOJ to take action today rather than wait until next month,
the Nikkei newspaper reported, without citing anyone.  Japan’s three biggest carmakers -- Toyota, Nissan and Honda
-- have halted production at Chinese plants amid attacks on
their dealerships in the eastern Chinese port city of Qingdao.
Officials at Suzuki, Mitsubishi Motors Corp. and Mazda Motor
Corp. said they’re also assessing the situation in China.  China Protests  Automakers have been among the hardest hit Japanese
companies in the diplomatic crisis. The dispute puts at risk
bilateral trade in goods ranging from rice to tractors that has
tripled in the past decade to more than $340 billion. The
tensions also further complicate policy makers’ efforts to
fortify growth in Asia’s biggest economies as the  European debt
crisis  saps demand for exports.  Japan Airlines (9201)  rose as high as 4,170 yen in the gray market
compared with its 3,790 yen IPO price, BTIG Hong Kong Ltd. said
yesterday. That’s a 10 percent jump and enough to raise the
carrier’s market value to $9.3 billion, second in Asia behind
Singapore Airlines Ltd., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  