-- National Enquirer Owner Invites Default Talk: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-09-18T20:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/national-enquirer-owner-invites-default-talk-corporate-finance.html
Just two years after emerging from
bankruptcy, the publisher of the National Enquirer is being
abandoned in the  bond market  on concern that competition from
 TMZ.com  and Gawker.com will push it back into default.  American Media Inc.’s $470 million face value of bonds have
lost 3 percent of their value this month, the worst performance
among distressed issuers, even as the average bond yielding more
than 10 percentage points above similarly dated Treasuries
gained 4.6 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. Standard & Poor’s downgraded the  Boca Raton ,
Florida-based company one level to B- with a negative outlook
last week as cost cuts and higher prices haven’t compensated for
lower sales.  Sales and advertising at American Media have been squeezed
by free celebrity news on the Internet. After emerging from a
prepackaged bankruptcy in December 2010 that cut its debt from
$1.23 billion, the company may struggle with its $494 million in
remaining obligations that carry higher interest costs,
according to  Standard & Poor’s . The weighted average coupon on
the company’s debt has  increased  to 11.95 percent from 8.88
percent in the fourth quarter of 2009, Bloomberg data show.  “They need to reduce the decline in newsstands sales, not
just one quarter but for an extended period,” Hal Diamond, an
analyst with S&P in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“They’re not alone in the industry in terms of declining. The
difference is their leverage and interest expense.”  Interest Coverage  Average earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization to total interest expense, a measure of a company’s
ability to pay off short-term debt, is 9.6 times at public U.S.
publishers with at least $100 million in total debt, compared
with 1 at American Media, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cover-price increases for celebrity titles didn’t offset a
16 percent decline in newsstand sales, lowering circulation
revenue by 1.4 percent last quarter.  “While the publishing industry has continued to see double
digit declines in circulation and advertising revenue, we pride
ourselves in our ability to react quickly to market changes and
have been able to adjust our cost structure to maintain a
consistent level of Ebitda at AMI, while maintaining the quality
of the magazines that we publish,” Chief Financial Officer
Chris Polimeni wrote today in an e-mail statement. “We have
been able to sustain adequate liquidity levels to service our
debt, operate well within our financial covenants, redeem $20
million of bonds and begin to invest in our new digital
strategy. We are very excited about the hiring of Joe Bilman as
the company’s chief digital officer and the implementation of
our digital strategy, which has just begun.”  Leverage Ratio  The company’s  leverage ratio , or debt divided by Ebitda, of
6.74 times in the three months ended June 30 is at the highest
level in almost three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
could rise to 7.5 times in the fiscal year 2013, Diamond said.  American Media uses a different method for calculating
Ebitda, so its leverage ratios vary from Bloomberg’s, Polimeni
said in a telephone interview. For example, he said the company
estimates its  leverage ratio  at 4.7 times as of June 30.  The company will violate a covenant on its $40 million
revolving credit facility if senior debt leverage rises to 4.5
times starting in September 2013, Diamond said. That ratio
increased to 3.78 in the three months ended June 30, from 3.27 a
year ago.  The publisher had $24 million borrowed under the  credit
line  on June 30, more than three times the $7 million at the end
of the first quarter, according to an Aug. 15  regulatory filing .  Bond Prices  American Media has $365 million of 11.5 percent first-lien
bonds due December 2017 and $105 million of 13.5 percent second-
lien notes due June 2018, Bloomberg data show. The first-lien
securities traded yesterday at 94.4 cents on the dollar to yield
13.5 percent, while the second-lien debt was at 78.6 cents on
the dollar and yielded 19.9 percent, Bloomberg prices show.  Along with the National Enquirer, the company publishes
Star, Globe, Soap Opera Digest and Men’s Fitness, according to
its  website .  Under a November 2009 agreement with Playboy Enterprises
Inc., American Media took responsibility for the company’s
magazine operations other than its editorial product, according
to a statement at the time.  Digital Revenue  Digital advertising revenue, which includes online, mobile,
tablets and video, represented 2 percent of operating revenue in
the first fiscal quarter of 2013, according to the Aug. 15
filing. The company created a chief digital officer role to
develop strategies for its websites, video and mobile
applications in July.  “They were slow to invest in the Internet,” S&P’s Diamond
said. “They were late to the game because of their financial
situation.”  Readers interested in the kind of news carried by American
Media titles such as the National Enquirer and the Star can
often find it “a lot quicker” online, he said. Major competing
websites for celebrity news include TMZ, Gawker, and People.com.  Online revenue is usually smaller for publishers that began
in print, so profits from new online businesses may not offset
losses at existing titles, according to  Dave Novosel , an analyst
at Chicago-based bond researcher Gimme Credit LLC. Internet ad
revenue also tends to be lower than that for print, he said.  ‘Premier Properties’  Celebrity titles made up 62 percent of the company’s sales
last quarter. Single-copy sales accounted for about 77 percent
of circulation revenue in the three months ended June 30 this
year and last, the first quarter of American Media’s fiscal
year.  “They have some really good flagship publications that
should help the business even though there is going to be some
declining subscription volumes,” said Greg Fraser, an analyst
at Moody’s Investors Service, which rates the company B3, or six
levels below investment grade. “As long as they maintain those
premier properties, that’s going to help maintain  cash flow  in
the business until they can make the inevitable switch to
online.”  The company expects to increase operating income by $2.7
million by publishing 18 special-edition issues in its Celebrity
segment, which includes the National Enquirer, Star, OK! Weekly
and National Examiner, according to the Aug. 15 filing.  “The key is you need to attract users by giving them
something they can’t get elsewhere, or in another words, unique
content,” Novosel said in a telephone interview. “You could
argue the National Enquirer has unique content, but it’s a
little different than what most people think of.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 