-- NATO Restricts Afghan Joint Operations After Insider Attacks
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-09-18T11:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/nato-restricts-afghan-joint-operations-after-insider-attacks.html
The  NATO -led force in  Afghanistan 
is suspending some joint military operations after a rising
number of deadly attacks on U.S. and allied troops by their
Afghan counterparts.  General John Allen, commander of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s coalition forces, “has directed all operational
commanders to review force protection and tactical activities in
the light of the current circumstances,” Pentagon spokesman
 George Little  said in a statement today from Beijing, where he’s
traveling with Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta . The new policy
“will likely lead to adjustments in exactly how, when and
where” troops from the  International Security Assistance Force 
operate, he said.  The changes will mean that partnership between NATO and
Afghan forces will “now be at the Kandak (Battalion) level and
above,” Little said. Joint operations by smaller units will be
“evaluated on a case-by-case basis and approved” by
commanders, he said.  The new directive comes after several so-called insider
attacks by Afghan police and military units in recent months
have led to the deaths of U.S. and other Western soldiers. The
training of Afghans to take on security duties as NATO forces
leave is a key element of the U.S. and allied withdrawal
strategy.  ISAF later issued a  statement  saying that the only change
to its approach resulted from the anti-Islamic film, the
“Innocence of Muslims,” which has caused riots and protests
across the Muslim world.  Force Protection  These were “prudent, but temporary, measures to reduce our
profile and vulnerability to civil disturbances or insider
attacks,” it said. “In some local instances, operational tempo
has been reduced, or force protection has been increased.”  So far this year, there have been 37 so-called green-on-
blue attacks, resulting in the deaths of 51 coalition troops at
the hands of Afghan allies or infiltrators, compared with 35
deaths last year, according to the NATO-led ISAF in Kabul. In
2008, there were two insider attacks.  In the latest strike, four U.S. soldiers who went to help
Afghans during a battle with militants at a remote checkpoint
were killed on Sept. 16, apparently by Afghan police, according
to the  Associated Press . It was the third attack by Afghan
forces or militants dressed in security uniforms in three days.  Obama’s Decision  Asked about the decision at a news conference in Beijing,
Panetta said the rising violence against coalition troops will
not alter President  Barack Obama ’s decision that all U.S. troops
should leave Afghanistan by 2014. The increase in attacks on
U.S. forces in Afghanistan doesn’t mean that the Taliban is
gaining ground, Panetta said.  The Taliban is resorting to attacks to strike “at our
forces but these do not result in any way regaining territory
that has been lost,” he said after meeting his Chinese
counterpart.  There is no change to the British strategy in Afghanistan,
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told a House of Commons
committee hearing today.  “We will not be giving in to green-on-blue attacks -- we
will improve our capability to deal with that,” he said. “The
Taliban should be very clear that our strategy has not changed
in Afghanistan. To give any other response would be to increase
the incentive for these attacks.”  British Deaths  The U.K. is the second-largest troop contributor to ISAF.
On Sept. 15, two British soldiers were shot and killed by a
“rogue” policeman in Helmand province, the Ministry of Defence
said.  U.S. and NATO officials have said that joint operations are
critical to train Afghan military and police units to take over
security when U.S. and allied forces leave in 2014.  The Afghan national security forces have grown to 344,108
personnel as of March from 284,952 a year earlier, according to
U.S. Army Major Adam Wojack, a spokesman for ISAF in Kabul. The
Afghan National Army and the Afghan National Police are ahead of
schedule to reach their projected combined force of 352,000 by
October, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Beijing at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  