-- Neas Energy Plans U.K. Power Trading in 2012 to Expand in Europe
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-09-18T08:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/neas-energy-plans-u-k-power-trading-in-2012-to-expand-in-europe.html
Neas Energy A/S , a Danish power-
trading company, plans to buy and sell U.K. electricity on the
 N2EX  exchange this year and targets an expansion into other
European energy markets by 2015.  “We’re especially interested in U.K. power, and hope to
start trading on the N2EX exchange by the end of the year,”
Rasmus Buhl Moeller, a company spokesman, said yesterday by
phone from Aalborg,  Denmark . U.K. trading is increasing and has
a growing share of  wind energy , he said, without providing
details.  Neas is seeking growth in markets outside Denmark as the
European Commission implements political targets for boosting
renewable energy and cross-border trading. The regulator of the
27-nation bloc aims to create a single regional power and gas
market by 2014.  The Danish company, which trades electricity across borders
in 14 countries and power in  Germany  and the Nordic markets,
plans to move into eastern European natural-gas trading and the
German wind and solar power markets, as well as the French
 electricity market , Buhl Moeller said. Neas is also targeting
the Dutch and Belgian markets, he said.  Neas owns NE Capital Management A/S, which offers  managed
accounts  for power derivatives,  carbon emissions  and related
coal and natural gas contracts, according to its website. The
strategy lost 0.7 percent in August and has gained 5.1 percent
so far this year after increasing 4.1 percent in 2011, according
to a monthly report sent to investors.  “Despite financial turmoil, we experience growing interest
from investors who seek to diversify risks by seeking exposure
to EU power markets, a niche instrument with low correlation to
stocks and bonds,” Buhl Moeller said.  N2EX is an UK power exchange, operated by  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  and Nord Pool Spot AS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  