-- New Jersey Housing Suffers as Defaults Exceed Nevada: Mortgages
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-09-18T14:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/new-jersey-housing-suffers-as-defaults-exceed-nevada-mortgages.html
Wendell and Margret Brady haven’t
paid their mortgage in more than three years, withholding the
money amid a foreclosure dispute on the couple’s 11-bedroom
house in Morristown,  New Jersey .  The Victorian home, built in 1887 and owned by the retired
couple for 38 years, is part of the growing backlog of
properties facing  repossession  in the state, which now has the
second-highest serious delinquency rate in the U.S. While
shrinking nationwide, the pipeline of distressed real estate, or
shadow inventory, is also growing in  New York ,  Connecticut ,
Maine and Pennsylvania because of state laws that slow the
foreclosure process. The Bradys heard nothing from their lender
from May 2011, until a letter arrived in the mail last week.  “This was like going back to day one,” said Margret
Brady, 77, after she and her husband received on Sept. 15 the
certified letter saying they must pay $223,730 by the end of the
month or face losing the house. “It was like we hadn’t gone
through any of the stuff of the last three years.”  New Jersey’s judicial review of all foreclosures, which
delays seizures to help borrowers, threatens to hold down prices
for years as properties remain subject to repossession and then
may be sold at a discount. That’s buffeting a housing market
already hurt by unemployment that’s risen to a 35-year high.  Passing Nevada  The state passed Nevada in the second quarter in the rate
of homeowners with seriously delinquent loans -- those 90 days
late or in foreclosure -- according to the Mortgage Bankers
Association. Only  Florida  had a higher rate of serious
delinquencies, and that fell 1.2 percentage points from a year
earlier to 17.5 percent of mortgages. In comparison, New
Jersey’s rose 1.3 percentage points to 12.7 percent.  While home values increased in July from a year earlier in
42 states, New Jersey prices fell 0.8 percent, according to
 CoreLogic (CLGX) , a real estate services company based in Santa Ana,
 California .  “Housing is an albatross around New Jersey’s economy,
which is one of the weakest in the country,”  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania, said in an e-mail.  Standard & Poor’s  revised its outlook on New Jersey today
to negative from stable, citing the state’s optimistic revenue
assumptions and longer-term spending pressures, including
pension obligations and Medicaid funding.  Serious delinquencies as of June 30 were up 6 percent from
a year earlier in New York, Connecticut and Maryland, and up 5
percent in Pennsylvania and the  District of Columbia , the
Washington-based Mortgage Bankers said on Aug. 9. The rate fell
by 27 percent in  Arizona , 24 percent in California and 14
percent in Nevada, among states worst hit by the housing  crisis .  Shadow Inventory  “Shadow inventory is falling in much of the country --
except for the Northeast,”  said Zandi. “The implication is
that  house prices  will be much weaker in the Northeast in coming
years as these distressed properties eventually get sold.”  U.S. foreclosure  filings  plunged in late 2010 after
 attorneys general  in all 50 states started investigating
allegations of faulty and fraudulent paperwork used to repossess
homes. The country’s biggest banks, including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America  Corp., agreed to a $25 billion
settlement in February.  In New Jersey, where about 60,000 foreclosures started
since January 2008 still await resolution, borrowers in the
foreclosure process haven’t made a payment for an average of 934
days, according to  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  New York, at
953 days, and Florida, at 938 days, are the only states with
longer time frames. The U.S. average is 742 days.  Robo-Signing Scandal  New Jersey’s foreclosure process ground almost to a halt in
December 2010 after state courts threatened to suspend seizures
by six of the largest banks unless they showed they had
processes in place to ensure that information in uncontested
foreclosures is based on a personal review of records. State
Supreme Court Chief Justice Stuart Rabner said the lenders were
implicated in “robo-signing,” using assembly lines of workers
to sign foreclosure documents without verifying them.  The Bradys were among those caught up in the scandal. In
September 2006, they took out a $485,000 loan from a division of
General Motors Acceptance Corp. on their home, which has an
assessed value of $650,000, according to public records. The
debt paid for home improvements and medical bills for their
daughter, Karen Quinlan, Margret Brady said. They missed a
payment in November 2008, the month after their daughter died of
cancer, Brady said.  “We used her  life insurance  to catch up, which was
$10,000,” she said. “We thought we were even, but they kept
putting on these bogus charges.”  GMAC Restarts  Susan Fitzpatrick, a spokeswoman for Residential Capital
LLC, the parent of GMAC Mortgage, declined to discuss a specific
borrower, citing privacy reasons.  GMAC Mortgage has restarted foreclosures on delinquent
properties in New Jersey, Fitzpatrick said in an e-mail.
“Although foreclosure delays have allowed delinquent borrowers
to remain in the home without payment for a longer than normal
period of time, they do not increase the likelihood a servicer
can provide sustainable and affordable alternatives to
foreclosure, such as loan modifications or short sales.”  For more than a year, the Bradys tried to negotiate a loan
modification, putting aside $2,000 a month into a special bank
account rather than paying the lender.  They received a foreclosure notice in March 2010, which
they challenged in court. In May 2011, the foreclosure action
was withdrawn after the judge ordered a copy of the mortgage
note, which wasn’t produced, said Margret Brady, a retired house
painter and former member of the town council.  Certified Letter  The Bradys heard nothing about their foreclosure until the
certified letter from GMAC arrived. It said their monthly
mortgage payment would be $6,336, about three times their
previous bill.  “That’s about $4,000 more a month than we’ve been putting
aside,” she said in a telephone interview from her home, a one-
hour train ride from Manhattan.  Judicial states such as New Jersey provide automatic court
review of home seizures, giving borrowers a legal forum to
demand proof that lenders have the right to foreclose or to
argue for mortgage modifications. The 21 judicial states --also
including Florida, New York, Connecticut, Maryland and
Pennsylvania -- have about 40 percent of the 42.5 million home
loans tracked by the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  Hidden Supply  By some estimates, the visible inventory of 2.4 million
homes for sale nationwide is dwarfed by the hidden supply, which
may number 5.7 million, according to a Morgan Stanley analysis.
The U.S. shadow supply -- a combination of off-market bank-owned
homes and properties forecast to be repossessed by lenders --has
decreased by a third from the peak in early 2010 as more
homeowners have lost their houses or received a loan
modification that allowed them to bring their mortgages current,
Morgan Stanley said in a July 26 report.  The U.S. supply of properties listed  for sale , a seasonally
adjusted measure of how long it would take to sell off the
inventory at the current sales pace, fell to 6.4 months in July
from 9.3 months a year earlier, according to the National
Association of Realtors. That helped push up the median sale
 price  of an existing home by 9.4 percent from a year earlier to
$187,300.  The logjam in New Jersey may be breaking following a
February ruling in a case involving the state’s Fair Foreclosure
Act, which required lenders to furnish the name and address of
the note holder on foreclosure notices, rather than just the
contact information for a loan servicer. In July, lenders filed
2,387 foreclosure complaints in the state, more than twice as
many as a year earlier and the most since December 2010,
according to state court data.  Filing ‘Glut’  Also in July,  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. requested permission to
move forward with 4,000 stalled New Jersey cases. State courts
have a new electronic filing system and are preparing to add
dozens of new employees to handle the bigger caseload, according
to Winnie Comfort, spokeswoman for New Jersey’s court system.  “We are anticipating a glut in filings because that’s what
the lending community is telling us,” Comfort said in a
telephone interview. “We will do everything we can to move
those in a timely fashion.”  The Northeast’s path to recovery faces other headwinds. Of
the nine geographical divisions tracked by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, the mid-Atlantic area, which includes New Jersey,
New York and Pennsylvania, is the only region where the jobless
rate didn’t fall in July from a year earlier. Unemployment in
the mid-Atlantic increased to 8.9 percent from 8.5 percent, a
change within the margin of error. The U.S.  rate  was 8.1 percent
in August, down 0.2 percentage point from July.  ‘Domino Effect’  New Jersey’s unemployment rate jumped to 9.8 percent in
July, with declines in manufacturing, construction and
professional and business service jobs, the state’s Labor
Department said.  The weak economy is hitting inner cities and more-affluent
communities alike, said Mark Cherry, a Cherry Hill, New Jersey-
based attorney who represents delinquent borrowers. Wall Street
cuts are being felt in the New Jersey suburbs, resulting in a
“domino effect” on luxury home sellers, high-end car
dealerships and restaurants, he said.  “You could drive down a street that looks perfectly
normal, with minimal for-sale signs, and not realize that 20
percent of those homes are in foreclosure,” Cherry said.
“There’s no big flag that says that a lot of these people are
in trouble.”  Short Sales  Short sales, in which lenders let borrowers sell for less
than the balance of their mortgages, now account for a third of
Eileen Meehan’s business. A year ago, it was only 10 percent,
said the Realtor with Re/Max Properties in Saddle River, one of
the wealthiest towns in the New York suburbs of Bergen County,
New Jersey.  Some sellers have backed out of short sales because they
don’t want to pull their children out of school or aren’t in a
rush to move because they’re living in a home for free, she
said. Many others, including one client who fell behind on his
mortgage after pulling equity from his property for years to
keep a title business afloat, would rather sell and move on with
their lives, she said.  The delinquent homeowners who remain in the shadows are
keeping potential homebuyers on the sidelines amid concern that
prices will fall more, Meehan said.  “It has given buyers a wait-and-see attitude,” she said.  Worst Pain  Higher-income markets, such as New Jersey’s Morris and
Bergen counties, will probably avoid the worst pain because
there’s a shortage of homes and when distressed properties are
listed, “the housing market will swallow them whole,”
according to Jeffrey G. Otteau, president of Otteau Valuation
Group Inc., in East Brunswick, New Jersey.  “In the employment-rich suburban submarkets, this will be
much like the gulf oil spill,” Otteau said in an e-mail. “For
the most part, it never happened. The foreclosure wave will be
the same way.”  Foreclosure delays in judicial states also are keeping
capital on the sidelines and reducing borrowing options for
buyers of high-end homes, according to Chris Whalen, a senior
managing director at Tangent Capital Partners LLC in New York.  “Here in the Northeast, we have a problem,” Whalen said
in a telephone interview. “Investors won’t touch a state where
they can’t foreclose on the house. They have no collateral.”  Western States  In California and Arizona, which have cut their shadow
inventories in half in the past two years, investors have
flooded the market with cash to buy a diminishing supply of
distressed homes, helping housing prices find a floor and
reducing the incentive for underwater homeowners to walk away
from their debts.  The western states have seen a rapid drop in shadow
inventory because distressed sales make up about 40 percent of
transactions in a given month after peaking at 72 percent in
January 2009, according to  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  In the Northeast,
they make up about 17 percent of sales and never reached more
than about 24 percent.  Phoenix-area homes sold for a median $149,000 in July, up
31 percent from a year earlier, according to a Sept. 6 report
from the W.P. Carey School of Business at  Arizona State
University .  Mike Orr, director of the business school’s center for real
estate, said the shadow inventory no longer deters investors in
Arizona.  “It’s not as big and scary as you think because time will
take care of it,” he said in an interview. “The problem is
really focused on the East Coast, where you have a foreclosure
system that is slow and a build-up in delinquency rates.”  Buying Time  Billy Pinilis, an attorney with Pinilis Halpern LLP who
represented the Bradys, said court proceedings give delinquent
homeowners who can’t pay their mortgage more time to consider
options, including a loan modification or selling for a loss.  “Lawyers know it’s going to take longer for a foreclosure
to wind its way through court and they can use that
strategically,” Pinilis, who declined to discuss details of the
Brady case, said in a telephone interview. “That buys the
homeowner time to work things out.”  Margret Brady said she’s hopeful New Jersey’s legal system
will give her a chance to work out a deal to keep her home.  “I think New Jersey is better than a lot of states,” she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  