-- NFL Films President Steve Sabol Dies of Brain Cancer at 69
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-18T19:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/nfl-films-president-steve-sabol-dies-of-brain-cancer-at-age-69.html
NFL Films President Steve Sabol,
the artistic vision behind the studio that revolutionized the
way professional football games are chronicled, has died after
an 18-month battle with  brain cancer . He was 69.  National Football League Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said
that for the past five decades, Sabol was the creative force
behind the “unique brand of storytelling and cinematography
that brought America closer to the game of football.”  The death was announced today by the league on its website.
It didn’t say where Sabol died.  “His vision and innovation helped make him a pioneer the
likes of which the NFL has never seen before and won’t see
again,” NFL Players Association Executive Director  DeMaurice
Smith  said. “The players of the NFL are indebted to Steve for
his immense contributions to advancing our game and helping make
the fan experience as great as it is.”  Sabol learned in March 2011 that he had an inoperable brain
tumor. Five months later, he was the introductory speaker when
his father Ed Sabol, the founder of NFL Films, was inducted into
the Pro Football Hall of Fame at the age of 95.  NFL Films, based in  Mount Laurel ,  New Jersey , has won more
than 100 Emmy Awards, with Steve Sabol receiving 40 of those for
writing, cinematography, editing, directing and producing. In
2003, he was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Emmy from the
National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.  “Steve’s passion for football was matched by his
incredible talent and energy,” Goodell said in a statement.
“Steve’s legacy will be part of the NFL forever.”  College Player  Stephen Douglas Sabol was born in Philadelphia on Oct. 2,
1942.  As an All-Rocky Mountain Conference running back at
Colorado College and a movie buff who majored in art history,
Sabol was “uniquely qualified to make football movies,” his
father once said, according to the NFL Network. He started his
career in 1964 as a cameraman working for his father’s company.  Steve Sabol spent the next 50 years working for the NFL and
transformed the way NFL Films chronicled games, incorporating
super-slow motion, wireless microphones on players, reverse-
angle replays, so-called follies films of bizarre plays and
custom-composed musical scores.  In 2007, the Pro Football Hall of Fame honored Sabol with
the Dan Reeves Pioneer Award, which recognizes innovative ideas
that have contributed to the game of professional football.  “He was a major contributor to the success of the NFL, a
man who changed the way we look at football and sports, and a
great friend,” Goodell said.  An accomplished collage artist, Sabol had exhibitions at
galleries in  New York ;  Washington ; Miami;  Fort Worth ,  Texas ; and
Moorestown, New Jersey.  Sabol is survived by his wife, Penny; a son, Casey; his
sister, Blair; and his parents. The league statement didn’t
contain any mention of services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  