-- South Africans Among 12 Killed in Afghan Bombing Over Video
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-09-18T10:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/nine-foreigners-among-12-killed-in-kabul-bombing-near-airport.html
A suicide bomber rammed an
explosives-laden vehicle into a minivan near Kabul’s airport
killing at least 12 people, including eight  South Africans , in
an attack claimed as revenge for an anti-Islam movie that has
triggered violent protests across the Muslim world.  General Mohammad Zahir, the head of Kabul police’s crime
investigation department, confirmed that the bus carrying
foreigners had been the target of today’s attack, while Afghans
had also died. Those killed were employed by an aviation company
at the international airport, the  Associated Press  reported.
French nationals and Russians may also be among the dead,
according to Ayub Salangi, Kabul’s police chief.  The Hizb-e-Islami, a guerrilla group led by warlord
Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and allied to the Taliban, carried out the
attack in retaliation for the American-made video responsible
for clashes across the Muslim world, Zubair Siddiqi, a spokesman
for Hizb-e-Islami, said by phone. He said the bombing was
carried out by a 22-year-old woman named Fatema.  Militants have threatened to step up their attacks in
Afghanistan after the movie that ridicules the  Prophet Muhammad 
was posted to the Internet. Hizb-e-Islami’s fighters are mainly
based in Afghanistan’s northeast. Its chief, Hekmatyar, is a
former Afghan prime minister and Mujahideen leader during the
country’s civil wars of the 1990s when he helped end the Soviet
occupation of Afghanistan with support from  Pakistan .  Movie Protests  South Africa ’s government is contacting families of those
who died and will give more details later, Clayson Monyela,
spokesman for the Department of International Relations and
Cooperation, said.  Violent protests over the film posted on YouTube have
roiled parts of Kabul over the last few days, mirroring
demonstrations and attacks on U.S. and European-linked targets
across the Muslim world. U.S. ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens
and three colleagues were killed in an attack in Benghazi last
week, while Muslim protesters in Tunis and elsewhere were killed
in clashes with government security forces.  The protests are fueling anger in  Afghanistan  at a time
when a security transition from exiting U.S.-led forces to
Afghanistan’s army and police is already being hindered by a
surge in so-called insider attacks.  In the latest strike, four U.S. soldiers who went to help
Afghans during a battle with militants at a remote checkpoint
were killed on Sept. 16, apparently by Afghan police, according
to the Associated Press, the third attack by Afghan forces or
militants dressed in security uniforms in three days.  Operations Suspended  NATO’s  International Security Assistance Force  is
suspending some joint military operations due to the attacks.  General John Allen, commander of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s coalition forces, “has directed all operational
commanders to review force protection and tactical activities in
the light of the current circumstances,” Pentagon spokesman
 George Little  said in a statement today from Beijing, where he’s
traveling with Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta . The new policy
“will likely lead to adjustments in exactly how, when and
where” ISAF troops operate, he said.  So far this year, there have been 37 so-called green-on-
blue attacks, resulting in the deaths of 51 coalition troops at
the hands of Afghan allies or infiltrators, compared with 35
deaths last year, according to the NATO-led ISAF in Kabul. In
2008, there were two insider attacks.  NATO said today the bomber had struck on the main highway
leading to the airport and that there were no military
casualties. The force of the explosion threw the bodies of those
killed onto the road surrounding the bombing site, Interior
Ministry spokesman Sediq Siddiqui said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  