-- NLB Future Croat Business May Suffer Unless Savers’ Debt Settled
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-09-18T14:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/nlb-future-croat-business-may-suffer-unless-savers-debt-settled.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.’s
future business in  Croatia  may suffer unless a row over money
owed to savers there by the Slovenian lender’s predecessor is
resolved, representatives in the compromise talks said.  While Ljubljana-based NLB may open branches in Croatia
after July 2013, “you can almost say that resolving this
dispute is a prerequisite condition to opening an NLB daughter
bank in Croatia,” France Arhar, Slovenia’s representative, told
reporters in Zagreb today.  Croatia, which needs Slovenia to ratify its European Union
membership to enter the bloc in July 2013, has barred NLB from
operating in Croatia while the dispute remains unsettled. The
Ljubljana-based debt is estimated at 312 million deutsche marks
($204 million), the former German currency that was widely used
in former  Yugoslavia .  “Once Croatia becomes part of the EU, Nova Ljubljanska
Banka, like any other bank, will be able to do business in
Croatia,” said Zdenko Rogic, Croatia’s negotiator. “But unlike
other banks, it may start with a negative reputation. We both
want to find a durable solution to this problem.”  Arhar and Rogic were holding a second round of talks after
their initial meeting in August in Otocec ob Krki, Slovenia.
Croatian Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  and his Slovenian
counterpart Janez Jansa said in May they will work to resolve
the dispute, after the  Bank for International Settlements  in
Basel in 2010 rejected a moderator’s role, saying it could not
bring any added value to negotiations.  An EU member since 2004, Slovenia blocked its neighbor’s EU
accession talks for 10 months in 2009 over a border issue. The
two countries in January agreed on a panel of legal experts to
work out a resolution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  