-- No, Romney’s Campaign Is Not Doomed
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-09-18T13:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/no-romney-s-campaign-is-not-doomed.html
The  remarkable revelations  from
 Mitt Romney ’s strategists about his flailing campaign should
give his supporters hope: After all, if the Romney campaign has
been this wrong about everything else, then it is almost
certainly wrong about the Romney campaign.  Rats don’t usually leave a sinking ship until  Leonardo DiCaprio  has gone under and the Titanic has started to submerge.
 James Baker  didn’t really disappear from the doomed 1992 George
H.W. Bush campaign until late October.  Steve Schmidt  and  Nicolle Wallace  didn’t spill their guts about how messed up  John McCain ’s campaign was until it was all over but the voting.  So why are Romney’s advisers, consultants and hangers-on
spilling the beans to Politico so soon? There are several
lifetimes to go until November. There will be three debates,
which Romney aced during the primaries. He has more money than
President  Barack Obama . There is a world of looming
catastrophes, some nuclear. There is an economy that won’t budge
and a president whose  favorability ratings , unconventionally
high compared with his other numbers, can only go down.  Romney’s campaign called Obama’s several-point bounce after
the convention a “ sugar high .” That bounce has now  faded . This
campaign is far from over.  The recriminations are coming ahead of schedule partly
because of Romney’s screechy putdown last week of Obama over
Libya before the Republican presidential nominee knew what he
was talking about; a bungled convention; and a sense that Mr.
Fix-It can’t put meat on the bones of his plan to fix the
economy. Outside consultants have been bellyaching for weeks
about Romney’s campaign.  Already Suspect  Now the complaints are coming from the inside, mostly at
the expense of the campaign’s chief strategist, ad maker and
speechwriter,  Stuart Stevens . Remember that “Sesame Street” song
 about  how one of these things is not like the others? That thing
is Stevens.  The campaign bus is rolling back and forth over Stevens,
who was already suspect because he is a social liberal and self-
styled intellectual who has written several highly regarded
“ travel memoirs ” to boot. He appeals to that tiny corner of
Romney that wishes he were more whimsical. It’s the same corner
that inspired Romney to turn over part of his primetime moment
at the convention to an actor babbling to an empty chair.  According to Politico, Stevens threw out a serviceable
acceptance speech a week before the convention. He then threw
out the speech he ordered as a replacement (save for that one
memorable detail about Romney’s father leaving his mother a rose
at their bedside table every day), and he and the candidate
started writing together. They produced  a speech  that neglected
national security, the obligatory salute to the troops, and left
little time for rehearsal.  If you can’t see the tire tracks on Stevens, look at the
organization chart.  Ed Gillespie , a Republican consultant and a
former party chairman, is now  increasing his commitment  to the
campaign. Will he marginalize Stevens and his partners? Who’s
the boss?  Again, this could all be premature: This is September, a
new beginning for schoolchildren and presidential candidates
alike. There’s time for a new pencil box, fresh composition
tablets, and  a few more twirls  of the Etch-a-Sketch buttons to
try and move the candidate to the center. Every campaign owns
such a toy, though most are sly enough to use it without
admitting they are doing so.  Besides, we live in the  United States of Amnesia , where no
one (except maybe the press) remembers Romney’s mistakes if they
happened more than a month ago. Who can forget when he
 criticized  the U.K., our closest ally, for not being as good at
running the Olympics as he was (turned out it was)? Or his
 $10,000 bet  with Texas Governor  Rick Perry  over his health-care
plan? Or his  comment that  “corporations are people, my friend”?
Or his failure to release years of tax returns? Soon everyone
may even forget the video in which  he says  of the poor, “My job
is not to worry about those people.”  Forgetting Everything  During the Republican primaries, the press pretended there
was an actual contest for the nomination even though the other
candidates were a bunch of ninnies who didn’t stand a chance
against Romney. Now the press is saying the race is over because
of a few polls in a few swing states that show Romney behind,
which will surely be overtaken soon enough by a few other polls
showing the opposite. Or the press will come up with another way
to keep the seesaw narrative going until November.  Winning campaigns, to  paraphrase  Tolstoy, are all alike;
every losing campaign finds its own way to fall apart. What’s
different about Romney’s (so far, at least) unsuccessful
campaign is that it is acting the part of the loser so early.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  