-- Obama to Rule on Chinese-Owned Company’s Wind-Farm Bid
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-09-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/obama-to-rule-on-chinese-owned-company-s-wind-farm-bid.html
President  Barack Obama  has final
say on whether a Chinese-owned company can build wind farms near
a U.S. Navy installation in  Oregon , a government lawyer told a
federal judge in  Washington .  The statement by Justice Department lawyer Joel McElvain
came yesterday at a hearing before U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson, who is overseeing a lawsuit brought by Ralls
Corp. that seeks to block a ruling of a Treasury-led national
security panel. The Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.,
or CFIUS, rejected the wind farm project.  CFIUS rulings are rarely referred to the president for a
decision before being resolved in some other way, according to a
panel report to Congress covering the period from 2008 to 2010.
Out of 313 notices for CFIUS review, companies withdrew
applications for approval in 42 cases, according to the report.
The last CFIUS matter decided by a president was George W.
Bush’s approval in 2006 of the merger between Alcatel SA and
Lucent Technologies Inc.  “The president is scheduled to have this in the next 10
days,” McElvain said. Any interim agreement with CFIUS could be
revoked by his decision, he said.  Unless Obama rejects the plan by Sept. 28, Ralls, owned by
executives of China-based Sany Group Co., will be able to
install  wind turbines  manufactured by Sany in  China  at the
Oregon wind-farm site, according to a government filing. By law,
the president has 15 days to decide on a CIFIUS matter after the
panel completes its investigation, according to the filing.  ‘President’s Decision’  Jackson said she “can’t review the president’s decision if
he stops it” because of the deference she must give the
president on national security issues. She urged the government
and Ralls to try to reach an agreement.  Ralls proposed some preliminary actions at the sites that
“we believe would have no possible impact on national
security,” Chris Bartolomucci, a lawyer with Bancroft PLLC who
represents Ralls, said at the hearing.  Any interim agreement between Ralls and CFIUS would be
rendered moot by the president’s decision, McElvain said.  Jackson delayed a decision on Ralls’ request until Sept.
20.  Ralls bought the wind-farm assets earlier this year without
reporting the transaction to CFIUS, according to a U.S. filing
in the case.  Four Locations  The assets consist of four locations, one of which is
within restricted airspace the Navy uses for training, according
to court documents. Three other properties are within five miles
of the restricted airspace, according to the filings.  In June, CFIUS staff members called representatives of
Ralls and invited them to file a voluntary notice of the
transaction, according to the documents.  After conducting an investigation, CFIUS issued an order on
July 25 citing “national security risks” raised by the sale of
the assets to Ralls and directing the company to stop all
construction and operations at the wind-farm locations,
according to the filing.  An amended order on Aug. 2 added more prohibitions,
including the sale or transfer of the assets to any third party
for the “use or installation at the properties of any items
made or otherwise produced by the Sany Group.”  Ralls said the panel exceeded its authority when it ordered
the company to cease operations and keep out of the wind-farm
sites, according to the complaint filed Sept. 12.  Interagency Committee  CFIUS is an interagency committee headed by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  that reviews the national security
implications of transactions that could lead to a non-U.S.
citizen controlling a U.S. business. The heads of the
departments of Justice,  Homeland Security , Commerce, Defense,
State, and Energy, among others, sit on the committee. The
panel’s recommendations can be enforced only by the president
under the law.  Tim Tingkang Xia, a lawyer for Ralls, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the government’s plan.  Natalie Wyeth Earnest, a spokeswoman with the U.S. Treasury
Department, declined to comment on the matter, saying
information filed with CFIUS by law may not be publicly
disclosed.  Closely held Sany Group is the owner of China’s biggest
machinery maker. Dawei Duan, Sany’s chief financial officer, and
Jialiang Wu, a vice president of the group and general manager
of Sany Electric Co., a group unit, are the owners of Ralls,
according to court papers.  Restraining Order  Ralls is seeking a temporary restraining order and
preliminary injunction that would permit the company to resume
construction of the wind farms by Sept. 20. If the wind farms
aren’t in service by Dec. 31, then the company won’t be able to
obtain $25 million in federal investment tax incentives,
according to the court filing.  The company is represented by  Paul Clement , the U.S.
solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration, and  Viet Dinh , a Bush Justice Department official who helped draft the
USA Patriot Act.  The case is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington.)  -- Editors: Fred Strasser,  Andrew Dunn   To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 