-- Oil Drops for Second Day on Saudi Action, FedEx Outlook
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-09-18T20:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/oil-declines-for-second-day-after-fedex-reduces-profit-outlook.html
Oil declined to a two-week low as
 Saudi Arabia  was said to be taking action to lower prices and
after  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  reduced its profit outlook, increasing concern
that an economic slowdown will curb demand.  Oil fell for a second day as a Persian Gulf official said
Saudi Arabia is pumping about 10 million barrels a day and will
produce more if customers demand it. FedEx, the world’s biggest
cargo airline, said customers are turning to cheaper delivery
options. Prices tumbled 2.4 percent yesterday, at one point
dropping $3 in less than a minute on a surge in volume.  “We know the Saudis are producing more oil for a while and
that the overall economy is slowing,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion. “Clearly when the market
broke down like yesterday, participants didn’t look up and say,
‘My god, it went on sale and I’ve got to buy some,’ which is
bearish in itself.”  Oil for October delivery slid $1.33, or 1.4 percent, to
$95.29 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Aug. 30. The two-day decline was 3.7 percent.
Prices are down 3.6 percent this year.  Prices were little changed after the industry-funded
 American Petroleum Institute  reported oil inventories increased
2.43 million barrels to 361.5 million last week. The October
contract fell $1.17, or 1.2 percent, to $95.45 a barrel at 4:34
p.m. in electronic trading. Prices were at $95.46 before the
report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent crude  for November settlement fell $1.76, or 1.5
percent, to $112.03 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. It dropped 2.5 percent yesterday.  Selloff Damage  “Part of what we’re seeing today is a result of damage to
the charts from yesterday’s selloff,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “The FedEx warning speaks to lower energy
demand on a number of fronts.”  Current  oil prices  are not supported by the fundamentals,
the Persian Gulf official said, declining to be identified
because he’s not authorized to speak publicly. Saudi Arabian Oil
Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said Sept. 10 that global supply, demand
and inventories don’t justify current prices.  Output from the kingdom, the world’s largest oil exporter,
has boosted supply from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries to 1.63 million barrels a day more than the amount the
world needs this year, data from OPEC’s most recent monthly
report showed on Sept. 11.  Price Concern  President  Barack Obama ’s administration “welcomes the
Saudi Arabian oil minister’s recent remarks and share his
concern about rising oil prices,”  Jay Carney , the White House
spokesman, said today in  Washington .  FedEx’s revised forecast comes after competitor  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-delivery
company, pared its full-year profit forecast in July. FedEx is
an economic bellwether because of the variety of goods it ships.  Oil also declined as European leaders struggled to resolve
the debt crisis. Spain’s Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said the country will consider a bailout.  “We are having a little follow-through after yesterday’s
big drop,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price
Futures Group in  Chicago . “There are some potential bearish
developments out there. Concern about Spain asking for a bailout
is making the market nervous.”  The euro slipped as much as 0.7 percent against the dollar
to $1.303. A weaker euro and stronger dollar reduce oil’s appeal
as an investment alternative.  Oil settled at a four-month high on Sept. 14 as the  Federal
Reserve  said it will buy mortgage securities in a third round of
quantitative easing.  ‘Algorithm Trade’  “The market is falling because people are coming to the
realization that QE3 may not be that effective,” said Tom Pawlicki, director of market research at Chicago-based EOXLive
and previously an analyst at MF Global. “An algorithm type of
trade may have been initiated yesterday because most commodities
were down across the board.”  The Fed purchased a total of $2.3 trillion in bonds from
December 2008 to June 2011 in the first two rounds of asset
purchases.  “The oil market can’t live off the momentum of monetary
stimulus like some other commodity market,” Kilduff said.
“There has to be some demand.”  Total petroleum demand in the U.S. slumped to 18 million
barrels a day in the week ended Sept. 7, the lowest level since
March 16, the Energy Department reported last week.  U.S. Inventories  Prices also fell as the Energy Department may report
tomorrow that U.S. crude stockpiles rose a second week,
according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Inventories
probably climbed  1 million barrels  last week, according to the
median estimate of nine analysts.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 492,555
contracts as of 4:35 p.m. Volume totaled 719,538 contracts
yesterday, 34 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.61 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  