-- Oil Extends Biggest Drop in Two Months on U.S. Slowdown Concern
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-09-18T12:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/oil-declines-in-new-york-after-biggest-drop-in-two-months.html
Oil declined for a second day in
 New York , extending its biggest drop in two months, on concern
that a U.S. economic slowdown may curb demand in the world’s
largest consumer of crude.  Futures fell as much as 1.3 percent, deepening yesterday’s
2.4 percent loss. Crude tumbled almost $4 in three minutes
yesterday before the expiry of October options contracts. The
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index, known
as the Empire State Index, fell to a three-year low.  Saudi
Arabia  is taking action to reduce  oil prices , a Persian Gulf
official with knowledge of the matter said today.  “The market remains bearish,” Bjarne Schieldrop, chief
commodity analyst at SEB AB, said by telephone from Oslo.
“Markets had been lifted by stimulus euphoria and were brought
down by a very disappointing Empire State report.”  Oil for October delivery fell as much as $1.23 to $95.39 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $95.90 at 1:45 p.m. London time. The contract slid
$2.38 yesterday to $96.62, the lowest close since Sept. 10 and
its biggest decline since July 20. Prices are 3 percent lower
this year.  Brent crude  for November settlement fell 30 cents to
$113.49 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It
dropped 2.5 percent yesterday. The front-month European
benchmark grade’s premium to the corresponding West Texas
Intermediate rose to $17.24 a barrel from $16.84 yesterday.  Brent will trade in the range of $100 to $120 a barrel,
David Fransen, the chief executive officer of Vitol SA’s Geneva-
based unit, said in a presentation to the British-Swiss Chamber
of Commerce in Geneva.  Increased Rhetoric  Prices have gained this quarter “due to the increased
rhetoric surrounding Iran and  Israel ,” according to Fransen,
who said yesterday’s drop may have been triggered by high-
frequency trading, in which traders use computer algorithms to
buy or sell commodities in fractions of a second.  The price declines may attract regulatory scrutiny of
computer trading, Commerzbank AG said today in a report.  “Such pronounced price fluctuations give rise to criticism
of high-frequency trading and the excessive influence of
speculative investors on the most important commodity, and are
likely to be closely monitored by policy makers and stock
exchange regulators,” the Frankfurt-based bank said.  CME Group Inc. suffered from no technical issues as crude
oil, gasoline and heating oil dropped on its Nymex exchange,
said Chris Grams, a CME spokesman. The U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission in  Washington  will look into the decline and
trading surge, Commissioner  Bart Chilton  said.  Strategic Reserves  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration hasn’t changed
its position on U.S. strategic reserves, and “all options
remain on the table,”  Jay Carney , a government spokesman, said
in an e-mail yesterday.  Saudi Arabia, the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is acting to calm prices by
pumping about 10 million barrels a day and will produce more oil
if customers demand it, a Persian Gulf official with knowledge
of the matter said today.  The ideal crude price for OPEC is $100 a barrel, and
current prices are not supported by fundamental supply and
demand, the official said, declining to be identified because
he’s not authorized to speak publicly. The oil market is well
balanced and commercial inventories are growing as more supply
comes on stream, while demand is slowing and growth won’t exceed
800,000 barrels a day in 2013, the official said.  Stockpile Report  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show crude
stockpiles rose a second week, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts. Inventories probably climbed  1 million
barrels  last week, according to the median estimate of seven
analysts.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
stockpile data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  released yesterday dropped to minus 10.41, the lowest
level since April 2009, from minus 5.85 in August. The median
forecast of 53 economists in a Bloomberg survey called for minus
2. Readings of less than zero signal a contraction for the area
of New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  