-- Oil Extends Decline in New York After Biggest Drop in Two Months
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-09-18T07:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/oil-extends-decline-in-new-york-after-biggest-drop-in-two-months.html
Oil extended its decline after the
biggest drop in two months on speculation that a slowing U.S.
economy may curb fuel demand.  Futures fell as much as 0.7 percent in  New York , adding to
a 2.4 percent drop in the previous session that was the most in
two months. Crude tumbled more than $3 in less than a minute
yesterday as October options were about to expire. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index, known as the
Empire State Index, fell to a three-year low. The government
reiterated that it is considering ways to prevent  oil prices 
from curbing economic growth.  “The overnight falls have introduced some concerns about
long positions,” or bets that prices will rise, said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney.  Oil for October delivery fell as much as 64 cents to $95.98
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $96.05 at 3:30 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract slid $2.38 yesterday to $96.62, the lowest close since
Sept. 10. Prices are 2.8 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for November settlement fell 29 cents to $113.50
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It
dropped 2.5 percent yesterday. The front-month European
benchmark grade’s premium to the corresponding West Texas
Intermediate contract was at $17.06, from $16.84 yesterday.  Crude Stockpiles  CME Group Inc. suffered from no technical issues as crude
oil, gasoline and heating oil dropped on Nymex, said Chris Grams, a spokesman for CME. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission in  Washington  will look into the decline and trading
surge, Commissioner  Bart Chilton  said.  The White House hasn’t changed its position on U.S.
strategic oil reserves and “all options remain on the table,”
 Jay Carney , a government spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.
The Obama administration is continuing to look at all its
options to make sure high oil prices don’t crimp the global
economy, Carney said Aug. 30.  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show crude
stockpiles rose a second week, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts. Inventories probably climbed  1 million
barrels  last week, according to the median estimate of seven
analysts.  Gasoline  supplies  probably rose by 1.5 million barrels, the
first gain in eight weeks. Inventories of distillate fuel, a
category that includes diesel and heating oil, probably rose for
a sixth week, gaining 1 million barrels, the survey showed.  Retail Gasoline  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
stockpile data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Retail gasoline prices climbed above year-earlier levels
for the sixth consecutive week, tracking oil futures that rose
above $100 a barrel on Sept. 14 for the first time since May.  The  national average  for regular gasoline climbed 3.1
cents, or 0.8 percent, to $3.878 a gallon from a week earlier,
the U.S. Energy Information Administration said in a report
posted on its website yesterday. Prices are up 7.7 percent from
$3.601 in 2011 and at a record high for this time of year.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  released yesterday dropped to minus 10.41, the lowest
level since April 2009, from minus 5.85 in August. The median
forecast of 53 economists in a Bloomberg survey called for minus
2. Readings less than zero signal contraction for the area of
New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  