-- Oil Pares Gains as Concerns Over More Supply Weigh
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-19T12:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/oil-trades-near-two-week-low-on-u-s-supply-gain-saudi-action.html
Oil extended losses amid
speculation that crude-producing countries will increase supply,
outweighing the impact of  Japan ’s expanded program of monetary
easing and economic stimulus.  Futures fell as much as 1 percent.  Saudi Arabia  is taking
action to reduce the price of oil by pumping about 10 million
barrels a day of crude and will produce more if customers demand
it, a Persian Gulf official with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  said it will increase its asset-
purchase fund to 55 trillion yen ($697 billion) from 45 trillion
yen. The BOJ joins the  Federal Reserve  and the European Central
Bank in taking steps to prod the economy.  “BOJ stimulus measures did offer some support initially,
but at some point the fundamental drivers need to be reflected,
so we think the Saudi story is the primary driver today,” said
 Michael Hewson , a London-based analyst at CMC Markets. “Oil is
way too high, especially Brent, when you consider the
fundamentals.”  Oil for October delivery fell as much as 97 cents to $94.32
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  after reaching an intraday high of $96.17, and was at
$94.86 at 1:45 p.m. London time. The more-active November future
was at $95.19 a barrel, down 43 cents.  Brent oil for November settlement declined $1.17 to $110.86
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange after
falling to $110.42, the lowest since Aug. 7. The front-month
European benchmark grade’s premium to the corresponding West
Texas Intermediate contract was at $15.66, down from $16.41
yesterday.  Saudi Pledge  The ideal price of crude for the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries is $100 a barrel and current prices are not
supported by physical supply and demand, the Persian Gulf
official said, declining to be identified because he’s not
authorized to speak publicly.  The oil market is well balanced and commercial inventories
are growing as more supply comes on stream in coming months,
while demand is slowing and growth won’t exceed 800,000 barrels
a day in 2013, the official said.  Crude inventories in the U.S. gained 2.4 million barrels
last week, the  American Petroleum Institute  said. A government
report today may show they rose 1 million, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline Stockpiles  Gasoline stockpiles climbed 135,000 barrels, the API data
showed. They were projected to rise 1 million barrels, according
to the median estimate of nine analysts in the Bloomberg survey
before a report from the Energy Department. Distillate supplies,
a category that includes heating oil and diesel, dropped 1.1
million barrels, compared with a forecast for a 1 million barrel
increase in the survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Japan’s central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate 
between zero and 0.1 percent and monthly bond purchases at 1.8
trillion yen, it said in its statement. The U.S. Federal Reserve
said Sept. 14 it would start buying mortgage securities while
the  European Central Bank  said Sept. 6 it would purchase bonds.  New housing construction rose in August, boosted by the
strongest pace of single-family home starts in more than two
years, indicating an improving real estate market.  Construction starts climbed 2.3 percent to 750,000 at an
annual rate, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The increase from a revised 733,000 annual pace in
July was less than forecast and restrained by a decline in the
building of apartments, the data showed. The median estimate of
85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for 767,000 starts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  