-- Thomvest Leads $30 Million Round in Alternative Funder Kabbage
-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-09-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/thomvest-leads-30-million-round-in-alternative-funder-kabbage.html
Thomvest Ventures Inc., continuing
its backing of alternative finance companies, led a $30 million
investment round this month in Kabbage Inc., which uses non-
traditional credit analysis to provide cash advances to small
businesses.  This marks the third investment in unconventional funders
in less than two years by Thomvest, founded by Thomson Reuters
Inc. director Peter Thomson. Kabbage’s largest previous
investors, including Stephens Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Warren Stephens and TPG Capital’s David Bonderman participated
in this round, as did UPS Strategic Enterprise Fund, the private
equity investment arm of Atlanta-based  United Parcel Service (UPS) 
Inc.  Thomvest  also has backed Lending Club, a five-year-old San
Francisco-based company that pairs investors with borrowers.
Lending Club’s board of directors includes  John Mack , former
chairman of Morgan Stanley, and  Mary Meeker , a partner with
Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers, according to the company’s
 website .  “What we’re seeing with companies like Lending Club and
Kabbage is that the availability of capital for both individuals
and small to medium sized businesses is being transformed,” said
 Don Butler , managing director of Thomvest, based in  Redwood
City ,  California .  Alternative online funding “will revolutionize both
markets,” he said. Thomvest also has an investment in San
Francisco-based LendUp, an online financial service company
targeting consumers.  The new capital more than doubles the amount Kabbage has
raised since its launch two years ago, according to the Atlanta-
based company, which has 70 employees and has yet to turn a
profit.  ‘Kabbage Score’  Kabbage analyzes a variety of alternative metrics such as a
company’s sales history on  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and other online sites, as
well as monthly transaction volume, revenue patterns, and
engagement with customers on social media sites such as Twitter
and Facebook. Based on this information, customers receive a
“Kabbage score” that the company believes provides a more
complete financial picture than a traditional FICO credit score.  Thomvest was impressed with the speed of the Kabbage
application process, which averages about seven minutes, Butler
said. If approved for an advance a company can immediately
transfer funds into its Paypal account. The average advance is
about $8,000, according to Kabbage.  Kabbage plans to use part of the new funding to expand
internationally and to offer cash advances to brick-and-mortar
businesses.  “Even your dry cleaner has a Facebook page,” said Kabbage
Chairman Marc Gorlin. “To the extent there is data out there on
offline businesses, we’re going to look at ways to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Beasley  in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe in Atlanta at 
 asharpe6@bloomberg.net . 