-- Hong Kong Swing Between Gains, Losses Amid China Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-09-18T03:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/hong-kong-swing-between-gains-losses-amid-china-concern.html
Hong Kong   stocks  swung between
gains and losses after the city’s benchmark index yesterday rose
to a four-month high and amid speculation China’s central bank
may seek to control inflation rather than boost growth.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the country’s biggest maker
of the metal, slipped 2.4 percent. Dongfeng Motor Group Co. led
partners of Japanese carmakers lower, dropping 4.4 percent, amid
rising tension between the two countries. Shandong Weigao Group
Medical Polymer Co., a medical equipment maker, gained 4 percent
as the Chinese government plans to boost funding for healthcare.  The Hang Seng Index fell 0.1 percent to 20,647.31 as of
11:35 a.m. local time, having swung between gains of 0.3 percent
and losses of 0.2 percent. The gauge yesterday closed at its
highest since May 4 after the  Federal Reserve  last week said it
will buy mortgage-backed securities, undertaking a third round
of quantitative easing, to boost U.S. growth.  “China probably won’t ease monetary policy at the
moment,” said  Castor Pang , head of research at Core-Pacific
Yamaichi International Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Quantitative easing
by the U.S. will drive commodity prices and that would increase
inflation pressures in China.”  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
slid 0.3 percent to 9,751.67. Difficulties facing  China’s
economy  may continue for “a period of time” due to Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis and weak  U.S. economy , according to a
commentary published by the official Xinhua News Agency. New
home prices rose in fewer Chinese cities in August, adding to
signs the nation’s economy is slowing down.  Relative Valuations  The Hang Seng Index  traded  at 10.9 times estimated earnings
yesterday, compared with 9.5 for the Shanghai Composite Index
and 14.1 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The Hong Kong
gauge climbed 14 percent from this year’s low on June 4 through
yesterday as central banks announced more measures to stimulate
global economic growth.  Futures on the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  lost 0.1 percent to 20,693
today. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  dropped 2.1 percent to 17.42,
indicating traders expect a swing of 5 percent for the equity
benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  