-- Lonmin Workers Agree to 22% Pay Rise, to Return Sept. 20
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l   a n d   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-09-18T16:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/lonmin-workers-agree-to-22-pay-rise-to-return-sept-20.html
A group of workers at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ,
the third-largest platinum producer, said they will accept a 22
percent overall pay increase and return to work Sept. 20,
bringing the company closer to ending an almost six-week strike.  The workers will get a one-time payment of 2,000 rand
($245) for returning to work, Bishop Jo Seoka of the South
African Council of Churches, a pay-talks mediator, said at the
Marikana platinum mine at Rustenburg, north west of Johannesburg
today.  The miners who said they would accept the offer were
gathered in a stadium at Marikana and it wasn’t clear which
unions, if any, they were affiliated to. They will sign an
agreement later, said Molifi Phele, a representative of the
group. The  National Union of Mineworkers , the Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union and the Solidarity union
didn’t immediately announce their response to Lonmin’s offer.  Pay grievances triggered a violent strike last month and
halted the Marikana mine, which accounts for about 96 percent of
Lonmin’s output. Platinum has jumped 17 percent since Aug. 10,
when 3,000 rock-drill operators began a wildcat strike at the
Marikana mine for more pay. The unrest has left at least 45
people dead, including 34 protesters shot by police on Aug. 16.  “The workers are very happy with this,” Seoka said. “The
actual increase is about 22 percent, which is very high --
that’s never happened,” he said.  Lonmin cut its fiscal 2012 sales target yesterday by as
much as 8.7 percent to 685,000 ounces and said it will idle its
K4 shaft. Debt conditions may be breached, Lonmin said last
month.  Anglo American  The unrest has spread to nearby operations owned by
 Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , which
reopened mines that had been idled late last week. The strikes
have cost the economy 4.5 billion rand, South African President
 Jacob Zuma  said yesterday at a conference in Johannesburg.  “The longer-term damage to South African mining may be far
greater as international investors shy away from investment in
local mines,” London-based investment services company Fairfax
I.S. Plc said in a note today. “Ethical and socially
responsible mandated funds will struggle to buy into miners
where mineworker violence is an issue.”  Anglo American Platinum, the largest producer of the metal,
suspended operations with output of 2,100 ounces daily on Sept.
12 as some workers were intimidated and others started a pay
strike.  The company urged all employees to return to work by no
later than tomorrow, it said in a statement.  “Beyond this date, the company will have to initiate
appropriate employee relations procedures for those employees
who choose not to return to work,” it said. Operations have
resumed, the company said.  At the Rasimone Platinum mine in Rustenburg, a joint
venture between  Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. (RBP)  and Anglo American
Platinum, police arrested 42 people for public violence
yesterday.  The mine was quiet today, spokeswoman Rea Kalebe said. It
was “too early” to comment on attendance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  