-- Moody’s Says India Revenue Boost, Subsidy Cuts Could Lift Rating
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i a   S a i n i
-- 2012-09-18T01:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/moody-s-says-india-revenue-boost-subsidy-cuts-could-lift-rating.html
Atsi Sheth, a sovereign risk
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said  India ’s government
should focus on improved tax collection to reduce its deficit
and improve the nation’s debt rating. Moody’s rates India’s
sovereign debt Baa3, its lowest investment grade. Sheth also
commented on the challenges facing the government as it tries to
reduce subsidies in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  On the deficit and tax collection:  “Regarding the fiscal deficit, yes, you know, it’s high
not only because expenditures are high but also because revenues
are low. When we look at India and compare it to other countries
rated Baa3 as it is, we see the expenditure to GDP ratio is
actually fairly similar to that of other countries in the same
rating scale.”  “It’s the revenues that are actually much lower than most
other countries rated Baa3. So any means to expand the revenue
net, to make sure that collection is effective and that you
know, they’re actually collecting the taxes they’re supposed to,
all of those will be credit positive.”  On spending and subsidies:  “There isn’t much discretionary expenditure. Twenty-five
percent of revenue goes to paying interest, you certainly can’t
cut that on your own unilaterally. What the people expect the
government to cut is the expenditure on subsidies.”  “But given the political realities in India, where you
know, a huge chunk of the population is poor, cutting down food
subsidies is a political and social risk so we’re not sure
that’s going to happen in the near future.”  “Fertilizer and fuel subsidies are another area of
expenditure and that perhaps will take some bold political move.
That’s something you can see in the future and that certainly is
credit positive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  