-- Ovechkin Ready for Season in Russia’s KHL, Sovietsky Sport Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-18T16:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/ovechkin-ready-for-season-in-russia-s-khl-sovietsky-sport-says.html
Two-time  National Hockey League 
most valuable player Alexander Ovechkin is preparing for a
possible full year of playing in his native Moscow while locked
out by owners in  North America , according to a Russian
newspaper.  The Washington Capitals’ forward, who turned 27 yesterday,
said that he intends to sign with a team in Russia’s Kontinental
Hockey League while the NHL owners and players’ union continue
negotiations on a labor contract, according to the  Sovietsky
Sport  newspaper.  NHL owners locked out players on Sept. 16 following the
expiration of the league’s collective bargaining agreement. The
two sides are at odds over revenue sharing and player
compensation.  “If the league keeps holding its ground, the lockout may
last the entire year,” Ovechkin said, according to the
newspaper. “We are not planning to give up, either. That way I
could spend the entire season with KHL. It’s quite possible.”  Ovechkin is negotiating with the Moscow-based clubs CSKA
and Dynamo Moscow, his Russian agent Gleb Chistyakov said,
according to Yahoo! Sports.  Ovechkin made his professional debut with Dynamo Moscow and
two years ago was hired as an adviser to the club, attending
promotional events. Sergei Fedorov, his former Capitals teammate
who played 18 NHL seasons, is the general manager of CSKA.  More than 300 NHL players competed in Europe during the
NHL’s previous lockout, which resulted in the cancellation of
the 2004-05 season, according to  USA Today . Evgeni Malkin of the
 Pittsburgh Penguins , last season’s MVP, and his NHL teammate
Sergei Gonchar have signed deals with Russia’s Magnitogorsk
Metallurg.  -- With assistance from Anastasia Ustinova in Chicago. Editors:
Michael Sillup, Larry Siddons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  