-- How Mitt Romney and Occupy Wall Street Are Alike
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-18T20:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/how-mitt-romney-and-occupy-wall-street-are-alike.html
On the first anniversary of  Occupy
Wall Street , a movement that unwisely apportioned Americans into
mutually hostile camps defined by wealth, a  video surfaced  of
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  telling donors
that the nation is more appropriately divided based on the
amount of federal income tax we pay.  Speaking at a Florida dinner, Romney imposed a metaphorical
quarantine on the “ 47 percent ” of Americans who  pay  no federal
income tax and who, he said, “are dependent upon government, who
believe that they are victims, who believe the government has a
responsibility to care for them, who believe that they are
entitled to health care, to food, to housing, to you-name-it.”  In the past year, many members of the “1 percent” were no
doubt surprised to learn from Occupy  Wall Street  that they are
at war with the vast majority of their fellow citizens. We
suspect quite a few of the 76 million American “ tax units ”
without federal income tax liability were equally perplexed to
discover -- some while listening to the car radio on their way
home from work -- that they are too lazy to take responsibility
for themselves, their families and their futures.  Henry Adams famously described politics as the “systematic
organization of hatreds.” What we have here are two examples of
the systematic organization of stupidities. Both the “1 percent
versus 99 percent” and the “makers versus takers” slogans are
ideological constructs borne of ignorance, mythology and the
tribal arrogance that results from spending way too much time
with  people like yourself .  This is a larger problem for a political party than for a
protest group. Whether Romney truly believes what he said or was
merely pandering to what he presumed to be audience sentiment is
beside the point. Surely he understands that more than half of
those who pay no federal income tax --  28 percent  of all U.S.
households -- pay taxes for Medicare and Social Security, and
many pay taxes at a higher rate than Romney himself. (Because
these are payroll taxes, by definition the people who pay them
all have jobs.)  An additional 10 percent of households pay no federal
income tax because they are receiving nontaxable retirement
benefits -- the benefits both presidential candidates have
promised to protect. Roughly 7 percent pay no federal income tax
or payroll taxes because society has collectively determined
that they should hold onto every cent they can.  We suspect that Romney campaign strategists understand that
many of the nation’s  poorest  states regularly vote Republican.
It’s not clear why their candidate felt compelled to create the
impression that the poor (and much of the middle class, too) are
implacably opposed to the interests of the wealthy donors who
surround Romney. (Occupiers made a similar mistake, presuming to
discern character from income statements.)  Race, class, sex, region and ideology are all genuine
dividing lines in American experience. Those divisions will be
exacerbated from time to time, with elections in particular
providing ample invitations to friction. But Americans are more
than the sum of our prejudices and demographics. We hold high
ideals and hard history in common.  The task before both Romney and his opponent, President
 Barack Obama , and the rest of us, too, is to assert our common
bonds and aspirations with greater frequency and conviction in
the weeks before November. A progressive  tax code , in which all
contribute to the general welfare relative to their means, is a
hallmark of a decent society. Few Americans wish to dismantle
it. Likewise, the nation’s social compact might be frayed, but
this is no civil war here; we don’t need another Lincoln. A
little respect and decency should suffice.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 