-- Pacific Rubiales Sees CPE-6 Drilling Beginning Next Month
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-09-18T18:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/pacific-rubiales-sees-cpe-6-drilling-beginning-next-month.html
Pacific Rubiales (PREC)  Energy Corp.,
 Colombia ’s largest oil field, expects to receive a license next
month to explore and produce at its CPE-6 block in Colombia,
Chief Executive Officer Ronald Pantin said.  The regulator will receive additional company data allowing
the process to move ahead, Pantin said in a phone interview
yesterday in Bogota.  Shares of Pacific Rubiales  tumbled  6.1 percent yesterday in
Bogota after Luz Helena Sarmiento, director of the National
Environmental Licensing Authority, said the regulator expects
licensing for CPE-6 by year-end. Sarmiento later corrected the
comments, saying the regulator expects to make a decision in
October or early November.  Pacific Rubiales rose 4.2 percent to 46,680 pesos at 12:55
p.m. in trading in Bogota.  Talisman Energy Inc (TLM) , which has a
stake in CPE-6, slid 1.3 percent to C$14.17.  Pacific Rubiales plans to be able to begin drilling at its
CPO-12 field next week. The license has already been awarded to
the company, Pantin said. Sarmiento said she expects outstanding
issues to be resolved, allowing exploration to begin within a
maximum of 15 days.  The company expects the regulator to respond in October to
a request to modify a permit to allow for additional platforms,
roadways and transportation infrastructure at Quifa Northwest
drilling area, said Federico Restrepo, a spokesman for the
company, in a telephone interview today in Bogota. Pacific
resubmitted the request in June with more information after the
authority denied the initial petition the same month, he said.  Cajua Field  Separately,  production  at Pacific Rubiales’s Cajua field
will rise to about 12,000 barrels a day by the end of the year
from 2,500 barrels a day now, according to Pantin.  Pacific Rubiales yesterday said in a statement following
Sarmiento’s comments that it has 12 “licensing processes”
before the authority, five which have been awarded and seven in
evaluation. Licensing processes don’t compromise the company’s
production estimates, Pacific Rubiales said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  