-- Pakistan Will Seek Zardari Graft Probe After Court Climbdown
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2012-09-18T09:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/pakistan-premier-to-seek-zardari-graft-probe-in-court-climbdown.html
Pakistan ’s Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf conceded to  Supreme Court  demands that he seek the
reopening of corruption investigations against the president,
easing a confrontation that threatened his government ahead of
elections and ousted his predecessor.  In an unexpected climbdown, Ashraf told senior judges today
that he will instruct the law minister to withdraw an earlier
direction to Swiss authorities that froze graft probes against
President Asif Ali Zardari, who controls the ruling party, and
his assassinated wife,  Benazir Bhutto . Zardari is unlikely to
face prosecution while head of state as under international laws
he can expect to be granted immunity.  The tussle between the top court and the Pakistan People’s
Party-led administration has distracted a government preparing
for a general election that must be held by early next year, and
struggling to revive an economy weighed down by a record power
crisis. Ashraf is also attempting to rebuild ties with
traditional rival India and its leading aid donor, the U.S.  Pakistan’s leaders concluded “it would be untenable to
continue a confrontation with the court that would become
politically more destabilizing with elections getting closer,”
said Rasul Bakhsh Rais, a political analyst and professor at the
Lahore University of Management Sciences, by phone. “The risk
of Zardari getting in trouble in Swiss courts is low.”  Ashraf, accompanied by leaders of his coalition government,
was appearing before the court for the second time since he took
power in June.  Gilani Ouster  Former Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  was found guilty
of contempt and removed from office by judges after his lawyers
were unable to convince the Supreme Court that the constitution
grants the president immunity from prosecution while in office.
Zardari says he is innocent of all charges.  In a concession to the president, whose alleged corruption
during his wife’s terms in office earned him the nickname “Mr.
10 Percent,” Judge Asif Saeed Khosa said that the Supreme Court
will consider the government’s assertion that Zardari can claim
immunity as head of state under international law.  Zardari enjoys immunity from prosecution under both
Pakistani and international law as long as he is president,
according to Aitzaz Ahsan, a lawyer who defended Gilani.  The  New York  Times reported in April that it would be
“virtually impossible” to revive the cases against Zardari in
 Switzerland  due to his immunity demand and the European
country’s 15-year statute of limitations. Cases against Zardari
and his wife were initiated in 1997 by their political rival and
former prime minister  Nawaz Sharif .  Bribes  Bhutto and Zardari collected and laundered bribes totaling
$11.7 million for awarding customs inspection contracts to Swiss
companies in 1994, an investigating magistrate in Geneva
recorded in 2003.  The couple received six-month suspended prison sentences
the same year from a Swiss judge. The punishments were canceled
by a Swiss tribunal in 2004 after Bhutto appealed. New bribery
charges were then brought, the Swiss newspaper Le Temps
reported. Zardari has denied all charges against him, saying
they were politically motivated.  Negotiating with political parties to stay on as a civilian
president, military ruler  Pervez Musharraf  in 2007 decreed an
amnesty to halt corruption probes against 8,000 politicians and
officials, including Zardari and Bhutto.  Pakistani law requires the current administration to resign
at least three months before the next general election, which is
scheduled to be held by March. Zardari’s five-year term as
president will end in August 2013.  The five-member bench of the Supreme Court set Sept. 25 for
the government to present the draft of the letter to be sent to
Swiss authorities. Ashraf will not have to appear.  The impasse between the court and government had brought
calls from major opposition groups, including the Pakistan
Muslim League of Sharif and ex-cricket star  Imran Khan ’s
Pakistan Justice Movement, for snap polls.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  