-- Pandit Bonus, EU Repo Oversight, Brazil M&A: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-18T12:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/pandit-bonus-eu-repo-oversight-brazil-m-a-compliance.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s $4.7 billion
pretax writedown of its Morgan Stanley Smith Barney stake
probably won’t reduce a profit-sharing plan’s award for Chief
Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  that could total $24 million.  That’s because the plan doesn’t count losses at Citi
Holdings, the division of unwanted assets that includes the
Smith Barney brokerage, a regulatory filing shows. The exclusion
may mean more pay for Pandit this year even as the board
considers cuts in his 2011 compensation package, which
shareholders rejected in April amid criticism that he collected
millions of dollars in rewards too easily.  Citigroup’s board promised to discuss Pandit’s 2011 pay
with top shareholders after 55 percent of the votes cast
rejected the package. The CEO’s profit-sharing award, which is
tied to 2011 and 2012 results, would add to more than $10
million in multiyear stock awards and the $15 million pay
package he received for 2011, when the New York-based bank’s
 shares   tumbled  44 percent.  If no changes are made, Citigroup will have paid Pandit
about $261 million in the five years since he became CEO,
including his personal compensation and about $165 million for
buying his Old Lane Partners LP hedge fund in 2007 in a deal
that led to his becoming CEO. The bank shut Old Lane soon after
Pandit took the post, causing a $202 million writedown.  The latest charge was triggered last week after Citigroup,
the third-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, agreed to sell its 49
percent stake in the brokerage joint venture to its partner, New
York-based Morgan Stanley. The two owners, which had disputed
the unit’s worth, finally valued the venture at $13.5 billion --
about 40 percent less than Citigroup’s estimate two months ago.
The agreement forced Citigroup to write down its stake by $4.7
billion, or $2.9 billion after taxes.  The decline won’t affect Pandit’s profit-sharing payout,
according to terms of a package offered last year to dissuade
Pandit from leaving, a May 2011 filing shows.  Pandit said in a June interview that directors are
discussing his pay with shareholders and that he expects some
resolution by year-end. The board’s personnel and compensation
committee members are meeting with shareholders to “fully
understand their concerns,”  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for the
bank, said in a Sept. 13 e-mail.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Global Regulators Weigh Lending-Rate Overhaul Amid Libor Scandal  Global regulators and central bankers debated tougher
oversight of interbank lending rates in the wake of the scandal
engulfing Libor, according to an EU official.  The steering committee of the Financial Stability Board
weighed how to coordinate nations’ response to the manipulation
of Libor during a conference call today, the official said. The
FSB is scheduled to meet in Tokyo on Oct. 11-12.  FSB Chairman  Mark Carney  told reporters last month that the
FSB would seek to ensure that “the world transitions to a
better version of reference rates” with “buy-in globally.”  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark  interest rate  for more
than $500 trillion of securities, plummeted following  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s admission that it submitted false rates. The revelations
have provoked renewed calls for tougher oversight of the
financial system and pushed regulatory probes of interbank
lending rates to the top of the political agenda.  EU representatives on yesterday’s call outlined steps the
27-nation bloc is taking in the wake of the Libor scandal,
including a bolstering of market-abuse sanctions and a
consultation on overhauling governance of how market benchmarks
are set, said the official, who wouldn’t be cited by name
because the talks are private.  European Parliament lawmakers will hold a public hearing on
Sept. 24 into the Libor scandal.  Indonesia Bank Multiple-Licensing Rule May Be Done This Fall  Bank Indonesia is meeting with bankers to explain the
multiple-permit requirement for their expansion plans, Governor
Darmin Nasution says in Jakarta yesterday.  The regulation for the multiple-permit requirement possibly
may be completed by the end of October or early November,
according to Nasution.  Central banks will use their capital as the base for
setting the multiple-licensing requirement, he said.  Greek Finance Ministry Says Talks on Opap Tax Issues Ongoing  Greece is in talks with the  European Commission ’s
competition regulator on the taxes levied on games of chance in
the country, according to a filing yesterday by  Opap SA (OPAP) ,
Greece’s biggest gambling company, at the Athens bourse.  The Greek state has been in talks with the regulator for
“a long time” on the games of chance tax issue and the talks
are ongoing, according to a statement by the  Finance Ministry ,
made in response to a querie by the Hellenic Capital Markets
Commission.  The Greek regulator inquired on Sept. 14 about a Greek
media report that said the commission may ask for Opap’s land-
based games tax to be raised to 30 percent immediately to adhere
to European Union regulations.  Irish Said to Prefer Bonds Over ESM to Refinance Anglo Irish  Irish authorities now favor using  government bonds  to
refinance the rescue of the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp.,
easing funding pressure on the state over the next decade,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Under a plan being weighed by officials, Enda Kenny’s
government would inject as much as 40 billion euros ($52.4
billion) of notes of as long as 40 years in maturity into the
bank, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. These may be used as collateral
for  European Central Bank  funds, replacing 30 billion euros of
so-called promissory notes used for the bank’s 2010 bailout.  Using bonds would mark a strategy shift by Irish Finance
Minister  Michael Noonan  who has advocated tapping the European
Stability Mechanism to cut the cost of the nation’s banking
rescue. The bond plan would sidestep potential political
opposition in Europe to using the euro-region’s bailout funds to
refinance the bank’s funding, the people said.  While the ECB would prefer if the promissory notes were
replaced by ESM bonds than Irish securities, this would need
approval from all member states of the rescue fund and increase
the amount of Ireland’s bailout, according to the two people.
The state applied for a 67.5 billion euro bailout in 2010.  Compliance Action  ECB to Set Up Repo Database as EU Moves to Rein in Shadow Banks  The European Central Bank plans to boost oversight of
trading in repurchase agreements by setting up a transactions
database amid a push by regulators to rein in so-called shadow
banking, a European Union document shows.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, raised
the plan at a meeting of European Union finance ministers and
central bankers in Nicosia, Cyprus, on Sept. 14-15, according to
the document, whose authenticity was confirmed by an EU
official. The database would cover the European market for
repos. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the
talks are private.  Barnier told the meeting that he is working on regulations
targeted at “key actors” in the shadow-banking system, in
particular money-market mutual funds, according to the document.  Money-market mutual funds merit particular attention
because of risks to their liquidity, Barnier told the meeting,
adding that he was “disappointed” that the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission had proved unable to agree on rules for the
$2.6 trillion industry, according to the document.  Repurchase agreements are contracts in which one investor
agrees to sell a security and then buy it back at a future date
at a fixed price. They’re one of several shadow-banking
activities targeted by regulators concerns that they may be used
to evade a global clampdown on excessive risk-taking.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
plans to publish draft rules for shadow banks in November.  Brazil M&A Reporting Rules May Change to Appease Asset Managers  Brazil’s antitrust authority may change merger reporting
requirements for investment funds after complaints that the
regulations, which took effect three months ago, are too
sweeping.  Carlos Ragazzo, general superintendent of Cade, as the
authority is known, said the authority is talking to capital
markets associations and lawyers in Brazil and abroad. The goal
is to bring to the board the possibility of change in the
regulation for funds’’ as a way of improving legal procedure
Ragazzo said in an interview.  The merger law, which Brazil President  Dilma Rousseff 
signed late last year, requires buyers to seek antitrust
approval before closing a deal. It forces funds to report
acquisitions to Cade if annual revenue exceeds 750 million reais
($373 million) at either the fund’s shareholder, the fund-
management company or other companies from the same sector in
the fund’s portfolio or among the management company’s holdings.  Under the new legislation, Cade said it will take no more
than 330 days to review a proposed merger. Otherwise, it will be
automatically approved. The new rules were intended to prevent
mergers from taking place before antitrust regulators had a
chance to review them.  Cade may also seek changes in legislation covering venture-
capital investments.  Brazil mergers have declined 40 percent this year to $45.4
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The number of deals
fell to 463 from 480 in the same period last year.  Vodafone Considers $2.2 Billion Tax Provision on Indian Law  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , which has resisted setting aside money
for a $2.2 billion tax bill in India, may make a provision to
cover the legal risks, Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford said
in an interview.  The world’s second-largest mobile-phone operator is
consulting on the need for a provision after an amendment by
India’s government to its tax law made the company potentially
liable for the payment, Halford said. A decision will be made by
November, he said.  The potential tax payment would add to Vodafone’s costs of
investing in the second-largest wireless market. The operator in
January defeated the initial government demand for taxes
stemming from its 2007 acquisition of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s
Indian operations in the country’s top court. In March, the
government unveiled an amendment to the law to retrospectively
tax cross-border transactions dating back to April 1, 1962.  The British operator, which also faces increased costs for
radio frequencies in India, is relying on fast-growing markets
such as India as consumers cut spending in debt-stricken Europe,
where the operator derives as much as 70 percent of its revenue.
Vodafone had refused to take a provision as it waited for the
court ruling, saying it wasn’t liable for the bill.  India initially had planned to implement the tax amendment
in 2013. In September, a panel set up by India’s prime minister
recommended deferring the implementation by three years on
“administrative grounds.” The body is scheduled to submit
final recommendations at the end of September.  For more, click here.  China Challenges U.S. Anti-Subsidy, Anti-Dumping Measures at WTO  China complained at the World Trade Organization yesterday
about U.S. anti-subsidy and anti-dumping measures applied to
Chinese exports including paper, steel, tires, magnets,
chemicals, kitchen appliances, wood flooring and wind towers.  Yesterday’s request for consultations is the first step in
WTO dispute proceedings and means the two governments must hold
talks for at least two months in a bid to resolve the matter. If
the discussions fail, China can ask WTO judges in Geneva to
rule.  Separately, the U.S. requested dispute-settlement
consultations with China at the WTO over the Asian nation’s
alleged use of export subsidies for its auto industry, the U.S.
Trade Representative’s office said.  “The subsidies provide an unfair advantage to auto and
auto-parts manufacturers located in China, which are in
competition with producers located in the United States and
other countries,” the Trade Representative’s office said
yesterday in a statement.  The trade complaint was cited as an issue in the U.S.
presidential campaign.  U.K. Begins Tax-Evasion Probe With Focus on Lawyers, Hair Salons  U.K. began a crackdown on  tax evasion , including among
London lawyers, which it expects to bring in 19.5 million pounds
($32 million).  HM Revenue & Customs  task forces starting today will focus
on five “high risk” business areas in an effort to flush out
tax evaders, the authority said in a press release. The Scottish
motor trade and retail businesses in four U.K. regions are being
targeted in the latest project, the agency said.  The task forces were introduced following a 917 million-
pound government investment that began in 2011 to take on tax
evasion, avoidance and fraud. The authority said it intends to
raise 7 billion pounds each year by 2015 from the project.  Restaurants in southeast England and hair and beauty salons
in the northeast of the country are also under scrutiny.  Courts  Peregrine’s Wasendorf Pleads Guilty to Embezzlement, Fraud  Peregrine Financial Group Inc. founder Russell Wasendorf
Sr. pleaded guilty to stealing more than $100 million from the
bankrupt commodities firm’s customers.  Wasendorf, 64, yesterday admitted to embezzlement, mail
fraud and two counts of lying to federal regulators in an
appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge Jon Scoles in Cedar
Rapids, Iowa.  Wasendorf, dressed in a prison-issue orange jumpsuit, was
handcuffed and wearing leg shackles during the hearing. He was
taken into custody after U.S. District Judge Linda Reade earlier
yesterday stayed Scoles’s ruling that Wasendorf could be
released from custody until sentencing.  In response to the judge’s direct questions, Wasendorf
replied “guilty” to each of the four counts. He made no other
comment.  The plea agreement calls for a prison sentence of as long
as 50 years. Scoles said he would recommend to Reade to accept
the plea. Reade will also set a sentencing date.  Wasendorf’s crimes came to light on July 9 when the founder
of Peregrine, who was also the company’s chairman and chief
executive officer, tried to kill himself by piping auto exhaust
into the passenger compartment of his car parked outside the
firm’s Cedar Falls, Iowa, headquarters.  In a written statement found with him then, Wasendorf said
he’d been stealing from the company for almost 20 years.  The National Futures Association, an industry self-
regulator, announced the same day that about $200 million in
customer funds the firm reported was on deposit at its bank were
unaccounted for.  Federal criminal charges were filed against him under seal
two days later. He was arrested July 13.  The case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-cr-2012, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago). The regulatory case is Commodity Futures
Trading Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-
cv-5383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  For more, click here.  Ex-Trader Adoboli in Debt, Had Personal Spread-Bet Accounts  Kweku Adoboli, the former trader on trial for allegedly
costing  UBS AG (UBSN)  $2.3 billion from unauthorized trades, was in
debt and had several spread-betting accounts in violation of the
bank’s rules, a prosecutor said.  The bank’s compliance department notified Adoboli, 32, that
he should have flagged his personal trading through the spread-
betting firms IG Index Plc and City Index Ltd. to UBS
beforehand, prosecutor Esther Schutzer-Weissmann said at his
trial in London yesterday.  Adoboli’s personal bank accounts were mostly overdrawn and
he had borrowed money from various short-term lenders, she said.
At UBS, his pay rose from 40,500 pounds ($65,900) in 2005 to
360,000 pounds in 2010, including bonus, another prosecutor said
at the opening day of his trial last week. He lost 123,000
pounds through his personal trading with IG Index in the year
leading up to his arrest, Schutzer-Weissmann said today.
Adoboli’s lawyers agreed not to challenge the information
provided by the prosecutor.  The former trader is charged with falsifying records on
exchange-traded fund transactions and other documents needed for
accounting purposes as early as October 2008. Prosecutors also
charged him with fraud. His trial, at a London criminal court,
is scheduled to last eight weeks.  Adoboli worked for the Zurich-based investment bank’s Delta
One desk, which handles trades for clients -- or risks the
bank’s own money -- typically by speculating on a basket of
securities. The loss UBS attributes to him came from trading in
Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures.  Interviews  Borg Says Sweden Has Clear Red Lines on Bank Oversight  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  talked about a
proposal to put the European Central Bank in charge of policing
lenders in the European Union.  He spoke Sept. 15 with reporters in Nicosia, Cyprus.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC’s Schapiro Said to Be Recovering After Surgery Last Week  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  underwent surgery last week and plans to return to the
office on Sept. 19, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  Schapiro had the surgery on Thursday, Sept. 13, and has
been working from home since the following day, according to the
person, who asked not to be identified because the matter wasn’t
public.  Florence Harmon, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 