-- Panetta Works to Ease Chinese Concerns Over U.S. Asia Pivot
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-09-18T10:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/panetta-works-to-ease-chinese-concerns-over-u-s-asia-pivot-2-.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , in a visit to Beijing, worked to soothe concerns that
the American rebalancing of forces in  Asia  was directed at  China 
by offering new ways for the two militaries to cooperate.  Panetta told his counterpart, Defense Minister Liang
Guanglie, that the U.S. strategy of rebalancing its forces in
Asia isn’t directed against China and isn’t in conflict with
closer ties between the world’s two biggest economies. He
invited China to send a ship to the 2014 Rimpac exercise, a
multinational naval drill in the  Pacific Ocean .  “Our position isn’t contradictory at all,” Panetta told
reporters today in Beijing at a press conference with Liang.
“The U.S. is a Pacific power and has been one for about 70
years.”  The Obama administration’s realignment of Asia-Pacific
forces comes as China expands its influence in an area that
accounts for half the world’s economy. The U.S. is also pushing
Asian countries to adopt a code of conduct to resolve maritime
territorial disputes involving oil and gas rights, which China
has resisted.  Panetta said the two countries will step up cooperation by
starting a military-military dialog on cyberspace because of
the “growing threat of cyber intrusions to the economy.”  Chinese and American naval vessels have participated in
joint anti-piracy exercises in the  Gulf of Aden  and the U.S. may
also seek lessons from China on its experiences with
peacekeeping in the Western Sahara and Cyprus, he said.  Larger Ties  Liang said the military relationship is part of larger
bilateral ties and the two nations should “discard the zero-sum
game mentality” of one side’s gain coming at the expense of the
other. Chinese military officials writing in officially
sanctioned publications have criticized the long-term U.S.
strategy as being aimed at containing China.  The American military global strategy, announced in
January, will result in positioning about 60 percent of the
Pentagon’s naval assets in the Asia-Pacific region by 2020, up
from about 50 percent now, Panetta said in June. As part of this
“rebalancing,” the U.S. plans to redeploy to  Guam  military
forces stationed in Japan and rotate a contingent of Marines
through Australia, and probably also the  Philippines .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Beijing at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  