-- Peso Forecasts Raised as Rest of Region Cut: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-09-19T02:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/peso-forecasts-raised-as-rest-of-region-cut-southeast-asia.html
The Philippine peso is the only
Asian emerging-market currency that forecasters have become more
bullish on this year as the nation’s improving economy increases
the chance it will win an investment-grade  credit rating .  The peso will strengthen 4.2 percent by year-end, according
to BNP Paribas, the most positive among 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The median estimate was for a 0.2 percent advance to
41.60 per dollar. It reached 41.358 on Sept. 17, the strongest
level since April 2008, and is  Asia ’s best-performing currency
over the past year. The peso rose 0.2 percent to 41.680 per
dollar as of 9:53 a.m. in  Manila , according to prices from
Tullett Prebon Plc.  Indonesia ’s rupiah rallied 20 percent in the three years
before  Fitch Ratings  restored the nation to investment grade in
December 2011. The prospect of the peso enjoying a pre-upgrade
bump is luring investment and buoying the currency, said  Thomas Harr , head of Asia local markets at Standard Chartered Plc, the
second-most optimistic forecaster. Foreign funds have pumped
$2.2 billion into local stocks this year, compared with $1.3
billion in 2011 and $1.2 billion in 2010, exchange data show.  “We think the  Philippines  will attain investment grade by
2014,” Singapore-based Harr said in a Sept. 14 interview.
“You’ll see capital inflows coming into the country ahead of
that.”  The U.K.-based bank predicts the peso will strengthen 2.9
percent to 40.5 per dollar by the end of December from an
original estimate at the start of the year of 41.5. BNP Paribas
raised its forecast by 8.5 percent to 40 from 43.40.  Australia 
and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., which had a year-end
expectation of 41.50, said it will boost its estimate, without
specifying when the revision will be published.  Progress on Deficit  The $225 billion economy  expanded  5.9 percent in the second
quarter, after growing 6.3 percent in the first three months, as
higher public spending and consumption contributed to the best
half since 2010. Exports climbed for a fourth month in July,
rising 7.8 percent from a year earlier, official data show,
while remittances, which make up 10 percent of gross domestic
product, rose 5.2 percent to $11.9 billion this year through
July. The central bank expects they will advance 5 percent to a
record $21 billion in 2012.  “The rest of Asia doesn’t have these remittances, which is
a supportive factor for the economy,”  Standard Chartered ’s Harr
said. “The last export number was impressive.”  Rating Upgrades  President  Benigno Aquino , who took office on June 30, 2010,
has made progress in reining in the  budget deficit . The
government reported a shortfall of 73.73 billion pesos ($1.8
billion) for the first seven months of this year on Aug. 23,
within the 279 billion peso target. That compares with a full-
year deficit of 197.8 billion pesos last year and 314.5 billion
pesos in 2010. The state aims to narrow the budget  shortfall  to
2 percent of GDP in 2013 from a goal of 2.6 percent this year.  The country recorded a balance-of-payments surplus of
$3.1 billion in July, the most since November 2010, official
data show. Inflation has remained below 4 percent since January,
after staying at or above that level over the previous 12 months.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the Philippines’ debt rating to
BB+, one step below investment grade, in July, citing the
improved balance of payments and growth prospects. Moody’s
Investors Service, which ranks the country at the second-highest
junk level, boosted its outlook to positive in May, while Fitch
Ratings raised its assessment to one step below investment grade
last year.  ‘Cleaner Politics’  Aquino’s efforts at fighting corruption, cracking down on
tax evaders and repairing state finances have been reflected in
international surveys. The Philippines improved 10 levels to
65th in the  World Economic Forum ’s 2012 Global Competitiveness
report released on Sept. 5, the biggest increase among the major
Asian economies. The country came in at 129th in last year’s
Transparency International Corruption Perceptions  Index ,
compared with 141st in 2008, according to the Berlin-based
watchdog’s website.  “What Aquino has done so far is being appreciated by the
market, and people are aware that it’s much cleaner politics in
the Philippines,” said Irene Cheung, a Singapore-based
strategist for Asian foreign exchange and rates at ANZ, said in
a Sept. 14 interview. “It will further enhance the image of the
Philippines, and we continue to see rating upgrades coming
through.”  The Southeast Asian nation’s sovereign bonds are the
second-best performing after Indonesian notes among 10 Asian
nations tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc in the past year. Peso-
denominated securities returned 12.3 percent, compared with
Indonesia’s 15.6 percent gain. Malaysian government notes
returned 4.5 percent and Thai bonds rose 3.6 percent.  ‘Re-Rating Story’  The Philippines’ benchmark 10-year bond yield dropped 52
basis points, or 0.52 percentage point, this year to 4.72
percent. That compares with declines of 23 basis points in
 Malaysia , 13 basis points in Indonesia and an increase of 37
basis points in  Thailand  for like-maturity yields over the same
period.  “We view the Philippines as a re-rating story, and
anticipate an investment-grade rating in the next two years,”
Chia-Liang Lian, Singapore-based head of  investment management 
for Asia at Western Asset Management Co., which oversees $447
million globally, said in a Sept. 12 interview. “Fiscal
discipline, external surpluses and improving debt dynamics are
factors underpinning our view.” The company holds more
Philippine notes than the benchmark index recommends, he said.  The country’s improving economic prospects and the likely
rating upgrade have already been reflected in the strength of
the peso, according to  Credit Agricole  CIB. The bank, which sees
the peso at 41.70 per dollar at year-end, recommends clients
sell the currency versus the Malaysian ringgit.  ‘Peso Overvalued’  “The peso is overvalued as it didn’t respond to the
weakening of the global environment like everybody else,”
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist at Credit Agricole in
 Hong Kong , said in a Sept. 14 interview. President Aquino “has
surprised on the upside and that’s one of the reasons why the
currency and the economy are doing well, but that’s already
priced in,” he said.  The peso gained 0.9 percent on Sept. 14, the biggest
advance in almost a year, after the  Federal Reserve  announced a
third round of asset purchases the day before. The central bank
is ready to make policy adjustments and curb excessive
volatility in the currency if needed, Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said on Sept. 14. The
currency fell 0.8 percent in the first two days of this week.  Accommodative Monetary Policy  Credit-default swaps on five-year Philippine government
debt dropped 79 basis points this year to 113 yesterday,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities should the issuer fail to adhere to debt
agreements. A basis point equals $1,000 annually in a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept  the rate  it pays lenders
for overnight deposits at 3.75 percent on Sept. 13. The decision
was predicted by 16 of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey,
with the rest expecting a quarter-percentage-point reduction.  “We continue to expect the peso to outperform, while the
near-term outlook is solid, reflecting the sustained balance-of-
payments surplus, credit upgrades and strong demand for
Philippine assets,” Thio Chin Loo, a senior strategist at BNP
Paribas in  Singapore , said in a Sept. 14 interview. “The
central bank’s policy will remain accommodative to support
growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net . 