-- Philippines Gets Approval for Sales of Dollar, Peso Bonds
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-09-18T04:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/philippines-said-to-get-approval-for-sales-of-dollar-peso-bonds.html
The  Philippines  has secured central
bank approval to sell peso-denominated debt to global investors
and dollar bonds in the local market, issues that may help
reduce the government’s borrowing costs.  The government has the go-ahead to sell as much as $1
billion worth of the peso notes and up to $500 million of dollar
securities, according to three officials who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public. It plans to use
part of the proceeds of the global bond sale to buy back some
existing dollar debt that pays a higher coupon, one of the
officials said.  “This gives excess funds in the global market an outlet
and an opportunity to invest in the Philippines, whose
fundamentals have never been better,” said  Jonathan Ravelas ,
the Manila-based chief market strategist at BDO Unibank Inc.,
the nation’s largest lender. “There’s a play on the peso
appreciation too.”  The $225 billion Asian economy is narrowing its  budget
deficit , cutting foreign-currency risks and extending debt
maturities to help win investment-grade credit ratings. The
administration of President  Benigno Aquino  has conducted bond
exchanges and sold peso-denominated notes to overseas investors
since starting a six-year term in June 2010.  The Philippines is ready to hold a debt exchange or buyback
if the opportunity arises, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said
on Sept. 14. The nation may issue global peso bonds and exchange
these for dollar notes or offer a buyback, Treasurer  Roberto Tan 
told reporters yesterday.  Stronger Peso  The peso touched a four-year high of 41.358 per dollar
yesterday and has strengthened 5 percent this year, a
performance second only to Singapore’s dollar among  Asia ’s 11
most-active currencies.  The government sold the equivalent of $1 billion of 10-year
peso-denominated bonds overseas in September 2010 and in January
2011 raised $1.25 billion from a similar offer of 25-year notes.
Local-currency securities sold to overseas investors are exempt
from a 20 percent tax on interest income.  The Philippines bought back $1.3 billion worth of foreign-
currency bonds in October 2011, a move that it said would save
about $165 million in interest costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  