-- Pink’s Erotic Lessons, Killers Rock, Jackson’s ‘Bad’ Gems
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-09-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/pink-s-erotic-lessons-killers-rock-jackson-s-bad-gems.html
Pink is busy offering the world
erotic lessons. It’s a dirty job but someone has to do it: Who
better than her?  Pink -- or  P!nk  as she becomes when she gets excited -- was
once plain Alecia Beth Moore, another  Britney Spears  wannabe.
She’s since improved, though not exactly matured. Her new CD
“The Truth About Love” is a snappy class in pop hooks.  Her lyrics are witty and veer schizophrenically from tender
to tough. First she says that romance is about songs, birds and
all the poetry you’ve never heard. Next thing, love is “nasty,
it’s salty, it’s regret in the morning and smelling of armpits.”  There’s a “na-na-na” playground chant as the star comes on
like a schoolgirl trying to shock with rude words, laddered
stockings and cheeky attitude. The aren’t-I-daring single is
called “Blow Me (One Last Kiss).” Another look-at-me chorus
trills, “You’re an asshole, but I love you.”  “True Love” is the sunniest pop and erupts into an insanely
catchy refrain supported by Lily Rose Cooper (the new name of
Britain’s  Lily Allen ).  Last time around on 2008’s “Funhouse,” Pink was lamenting a
breakup with her husband, motocross racer Carey Hart. Now they
are back together and she’s churning out jaunty little numbers,
the sort of thing Madonna used to write in her sleep.  Rating: ***.  Michael Jackson ’s “Bad” is rereleased in a 25th-anniversary
edition. Back in 1986, the world’s biggest star was determined
to beat the success of “Thriller” and started with 60 songs. In
1987 he recorded 30 and ended up releasing 10 -- hoping each one
could be a single.  Some of those that missed the cut can be found on disc 2 of
the new set. “Streetwalker” is a close relative of “Billie
Jean.” “Don’t Be Messin’ ’Round” is mid-paced funk and “Fly
Away” is one of Jackson’s most gentle ballads. Not at all bad,
not quite true thrillers.  Rating: **** for the original album, *** for the extras.  The fourth studio album by the Killers is weighed with
baggage after Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  declared his
fondness for the band’s music. (“Anyone’s allowed to like us,”
bassist Mark Stoermer later told Rolling Stone.)  The title “Battle Born” refers to the Nevada flag, the
act’s  Las Vegas  studio and the closing track. This is meat-and-
potatoes music with echoes of everyone from Bon Jovi to U2. It’s
conservative with a small C, with singer Brandon Flowers --
coincidentally a Mormon like Romney -- leading the call to arms.  This is the Killers’ most straightforward record and it
will sell in shedloads. “Runaways” and “Flesh and Bone” have
serious words but these anthems are made for college dorms,
hairdressing salons or lighter-waving in stadiums. Rating: ***.  “Cruel Summer” is a collaborative album by artists on Kanye West’s Good Music. The 54 minutes are squandered in trying to
showcase the company. There is sadly little of the hothouse
brilliance that sustained great rap labels from Sugar Hill to
the original Def Jam. Production tweaks by West often help to
make weak tracks at least listenable. Much of this should not
have got off the drawing board. Rating: *.  Brooklyn band Grizzly Bear became one of the hippest names
to drop in rock in 2009 with the complex “Veckatimest.” Now
“Shields” is another mash of influences, time signatures and
styles. The group remains easier to admire and cite knowingly
than actually like and listen to. Rating: ***.  Pink is on RCA, Jackson on Sony, Killers on Island, West on
Good Music and Grizzly Bear on Warp Records. Prices start at $8
for a single CD, $13 for deluxe editions with extra tracks and
$49.98 for the Jackson box set including CDs and a DVD of a 1988
show at Wembley,  London . Download fees vary across services.  Information:  http://www.pinkspage.com ,
 http://www.michaeljackson.com ,  http://www.thekillersmusic.com ,
 http://kanyewest.com/  and  http://grizzly-bear.net/ .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art,  Ryan Sutton 
on food,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech and  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 