-- Rand Best Performer as Platinum Talks Settle Investor Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-09-18T14:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/rand-gains-as-spanish-auction-boosts-risk-appetite-yields-fall.html
The rand gained most among
emerging-market currencies and bond yields fell as talks between
platinum miners and striking workers boosted confidence in an
industry that is  South Africa ’s biggest foreign-currency earner.  The rand advanced as much as 0.7 percent and traded 0.4
percent stronger at 8.2337 per dollar as of 3:30 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the best performance out of more than 25 emerging-
market currencies monitored by Bloomberg. Yields on 6.75 percent
bonds due 2021 dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage
point, to 6.67 percent.  Workers started returning today to some platinum mines
after police, supported by the army, disarmed striking miners to
prevent a repeat of clashes that killed 45 people at  Lonmin
Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine last month. Workers at Lonmin cut their pay
demands as talks with management continued. At the Rasimone
platinum mine, jointly owned by  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and
 Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. (RBP) , the situation was “quiet” after
police arrested 42 people for public violence yesterday.  “News flow surrounding the labor unrest has turned
slightly more positive,” Theuns de Wet, head of fixed-income
research at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in e-
mailed comments. “The underlying macro-economic environment
remains bond-bullish, with low growth, contained inflation and
easy monetary policy. If the unrest in the mining sector
continues to settle down, bonds should trade stronger.”  Mining accounts for 9 percent of South  Africa ’s gross
domestic product and 20 percent of its export earnings,
according to government data.  Inflation Slows  The consumer inflation rate probably rose to 5 percent in
August from 4.9 percent in the previous month, according to the
median estimate of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
central bank’s mandate is to keep inflation in a 3 percent to 6
percent target range.  The Monetary Policy Committee will probably leave its
benchmark repo rate unchanged on Sept. 20, according to all but
one of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The MPC unexpectedly
cut the repo rate by 50 basis points on July 19 to 5 percent to
bolster growth in Africa’s largest economy.  The rand also advanced as appetite for riskier assets
improved after  Spain ’s borrowing costs dropped at a bill
auction, bolstering confidence in plans to solve  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  Spain’s borrowing costs fell from the previous auction even
as the impact of European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s
proposal to buy bonds of countries that submit to rescue
programs started to fade. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
has delayed making a decision on whether to trigger the
mechanism that Draghi announced two weeks ago, prompting an
increase in 10-year yields yesterday to more than 6 percent.  “A continued risk-on bias in international markets should
take some of the pressure off the rand over the near term,”
Bruce Donald, a strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., wrote in
e-mailed comments. “The rand remains highly sensitive to
fluctuations in global risk appetite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  