-- Real Madrid Rallies Past Manchester City 3-2 in Champions League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-18T23:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/real-madrid-rallies-to-beat-manchester-city-in-champions-league.html
Real  Madrid  scored two goals in the
final five minutes to defeat  Manchester City  3-2 in soccer’s
 Champions League , while Arsenal won 2-1 at Montpellier.  Cristiano Ronaldo scored in the final minute last night to
cap Real’s comeback in a matchup of the Spanish and English
champions. Karim Benzema tied it for Real two minutes after
Aleksandar Kolarov gave City a 2-1 lead in the 85th minute.  “You can’t go up 2-1 with five minutes to go and lose,”
City goalkeeper  Joe Hart  said in a televised interview with ITV.
“We can only blame ourselves.”  Lukas Podolski and Gervinho scored first-half goals to give
Arsenal the away win in Group B. Porto and Schalke also won
away, while AC Milan was held to a scoreless draw by Anderlecht
on the opening night of Europe’s elite club competition.  Among tonight’s eight games, Chelsea begins defense of its
title at home against Italian champion Juventus.  Bayern Munich ,
last season’s runner-up, is home to Valencia and  Spartak Moscow 
visits Barcelona.  Manchester City looked to have won the Group D match in
Madrid when Kolarov’s free kick from the right side with five
minutes left went untouched through a crowd of bodies and inside
the far post.  The lead was short-lived, however, as Benzema took a pass
on the edge of the area, spun to his right and fired a low drive
past Hart two minutes later. Ronaldo then won it with a low shot
from the right.  No Sympathy  “I don’t have sympathy -- that’s football and we deserved
to win,” Real coach  Jose Mourinho  told ITV. “We played a
better match from the first minute and deserved it totally.”  Real had 56 percent of possession, a 30-8 advantage in
shots, 17 of which were on target. Hart finished with 14 saves.  City opened the scoring in the 68th minute on a goal from
Edin Dzeko before Marcelo answered for Real eight minutes later.  “It’s hard to come off the field after losing 3-2 and be
positive,” Hart said. “We’re not a team that should come here
and pat ourselves on the back for doing well.”  Group D matches the reigning champions from four of
Europe’s biggest leagues. In the other game, Germany’s Dortmund
beat Ajax of the Netherlands 1-0 with an 87th-minute goal from
 Robert Lewandowski .  Montpellier, making its tournament debut, took a ninth-
minute lead against Arsenal in  France  as Younes Belhanda scored
with a penalty kick after being taken down by Thomas Vermaelan.  Quick Goals  The Gunners tied the score in the 16th minute on Podolski’s
goal and went in front two minutes later as Gervinho scored.  Montpellier dominated the second half, with Remi Cabella
hitting the crossbar and Belhanda shooting at goalkeeper Vito
Mannone from 10 yards out (9 meters) in the 81st minute.  Arsenal assistant Steve Bould took charge as manager  Arsene Wenger  began a three-match European ban for comments about the
referee following last season’s round of 16 loss to AC Milan.  “The second half was tough and we looked physically a
little bit tired,” Bould said in comments on Arsenal’s website.
“The crowd got right behind them and it’s quite an intimidating
place to come and play, so we’re glad to get the result.”  Also in Group B, Schalke won 2-1 at Olympiacos in  Greece .
Klaas Jan-Huntelaar got the winning goal a minute after Djamel
Abdoun tied the score for the home team in the 58th minute.  Zlatan Ibrahimovic became the first player to score for six
different clubs in the Champions League to help Paris Saint-
Germain rout Dynamo Kiev 4-1.  Thiago Silva  and Alex also had
first-half goals for PSG.  In the other Group A game, Lucho Gonzalez and Steven Defour
scored in Porto’s 2-0 win at Dinamo Zagreb  Seven-time champion AC Milan was unable to score against
Anderlecht in Group C and has now failed to get a goal in all
three home matches this season. Malaga leads the group following
a 3-0 home win over Zenit St. Petersburg, with Isco scoring
twice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 