-- Treasuries Rise Second Day as Growth Concern Spurs Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-09-18T21:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/treasuries-gain-as-u-s-data-underscore-growth-concern.html
Treasuries gained for a second day,
recouping almost half the losses posted since Federal Reserve
policy makers announced more debt purchases last week, on bets
the  U.S. economy  will struggle to expand even with stimulus.  Yields on  30-year bonds  have declined eight basis points in
the past two days, after surging 17 basis points following the
conclusion of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting Sept.
13. The central bank is unlikely to stop buying Treasuries when
its separate Operation Twist program ends in December, some of
Wall Street’s biggest bond-trading firms said. International net
purchases of Treasuries rose to $50 billion in July from $32.4
billion the month before, government data showed today.  “Despite the Fed’s action, the reality is we haven’t had
any fundamental change in the economic picture at the end of the
day, and that has underscored the resilience of Treasuries,”
said  Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates at Cantor Fitzgerald
LP in  New York , one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the
Fed. “The break to higher yields will have to wait a bit.”  Thirty-year yields  fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.01 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 3.12
percent yesterday, the highest since May, before they began
falling. The price of the 2.75 percent security due in August
2042 gained 18/32, or $5.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 94 31/32.  The benchmark 10-year yield dropped three basis points to
1.81 percent. It touched a record low of 1.379 percent on July
25 before increasing to 1.89 percent on Sept. 14, also the
highest since May.  ‘Unacceptably Slow’  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement Sept.
13 it will make open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month as it seeks to boost economic growth and reduce
unemployment. The committee said it will continue its purchases
and take additional steps as needed “if the outlook for the
labor market does not improve substantially.” The  unemployment
rate  has been stuck above 8 percent for 43 straight months.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said today the
central bank’s new stimulus is vital for boosting “unacceptably
slow” improvement in economic growth.  Dudley said in response to audience questions after a
speech in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , that the Fed’s policies are
“pushing hard” to boost economic growth, which will ultimately
allow the central bank to normalize  interest rates .  “Near term, the economic outlook is that the growth pace
is likely to remain disappointing,” Dudley said.  Operation Twist  The Fed also said last week it will continue its program to
 swap  $667 billion in shorter-term debt in its holdings with
longer-term Treasuries through December, when it’s scheduled to
end. The effort, known as Operation Twist, is designed to lower
long-term borrowing costs.  Bank of America Corp., Jefferies & Co. Inc. and Barclays
Plc, which are also primary dealers, predicted the Fed will keep
buying Treasuries once the program is completed.  “If the pace of economic growth stays close to where it is
now, then it will be hard for the Fed in December to make the
argument that we’ve had sustained and substantial improvement,”
 Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates strategy at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York, said during a telephone interview.
“The Fed will effectively continue Operation Twist in January
without the debt sales. If they let the Treasury purchases stop,
it would be de-facto tightening monetary policy.”  The central bank bought $4.6 billion of Treasuries today
due from September 2018 to August 2020 as part of the program.  Investors Bullish  Investors in Treasuries remained bullish over the past
week, betting prices of the securities will increase even as
they increased neutral positions, according to a survey by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The  proportion  of net longs was at six percentage points in
the week ended yesterday, according to JPMorgan. It was down
from eight percentage points in the previous week. The percent
of outright longs dropped to 21, from 23 percent the previous
week, the survey said. The percent of outright shorts, or bets
the securities will fall in value, remained at 15 percent.
Investors raised neutral bets to 64 percent, from 62 percent.  Global demand for U.S. financial assets climbed in July as
foreign investors sought shelter from the debt crisis in  Europe ,
a Treasury Department report showed today.  Net buying  of long-
term equities, notes and bonds totaled $67 billion during the
month, compared with net purchases of $9.3 billion in June, the
department said.  China, Japan  China remained the biggest foreign owner of Treasuries
after its  holdings  rose $2.6 billion, to $1.15 trillion,
according to the data.  Japan , the second-largest foreign lender
to the U.S.,  boosted  its holdings by $7 billion, or 0.6 percent,
to $1.12 trillion.  “Investors remain tethered to a perceived safe-haven
region,”  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income strategist at GMP
Securities LLC in New York, wrote in a note to clients. “We
expect U.S. assets will continue to draw a premium bid tied to
being the asset group that is likely to provide the best
opportunity to generate superior risk-adjusted results over the
near to medium term.”  Relative yields on mortgage securities were the lowest on
record after the Fed said last week it would make monthly
purchases of the debt.  A Bloomberg index of yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed
mortgage bonds trading closest to face value was 84 basis points
higher than an average of five- and 10-year Treasury rates in
New York. It was the narrowest spread since at least 1984.  Stocks, Bonds  Stocks are beating U.S. government bonds this year.
Treasuries returned 1.3 percent in 2012 through yesterday, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 18 percent, including reinvested dividends.  Treasuries were supported earlier today as a survey showed
German investor sentiment was negative for a fourth month in
September, boosting demand for the safest assets. The ZEW Center
for European Economic Research in Mannheim said its  index , of
investor and analyst expectations, which aims to predict
economic developments six months in advance, rose to minus 18.2
from minus 25.5 in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  