-- Ringgit Leads Drop in Asian Currencies as Export Outlook Dims
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-09-18T08:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/ringgit-leads-drop-in-asian-currencies-as-export-outlook-dims.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit led declines in
Asian currencies as concern the Chinese and U.S. economies are
slowing damped the region’s export outlook.  China  may continue to face difficulties for “a period of
time” due to Europe’s debt crisis and the weak  U.S. economy ,
according to a commentary published today by the official Xinhua
News Agency. A Federal Reserve report yesterday showed
manufacturing in New York contracted at the fastest pace since
2009. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index reached a four-
month high yesterday after the Fed announced a third round of
asset purchases on Sept. 13, boosting the supply of dollars  “The growth picture remains somewhat bleak and people have
just been buying into risk because of the stimulus
expectations,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “Asian currencies are
expected to take a step back.”  The ringgit dropped 0.6 percent to 3.0625 per dollar as of
4:03 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Indonesia’s rupiah slid 0.4 percent to 9,505, the
 Philippine peso  lost 0.3 percent to 41.74 and Thailand’s baht
weakened 0.3 percent to 30.89. The Asia Dollar Index, which
tracks the region’s 10 most-active currencies outside of Japan,
declined 0.1 percent.  New York Manufacturing  The ringgit, which jumped 2.4 percent last week, fell the
most since July as trading resumed after a holiday yesterday.
Malaysia will release data tomorrow that may show inflation was
1.4 percent in August, the same as July and the lowest in more
than two years, according to the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  “New York manufacturing has fallen quite a lot and that
will have some impact,” said Choong Yin Pheng, senior manager
for fixed income and  economic research  at Hong Leong Bank Bhd.
in  Kuala Lumpur . “Risk sentiment has taken a back seat again
after the Fed’s quantitative easing announcement last week.”  The rupiah retreated from a seven-week high of 9,447 per
dollar reached yesterday. Recent advances were not because of
intervention by policy makers but were due to the Fed stimulus,
Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution said in Jakarta
yesterday. Central banks intervene in  currency markets  by
arranging purchases or sales of foreign exchange.  “The rupiah will trade around the 9,500 level again,”
OCBC’s Cahyadi said.  Thai Exports  The baht weakened for a second day before data that may
show exports slumped 5.9 percent in August, the biggest drop
this year, after falling 4.5 percent in July, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of an
official report due Sept. 20 to Sept. 25. China is Thailand’s
largest export market.  “Concern about the Chinese economic slowdown is growing
and that hurts the export outlook of Asian nations,” said
 Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan Center for Economic
Research in Tokyo.  South Korea’s won retreated from a six-month high after the
 Korea Development Institute  cut its economic growth forecast for
2012 to 2.5 percent yesterday from a May projection of 3.6
percent. Policy makers must control volatile capital flows as
quantitative easing measures taken in the U.S. and Europe have a
negative spillover in  developing countries , Bank of Korea
Governor Kim Choong Soo said on Sept. 14. The won slipped 0.2
percent to 1,118.40 per dollar.  “We will be seeing some correction in the currency market
as investors take caution against government intervention and
risk-taking recedes,” said Han Sung Min, a Seoul-based currency
trader at Busan Bank. “Still, losses will be limited as dealers
are waiting to sell the dollar once the won weakens to near the
1,120 level.”  Elsewhere, China’s  yuan  dropped 0.03 percent to 6.3191
against the greenback. Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to
NT$29.460 and Vietnam’s dong was little changed at 20,850.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  