-- Romania Asks Court to Annul Eldorado Mine Environment Permit
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-09-18T13:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/romania-asks-court-to-annul-eldorado-mine-environment-permit-1-.html
Romania  filed a court request to
annul an environmental permit for a gold-mine project owned by
 Canada ’s  Eldorado Gold Corp. (ELD)  claiming issuance irregularities,
Environment Minister Rovana Plumb said.  The ministry also wants to suspend the permit for
Eldorado’s Certej mine throughout the court trial because it was
issued in July by the regional agency for environmental
protection in the western Timisoara county without the national
agency’s knowledge, Plumb told reporters in Bucharest today.  “We are taking a step to repair an illegality,” Plumb
said. “There have been several gaps and irregularities in the
permitting process. The permit is illegal because it violates
Romanian and European legislation since one of the neighboring
countries, namely  Hungary , sent us negative feedback.”  The Environment Ministry started an investigation into the
Certej mine permit earlier this month after non-profit
organizations, including Alburnus Maior, challenged it, citing
“an extremely dangerous precedent for Romania” because of
environmental issues caused by using cyanide to extract gold.  Eldorado said on Sept. 14 that the permit was granted in
“full compliance” with all Romanian legislation and European
Union regulations. The permitting included a “comprehensive
public consultation process in Romania and with neighboring
countries,” it said.  Plumb said the ministry will respect any court ruling.  Rosia Montana  The ministry is also assessing the permitting of another
gold mine project owned by Canadian company  Gabriel Resources
Ltd. (GBU)  in Rosia  Montana , in the center of the country.  Plumb said there is no connection between the permitting
process of the two projects and the Certej permit is not a
precedent for the Rosia Montana mine.  “The Rosia Montana project is still under evaluation as it
is of national interest and requests a serious and responsible
approach,” Plumb said. “The technical committee for the
project’s analysts will not meet again until the procedure about
financial guarantees is completed.”  The permitting process may go ahead once the country
translates into its legislation some European Union directives
about industrial and mining waste, Plumb said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  