-- Romney Backer Leder Made Sun Capital Fortune Fixing Retailers
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-09-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/romney-backer-leder-made-sun-capital-fortune-fixing-retailers.html
Marc Leder, whose $3 million
 Florida  home was the site where Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  said almost half of Americans feel
entitled to government aid, made his fortune buying broken
companies from Boston Market to Captain D’s.  Leder, co-chief executive officer of Sun Capital Partners
Inc., is running a private-equity firm with about $8 billion
under management. He earned a bachelor’s degree in economics
from the Wharton School of the  University of Pennsylvania , the
fourth-best undergraduate business school, according to
Bloomberg Businessweek, and together with a group of private-
equity executives owns the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team.  “I believe all Americans should have the opportunity to
succeed, to improve their lives, and to build even better lives
for their children,” Leder said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “I have supported people from both political parties
who share this view and make it a priority, even though their
ideas on how to achieve it may differ.”  Leder hosted a $50,000-a-plate fundraiser for the candidate
in  Boca Raton , Florida, in May. A video recording from the event
posted this week by Mother Jones magazine showed the nominee
saying 47 percent of Americans will vote for President Obama
“no matter what” because they are dependent on  government aid 
and don’t pay income tax. Leder has given at least $225,000 to
Restore Our Future, a so-called super-political action committee
backing Romney, according to OpenSecrets.org.  Schneiderman Subpoena  Sun Capital, which Leder co-founded in 1995, is among
private-equity firms subpoenaed by  New York  attorney general
Eric Schneiderman in a probe into whether they are depriving the
state of  tax revenue , according to two people familiar with the
matter. Alex Stanton, a spokesman for the firm, declined to
comment.  Schneiderman is investigating so-called management fee
waivers, which reduce tax liability of buyout firms by
converting certain fees paid by their investors into fund
commitments, whose profits are taxed at a lower rate. Other
firms subpoenaed in the attorney general’s probe include Bain,
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , KKR & Co. and TPG Capital, the
people familiar said. The fee waiver tactic hasn’t been deemed a
violation of federal tax laws.  Romney, whose wealth is estimated at $250 million, paid an
effective rate of 13.9 percent, according to his 2010 return,
lower than many middle- and upper-middle-income households. He
said on Aug. 16 that he had never paid less than 13 percent in
the past decade and his campaign said the figure he cited
represented his share of federal income tax.  ‘Old Friend’  “I hosted a fundraiser for an old friend in May,” Leder
said in his statement. Leder also threw a fundraiser for Romney
at his Boca Raton home in September 2011, where guests were
served brie-stuffed French toast and short-rib tartlets.  At the May fundraiser, Romney also said the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict is going to “remain an unsolved problem”
and that pressuring  Israel  to make concessions to get the
Palestinians to act “is the worst idea in the world.” He
discounted the prospects for Middle East peace between Israel
and the Palestinians, a goal that has been sought for decades by
presidents from both parties.  Romney, who created buyout firm Bain Capital LLC in 1984,
has brought unprecedented attention to the long-secretive
private-equity industry during his campaign for the White House.
Republican primary opponents  Newt Gingrich  and  Rick Perry 
assailed Romney over his private-equity past, and the Obama
campaign has criticized the former buyout manager for
outsourcing jobs and closing factories.  Fixing Companies  Private-equity firms raise money from investors such as
public pensions, foundations and endowments and pair that money
with debt to finance the purchase and amplify returns when they
sell. Once a cottage industry, private equity has grown to
manage an estimated $3 trillion in assets worldwide, according
to researcher Preqin Ltd.  Leder started Sun Capital with Rodger Krouse, an investment
banking colleague at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. whom Leder
met at Wharton. They opted to locate the firm in Florida and
planned to buy small companies in the Southeast, Leder said in a
2008 interview with Bloomberg Markets magazine.  When the regional strategy failed, the pair turned
initially to consulting and eventually to buying troubled
companies they could fix and eventually sell for a profit. The
firm has gone on to invest in more than 305 companies with
combined sales of more than $45 billion, according to its
website.  Friendly’s Bankruptcy  Sun last year agreed to retain ownership of Friendly Ice
Cream Corp., the restaurant company created in 1935 and commonly
known as “Friendly’s,” after taking the chain through
bankruptcy. Friendly’s closed 63 locations as part of the
filing, while keeping 424 sites open.  Sun has a reputation for focusing on smaller, difficult
deals where it can deploy a team of operating experts to cut
costs or jump-start growth. Sun earlier this month agreed to buy
closely held S&N Communications, a company that services
utilities and telecommunications companies.  “S&N Communications is a niche business overlooked by many
buyers, but has attractive cash flow characteristics,” Leder
said in a statement announcing the deal.  Leder was among a small group of private-equity investors
who joined together to personally buy the Philadelphia 76ers
basketball team. Others in the consortium, led by Apollo’s
 Joshua Harris , include  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s  David Blitzer .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  