-- Rubber Advances as Japan May Add Stimulus to Stem Yen’s Rally
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-09-18T07:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/rubber-advances-as-japan-may-add-stimulus-to-stem-yen-s-rally.html
Rubber climbed to the highest level
in 11 weeks on speculation that  Japan ’s central bank will expand
monetary stimulus to rein in the Japanese currency’s strength,
boosting the appeal of yen-denominated contracts.  February-delivery rubber gained 0.6 percent to end at 256.2
yen a kilogram ($3,255 a metric ton) on the  Tokyo  Commodity
Exchange, the highest settlement level since July 4. Futures
advanced 12 percent last week, the best gain since the period
ended Jan. 20. The market was closed yesterday for a holiday.  The  Bank of Japan  opened a two-day policy meeting today.
Five of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the BOJ will
announce further easing tomorrow, with sixteen expecting a move
by October. The U.S. Federal Reserve announced last week a third
round of so-called quantitative easing to bolster growth. The
euro retreated from its highest level against the yen in four
months on concern that a slowdown in the region’s economy will
worsen the debt crisis.  “The market is supported by speculation that Japan may
ease its monetary policy further to stem a rally in the yen”
that hurts exports,  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker
Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo, said by phone today.  Thailand ’s Cabinet approved a budget of 30 billion baht to
purchase rubber from farmers at above-market rates, said
Sansanee Nakpong, a government spokeswoman. The first
disbursement of 5 billion baht for the program was approved
today, she said.  January-delivery rubber dropped 0.3 percent to close at
24,305  yuan  ($3,846) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.
Thai rubber free-on-board gained 1.4 percent to 98.25 baht
($3.18) a kilogram today, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  