-- Rupiah Retreats as Advance Deemed Excessive Amid Global Slowdown
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-09-18T09:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/rupiah-retreats-as-advance-deemed-excessive-amid-global-slowdown.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah retreated from a
seven-week high as some traders gauged recent gains excessive
given the worsening state of the global economy.  Government
bonds  fell.  A Federal Reserve report showed yesterday manufacturing in
New York contracted at the fastest pace since 2009. European
Union finance ministers were deadlocked over the timetable for a
more unified regional banking sector following a Sept. 14
meeting in Cyprus. The rupiah had its biggest two-day gain since
May after the Fed on Sept. 13 announced a third round of asset
purchases that boost the supply of dollars.  “The growth picture remains somewhat bleak and people have
just been buying into risk because of the stimulus
expectations,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “The rupiah will trade
around the 9,500 level.”  The rupiah declined 0.4 percent to 9,503 per dollar as of
4:34 p.m. in Jakarta, after gaining 1.2 percent in the last two
trading days, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 9,447 yesterday, the strongest level since
Aug. 1.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, increased 28 basis points, or 0.28
percentage point, to 5.28 percent.  Recent gains in the rupiah were not because of intervention
by policy makers but the Fed’s stimulus, Bank Indonesia Governor
Darmin Nasution said in Jakarta yesterday. Central banks
intervene in  currency markets  by arranging purchases or sales of
foreign exchange.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
rose two basis points to 5.89 percent, according to prices from
the Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 