-- Russia Ending USAID Programs, State Department Says
-- B y   L a r r y   L i e b e r t
-- 2012-09-18T21:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/russia-ending-usaid-programs-state-department-says.html
Russia  has ordered an end to
activities in the country by  USAID , the U.S. economic and
development assistance agency, the State Department said in
 Washington .  “While USAID’s physical presence in Russia will come to an
end, we remain committed to supporting democracy, human rights,
and the development of a more robust civil society in Russia and
look forward to continuing our cooperation with Russian non-
governmental organizations,” State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  USAID, previously known as the U.S. Agency for
International Development, has financed nongovernmental
organizations in Russia including Golos, a vote-monitoring
group, and Memorial, a human-rights organization. Such aid has
been in doubt since Russia’s passage of legislation requiring
groups that receive aid from abroad to register as “foreign
agents” and submit to tighter restrictions.  “The Russian government’s decision to end all USAID
activities in the country is an insult to the  United States  and
a finger in the eye of the Obama administration, which has
consistently trumpeted the alleged success of its so-called
reset policy toward Moscow,” Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona 
Republican, said in an e-mailed statement after the State
Department announcement.  ‘Sovereign’ Decision  While McCain said Russia’s action “should prompt strong
criticism from the highest levels of the White House and the
State Department,” Nuland had declined at a State Department
briefing yesterday to criticize what she called “a sovereign
nation’s decision whether they want to have our assistance.”  USAID has provided $2.7 billion to Russia over the last 20
years on programs from fighting AIDS and tuberculosis to
supporting environmental protection, Nuland said. She said
Russia informed the U.S. that the operations would be cut off in
a diplomatic note on Sept. 12.  Freedom House, which calls itself a watchdog group backing
democratic change and human rights, said the Obama
administration should have resisted the request to end
operations in Russia and forced Russia’s President  Vladimir Putin  “to publicly kick out USAID.”  “The move is likely a demoralizing and devastating blow to
an increasingly embattled Russian civil society,” David J.
Kramer, president of the New York-based group, said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Larry Liebert in Washington at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  