-- Ryan’s Proposal Would Shrink Medicare’s Doctor Pool
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-09-18T22:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/ryan-s-proposal-would-shrink-medicare-s-doctor-pool.html
The  federal budget  proposed by
Representative  Paul Ryan , the Republican vice-presidential
nominee, extols the benefits of “ promoting true choice ” for
Medicare beneficiaries. In truth, though, the Ryan plan would
substantially reduce choice for many people on Medicare -- by
cutting them off from their current doctors.  Doctors see Medicare patients, despite the relatively low
payments they receive for doing so, partly because Medicare
represents such a large share of the health-care market. If a
substantial number of beneficiaries moved out of Medicare and
into private plans, as Ryan proposes, doctors would have much
less incentive to see Medicare patients. And the elderly who
want to remain in traditional Medicare would risk being
stranded.  The evidence suggests that, in time, this problem could
well affect a large share of Medicare beneficiaries. To put that
evidence in context, though, it helps to first review the
history of the Ryan plan.  The proposal has changed since it was presented in 2011. In
the original version, traditional Medicare was eventually to be
 replaced in its entirety  by private plans. The  Congressional
Budget Office  found that this shift would raise health-care
costs drastically because the private plans wouldn’t be large
enough to enjoy Medicare’s leverage in negotiating prices with
hospitals and other large providers. The savings that private
plans could achieve because beneficiaries would share more of
the costs, and therefore economize more, would be more than
offset by that loss of leverage -- and by the private plans’
higher overhead and need to turn a profit.  Ryan Revision  In response to the devastating CBO report, Ryan revised his
proposal. Under Ryan 2.0, private plans would co-exist with
traditional Medicare. (The CBO hasn’t fully evaluated the
revised plan yet.)  Many supporters argue that the new plan can’t be as big a
problem as the old one, since beneficiaries could always choose
to remain in traditional Medicare. In health care, however,
choice isn’t always innocuous -- and can sometimes be harmful.  I have previously described  two downsides  to expanding
private plans in Medicare. First, it would undercut Medicare’s
ability to help move the payment system away from fee-for-
service reimbursement and toward payments based on value,
because no private plan is large enough to accomplish that shift
by itself. Second, the mechanism for adjusting premiums to even
out the health risks of individual beneficiaries is far from
perfect, so plans can easily game the system, raising total
costs. In effect, the plans would end up being overpaid.  The reduced choice of doctors for those who remain in
traditional Medicare is a third adverse consequence of moving
beneficiaries out of the program.  Currently, Medicare beneficiaries almost universally enjoy
 excellent access  to doctors. And the great majority of
beneficiaries never have to wait long for a routine appointment,
the  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission  has found. Roughly 90
percent of doctors accept new Medicare patients.  Doctors provide this access even though they are reimbursed
by Medicare at rates that are only about 80 percent of
commercial rates -- partly because Medicare is such a large
share of the market. Which brings us to the concern about the
Ryan plan.  Medicare Doctors  How important is Medicare’s market share in influencing
physician participation? The evidence is limited, but the best
study to date suggests it is significant. In the 1990s, Peter
Damiano, Elizabeth Momany, Jean Willard and Gerald Jogerst, all
associated with the  University of Iowa , surveyed  Iowa  physicians
and examined variation among counties.  They found  that for each
percentage-point increase in the share of Medicare beneficiaries
in a county’s population, doctors were 16 percent more likely to
accept patients on Medicare. The only other study I know of on
this topic, an unpublished analysis by Matthew Eisenberg of
 Carnegie Mellon University , also found an effect from Medicare’s
market share, albeit one that was substantially smaller than the
one Damiano and his colleagues found.  About 10 percent of the  U.S. population  is now enrolled in
traditional Medicare, and an additional 5 percent has private
Medicare plans. Let’s assume, for the sake of argument, that the
Ryan plan would cause another 5 percent of the population to
shift, and to be conservative let’s cut in half the Damiano
estimate of the impact from that reduction in Medicare’s market
share. Then the chance that a doctor is willing to see
traditional Medicare patients would be expected to decline by a
whopping 40 percent. The share of doctors accepting Medicare
would fall from about 90 percent to 54 percent.  To be even more conservative, let’s average the reduced
Damiano estimate (already been cut in half and applied only to
today’s market share rather than the higher one that will exist
in the future when more people are on Medicare) with the
Eisenberg estimate. Still, about 20 percent of doctors would be
expected to stop accepting Medicare patients.  Supporters of the Ryan approach might argue that fewer
people would shift into the private plans, so the impact would
not be that great. After all, the existing Medicare program
already offers Medicare Advantage plans, so perhaps anyone who
wants private insurance already has it. But then, what is the
point of Ryan’s Medicare reform?  Another defense might be that the government could simply
raise doctor-reimbursement rates to encourage providers to
continue treating a shrinking population of traditional Medicare
patients. And that’s true. However, Ryan has not included the
extra cost in his budget.  So, which is it, Mr. Ryan? Will your plan cause Medicare
beneficiaries to lose access to their doctors, or are your
budget numbers too rosy because you haven’t counted the extra
payments needed to keep doctors in the program?  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Romney’s 47 percent fallacy 
and on how  not to be tough in the Middle East ;  Ezra Klein  on
Romney and  the responsibility of the poor ;  Margaret Carlson  on
how  Romney isn’t necessarily doomed ; Clive Crook on why  the Fed
made the right move ; William Pesek on rising  tensions between
China and Japan ; Matthew Bryza on how  Europe can hang tough on
Gazprom ; Mel and Patricia Ziegler on  the creation of Banana
Republic .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  