-- Samsung Fails to Defeat Galaxy Tab Sale Ban in Apple Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-09-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/samsung-fails-to-defeat-galaxy-tab-sale-ban-in-apple-case.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  failed to
persuade a U.S. judge to lift a preliminary ban on U.S. sales of
its Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer imposed as part of a patent
dispute with Apple Inc.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California ,
issued the order temporarily blocking sales of the Tab 10.1
computer before a jury found Aug. 24 that Samsung infringed six
of seven Apple patents and awarded Apple $1.05 billion in
damages.  Apple and Samsung agree that a pending ruling on Samsung’s
appeal of Koh’s June order temporarily “deprives the court of
jurisdiction to dissolve the injunction,” the judge wrote in a
Sept. 17 order. The judge canceled a Sept. 20 hearing on
Samsung’s bid to dissolve the temporary ban without setting a
new date.  “We are disappointed by the court’s decision,”  Adam
Yates , a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We will continue to take all
appropriate measures to ensure consumer access to our innovative
products.”  The ruling adds weight to a Dec. 6 hearing at which Koh
will consider Cupertino, California-based Apple’s request for a
permanent U.S. sales ban on eight Samsung smartphone models and
the tablet following the jury verdict. Seven of the eight phones
that Apple seeks to ban are part of Samsung’s Galaxy line.  More Products  Koh said previously that Apple has indicated it may seek to
broaden the scope of Samsung products it wants banned under a
permanent injunction. Apple said in an Aug. 27 court filing that
Koh should also bar U.S. sales of a version of the tablet that
runs on mobile networks, even though that product wasn’t covered
by the Aug. 24 verdict.  Koh said in her Sept. 17 order that Samsung has raised a
“substantial issue” in seeking to lift the preliminary ban on
the Tab 10.1. Koh said the basis for June’s injunction was her
determination that the Tab 10.1 probably infringes an Apple
patent. That reason “no longer exists” because the jury
concluded the Tab 10.1 doesn’t infringe the patent in question,
instead finding that it infringes three different patents, she
said.  “Based on these facts alone, the court at this time would
dissolve the June 26 preliminary injunction if the court had
jurisdiction,” Koh wrote in her order.  Apple argued previously in a court filing that lifting the
ban during the appeal only to re-impose it later “would cause
confusion in the market and is not necessary to prevent
irreparable harm.”  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment on Koh’s ruling.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  