-- SEC Claims Australia Man Ran $53 Million Forex Trading Fraud
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-09-18T20:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/sec-claims-australia-man-ran-53-million-forex-investment-fraud.html
U.S. regulators accused an
 Australia  man of raising at least $53 million from investors
with false claims that he ran a group of elite foreign-exchange
traders who could generate 78 percent annual returns.  Senen Pousa and his Brisbane, Australia-based firm,
Investment Intelligence Corp., promised investors “unlimited”
passive income from his strategy of making only a few select
trades each month with no more than 3 percent of an investors’
capital at risk in any given trade, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a lawsuit filed today at federal court in
Austin, Texas. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission filed a
parallel lawsuit today.  Pousa’s fraud came to light in May, when investors
discovered their accounts had lost 63 percent of their value
after about 200 trades had occurred in a two-day period, the SEC
said. Following the losses, Pousa issued a white paper to
investors, encouraging them to add more capital to their
accounts in order to “recoup the losses faster,” according to
the complaint.  In February, Pousa began to market his strategy through
 Elevation Group Inc. , an investment blog based in Austin. After
the blog conducted and broadcast an interview with Pousa,
interest in his investment strategy exploded, the SEC said. When
it arranged to broadcast a live question-and-answer session with
Pousa, more than 12,000 of the blog’s members registered to
watch, according to the complaint.  Freezing Assets  The SEC and CFTC asked for a court order to freeze Pousa’s
assets in the U.S., a step Australian regulators took in July,
according to the lawsuit.  “Pousa exploited the Internet to communicate his
fraudulent investment services to a worldwide audience,” said
Kevin Edmundson, assistant director of enforcement in the SEC’s
regional office in  Fort Worth , Texas. “This is a good example
of how regulators around the world work together to enforce
securities laws for all investors.”  A phone number listed to Pousa’s company in Australia was
disconnected.  Pousa falsely claimed he employed six of the world’s best
forex traders, who turned every $10,000 invested into more than
$281,000 from October 2007 to January 2012. He also told
investors that they would have access to his “millionaire’s
circle,” through which they would be introduced to one of
Pousa’s millionaire investors every one to two weeks. Pousa
never made any of the promised introductions, the SEC said.  ‘Wall Street Elite’  According to the SEC, he told investors “this is the way
that the Wall Street elite play the game.”  Brent Baker, an attorney for Elevation Group, said his
client fully cooperated with regulators and “had nothing to do
with the fraud.” Elevation Group “is looking forward to
assisting in any way they can to get money back to investors,”
he said in a telephone interview.  The cases are Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Investment Intelligence Corp. PTY LLC, 12-cv-0863, and U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Pousa, 12-cv-0862, U.S.
District Court for the Western District of  Texas  (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  