-- Shell Arctic Setback Shows Risks, Environmentalists Say
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-09-18T17:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/shell-arctic-setback-shows-risks-environmentalists-say.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s decision to
abandon oil drilling in  Alaska ’s Arctic waters this year
underscores the risks of working in harsh maritime conditions,
environmentalists said.  “We think it’s crazy,” said Niel Lawrence, senior
attorney for the New York-based Natural Resources Defense
Council, which has opposed exploring in the region. “And the
evidence is mounting that shows it’s crazy.”  Sub-freezing temperatures, high sea swells and ice floes
make the Arctic off the Alaska coast a particularly difficult
location for offshore drilling, the NRDC and other critics of
drilling in the region say.  President  Barack Obama  sought to fend off criticism from
Republican opponent  Mitt Romney , who said the administration has
spent too much time and money promoting green energy sources
like wind and solar power, by highlighting an increase in oil
production during his first term.  Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  defended Shell and the
administration’s decision to let The Hague-based company to
start preparatory work before winning a final permit.  “The department has set rigorous safety, environmental-
protection and emergency-response standards for any exploration
activities in the Arctic, and throughout this process, Shell has
demonstrated a commitment to those standards,” Salazar said in
a statement. “Tremendous progress has been made and valuable
lessons will be learned as the company carefully and
deliberately moves forward with Arctic exploration activities.”  Chukchi Halt  Shell said on Sept. 17 that it was scrapping plans to drill
into oil reservoirs this year in the  Chukchi Sea  off Alaska’s
north coast after a containment dome designed to cap the spill
was damaged. The company had agreed to stop drilling in the
Chukchi by Sept. 24, to avoid the onset of ice that might
interfere with spill-response actions.  The company said it will proceed with drilling so-called
top holes that don’t extend all the way down into oil reserves.  Shell said it was disappointed the equipment hadn’t met its
“stringent acceptance standards.”  “But, as we have said all along, we will not conduct any
operation until we are satisfied that we are fully prepared to
do it safely,” the company said in the statement.  Shell has spent seven years and $4.5 billion in preparation
for drilling in the Arctic, an area that may hold the biggest
source of U.S. oil outside the  Gulf of Mexico .  Arctic Setbacks  Damage to the containment dome was only the latest setback
for the company.  A day after announcing on Sept. 9 that drilling had started
in the Chukchi -- the first time in two decades that the U.S.
Arctic sea floor had been touched by a drill bit -- Shell was
forced to disconnect its rig from the well to avoid encroaching
sea ice.  In July, the U.S. Coast Guard had to inspect the vessel
Noble Discoverer when it slipped its mooring and drifted toward
shore in the Aleutian Islands. The crew didn’t report any
damage.  Shell said the Noble Discoverer will return to the site in
days. The company said it will begin an exploratory well in the
 Beaufort Sea  after the conclusion of a whale hunt. Work in the
Beaufort can continue until the end of October.  Shell is still seeking a final permit to complete its
exploratory wells. It won the go-ahead to begin limited
preparatory work, including drilling to 1,400 feet under the
seabed. The oil reservoirs lie 4,000 feet deeper.  Pete Slaiby, Shell’s head of Alaska operations, in August
said on a conference call that it would be difficult to complete
the exploratory wells this year.  “Shell’s announcement is recognition of what we’ve been
saying all along: The company cannot safely drill in our Arctic
waters,” said  Michael Brune , executive director of the  Sierra
Club , which is based in  San Francisco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  