-- Shell Unveils British Columbia Water Treatment Facility
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2012-09-18T17:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/shell-unveils-british-columbia-water-waste-treatment-facility.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  opened a
reclaimed water facility in British Columbia, part of a plan
with Dawson Creek to eliminate Shell’s need to draw on local
freshwater to help operate its Groundbirch natural gas venture.  The multimillion-dollar facility in northeastern British
Columbia will “provide a new source of revenue for the city of
Dawson Creek as well as additional water for industrial and
municipal users,” Shell said in a statement.  Dawson Creek, 1,200 kilometers (740 miles) from  Vancouver ,
is at the center of British Columbia’s natural gas and oil-
producing fields. The plant will help meet “the water needs of
all users” including residents and the municipality, with
 Europe ’s largest oil company piping its share of the water from
the facility to its natural gas operations 48 kilometers west of
Dawson Creek.  PetroChina Co.,  China ’s biggest oil producer, said Feb. 2
that it bought a 20 percent stake in Shell’s Groundbirch shale-
gas project. No terms were disclosed by the companies.  With a capacity of 4,000 cubic meters a day, or enough
water for at least 12,000 Canadian households, the plant will
recycle sewage wastewater currently released into the Dawson
Creek, The Hague-based company said in the Sept. 7 statement.  “Water is a limited resource and we need to use it
carefully and responsibly,” Dawson Creek Mayor Mike Bernier
said. “This facility allows us to do that.”  The British Columbia government “applauds the work and
commitment that has resulted in this fine facility, which is a
model we hope other industry players and local governments will
strive to replicate,” Minister of Energy and Mines Rich Coleman
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  