-- Singapore Boosts Tourism Spending With F1 Amid Slowdown
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-09-19T12:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/singapore-boosts-tourism-spending-with-formula-one-amid-slowdown.html
Singapore will encourage tourists
to spend more by offering marquee events and attractions such as
the Formula One night race as a faltering global recovery
threatens to curtail growth in visitor arrivals.  The country’s five biggest tourism markets are located in
the Asia-Pacific region where there’s “steady growth,” said S. Iswaran, Singapore’s second trade minister who oversees the
 tourism industry . This has offset concerns that  Europe ’s
protracted sovereign-debt crisis may limit travel, he said.  Singapore  forecast  arrivals to rise to 17 million and
tourism spending to S$30 billion ($24.5 billion) by 2015. The
opening of two casino resorts that include a downtown convention
center and a Universal Studios theme park spurred a 13 percent
increase in visitors  last year  after a 20 percent climb in  2010 .
The country expects the number of tourists to rise as much as
9.8 percent to 14.5 million in 2012.  “Compounding at double-digit rates for your visitor
arrivals are OK in short bursts, but on a long-term basis, it
will have its limits,” Iswaran, who’s also a minister in the
Prime Minister’s Office, said in an interview on Sept. 17. “The
emphasis is on yield,” where “tourism receipts grow at a
faster rate,” he said.  Tourism spending is expected to rise as much as 8 percent
to S$24 billion this year, according to government estimates.  Katy Perry  Singapore’s Formula One night race, which is in its fifth
year, attracts about 40,000 visitors to the island annually and
adds an average of S$140 million to tourism revenue, Iswaran
said. This year’s Grand Prix takes place this weekend.  The Formula One has drawn companies such as  Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  and UBS AG, which have flown in clients
and partners for networking events around the race.
Entertainment is a key component, and tickets to the race this
year offer access to concerts by performers including Maroon 5,
Katy Perry and  Jay Chou .  “There are a lot of events hosted around F1 that are
pinned to the uniqueness of F1 as a night race,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore.
“The race is important, but even more important are the deals
that go around it, that are made here.”  The majority of tourists for this week are expected from
 Australia , the U.K. and the U.S., according to data on flight
reservations up to Sept. 1 compiled by  Amadeus IT Holding SA (AMS)  and
Forward Data SL. Overall bookings are 3 percent lower than a
year earlier, they said in a joint statement today. The data
also indicates the possibility of a surge in last-minute
bookings, they said.  Long Weekend  About 15 percent of arrivals are expected tomorrow,
indicating that visitors are staying longer, they said.  “Thursday shows peak arrival numbers two days before the
qualifying race takes place, suggesting that visitors arriving
for the F1 are making a long weekend out of the famous Singapore
leg of the circuit this year,” they said.  Negotiations to extend Singapore’s contract for another
five years are under way with Formula One Administration,
Iswaran said, adding that both parties will decide before the
middle of 2013.  “We will take a hard look at the benefits that accrue to
the economy as a whole and in turn what are the costs that the
government would have to incur in order to continue to support
this event in Singapore’s context,” said Iswaran, who lobbied
to bring the race to the island in 2008.  Formula One Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone 
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  New Dimension  The Grand Prix has elevated Singapore’s standing as a
tourist destination, said Craig Baird, who’s racing at the
Porsche SC Global Carrera Cup  Asia  before the Formula One.  “No matter where you go around the world, people talk
about the Singapore night race because they get so many people
who may not go to an F1 event,” Baird, 42, said in a phone
interview. “From a driver’s perspective, I love it that you
have all day to cruise around and take in the sights before
heading to the races. It’s a good event from both sides of the
fence.”  Singapore ’s  tourism sector  continues to grow even as the
negotiations take place. In June, the city-state unveiled a S$1
billion, 101-hectare downtown park that’s set to attract as many
as 5 million visitors a year. It also welcomed two pandas this
month on loan from  China  for 10 years. They will reside in the
River Safari, the island’s newest attraction due to open at the
end of the year.  Mitigating Factors  The city of 5.2 million people occupying an area about half
the size of  Houston  remains vulnerable to global forces as it
diversifies its tourism industry.  “Certainly, if there’s a general slowdown, that will have
an impact on discretionary spending and therefore some of the
travel,” Iswaran said. “Any slowdown in large economies will
have an impact, but there are other mitigating factors which can
help to keep the tourism industry’s momentum going.”  The  Singapore dollar  has strengthened 6 percent this year,
the best performer among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, making the city’s costs higher for
tourists in the region.  “That’s always something that we have to watch out for, in
terms of the impact of a currency that is very strong relative
to the main source markets of our tourists and their
currencies,” he said. “If you look at the data, we are still
holding up and able to attract our fair share of tourists.”  Regional Competition  Singapore’s top five tourism markets are China,  India ,
 Malaysia ,  Indonesia  and Australia, he said.  Neighboring countries are also doing more to draw
visitors. Malaysia opened the first Legoland theme park in Asia
last week, the first in an Orlando-styled cluster of attractions
planned by Merlin Entertainments Group Ltd., which said it will
target tourists visiting Singapore.  Billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , whose  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) 
owns Singapore’s downtown casino-resort, is keen to build a
project in  Taiwan  that would rival its Venetian Macau gaming
center if it gets permission,  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ’s Chief Executive
Officer Edward Tracy said last month.  When Singapore “first had the two integrated resorts,
there’s this novelty effect but we have already passed that
stage,” said  Irvin Seah , a Singapore-based economist at DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. “Now it’s a matter of enticing tourists to
loosen their purse strings further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  