-- Singh’s Biggest Ally to Quit Coalition Over Foreign Retail
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 2012-09-19T04:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/singh-s-biggest-ally-to-quit-ruling-alliance-over-foreign-retail.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s largest ally said it was quitting the ruling coalition
over a decision to allow the entry of foreign retailers and
raise diesel prices, an exit that would leave the government at
the whim of regional parties as it seeks to revive the economy.  Losing the backing of  Trinamool Congress  would put the
government about 24 seats short of a majority in the lower house
of Parliament at a time when it is bidding to sustain a burst of
policy making and stem a slump in popularity. It’s unlikely to
pose an instant risk to the longevity of Singh’s Congress party-
led administration, which has in the past won expressions of
support from other groups in the legislature.  In what could signal she’s leaving a window for
negotiations and face-saving compromise, Trinamool ministers
will only be pulled from the federal cabinet on Sept. 21, party
leader and West Bengal Chief Minister  Mamata Banerjee  said late
yesterday. Congress spokesman Janardan Dwivedi said the
government would discuss issues raised by Banerjee.  “The government has become weaker in numbers, but not in
spirit,” said  Sanjay Kumar , a New Delhi-based analyst at the
Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, who saw “no
immediate threat” to the government if it’s pushed to prove its
strength in a parliamentary vote. “It won’t backtrack from the
path of reforms it initiated though there may be a temporary
delay in pursuing further changes,” he said.  ‘Disaster’  Divisions within Singh’s ruling bloc have repeatedly
hampered government efforts to push through policy changes
including the easing of investment rules for pension and
insurance companies, a gridlock which has spurred a slowdown in
investment and expansion in  Asia ’s third-largest economy. The
retail proposals stalled in December amid opposition from
Banerjee’s Trinamool.  Accepting the arrival of overseas supermarket chains in
 India  would prove a “disaster” for India’s farmers and small
shopkeepers, Banerjee said at a press conference in Kolkata
after a three-hour meeting of her party. “If you allow FDI in
retail, where will these poor people go?” she said.  Singh could turn to the Samajwadi Party or the Bahujan
Samaj Party, the third- and fourth-largest parties in
parliament, both with mercurial leaders.  The Samajwadi Party supported the government when it was
close to toppling over a 2008 civil nuclear cooperation deal
with the U.S. Mayawati’s BSP, which the Samajwadi Party routed
in polls in Uttar Pradesh state this year and is unlikely to be
keen to face the electorate again so soon, backed Singh in key
budget votes in 2010.  Policy Spurt  The Samajwadi Party said it would take a decision on its
relationship with the government after a nationwide strike
called by opposition parties for tomorrow, said Ram Gopal Yadav,
general secretary of the group.  Banerjee, who controls 19 members in Parliament’s 545-seat
lower house, has to weigh the political risks of backing down
with her bid to win a bailout for her indebted state.  The government’s minority status makes reforms that require
the approval of lawmakers, such as allowing foreign investment
in financial services, less likely,  David Sloan , Asia director
at New York-based Eurasia Group, said in an e-mailed analysis.  A government “aware of the reputational risk inherent in
another policy flip-flop will not backtrack on FDI
liberalization,” Sloan said. It may consider a partial rollback
of the diesel price increase if it helps secure the support of
groups like the Samajwadi Party, he said.  ‘Downfall’  Singh’s chief rival said Banerjee’s vow would lead to the
administration’s ouster. “The beginning of the downfall of the
UPA government has started,” Bharatiya Janata Party spokesman
Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters in  New Delhi , referring to
the coalition by its formal name, the United Progressive
Alliance.  In an unexpected move Sept. 14, Singh’s cabinet allowed
overseas retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA)  to
own as much as 51 percent in supermarket ventures, and foreign
airlines to hold minority stakes in local carriers, the biggest
changes to overseas ownership rules in eight years. The policies
didn’t need parliamentary approval.  A day earlier, the government announced a 14 percent
increase in the price of diesel as it attempts to rein in
 government spending  -- a step that ratings companies say is
necessary to avoid a credit downgrade to junk.  Olive Branch  Singh’s bid to implement policies sought by business
leaders have been hobbled by a divided ruling coalition and
graft allegations over coal mining that have paralyzed
parliament. The government passed the second-fewest bills since
1952 last year and opposition party protests over the allocation
of mining blocks wiped out the last 13 days of the most recent
parliamentary session. The economy is now growing at near its
slowest pace in three years, while inflation above 7 percent
narrows the room for interest rate cuts by the central bank.  Offering an  olive branch  to regional leaders who have said
they’ll oppose the arrival of large overseas retail chains over
concerns they will put millions of small shopkeepers out of
work, the government said it will be up to state governments to
decide if they want to adopt the policy.  Investment Falls  In the latest sign of the frustration felt by voters toward
Congress, only 38 percent of Indians said they were satisfied
with the country’s direction, according to a Pew Research Center
survey. That was down from 51 percent a year earlier, and was
the largest drop among the 17 countries in the survey, including
 China , the U.S. and  Brazil .  Amid the political gridlock, India’s economic growth
potential may have fallen to 6 percent to 6.5 percent a year,
below the  Reserve Bank of India ’s 7.5 percent estimate,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  said. Foreign direct investment fell 67 percent to
$4.43 billion in the three months ended June from a year
earlier, government data show.  The budget shortfall and a deficit in the current account,
the broadest measure of trade, led Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings to say earlier this year that they may strip India of
its investment-grade  credit rating .  Banerjee said yesterday she won’t allow the “country to be
sold” in the pursuit of government policy. She accused Singh of
attempting to divert attention from the coal scandal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  