-- Sony Shares Rise After Report of Talks With Olympus: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-09-18T07:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/sony-shares-rise-after-report-of-talks-with-olympus-tokyo-mover.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Japan ’s biggest
exporter of consumer electronics, rose to the highest level in
two months in Tokyo trading after NHK reported the company is in
final talks to invest in  Olympus Corp. (7733)   The shares gained 4.5 percent to 1,027 yen, the highest
since July 10, at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo. Olympus,
the Japanese endoscope maker that admitted to accounting fraud
last year, fell 1 percent, while Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average declined 0.4 percent.  Sony will invest about 50 billion yen ($635 million) in
Olympus and set up a company to manufacture medical equipment,
public broadcaster NHK reported Sept. 14. Olympus Chairman
Yasuyuki Kimoto said in July the Tokyo-based company was in
discussions with Sony,  Terumo Corp. (4543)  and  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) 
about possible tie-ups.  “It would be a good purchase for Sony,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities
Co. in Tokyo. A tie-up would help Sony expand its medical
business, he said.  Sony hasn’t made any decision and wasn’t the source of
reports on the talks, the Tokyo-based company said in a
statement on Sept. 15. Mami Imada, a Sony spokeswoman, declined
to comment when reached by phone today.  Restated Earnings  Olympus hasn’t narrowed down candidates for a capital
alliance, Tsuyoshi Oshima, a company spokesman, said Sept. 14.
Olympus isn’t the source of reports on the talks, Osamu
Kobayashi, another spokesman, said today.  A deal between the two companies may be reached within a
month, the Nikkei newspaper reported Sept. 15, without saying
where it got the information.  Olympus restated earnings last year, taking a $1.3 billion
cut in total equity, after admitting it paid inflated fees on
takeovers and overpaid for three Japanese companies to conceal
past investment losses.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus is the world’s biggest maker of endoscopes, used by
doctors to look inside the body. It controls about 75 percent of
the global market for the instruments, which are used to
diagnose diseases such as colorectal cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  