-- South Africa’s Cosatu Says It’s Losing Touch With Workers
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-09-18T11:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/south-africa-s-cosatu-says-it-s-losing-touch-with-workers.html
The Congress of South African Trade
Unions, the country’s largest labor group, said a growing gap
between its leadership and members means rivals may erode its
power as an ally of the ruling party.  “If we lose touch with our members’ concerns there is the
danger of finding ourselves outflanked by the new independent
unions, which are emerging as a result of dissatisfaction from
the shop floor,” Cosatu General-Secretary Zwelinzima Vavi told
about 3,000 delegates at the group’s congress in Johannesburg
today.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP) , and  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s three biggest platinum
producers, have halted output this year amid labor unrest over
pay. The National Union of Mineworkers, Cosatu’s biggest
affiliate, has failed to represent worker demands adequately,
according to mine laborers.  The strikes at gold and platinum mines this year have cost
the economy 4.5 billion rand ($547 million), President Jacob Zuma, who is also leader of the ANC, said yesterday. The
government has lost 3.1 billion rand in revenue as a result of
the labor unrest, he said.  More than a third of the two-million strong labor
federation believes its leaders are either corrupt or have sold
their members out, Vavi said, as he presented a political report
by Cosatu’s leadership.  Vavi and Cosatu President S’Dumo Dlamini were yesterday re-
elected after no one else was nominated for their positions.
Cosatu was one of the biggest factions to support President
 Jacob Zuma  when he ousted  Thabo Mbeki  as leader of the ruling
 African National Congress .  It is “premature” to discuss who should be elected to the
ANC’s leadership at its conference in December, Vavi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  