-- South Sudan Expects $540 Million Once Sudan Oil Deal Is Signed
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-09-18T13:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/south-sudan-expects-540-million-once-sudan-oil-deal-is-signed.html
South Sudan  expects to receive $540
million held in foreign bank accounts once an oil agreement is
signed with neighboring Sudan, Finance Minister Kosti Manibe
said.  The money is being held in the accounts because of a
dispute with Sudan over the ownership of some crude shipments
made before South Sudan shut down its oil production in January
because of a dispute over transit fees, he told reporters today
in Juba, the capital. South Sudan expects the two countries will
sign an agreement on Sept. 23 in talks mediated by the  African
Union  in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia’s capital, he said.  South Sudan, which gained independence in July 2011, is
seeking loans to finance its  budget deficit  caused by the loss
of oil, which provided about 98 percent of government revenue.
The country may ask the  International Monetary Fund  for a $200
million credit, Manibe said.  “We are seeking loans from very many quarters including
the IMF,” he said. “Our preference is to get concessional
loans.”  At independence, South Sudan took control of about three-
quarters of the formerly united Sudan’s output of 490,000
barrels of oil a day. The crude is mainly pumped by China
National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and
India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd.  The government has also been seeking loans tied to building
power, road, rail and port projects, Manibe said.  “We are working on plans to have thermal  power plants 
built in oil-producing areas,” he said. “In the beginning they
might be linked with the mini-refinery projects we intend to
build there and the excess power will be sold to consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Karl Maier at 
 kmaier2@bloomberg.net  