-- Mendis’s Bowling Record Sparks Sri Lanka Rout in Twenty20 Opener
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-09-19T00:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/sri-lanka-totals-182-4-against-zimbabwe-in-world-twenty20-opener.html
Ajantha Mendis recorded the best
bowling figures in international Twenty20 cricket as host  Sri
Lanka  routed Zimbabwe by 82 runs in the World Twenty20 opener.  Spin bowler Mendis, playing his first match for Sri Lanka
since January, claimed six wickets for eight runs last night in
the Group C encounter in Hambantota. He surpassed the 6-16 he
took against  Australia  last year as the  best bowling performance 
in international cricket’s shortest format.  “Ajantha was very keen to get back into the side and we
saw that hunger in him,” Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardena
said in comments on the tournament’s website. “I’m sure he’ll
have bad days but the quality of the player is that he’ll have
more good days than bad.”  Sri Lanka, the second favorite to win the 12-nation event
behind India according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill, totaled
182-4 after being put in to bat and dismissed Zimbabwe for 100
in 17.3 overs.  Kumar Sangakkara  made 44 for the home team, Jeevan Mendis
stuck an unbeaten 43 of 41 balls and  Tillakaratne Dilshan  scored
39. Thisara Perera came in two balls from the end, at 176-4, and
clubbed a six off the first delivery he faced.  Zimbabwe’s top scorer was opener Hamilton Masakadza with
20, while Jeevan Mendis took 3-24 and Lasith Malinga claimed the
other wicket.  “It’s tough playing a team like Zimbabwe as you can’t take
anything for granted,” Jayawardene told  Sky Sports . “We got a
good score, then bowled really well. The spinners came on and
did the job.”  Today, Australia plays Ireland in Group B, and  Afghanistan 
meets India in Group A, both games in  Colombo . England opens its
title defense Sept. 21 against Afghanistan in Colombo.  The top two in each of the four groups go through to a
Super Eight stage, from which the top two in each pool advance
to the semifinals. The final is in Colombo on Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  