-- Stealth Lobbying Used to Tout Sugar Over Rival Corn Syrup
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-09-18T20:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/stealth-lobbying-used-to-tout-sugar-over-rival-corn-syrup.html
 A group that bills itself as the
“voice of the natural-health consumer” has received about
$300,000 from the sugar industry to help campaign against high-
fructose corn syrup as an alternative sweetener.  Citizens for Health, a Washington-based nonprofit
organization, received more than half its funding in the past
year from the  Sugar Association . The money has been used to tell
consumers that corn syrup isn’t sugar, Chairman James Turner
said in an interview.  The sugar group’s backing shows how business groups and
nonprofit organizations can align to sway public opinion, said
Robert Maguire, outside-spending researcher at the Center for
Responsive Politics in Washington.  “These kind of things are a dime-a-dozen,”  Maguire, of
the watchdog group, said in a phone interview. “They always
have pretty names that obscure the industry.”  For more than a year, sugar manufacturers and corn refiners
led by  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  and Cargill Inc. have been in
a fight over labeling high-fructose corn syrup, a lower-cost
option, as “corn sugar.”  Turner defended his group’s acceptance of the Washington-
based Sugar Association’s cash. “If a marketplace player is
willing to support advancing the consumer interest, it’s really
important to work with them,” Turner said.  Citizens United  Since the  Supreme Court ’s 2010  Citizens United  decision,
which said the government can’t restrict independent corporate
spending on political issues, the flow of untraceable money has
become a flood, according to Maguire.  The Center to Protect Patients Rights, which is tied to
billionaires Charles and  David Koch , funneled $44 million to
groups for advertisements against the 2010 health-care law,
Maguire said. Other groups, some of which have existed for
decades, take positions on multiple issues: Americans for  Tax
Reform , the small-government group led by lobbyist  Grover Norquist , has worked on property rights to cap-and-trade policy.  Citizens for Health, founded in 1992, opposed efforts by
refiners including ADM of Decatur,  Illinois , and Cargill of
 Minneapolis  to call their sweetener “corn sugar” in
advertisements. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  rebuffed
the refiners’ request on May 30, saying sugar is a solid and
syrup is a liquid.  Research Disputed  Too much fructose in a diet may lead to obesity, according
to critics such as Citizens for Health. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration has classified the syrup as safe, just not called
a sugar. An  article published  today in the International Journal
of Obesity by four university researchers, including two with
ties to the Corn Refiners Association, concludes that high-
fructose corn syrup alone doesn’t cause obesity or other health
problems.  “Scientific evidence shows that consuming” high-fructose
corn syrup “might lead to health problems, including obesity,
childhood diabetes, high  blood pressure  and  heart disease ,”
Citizens for Health says on its foodidentitytheft.com website.  Turner said he has contacted the sugar industry at various
times since the early 1970s on common causes. The Sugar
Association provided funding about six years ago, when both
organizations opposed marketing for Splenda, a low-calorie
sweetener, he said.  Food Concerns  The group also advocates for chemical-free foods and
expanded access to dietary supplements, according to its
 website . While the organization is registered through Turner’s
law office, its staff works in offices across the country, he
said.  While the organization has said it takes money from
business groups, it could have done more to disclose its ties to
the sugar industry, Turner said.  “We will make it clear as we go forward,” he said.  High-fructose corn syrup  is refined from corn into a
sweetener that has become a common ingredient in cereals,
yogurts, soups and other foods. It is popular because it costs
less than sugar, partly because government policies boost corn
supplies and restrict sugar.  The Corn Refiners Association rejects such claims. The
corn-based sweetener “is basically the same as sugar,”
according to the Washington-based group’s website,
sweetsurprise.com.  Ads Challenged  Sugar producers led by the Denver-based Western Sugar
Cooperative in April 2011 sued members of the refiners
association in U.S. District Court in  California , accusing the
group of false advertising against sugar. Corn-syrup producers
sued on Sept. 4, stating that sugar producers attempted “to
vilify or perpetuate the vilification of” their product.  The Corn Refiners Association had $27.3 million in revenue
and $27.6 million in expenses in 2010, the last year for which
data were available, according to documents filed with the
 Internal Revenue Service . The Sugar Association had $2.4 million
in revenue and $2.7 million in expenses in 2010. Revenue rose to
$4.2 million and expenses climbed to $4.3 million last year,
documents showed.  Lawyers for ADM, Cargill,  Ingredion Inc. (INGR) , the Corn Refiners
Association and Tate & Lyle Ingredients Americas Inc. on Sept. 7
won a subpoena requiring Citizens for Health to hand over
records of all communications and financial links with the
sugar-industry plaintiffs. The subpoena ordered the health group
to comply by Sept. 28.  Public Trust  “People place a lot of trust in consumer groups, and the
expectation is they are solely acting in the public’s
interest,” Dan Webb, lead attorney for the corn refiners’
group, said in a statement. Sugar Association President Andrew
Briscoe has previously said his group funded Citizens for Health
at the time sugar producers were suing  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) , the
maker of Splenda, according to Webb.  “We think it’s important to find out if this kind of quid-
pro-quo relationship continues,” he said.  Adam Fox, an attorney representing sugar groups, said
Citizens for Health approached the Sugar Association to seek
funding. The group’s leaders were free to use the money “as
they saw fit,” as long as it supported a fact-based message and
wasn’t used for “mud-slinging,” he said.  “In some sense you could characterize this as corporations
doing a good thing,” Fox said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  