-- Storms May Bring Tornadoes, Airline Delays to Northeast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-09-18T21:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/storms-may-bring-tornadoes-airline-delays-to-northeast.html
A cold front from the west is
sweeping onto the East Coast with heavy rain, a chance of
tornadoes and high winds that are disrupting air traffic from
Boston to Washington, the  National Weather Service  said.  Showers and wind that started before dawn in  New York  will
be followed by rain and possibly tornado-spawning severe
thunderstorms later today, said  Tim Morrin , an agency
meteorologist in Upton, New York.  Tornado watches were posted from North Carolina to New York
state. The  New York City  area is under a watch until 7 p.m.  Airports including New York’s LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy
International halted traffic or reported delays of as much as
three hours, according the  Federal Aviation Administration’s
website . High wind from the passage of the front may mean worse
conditions for flights.  “Just the magnitude of the wind strength, gusting over 40
miles per hour, you would expect that at all the terminals for
sure,” Morrin said.  At least 58 flights into and out of LaGuardia were canceled
by 5 p.m., according to the Houston-based  Flight Aware  tracking
service. In Philadelphia, 59 flights were scrubbed and 39 were
halted at Reagan National in Washington.  Tornado Odds  There is a 5 percent chance tornadoes will form from about
 Albany , New York, to  North Carolina , according to the  U.S. Storm
Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma .  A wind advisory, warning of gusts as strong as 50 miles (80
kilometers) per hour, stretched from Maine to Delaware and is
effect until 6 a.m. tomorrow in New York, according to the
weather service. There’s a 45 percent chance high winds will
sweep the East Coast from New York City to coastal Virginia, the
storm center said.  Winds have already toppled trees and torn down utility
wires from New York to  Florida , according to the center. More
than 20,000 people are without power in the mid-Atlantic states,
according to utility company estimates.  The gusty winds will last through the night and will mainly
come from the passing of the front, Morrin said. There may also
be severe thunderstorms that push wind speeds as high as 60 mph,
he said.  The winds may make it difficult to drive, especially larger
trucks, and knock down utility lines, causing power failures,
according to the weather service.  Morrin said there is a chance of flooding because as much
as 2 inches (5 centimeters) of rain may fall in a short period
of time, overwhelming the ground’s ability to absorb it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  