-- Students’ $1 Trillion Debt to Crush Until Costs Fall
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2012-09-18T15:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/students-1-trillion-debt-to-crush-until-costs-fall-correct-.html
(Corrects in 21st paragraph of story that ran on Sept. 6
that student debt held by people 60 and older is $43 billion,
and in 29th paragraph to say group opposes portions of Franken’s
bill.)  This much we know: College pays.  While you can lose your house to foreclosure, you can never
lose your education. Four-year college graduates’ pay advantage
over high school grads has doubled over the past 30 years.  If money for tuition is tight, the advice goes, borrow what
you need. Students have been listening. In 2010 student debt
exceeded credit-card debt for the first time. In 2011 it
surpassed auto loans.  In March, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
announced that student debt had passed $1 trillion. It grew by
$300 billion from the third quarter of 2008 even as other forms
of debt shrank by $1.6 trillion, according to a separate
tabulation by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York ,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its Sept. 10 issue.  In a press briefing at the White House in April, Education
Secretary  Arne Duncan  said, “Obviously if you have no debt,
that’s maybe the best situation, but this is not bad debt to
have. In fact, it’s very good debt to have.”  If student loans are good debt, how do you account for the
reaction of Christina Mills, 30, of  Minneapolis , when she found
out her payment on college and law school loans would be $1,400
a month?  “I just went into the car and started sobbing,” says
Mills, who works for a nonprofit. “It was more than my paycheck
at the time.”  Medical student Thomas Smith, 25, of Hamilton, New Jersey,
is $310,000 in debt and struggling to make ends meet even before
beginning to repay his loans.  ‘Golden Ticket’  “I don’t even know what I eat,” he says. “I just go to
the supermarket and buy the cheapest thing I can and buy as much
of it as I can.”  Then there’s Michael DiPietro, 25, of Brooklyn, New York,
who accumulated about $100,000 in debt while getting a
bachelor’s degree in fashion, sculpture and performance, and
spent the next two years waiting tables. He has since landed a
fundraising job in the arts and still has no idea how he will
pay back all that money.  “I’ve come to the conclusion that it’s an obsolete idea
that a college education is like your golden ticket,” DiPietro
says. “It’s an idea that an older generation holds on to.”  Even if you buy into the notion that education debt is good
debt, at what point does it become too much of a good thing?
 Mark Kantrowitz , publisher of  FinAid.org , which researches
financial aid, estimates that student debt, compounded by rising
enrollments, is growing by almost $3,000 a second.  Heavy Debts  “The question isn’t the debt per se. It’s what the
students are getting in return,” says  Richard Arum , a New York
University sociologist who specializes in education. Many
students are incurring heavy debts for an education
(ethnomusicology, theater arts) that just isn’t worth it from a
strictly financial viewpoint. (While money isn’t everything, try
telling that to the collection agency.)  Education benefits society by creating a workforce that
creates wealth, pays taxes and stays off welfare. State
governments -- whose schools educate 7 in 10 students -- have
raised tuition abruptly because of their own financial problems.
So far the federal government has offset the state cutbacks by
boosting financial aid. Education Under Secretary Martha Kanter
testified to Congress earlier this year that “this path is not
fiscally sustainable.”  There’s a lot of speculation that college debt is the next
bubble after housing, the latest sector in which prices leap
above real value. American colleges may not be turning out the
kind of graduates that employers want.  Cost Side  In “Academically Adrift: Limited Learning on College
Campuses,” NYU’s Arum and sociologist  Josipa Roksa  of the
 University of Virginia  write that employers are being forced to
turn to foreigners or graduate and professional schools to fill
jobs that they once filled with homegrown college graduates.  That’s the value side. The cost side is ugly, too. The
economic slump that began in 2007 has forced people to pay more
for college even as it has driven more of them into it as a
refuge from an unfriendly job market. The  National Center for
Education Statistics  projects that college attendance this fall
will be up 19 percent from the fall of 2007.  Meanwhile, state and local support for higher education
last year was the lowest in 25 years of measurement, in
inflation-adjusted dollars per student, according to the State
Higher Education Executive Officers Association. Two-thirds of
college seniors graduated with loans in 2010, and those who did
had an average of about $25,000, according to the  Institute for
College Access & Success .  Rich Kids  The poor, who need the boost that a college education can
provide, are suffering the most. Strapped colleges know that
they can bring in more revenue from one student paying close to
the full load than from a dozen low-income students. So some are
bribing rich kids to attend with $10,000 a year they don’t need
-- grant money that otherwise might have gone to the truly
needy.  That’s just one of the reasons the lowest-income students
are more than three times as likely as the highest-income
students to be studying for a certificate or an associate’s
degree rather than a four-year degree, according to an analysis
of data compiled by FinAid’s Kantrowitz. That leads to lower-
paying jobs. Equal opportunity in higher education remains more
an ideal than a reality.  Bankruptcy Judges  Ten years is considered a reasonable period to repay one’s
 student loans , and many students take 20 or 25 years under
extended repayment plans. The New York Fed found that people
ages 60 and older are responsible for $43 billion in student
loans. It’s not clear how much is from their own studies and how
much because they co-signed on their children’s loans, and
whatever the case it’s no way to head into retirement.  There are solutions, and each is bound to be resisted by at
least some powerful constituency -- students, professors,
administrators, lenders or governments.  One huge step would be to allow bankruptcy judges to wipe
out education debt, as they could until Congress began to
tighten restrictions in 1976. Under today’s punitive statute,
judges can discharge student loans only in cases of undue
hardship, which in many jurisdictions requires proof of
“certainty of hopelessness.” (Congratulations, pal, you’re
hopeless!) “The law is much too harsh,” says U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge A. Jay Cristol in Miami.  Repayment Plans  Current law gives lenders no incentive to come to terms
with overindebted borrowers. The  National Consumer Law Center ,
in a July report, said “pursuing the most vulnerable borrowers
until they die” is inefficient and imposes “significant costs
to taxpayers.”  To help debtors avoid defaulting in the first place, the
center advocates placing them automatically in repayment plans
that make the payment a percentage of the borrower’s income
rather than a certain dollar amount. Under this “income-based
repayment,” which the Obama administration has pushed, any
outstanding debt is forgiven after 20 or 25 years.  Colleges should suffer more pain when federal loans go bad,
says Alex Pollock, a resident fellow at the  American Enterprise
Institute . That would make them more careful about raising
prices and encouraging students to take out government loans.  Better disclosure would help, too. Some financial aid offer
letters don’t even clearly identify loan components of aid
packages as debt. Others abbreviate “loan” as L or LN.  Standardized Information  “Sometimes they have the excuse that they’re limited in
the number of characters,” Kantrowitz says, “but they created
the form.”  The Education Department is developing a form that colleges
can use to give prospective students standardized information
about how much they will owe upon graduation, what the school’s
loan-default and graduation rates are, and so on. In May,
Senator  Al Franken , a Democrat from  Minnesota , introduced a bill
to make a standard form mandatory. The National Association of
Student Financial Aid Administrators opposes portions of the
bill.  School-provided financial aid, far from being charity, is a
tool for legal price discrimination -- i.e., charging different
customers different amounts right up to the limit of their
willingness or ability to pay. Most schools dole out grants
based on how much they need to discount the sticker price to
lure a given student to attend. Financial aid allows them to
collect more revenue than if they had to charge every student
the same amount. If oranges were sold the same way, a bag of
them might cost one family $40 and another $5.  Student Burden  Some of the nation’s wealthiest universities -- and some
smaller schools such as North Carolina’s Davidson College --have
eased the burden on students by replacing all loans with grants
in financial-aid packages. While that’s noble, it’s not a
realistic solution for all of higher education.  “Most colleges are not awash in money. It would be very
difficult to dial back the competitive game” of doling out aid
to maximize revenue, says Douglas White, a business consultant
and higher-education expert in Richmond, Virginia.  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  says President
 Barack Obama  encourages students to take on more debt, “sending
them the bill tomorrow.” Romney is still living down advice he
gave to college students in April, telling them to “borrow from
your parents” if they need money for school or to start a
business. (Parents’ contributions are already figured into
financial-aid packages.)  High Cost  Romney also favors reversing a 2010 decision under which
the Education Department has tried to save $60 billion over 10
years by making all new federal loans directly, eliminating
middlemen.  The most straightforward way to deal with the student debt
problem is to bring down the unreasonably high cost of higher
education, which forces students to go into debt in the first
place.  “We can’t just keep shoveling money into a system that
consumes resources at an ever-faster clip,” Kevin Carey, then
policy director of a nonprofit called  Education Sector , told the
Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions last
winter.  Carey, who now directs education policy at the  New America
Foundation , told the senators about cost-saving initiatives such
as those at  Virginia Tech , where students learn intro math
courses in computer labs rather than watching professors at
chalkboards, and the University of Minnesota’s new Rochester
campus, whose classrooms and labs are in the former food court
and movie theater of a mall. The Minnesota school collaborates
with  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and the  Mayo Clinic 
for advanced courses such as computational biology.  Removing Campus  Removing the campus altogether is even cheaper. Online
operations such as EdX, Coursera, Khan Academy and Udacity,
among others, offer high-quality instruction at no cost to the
student -- and don’t yet award degrees. Accrediting agencies,
dominated by incumbent schools, are skeptical. A survey
published in June by Babson Survey Research Group and Inside
Higher Ed found that 58 percent of professors surveyed have
“more fear than excitement” about online learning.  Someday, low-cost online education that requires zero
student borrowing may displace a big chunk of today’s entrenched
establishment. The fact that it hasn’t yet says a lot about the
durability of colleges and universities, several of which
predate the country’s founding. Rather than places of learning,
colleges have become expensive screening mechanisms. It’s not
what you learn in four years at  Harvard University  that
impresses potential employers; it’s the fact that you got into
Harvard in the first place.  Displace Others  So maybe the real problem is that credentialism has trumped
learning. That drives people to get degrees simply to displace
others who don’t have degrees, says Richard Vedder, who directs
the Center for College Affordability and Productivity. He notes
that the U.S. has more than 100,000 janitors with college
degrees and 16,000 degree-holding parking lot attendants.  Political scientist  Charles Murray  would get rid of the
bachelor’s degree altogether. In an  Intelligence Squared U.S. 
debate last October in Chicago, he said education is or at least
ought to be a lifelong process for everyone, diploma holders or
not.  “We are all engaged in the same process,” Murray said.
“We are not divided into professionals and service workers or
blue-collar workers. We all start out as apprentices. We become
journeymen, and we all strive to become master craftsmen.”  Grade Inflation  To tell the truth, though, many students are not exactly
striving, if Arum and Roksa’s “Academically Adrift” is
correct. Five-year colleges would be a better label for schools,
since that’s the average amount of time it’s taking students to
get through them. Financial aid is part of the problem: Students
equipped with big loan packages can play schools against one
another -- and what students seem to want is good grades for
light work, according to Arum’s research.  To combat grade inflation, which has made college
transcripts virtually useless to potential employers, Arum
recommends that transcripts include the average grade given in a
class next to the student’s letter grade. That would be like
grading on a curve without having to grade on a curve. Students
will presumably study harder, he says, if they know that their
grades contain real information for employers and grad schools.  As for paying it all back, it would be going too far to
direct students away from, say, ethnomusicology just because
it’s less lucrative than nursing or petroleum engineering.  Unemployment Rate  Princeton University economist Cecilia Rouse points out
that the liberal arts provide benefits to society beyond those
that loan officers pay attention to. It’s hard, though, to argue
against a standard disclosure form that would tell students
about the debt load,  unemployment rate  and average first-year
income for graduates of the school and the major they’re
thinking of committing their lives to.  It may be a while before it’s all solved. In 1939, the  New
Yorker  published a short story called “Ah, the University!”
about a well-to-do man who orders his only son to become a
professional poker player because he doesn’t want to pay for him
to go to college.  “Certainly nothing in the world is more delightful than
being at the university,” the father says. “The springtime of
life! Pleasure after pleasure! However, I’m not going to send
you there.” Perhaps the gentleman was just ahead of his time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Coy  in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  