-- Swedish Krona Climbs as Ingves Damps Intervention Speculation
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2012-09-18T14:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/swedish-krona-climbs-as-ingves-damps-intervention-speculation.html
The krona climbed from near the
lowest in two months against the euro after central bank
Governor Stefan Ingves signaled policy makers probably won’t
seek to weaken the Swedish currency.  The krona strengthened against all but one of 16 major
peers tracked by Bloomberg after Ingves said its appreciation is
“not that remarkable” given the nation’s economic outlook. His
comments came after the Riksbank published the minutes of its
September policy meeting. The currency surged to the strongest
in more than 12 years against the euro last month. Sweden’s
economy will expand 1.1 percent this year, according to median
forecast of 16 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “The minutes and these quotes from Ingves paint a picture
that there is no such plan to actively try to weaken” the
krona, said Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, chief analyst at  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. The comments may be “yet another indication
that the Riksbank has accepted a strong Swedish krona.”  Sweden’s currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 8.5703 per
euro at 3:39 p.m.  London  time, snapping a three-day decline. It
depreciated to 8.6443 yesterday, the weakest since July 17. The
krona rose 0.2 percent to 6.5605 per dollar.  The krona reached 8.1771 per euro on Aug. 13, the strongest
since June 15, 2000. It has gained 2.5 percent in the past year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The euro lost 4.1 percent.  Sound Finances  “The krona is at a level which is stronger than many times
before, but it’s not an extraordinary or different krona
strength,” Ingves told the Swedish parliament’s finance
committee in  Stockholm  today. “That’s perhaps not that
remarkable since we have a big current-account surplus and we
have sound public finances or generally a decent economic
development compared with others.”  Sweden’s currency has appreciated as investors sought the
krona as a haven from turmoil in the euro-region debt markets.
It was supported today as traders bought the safest assets amid
concern  Spain  will delay seeking a bailout needed to resolve its
financial crisis.  “People are looking around and saying maybe we should
stick a bit to our safe-haven positions because the euro crisis
is obviously not being solved,” Rasmussen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 