-- Swiss Production Stays Put in Face of Strong Franc, KPMG Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-09-18T15:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/swiss-production-stays-put-in-face-of-strong-franc-kpmg-says.html
Most Swiss industrial companies are
holding off from shifting production to cheaper countries even
as Switzerland’s strong franc makes labor costs 50 percent
higher than in  Germany ,  KPMG ’s Swiss industry chief said.  “Companies should not be and are not overreacting,” Bryan
DeBlanc, KPMG’s head industrial adviser in Switzerland, said in
an interview today in Zurich.  More than half of Swiss industrial companies said they
hadn’t moved production abroad to counter the strong Swiss
franc, according to a KPMG survey published today. Senior
executives from 16 Swiss industrial companies were questioned
between March and July this year.  Switzerland’s machinery exporters are facing prolonged
margin pressure as the strong franc, capped at 1.20 to the euro,
makes their goods more expensive, while fixed costs are higher
than for competitors in the  euro zone .  “The franc is just an anomaly right now which is going to
go away,” said DeBlanc. “You shouldn’t plan any medium-term
measures on the Swiss franc because it will come back to
parity,” he said.  Swiss manual laborers are paid 45 euros ($58.75) an hour on
average compared with 30 euros in Germany, the country’s biggest
industrial competitor,  Hans Hess , president of mechanical and
electrical engineering trade group Swissmem, said Aug. 22.  Large companies including  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , OC Oerlikon Corp. AG
and  Sulzer AG (SUN)  have already shifted production as much as they
can to lower-cost countries, said DeBlanc. Now attention is
moving to procurement savings, which have not developed as
quickly as other aspects of their businesses.  “I think they will outsource other things which aren’t
core to their business, like back-office processes and IT,”
DeBlanc said. In smaller companies the whole finance function
could be outsourced, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  