-- Swiss Stocks Fall for a Second Day; Swatch Drops
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-09-18T15:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/swiss-stocks-fall-for-a-second-day-swatch-drops.html
Swiss stocks  retreated for a second
day after the government cut its forecast for economic growth
and a dispute over a group of islands in the  East China Sea 
prompted Japanese companies to close their outlets in China.  Swatch Group AG slid 2.2 percent after UBS AG cut its
recommendation on the  biggest maker of Swiss watches . Transocean
Ltd., the world’s largest offshore-rig contractor, lost 2.6
percent as oil dropped in  New York .  Nestle SA (NESN) , which accounts
for 25 percent of the  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , advanced 0.8 percent.  The SMI declined 0.2 percent to 6,537.1 at the close in
Zurich, paring its  rally from this year’s low on June 4  to 14
percent. The equity benchmark trades at 13.5 times the estimated
earnings of its member companies, close to its highest valuation
since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The broader
Swiss Performance Index slipped 0.4 percent today.  “Market participants are wary about growing tensions
between  China  and  Japan ,  Spain  not asking for a European Central
Bank bailout, and mixed ZEW surveys,” said Stephane Ekolo,
chief European strategist at Market Securities in  London . “All
of these factors, as well as improved valuations, are weighing
on the market.”  Switzerland’s gross domestic product will increase 1
percent this year instead of a previously projected 1.4 percent
gain, the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern said
today. The economy will expand 1.4 percent in 2013, according to
the government’s group of experts. In June, they forecast growth
of 1.5 percent.  Island Tensions  Stocks around the world slipped as tensions between China
and Japan continued. Toyota Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co.
halted production at some plants in China, while Panasonic Corp.
reported damage to its operations.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Luc Coene
said rising bond yields may force Spain into asking for aid and
submitting to the ECB’s conditions for granting it.  If “markets see that Spain will not” ask for assistance,
“it will not last long before spreads will rise again, and then
Spain will be somewhat forced to come back on its decision and
submit to the conditionality program,” Coene said at a panel
discussion in London yesterday.  Spain’s bond yields  climbed past 6 percent yesterday for
the first time since Sept. 7, the day after the Governing
Council approved ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s plan to buy
government debt. After falling to a five-month low of 5.55
percent on Sept. 10, the yield jumped to a high of as much as
6.01 percent yesterday.  The Spanish government sold 4.6 billion euros ($6 billion)
of bills at an auction today, more than its maximum target.  Investor Confidence  A measure of  German investor confidence  rose for the first
time in five months in September. The ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in Mannheim said its index of investor and
analyst expectations, which aims to predict economic
developments six months in advance, climbed to minus 18.2 from
minus 25.5 in August. Even so, ZEW’s  gauge of the current
situation  fell to 12.6 from 18.2 in August.  Swatch (UHR) , which gets 38 percent of its revenue from  Greater
China , lost 2.2 percent to 397 Swiss francs. UBS cut its
recommendation to neutral from buy as the stock reached the
analysts’ price forecast. The brokerage said it remained
cautious on European luxury-goods companies.  Transocean Sinks  Transocean, the owner of the oil rig that exploded in the
 Gulf of Mexico  in April 2010, slid 2.6 percent to 41.93 francs.
Oil extended its decline today after the biggest drop in almost
two months amid speculation that a slowing U.S. economy will
curb demand for crude.  Kuehne & Nagel International AG (KNIN)  sank 2.5 percent to 111.10
francs. The world’s biggest sea-freight forwarder was cut to
neutral from overweight at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Baloise Holding AG (BALN)  slipped 1.6 percent to 75.05 francs as
Bankhaus Metzler downgraded the insurance company’s shares to
sell from buy.  Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, advanced 0.8
percent to 59 francs, limiting the SMI’s decline.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 18 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  