-- U.K. Inflation Slows on Furniture, Clothing, Energy Prices
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-09-18T09:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/u-k-inflation-slows-on-furniture-clothing-energy-prices-1-.html
U.K. inflation  slowed in August as
prices for furniture and clothes rose less than a year earlier
and increases in gas and electricity weren’t repeated.  Consumer prices rose 2.5 percent in August from the same
month in 2011, compared with 2.6 percent in July, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in  London . That matched the
median forecast of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
From the previous month, prices advanced 0.5 percent.  While the  Bank of England  has forecast that inflation will
continue to ease toward its 2 percent target, upward pressures
have emerged as oil costs increase and a drought in the U.S.
pushes up  food-commodity prices . That may open divisions among
policy makers over whether they should expand their stimulus
program again.  “The rise in  oil prices  and food commodities presents some
risks for headline inflation in coming months, but with the weak
economy implying only limited corporate pricing power, we still
expect inflation to fall back to 2 percent by the end of the
year,”  James Knightley , an economist at ING Bank NV, said in a
research note. “The Bank of England will have room to implement
more quantitative easing.”  The pound traded at $1.6240 against the dollar as of 10:03
a.m. in London, little changed from yesterday.  Energy Bills  The biggest downward impact on the annual inflation rate in
August was from furniture and household equipment, as well as
clothes, and housing and household services. Within household
services, domestic gas and electricity bills were unchanged in
August, while they rose 1.7 percent and 1 percent respectively
in the same month a year earlier.  The biggest upward effect on inflation was from transport
costs, with gasoline rising 3.5 pence a liter from July. That
compares with a 0.9 percent monthly increase a year ago.  Core annual inflation , which excludes alcohol, food,
tobacco and energy prices, slowed to 2.1 percent in August from
2.3 percent in July, the statistics office said. Retail-price
inflation, a measure used in wage negotiations, slowed to 2.9
percent from 3.2 percent, as did the RPI measure excluding
mortgage-interest payments.  In a separate report today, the statistics office said U.K.
 house prices  rose 2 percent in July from a year earlier.  ‘Extremely Challenging’  While U.K. inflation is cooling, it continues to outpace
wage growth, undermining  consumer spending . Data last week
showed that annual wage growth in July was 1.5 percent. Michael Sharp, Chief Executive Officer of  Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s
second-largest department-store chain, said today the company is
operating in “extremely challenging market conditions.”  The Bank of England will tomorrow release the minutes of
this month’s policy meeting, showing how officials voted when
they kept their  bond-purchase target  on hold at 375 billion
pounds ($609 billion). Policy makers Spencer Dale and Ben Broadbent last week highlighted inflation risks, with Dale
cautioning against “Pavlovian” calls for more stimulus. In
contrast, their colleague  David Miles  said loose policy is
needed and it’s “right that it is still being moved further in
that direction.”  The central bank increased the bond-purchase target by 50
billion pounds in July in a program that’s due to run until
early November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  