-- U.S. Company Credit-Default Swaps Rise as European Stocks Drop
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-09-18T20:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/u-s-company-credit-swaps-little-changed-as-european-stocks-fall.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk increased as European stocks fell the most in two weeks on
concern that leaders will have difficulty resolving the
sovereign debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of
85.5 basis points at 4:33 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure widened after the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
 dropped  0.4 percent, the most since Sept. 4. European Central
Bank Governing Council member Luc Coene said yesterday that
rising yields may force Spain to ask for assistance. Investors
are concerned that a slow resolution to the financial turmoil in
Europe will impair global corporate balance sheets.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, reached an 18-
month low of 83 basis points last week after the  Federal
Reserve ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing.
The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Office Depot  “The government participation in the pricing mechanism has
been crazy,”  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  at
Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem, Massachusetts, said in a
telephone interview. With the Fed holding  interest rates  so low,
investors are reaching for yield, Larkin said, so “a lot of
more obscure companies have access to the  capital markets  that
normally don’t,” which could introduce greater risk.  Contracts protecting against the default of  Office Depot
Inc. (ODP)  bonds fell to 5.5 percent upfront at 1:38 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That’s down from 8.5 percent upfront on Sept.
13, and means investors now pay $550,000 initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of Office Depot’s debt.  The decrease in upfront price comes as activist investor
Starboard Value LP increased its stake, becoming Office Depot’s
largest shareholder and pushing for changes to improve earnings.
Starboard CEO  Jeffrey Smith  wrote in a letter yesterday that
Office Depot should move to smaller stores, reduce the number of
items it sells and “significantly” lower advertising costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  