-- UBS Accountant First Found Adoboli Trading Discrepancies
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-09-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/ubs-accountant-first-found-adoboli-trading-discrepancies.html
William Steward, a former
accountant in product control for  UBS AG (UBSN) , said he began looking
into trades by Kweku Adoboli in August 2011 after receiving a
report of a $3.57 billion discrepancy.  Steward spent the next several weeks trying to clarify the
discrepancy and received explanations from Adoboli that he had
used “a shortcut while he was under pressure for time,” rather
than booking every trade.  “It wasn’t very impressive, but it made sense,” Steward
testified yesterday at a London court.  On a call with Steward on Aug. 24, 2011, Adoboli said he
was dealing with clients and staffing issues.  “We had an annoying client which was taking up half my
day, plus we had all these client meetings and the market was
going crazy, plus I was like a man or two down pretty much every
day,” Adoboli said, according to evidence presented at his
trial. “The volumes are going through the roof and we’re
struggling to keep up with, with all of the procedural stuff.”  Adoboli, 32, is charged with fraud and false accounting for
allegedly causing Zurich-based UBS a $2.3 billion loss through
unauthorized trading. Adoboli was arrested by police in
September of last year after confessing to Steward in an e-mail
to accruing losses during “the aggressive sell-off in the days
of July and early August” as a result of the “escalation of
the euro-zone crisis,” prosecutors said at the trial last week.  Another Side  The former trader has denied the charges and his lawyers
have said he is looking forward to providing the jury with his
own account of what happened.  “What we were seeing is trades that were being entered
that didn’t have another side to them” in August of last year,
Steward said. It is “unusual, but not unknown” to have such a
large trading amount that isn’t reconciled, he said.  The 12-member jury found it difficult to understand the
evidence yesterday, according to the judge.  Prosecutor Sasha Wass told the jury that the issue for it
to consider is whether Adoboli’s explanation to Steward about
the trades “is a genuine explanation or not, or merely designed
to confuse.”  The jurors “do not need to understand the transactions
discussed,” she said.  In Debt  A prosecutor said that Adoboli was in debt and had several
spread-betting accounts in violation of the bank’s rules. The
bank’s compliance department notified him that he should have
flagged his personal trading to UBS beforehand, prosecutor
Esther Schutzer-Weissmann said.  Adoboli’s personal bank accounts were mostly overdrawn and
he had borrowed money from various short-term lenders, she said.
At UBS, his pay rose from 40,500 pounds ($65,800) in 2005 to
360,000 pounds in 2010, including bonus, another prosecutor said
at the opening day of his trial last week. He lost 123,000
pounds through his personal trading with IG Index in the year
leading up to his arrest, Schutzer-Weissmann said.  Adoboli’s lawyers agreed not to challenge the information
about his spread-betting and debts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  