-- UN Says Liberia Security Threats Persist as Troop Numbers Cut
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-09-18T14:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/un-says-liberia-security-threats-persist-as-troop-numbers-cut.html
The  United Nations  will reduce the
size of its military operation in Liberia by more than half even
as the organization said the West African nation is still facing
major security challenges.  The UN peacekeeping operation in Liberia, known as UNMIL,
will be cut by four infantry battalions, or about 4,200 troops,
to 3,750 soldiers by 2015, the  UN Security Council  said on its
website. The first group of almost 2,000 personnel is to leave
within a year, it said.  UNMIL sent about 15,000 troops to the country after
President  Charles Taylor  went into exile in 2003, ending a 14-
year civil war that destroyed much of the Liberia’s
infrastructure. Taylor was found guilty earlier this year with
crimes against humanity related to a conflict in neighboring
 Sierra Leone .  The peacekeepers in Liberia will be sent home gradually as
the country “is still far from attaining a steady state of
security,” the Security council said, citing a report by UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.  “The main security threats are internal, particularly
civil unrest, and there is a recurrent tendency for minor
incidents to escalate into violent confrontations,” Ban said in
the report.  The council urged Liberia and neighboring Ivory Coast to
strengthen cooperation at the border, and to “stabilize” the
area through information sharing, according to the statement.
Seven UN peacekeepers deployed in Ivory Coast were killed
earlier this year by attackers from Liberia.  Companies including  ArcelorMittal (MT) , which last year shipped
its first iron ore from Liberia, and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  are active in
the country. Economic growth is estimated at 9 percent this
year, according to President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  