-- UNC Chapel Hill Seeks MBA Students from Emerging Markets
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2012-09-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/unc-chapel-hill-seeks-mba-students-from-emerging-markets.html
The business school of the
 University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill  expects its new
online MBA program will help it recruit more students in
emerging economies from Brazil to  China .  The goal is to have a majority of developing country
nationals among international students, said Jim Dean, dean of
UNC’s  Kenan-Flagler Business School . Non-U.S. citizens account
for 35 percent of the school’s current full-time MBA students,
with 49 percent of those coming from  developing countries . Only
4 percent of the online students are non-U.S. citizens.  As part of the university’s efforts to become a global
business school, UNC Kenan-Flagler identified Brazil, China and
 India  as priorities, Dean said in an interview in Sao Paulo.  “It is not a surprising list, but it is an important list
for us,” said Dean, who visited Mumbai in June. “We would like
to be able to attract students from  Brazil  into our programs,
and we would also like our students to have access to come here
and study.”  Dean said the UNC online MBA program, the first among major
U.S. business schools, allows students to remain on their jobs
and eliminates relocation costs. The program has the same
curriculum, professors and admission policy as the full-time
program, he said.  “For most people who go to a full-time program who leave
their job, the biggest financial sacrifice is not the tuition;
it is the loss of income,” he said.  UNC currently has 582 students in its full-time MBA program
and 255 in the online MBA program, according to information sent
by e-mail.  Among Brazilians between 25 and 64 years old, 41 percent
had attained at least upper secondary education in 2009,
according to information compiled by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development and released in its
 Education at a Glance  report last week. This compares with a 74
percent OECD average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in  Sao Paulo  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  