-- Hungary July Wages Rise Most This Year on Company Bonuses
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-09-18T08:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/hungary-july-wages-rise-most-this-year-on-company-bonuses.html
Hungarian average  gross wages  rose
by the most this year in July as bonuses lifted private salaries
while extraordinary compensation for doctors and nurses snapped
a four-month drop in pay among state workers.  Average gross wages jumped 7.1 percent from a year earlier
to 225,194 forint ($1,041) after increasing 4.1 percent in June,
the Budapest-based statistics office said today. That compares
with a 4 percent median estimate of eight economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The jump in wages adds to inflationary pressure and may
raise tensions in the central bank’s rate-setting Monetary
Council, which last month cut the European Union’s highest
benchmark interest rate for the first time since April 2010.
Policy makers were split in reducing the main rate by a quarter-
point to  6.75 percent  even as price growth is rising at double
the pace of the bank’s 3 percent target.  The forint weakened 0.5 percent to 284.61 to the euro by
9:48 a.m. in Budapest, the weakest level since Sept. 13.  ’Pointless’ Cut  The rate cut was “pointless,” Magyar Nemzeti Bank
President  Andras Simor , who was outvoted in the 4-3 decision,
said in interviews published on Sept. 13 on the Index and
Portfolio news websites. He said the rate cut won’t boost growth
because lending and investments are insufficient while the
decision casts doubt on the bank’s commitment to rein in price
growth.  Inflation accelerated to 6 percent in August, the fastest
in more than 2 1/2 years and the quickest pace in the EU, as
food and fuel prices soared.  Private-sector average gross wages rose 9.2 percent in July
from a year ago after increasing 7.2 percent in June as bonuses
lifted the gauge, statistician Szilvia Vasas said in a phone
interview today.  Regular private wages excluding bonuses, one of the central
bank’s closely watched indicators for determining inflation
expectations, climbed by 8 percent in July compared with 7.3
percent in the previous month.  State gross wages rose 0.9 percent in July, after plunging
3.1 percent in June. Doctors and nurses received wage increases
retroactive to January of this year, meaning they received a
seven-month lump sum in July, Vasas said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  