-- United’s Tarmac Delays in Chicago Storms Probed by U.S.
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-09-18T12:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/united-s-july-tarmac-delays-in-chicago-storms-probed-by-u-s-.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,
the world’s largest airline, is under U.S. investigation for
stranding 16 flights on tarmacs for more than three hours during
thunderstorms.  Severe storms hit  Chicago ’s O’Hare International Airport on
July 13, shutting the ramp into United’s gates and creating
lengthy delays there and in other locations, according to an e-
mail statement yesterday from the Chicago-based airline.  Two United mainline flights and 14 operated by affiliated
regional carriers were stuck on the ground for longer than the
U.S. Transportation Department allows under a 2010 rule,
according to a  report  yesterday by the agency, which said it’s
investigating.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines , which also has a
hub at O’Hare, didn’t have any stranded flights reported for
that day.  “We recognize our performance in July was not what our
customers expect, and it was not what we want to deliver,” Mary
Ryan, a United spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The carrier’s flights arrived within 15 minutes of schedule
64 percent of the time in July, the worst of 15 reporting
airlines, according to the U.S.  Bureau  of Transportation
Statistics. It was the third consecutive month United had the
worst on-time performance among U.S. carriers.  Computer Malfunctions  United has been plagued by computer and operations
malfunctions since making a transition earlier this year to
passenger-service and aircraft preventive-maintenance systems
that Continental Airlines used before the two carriers merged in
2010.  In August, a network failure affecting airport systems and
the airline’s website delayed 580 flights in one day. Earlier in
August, the airline confirmed some flights took off heavier than
pilots were told because incorrect passenger counts were
transmitted.  “A lot has changed in our operations since July -- so far
in September we’ve succeeded in achieving our 80 percent on-time
arrival target,” Ryan said. “We have taken aggressive action
to improve, including adding spare aircraft and more ground time
between flights, and making changes to our technology to give
employees and customers a more reliable product.”  The longest tarmac delay July 13 was on United Express
Flight 3512 from Chicago to Atlanta, according to the report. It
left the gate and sat on the ground for 4 hours and 17 minutes.
The flight was operated by Shuttle America, a subsidiary of
Indianapolis-based  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)   SkyWest Inc. (SKYW)  and its ExpressJet unit, both of which were
operating flights for United, had seven tarmac delays greater
than three hours that day, according to the report.  $27,500 Fines  O’Hare authorities closed the ramp area out of concern that
lightning could threaten worker safety, Marissa Snow, a
spokeswoman for  St. George , Utah-based SkyWest, said in an
interview.  “We did everything we could to make sure customers were
taken care of on board until it was safe to deplane,” Snow
said. Passengers were served drinks and snacks, she said.  Karen Pride, a spokeswoman for O’Hare, said in an e-mail
that the airport didn’t close the ramp, without elaborating.  Flights operated for United by Mesa Air Group Inc. and
GoJet Airlines also were delayed on the ground on July 13,
according to the report.  There were 18 domestic flights stuck on the ground for
longer than the tarmac rule allowed in July, making it the
second-worst month since the policy took effect in April 2010,
according to Transportation Department records.  Airlines can be as fined as much as $27,500 a customer if
they don’t give passengers a chance to exit stuck planes.  O’Hare Delays  The Transportation Department has issued two fines under
the rule -- a $900,000 penalty against AMR’s American Eagle in
November, also involving delays during bad weather at O’Hare,
and a $90,000 fine issued against  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  last
month for a delay at  New York ’s John F. Kennedy Airport.  The worst month for tarmac delays was October 2011, when 33
planes were delayed on the ground, most in a snowstorm that
struck the northeast U.S. That event remains under
investigation,  Bill Mosley , a department spokesman, said in an
interview.  Airlines during the first seven months of this year were on
time 82.5 percent of the time, their best record during the 18
years the U.S. has collected data. The flight-cancellation rate,
1.12 percent, was also the lowest reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  