-- Turkey Cuts Rates First Time in 7 Months as Economy Slows
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-09-18T13:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/turkey-cuts-rates-first-time-in-7-months-as-economy-slows-1-.html
Turkey’s central bank cut  interest
rates  for the first time in seven months in response to lower-
than-forecast inflation and slowing economic growth.  The bank in Ankara reduced its overnight lending rate, the
top end of its interest-rate corridor, by 150 basis points to 10
percent, according to its website. Six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had expected a 100 basis-point reduction. The bank
held its benchmark  one-week repo rate  at 5.75 percent, in line
with  forecasts . It’s the first change in the corridor since a
cut of 100 basis points to the top rate in February.  Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci varies rates within the
corridor on a daily basis to balance above-target inflation, a
slowing economy and a volatile currency. Economic growth slowed
to 2.9 percent in the second quarter, below the government’s
year-end target of 4 percent. That has encouraged Basci to favor
the lower end of the range in recent weeks, pushing bank funding
costs to a three-month low.  The bank signaled further reductions, saying it may make a
“similar measured step in the coming period” as domestic
demand is moderate and inflation set to slow. It also warned
that increases in energy prices require a “cautious stance.”  The central bank also adjusted  reserve requirements  for
banks’ lira liabilities, allowing them to keep a larger ratio in
foreign exchange. It said that the measure will add $3.6 billion
to foreign currency reserves, and that further such steps may
follow.  Currency ‘Pressure’  “The central bank feels confident about inflows,” and the
lower rate won’t “place any pressure on the currency,” said
Sengul Dagdeviren, chief economist at ING Bank AS in Istanbul.
The central bank’s decision may have been influenced by “recent
injections” by the  European Central Bank  and the U.S. Federal
Reserve, she said.  At 8.9 percent, inflation remains above the bank’s target
of 5 percent and year-end estimate of 6.2 percent. The bank said
today that it expects a clearer drop in inflation in the fourth
quarter, though it said increases in energy prices require a
“cautious stance.”  Economic growth in  Turkey  has slowed from last year’s 8.5
percent, the second-fastest among the Group of 20 developed
economies after  China .  Bets that the bank would cut rates have helped push yields
on  benchmark two-year bonds  down more than 40 basis points in
the past month. The debt was trading at 7.32 percent at 4:20
p.m. in Istanbul, little changed from before the bank’s
announcement. The lira was also little changed at 1.7990 per
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Istanbul at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  