-- Vilma Meets With NFL Commissioner Goodell About Bounty Case Ban
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/vilma-meets-with-nfl-commissioner-goodell-about-bounty-case-ban.html
Jonathan Vilma had a three-hour
meeting with National Football League Commissioner  Roger Goodell 
about the New Orleans Saints’ bounty pool case and his
suspension that was overturned, at least temporarily.  Vilma’s season-long ban was lifted by an arbitration panel
on Sept. 7, along with shorter suspensions for  Scott Fujita ,
Anthony Hargrove and  Will Smith . Those three players may meet
with Goodell as soon as today.  “What we had was just a chance for both sides to speak
candidly about the differences,” Vilma told reporters outside
the NFL’s New York offices yesterday. “We got to address some
of the hang-ups that were causing all of the issues. Now that
we’ve had this conversation, we’ll see what happens.”  The players in the Saints case were reinstated after the
panel ruled Goodell lacked the authority to impose discipline
for unauthorized compensation, or money that might have been
paid under the bounty plan. He’s allowed to punish players for
detrimental conduct, such as the intent to injure opponents.  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said last week that the panel
left it up to Goodell to determine whether any of the penalties
should be modified. The NFL said in May about two dozen players
participated in the Saints’ bounty program, with Vilma -- a
defensive captain -- helping to establish and fund the program.  According to  ESPN , the NFL yesterday gave Vilma a sworn
affidavit from ex-Saints defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams 
that said Vilma offered $10,000 to any teammate who knocked
quarterback  Brett Favre  out of the 2010 National Football
Conference championship game. Williams also confirmed in the
affidavit that the Saints had a pay-for-performance pool that
was funded by players, ESPN said, citing an unidentified person
with knowledge of the meeting.  Vilma’s Suspension  “The truth is Jonathan never did anything to provide any
incentive to anyone to injury anybody,” said Vilma’s lawyer,
Peter Ginsberg. “If the commissioner comes up with a decision
that’s consistent with that truth, I’ll be satisfied.”  Vilma, a linebacker whose contract calls for a salary of
$1.6 million this season, was suspended without pay for the 2012
campaign. Hargrove, a defensive lineman, was suspended for eight
games; Smith, a defensive end, for four games, and Fujita, a
linebacker, for three games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  