-- Virginia Voters See Economic Gain Without Crediting Obama
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-09-18T17:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/virginia-voters-positive-about-economy-without-crediting-obama.html
The  U.S. economy  is improving, and
President  Barack Obama  isn’t getting the credit for it. That was
the message from a panel of 12 uncommitted Fairfax County,
Virginia, voters gathered yesterday by the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Annenberg Public Policy Center.  None of the voters said they believed the economy was on a
downward trajectory. The most optimistic person in the room, a
60-year-old president of an online auction house, was leaning
toward Republican challenger Mitt Romney after voting for Obama
in 2008.  “I kind of feel tricked by Obama,” said Charles C’deBaca.
“I really believed him.”  With less than two months before the Nov. 6 election, the
Romney and Obama campaigns are spending millions of dollars on
 television advertising  and outreach to win over undecided or
persuadable voters.  Virginia, with 13 electoral votes, is one of the larger
battleground states. A Washington Post poll out today shows
Obama with an 8 percentage-point advantage over Romney in the
state.  Asked by pollster Peter Hart, who led the focus group, for
an example of how he’d been “tricked” by Obama, C’deBaca
pointed to Obama’s health-care law, which the president said was
not a “tax.” Upholding the law, the U.S. Supreme Court said it
was.  Like C’deBaca, others at the focus group said they felt
better about the economy and less certain about the president.  ‘Totally Optimistic’  “I’m slightly more optimistic than slightly optimistic,”
Pamela Zacha said. The 64-year-old single mother of two adult
children identified herself as “totally undecided.”  Yet by the end of the two-hour session, she said Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  addresses her top concern -- the kind of
economy in store for her sons’ generation -- perhaps more than
Obama.  “He seems more realistic,” she said. “He understands
business.”  Focus group participants also mentioned foreign policy,
including the recent attacks on U.S. embassies in the  Middle
East , as well as Medicare and education as issues that could
affect how they vote in the presidential election.  Several said they planned to make up their minds after
watching the three presidential debates scheduled for next
month. The first will be held Oct. 3 in Denver.  ‘Connection’ Sought  Mary Barker, another undecided member of the group, said
she was waiting to feel an “emotional” connection to either of
the candidates.  Still, much of the two-hour discussion focused on the
economy.  Christina Lindemer, a 26-year-old coastal engineer, said
many of her peers were finding work and buying homes after
struggling in the early post-college years. “We’re all starting
to get our footing,” she said.  Virginia , like every state except  North Dakota  and
 Michigan , saw its economic health decline between the first
quarter of 2009 and the same three-month period this year,
according to the  Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States .  Virginians have been hurt by falling home prices, while
personal income and employment in the state have increased. The
state’s unemployment rate was 7.4 percent in July, compared with
a  national rate  of 8.3 percent that month, and 8.1 percent in
August.  Lindemer, who voted for Obama in 2008, said she is leaning
toward him again. Asked by Hart why she wasn’t more solidly pro-
Obama, Lindemer said, Romney’s “history of working well with
the other party” appeals to her. Romney was governor of
 Massachusetts , where the legislature is dominated by Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  