-- Volex Slumps as Apple Supplier Signals Demand Drop: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-09-18T15:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/volex-slumps-as-apple-supplier-signals-demand-drop-london-mover.html
Volex Plc (VLX) , a U.K. maker of power
cords for computers and devices including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone,
fell the most in more than four years because of an unexpected
drop in demand from its largest customer in the consumer sector.  Analysts at Jefferies Group Inc. and Investec Plc cut their
earnings estimates for the current fiscal year by 30 percent
following the London-based company’s unscheduled trading
statement today.  “This is the second time within recent months where Volex
has been caught out by scheduling and production issues at its
largest customer,” Michael O’Brien, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity, said in a note to clients. “For a business where a
large part of the investment case was predicated on improving
margins by closer customer engagement, greater visibility and
increased value add,” the news is disappointing, he said.  The  shares  slumped 27 percent, the biggest decline since
January 2008, to 187.5 pence in London trading, the lowest price
since July 2010. It was the worst performer today on the FTSE
All-Share Index. The volume of Volex shares traded was more than
60 times the three-month daily average.  Louise Hadcocks, a spokeswoman for Volex at the Buchanan
communications firm, declined to identify the customer involved.  Canaccord Genuity’s O’Brien titled his note “A chill wind
in the Big Apple,” and Investec said Volex is adapting to new
product specifications from a client. Among design changes to
Apple’s latest iPhone is a different charging-dock connector.  ‘Component Strategy’  “These lower growth expectations are driven primarily by a
delay in product launches and a change in product component
strategy by our largest customer,” Volex said in the statement.
The company has “initiated a program of material cost
reductions” and is introducing higher-margin products, it said.  In July, the company said it expected sales in the year
ending March 31 to be ahead of previous management forecasts.
Volex said today that revenue would only be about 5 percent more
than last year’s $518 million. Before today’s announcement,
revenue was predicted to be $577.5 million, according to the
median  estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  While Investec lowered its stock recommendation to hold
from buy and reduced its price prediction to 240 pence from 320
pence, analyst Chris Dyett said Volex is “very robustly
financed” and will increase sales in each of the next three
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 