-- Warren Gains Edge Over Brown in Poll Following Convention
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-09-18T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/warren-gains-edge-over-brown-in-poll-following-convention.html
Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  took the
lead in her bid to unseat Republican U.S. Senator Scott Brown of
Massachusetts after she delivered a prime-time speech at the
Democratic National Convention, a Suffolk University poll found.  Warren, a Harvard Law School professor, led Brown 48
percent to 44 percent in the poll by the Boston-based school and
WHDH-TV. While that falls within the poll’s margin of error of
plus or minus 4 points, it compares to a May survey that showed
Brown ahead of Warren, 48 percent to 47 percent when the margin
was 5 points.  The race for the seat occupied by Democrat  Ted Kennedy  for
almost 47 years has become one of the nation’s most expensive
and closely watched. Warren, 63, who helped set up the federal
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and Brown, 53, who won a
special election for the post in 2010, have traded the lead in
polls for months.  “The Democratic National Convention appears to have
connected the dots for some voters in Massachusetts” who linked
Warren with President  Barack Obama  and former President  Bill Clinton , said David Paleologos, director of Suffolk’s Political
Research Center. “Warren benefited not only from her own
speech, but from the oratory of others, both inside and outside
of Massachusetts.”  The survey also showed a 10-point boost in Warren’s
favorability rating, to 52 percent. Brown’s favorability was
previously higher in multiple polls for months and is seen as
one of his greatest strengths. At 60 percent, his score was
virtually unchanged from May.  Brown has been trumpeting his bipartisan record as he
fights to retain the seat he won over Attorney General  Martha Coakley  in the special election.  The telephone survey of 600 likely general-election voters
was conducted Sept. 13-16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  