-- Weight-Loss Surgery’s Health Benefits Found to Have Costs
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-09-18T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/weight-loss-surgery-s-health-benefits-found-to-have-costs.html
Obese people who have weight-loss
 surgery  gain at least six years of health benefits that include
fewer diabetes cases and lower cholesterol and blood pressure.
Even so, their medical costs didn’t drop.  While the advantages linked to diminished fat were found to
be durable over six years in a study published today, a second
report tied the surgery to complications such as gallstones and
anemia that raised how much patients spent over the same time.
The research was included in an  obesity theme issue  of the 
Journal of the  American Medical Association .  More than 500 million people worldwide are obese, according
to the  World Health Organization . Other research in the journal
found that children with high levels of bisphenol A, a chemical
in consumer products, were twice as likely to be obese and that
some types of body fat are more dangerous than others. The
surgery findings suggest the procedures are underused, said
Philip Schauer, at the  Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio .  “Despite the somewhat overwhelmingly positive study
results, surgery rates haven’t changed,” with about 1 percent
of those who qualify getting an operation, said Schauer,
director of the clinic’s Bariatric and Metabolic Institute.
“We’re not anywhere close to coming up with effective
prevention strategies.”  Schauer, interviewed by telephone, wasn’t involved in
either of the surgery studies.  $66 Billion Cost  The journal’s theme issue coincides with a  report  today by
two public-health foundations that said obesity will continue to
rise in the U.S., potentially adding $66 billion in expenses to
the nation’s health-care bill. The Obesity Society, based in
 Silver Spring ,  Maryland , is also set to hold its annual meeting
starting Sept. 20 in  San Antonio .  By 2030, more than 60 percent of adults in 13 states may be
obese, with all states having obesity rates of more than 44
percent under current trends, according to the report from the
Trust for America’s Health and Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.  A person with a body mass index of at least 30 is
considered obese, according to the  National Institutes of Health 
in Bethesda, Maryland. The BMI is calculated using height and
weight. A man who is six-foot tall who weighed more than 220
pounds would be considered obese using the formula.  Growing Faster  The number of  severely obese  people in the U.S. is growing
faster than those with moderate obesity, according to Ted Adams
from the University of Utah School of Medicine in  Salt Lake
City , who led the study on weight-loss surgery’s long-term
health benefits.  Drug therapy and lifestyle changes have been largely
ineffective, so the weight-loss surgery investigators examined
the results of the procedure in 1,156 volunteers. The patients
who underwent gastric bypass surgery lost an average of 28
percent of their body weight, while those who didn’t get surgery
stayed the same or even gained a few pounds, the study found.  Almost two-thirds of the surgery patients saw their blood
sugar return to normal levels, while hypertension, cholesterol
and triglyceride all declined.  Researchers were surprised by the results of a separate
study that weighed cost benefits from the surgery, said Martin Neovius from the Karolinska Institute in  Sweden , the lead
author. The study tracked 2,010 adults who underwent weight loss
surgery between 1987 and 2001, and compared their results to
similar people who didn’t get surgery.  54 Days  The researchers found that surgery patients spent 54 days
in the hospital in the two decades after their operations,
compared with 40 days for those in the comparison group. For the
first six years, they were hospitalized an average of 1.7 days
each year, compared with 1.1 days for their overweight peers who
didn’t have surgery, and had more doctor visits for things other
than routine care.  The operation did reduce the amount of money patients spent
on drug costs after the first six years. Surgery patients spent
$930 annually, compared with $1,123 for the comparison group, in
years seven to 20, the study found. The biggest difference was
in lower spending for diabetes and heart disease drugs.  “Based on our findings, bariatric surgery appears to
result in greater health benefits than conventional obesity
treatment, but at a higher cost over the time of the study,”
the researchers concluded. “A formal cost-effectiveness
analysis is needed to quantify” the exact costs associated with
surgery, they said.  Underlying Conditions  Scientists are also trying to understand obesity’s
underlying conditions and how people’s conditions may differ.
For example, not all body fat is equally dangerous, according to
another study reported in the journal. Obese adults with belly
fat may have a higher risk of developing diabetes than those
with fat in other places, the research showed.  Those with higher levels of abdominal visceral fat, which
surrounds internal organs, had a higher risk of developing
diabetes and pre-diabetes than those with excess belly fat
underneath the skin, the study showed. The researchers used
magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs), and x-rays to determine where
the fat was stored in the body.  Those who gained weight during the study, who were
resistant to insulin and had a family history of diabetes were
also more likely to develop the disease, the authors said.  “It’s very interesting that two people with the same body
weight, both obese, may have different distribution of fats and
may be at very different risks for development of diabetes,”
said James de Lemos, a professor of internal medicine at the
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in  Dallas , in a
Sept. 14 telephone interview. “There’s a lot of variability.”  De Lemos said they will next look at whether fat
distribution raises risk of heart attacks and strokes. Future
trials should also study whether specific weight loss programs
might change the distribution of the body’s fat, he said.  Environmental Causes  Scientists are also searching for environmental causes
behind the epidemic, which affects 17 percent of American
children and adolescents, according to the Atlanta-based CDC.  In a study by researchers from  New York  University,
children with high levels of bisphenol A, a chemical found in
consumer products, were more than twice as likely to be obese
than those with low levels. The findings suggest that the
chemical, which is found in soda bottles and cans, may increase
the risk of obesity in children.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in July ruled that
baby bottles and other cups intended to be used by children can
no longer contain BPA.  The ban was issued primarily because the use by companies
of plastic containing the chemical had already been abandoned.
BPA is used to harden plastic and make canned food watertight.
For decades it was used in the manufacture of plastic food
containers, baby bottles and sippy cups.  “This study raises further concern about the need for
regulatory action,” said Leonardo Trasande, lead researcher on
the BPA study and an associate professor of pediatrics and
environmental medicine at  New York University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net :
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  