-- Western Lenders Boosted Romanian Units Capital in First Half
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-09-18T08:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/western-lenders-boosted-romanian-units-capital-in-first-half.html
International banks boosted the
capital of their Romanian units in the first half by twice the
amount provided for the whole of 2011 as bad loans increased.  Western lenders, which own about 80 percent of the Romanian
banking industry, provided 550 million euros ($719 million) to
their local units in the January-June period, compared with 280
million euros in 2011, the central bank said in its financial
stability report.  “The banking sector operated within adequate parameters
against the background of still modest economic growth, which
also had an impact on the further increase in non-performing
loans,” the central bank said.  Romanian banks are struggling to contain a rise in non-
performing loans as a weaker currency and declining purchasing
power made it harder to repay loans. The lenders will probably
incur a loss this year as bad loans may exceed 20 percent of
total lending,  Ziarul Financiar  reported on Sept. 6, citing
Nicolae Cinteza, who heads the central bank’s supervision
department.  The non-performing loans ratio stood at 16.8 percent at the
end of June, compared with 14.3 percent in December, the central
bank report showed. The banks posted a total loss of 192 million
lei ($56 million) in the first half compared with a 777 million
lei loss for 2011, the central bank said.  The central bank’s latest stress tests, which cover a two-
year period, show a “good capacity to withstand macroeconomic
shocks,” policy makers said. “A small number of lenders showed
an increased vulnerability,” because of lower interest revenue
and higher provisions.  The solvency ratio for the system was 14.7 percent and
would decline by 2.4 percentage points to 12.3 percent, in an
“adverse scenario,” the central bank said.  Romania’s banking industry is dominated by Austrian banks,
which control 38 percent of the market, followed by Romanian
lenders with a market share of 18.3 percent.  The market share of Greek banks declined to 12.9 percent
from 16.3 percent, the central bank’s report showed.  Banca
Comerciala Romana SA , owned by  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , is the
country’s largest bank by assets.  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale (BRD) 
ranks second.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  