-- When a Plutocratic Dinner Doomed a Presidential Campaign
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R .   J o h n
-- 2012-09-18T15:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/when-a-plutocratic-dinner-doomed-a-presidential-campaign.html
Media debacles are a recurrent
nightmare for presidential candidates. Yet few have ever
confronted a more devastating publicity firestorm than the
Republican candidate James G. Blaine did on a fateful day
in October 1884.  Not even Mitt Romney -- who is now facing the blowback
from some arrogant remarks that he made in private at a
fundraiser with high-rolling supporters -- has had a day
quite as damaging as the one “the Plumed Knight” (as
Blaine was known in the press) suffered in the final days
of his presidential campaign.  Blaine’s troubles started when he rejected the advice
of the  New York  state Republican Party chairman and
traveled by railroad to  New York City  to make a series of
high-profile public appearances in the final critical week
of his campaign.  Running neck-and-neck with Democrat Grover  Cleveland ,
Blaine had to win the state. To help fill his campaign
coffers, Blaine agreed to attend a sumptuous fundraising
dinner, organized by 200 prominent Republican supporters,
on Oct. 29. The venue was the ballroom at Delmonico’s, a
swank restaurant in the financial district. Among the
guests were several of the richest, best-known and most
politically connected businessmen in the country, including
the Navy contractor John Roach and the financier  Jay Gould .  A Bad Day  Blaine’s day began badly when he took part in an
impassioned rally hosted by several hundred Protestant
clergymen -- all Republicans -- at which a Presbyterian
minister denounced the Democrats as the party of “Rum,
Romanism and Rebellion.” The slur soon went viral,
outraging Irish Catholic voters who might otherwise have
sat out the election.  The worst was yet to come. The Delmonico’s dinner
played into the hands of journalists primed by a long and
bruising campaign to accentuate Blaine’s financial ties
with Wall Street. Most devastating of all, it furnished New
York World illustrator Walt McDougall with the theme for a
blistering cartoon that would run the next day on the front
page of one of the city’s biggest newspapers.  McDougall’s cartoon -- titled “Royal Feast of
Belshazzar Blaine and the Money Kings” -- portrayed Blaine
as a supplicant at the beck and call of plutocrats who
dined on “monopoly soup,” “patronage” and “lobby pudding”
while a humble laborer and his family looked on, begging
for crumbs.  “Mammon’s Homage”  screamed the headline  that
accompanied the cartoon: “Millionaires and Monopolists Seal
Their Alliance.” McDougall’s work was an instant sensation.
Democratic activists enlarged it into posters that they
plastered on walls all over the city and on placards that
the party faithful held aloft at rallies.  The cartoon had clearly hit a nerve. Blaine’s refusal
to make a full disclosure of past financial dealings
troubled many voters, including some influential
Republicans, while party insiders, including many
businessmen, feared his full-throated endorsement of
government policies they assumed would hasten economic
consolidation. Opposition to monopoly was a potent rallying
cry in 1884, and the New York World had been editorializing
for weeks that a Blaine presidency would widen the gap
between rich and poor.  Tipping the Balance  The election was one of the closest in U.S. history,
and Cleveland won New York by a mere 1,200 votes. Many
political observers, including the World’s editorial staff,
credited McDougall’s cartoon with tipping the balance,
making it one of the most effective visual appeals in the
annals of electoral politics.  McDougall himself would later reminisce that Blaine
had confided to him that the World might well have been
right. “If Blaine had eaten a few more swell dinners,”
lamented one bitter Republican strategist, “and had a few
more ministers call on him, we should not have carried a
northern state.”  Ironically, McDougall had unsuccessfully pitched the
idea for a similar cartoon linking Blaine with  Wall Street 
fat cats to the editors of the magazine Puck several months
earlier. Following the Delmonico’s dinner, McDougall
recycled some of the images from his failed project to draw
“Royal Feast,” helping to explain the speed with which he
readied it. (From start to finish, the project took a mere
two hours, or so recalled a fellow World staffer who helped
bring it to life.) This also explains why some of the
business leaders McDougall featured -- including William H.
Vanderbilt, with his signature mutton chops -- found their
way into the cartoon, but not Blaine’s dinner.  Had McDougall’s cartoon run earlier in the election
cycle, it might not have been as devastating. In politics,
timing is everything, and the appearance of “Royal Feast”
less than a week before voters went to the polls helped
frame the 1884 campaign in a way that Republicans found
impossible to rebut.  Black-and-white cartoons would soon become a staple
feature of daily newspapers, ushering in a new age of
image-driven politics. “Royal Feast” set the stage,
demonstrating how one journalist could help tip an election
by crystallizing popular hostility to the corrupting nexus
of big business and politics. It could also offer lessons
for today’s big-money campaigns: If Blaine were alive
today, he would certainly feel Romney’s pain.  (Richard R. John is a historian who teaches in the
doctoral program at Columbia Journalism School. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Richard R. John at
 rrj2115@columbia.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  