-- Why Outrage Over Islands Full of Goats Is Crazy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-09-18T21:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/why-outrage-over-islands-full-of-goats-is-crazy.html
The Japanese call them the Senkaku
Islands, the Chinese refer to them as Diaoyu. Let me suggest a
more appropriate name: Goat Islands.  Goats are all you will find on the cluster of uninhabited
rocks over which the Japanese and Chinese seem ready to go to
war. Diplomats in Tokyo and Beijing, meanwhile, are blaming one
another over a mushrooming international crisis that has U.S.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  worried about a military
“blowup,” the last thing the world needs right now.  That isn’t as hyperbolic as it might sound. It is easy to
envision a couple of Japanese businessmen being dragged from
their corporate offices in  Shanghai  and beaten, or even killed,
by an angry mob. Things could get out of hand very quickly,
which explains why  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Canon Inc. are shutting
Chinese plants. That goes, too, for naval ships near the
disputed islands. Miscalculations, collisions and gunfire that
lead to broader armed conflict aren’t hard to imagine.  Japan  and  China  should end this foolish row now. Japanese
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and Chinese President  Hu Jintao 
should be talking at this very moment to hash out a truce. Even
better, commit to a meeting, perhaps on the very islands that
their respective governments hold so dear. Or at the White
House, where President  Barack Obama ’s team might help broker a
deal.  It’s Different  This China-Japan crisis feels different. The international
media tend to view it as the worst since 2005. Back then,
protesters also called for a boycott of Japanese goods after
demonstrations swept Chinese cities in a fracas over school
textbooks that downplayed Japan’s World War II atrocities. Here
we are again, seven years later, but with a more complex set of
circumstances framing the issue.  We can pretend this hostility is over low-value real
estate. We can engage in the delusion that it is about fishing
rights or natural resources. The islands are a proxy for the war
and the perception that Japan hasn’t done enough to heal old
wounds. While there is plenty of blame to go around, these hard
feelings will continue to flare up in ways that impede Asia’s
potential.  The China-Japan spat alone puts at risk a trade
relationship that has tripled in the past decade to more than
$340 billion. This dispute is part of a web of disagreements in
Asia’s Pacific Rim that takes in  South Korea ,  Indonesia ,  Vietnam 
and the  Philippines , among others. Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  is so fed up that he renamed the  South China Sea  the West
Philippine Sea. China, as you might imagine, wasn’t amused.  Domestic Politics  What’s unique about this spike in tensions is the state of
domestic politics in China and Japan.  China wants to deflect attention from scandals and snags in
this year’s leadership transition. It is doing everything it can
to fan the flames. Protests are never tolerated -- unless they
are outside a foreign embassy and advance the Communist Party’s
goals. Police stand idly by as thousands of anti-Japan
demonstrators converge in dozens of cities around the nation.  Japan, in turn, is struggling to regain its footing 18
months after a giant earthquake shook its confidence as much as
the ground beneath it. Deflation and political paralysis are
gutting the banks, manufacturers and exporters that once formed
the proud core of Japan’s economy. Diplomatic efforts are being
eclipsed by China’s global charm offensive and deep pockets.  Waning Influence  Japan’s waning influence irks  Tokyo  Governor Shintaro Ishihara, an ardent nationalist who triggered this dispute. In
April, he unveiled plans to use public funds to buy the Senkaku
islands from a private Japanese owner. Tensions escalated after
Sept. 11, when Japan’s Cabinet approved a $26 million purchase
on behalf of the central government.  Politicians in Tokyo often play the anti-China card when
their approval ratings slide. Yet the nature of these
demonstrations feels different. Past protests attracted the
usual suspects: middle-aged right-wingers and their big, black
propaganda trucks outfitted with giant loudspeakers and
xenophobic epithets. Some recent ones seem almost like family
affairs, such as those in the trendy Shibuya neighborhood, with
young mothers and children handing out pamphlets. Japanese seem
more invested this time around.  China and Japan must act to get a grip on these tensions.
Sitting back and letting things escalate by the day imperils
Asia’s outlook. Asia should be signing free-trade agreements;
linking stock markets and bond markets; harmonizing immigration,
tax and accounting standards; and discussing what to do with the
trillions of dollars of  U.S. Treasuries  sitting unproductively
on government balance sheets. None of that is possible as Asia’s
past gets in the way of what should be a prosperous and peaceful
future.  One last thought. Spending millions of dollars of taxpayer
money to buy islands, which are closer to mainland China than
the main island of Japan, shows poor judgment. Why not stick the
wealthy Ishihara with the bill personally and encourage him to
move to Senkaku? He will have great company.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Romney’s 47 percent fallacy 
and on how  not to be tough in the Middle East ;  Ezra Klein  on
Romney and  the responsibility of the poor ;  Margaret Carlson  on
how  Romney isn’t necessarily doomed ; Clive Crook on why  the Fed
made the right move ;  Peter Orszag  on how the Ryan budget would
make it  harder for Medicare patients to find doctors ; Matthew
Bryza on how  Europe can hang tough on Gazprom ; Mel and Patricia
Ziegler on  the creation of Banana Republic .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  