-- Wisconsin AG Seeks Delay in Ruling on Bargaining Rights
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-18T18:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/wisconsin-ag-seeks-delay-in-ruling-on-bargaining-rights-1-.html
Wisconsin  Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen  asked a state court judge to delay, pending appeal, a
decision that laws curbing public employee collective bargaining
rights are unconstitutional.  Judge Juan B. Colas in Madison on Sept. 14 ruled the
legislation known as Act 10, signed by Governor  Scott Walker 
last year, violated public workers’ rights of free speech and
free association.  The laws, which included measures requiring annual votes to
re-certify unions and making the payment of dues voluntary, were
deemed by Colas to be immediately “void and without effect.”  “Act 10 addressed real and significant financial problems
faced by local governments,” Van Hollen said today in a
statement announcing the filing. “It makes no sense to force a
return to a broken system before the appellate process is
completed.”  Signed in March 2011, the legislation exempted firefighters
and police officers. It touched off protests outside the state’s
Capitol and a recall election this year in which Walker -- a
first-term Republican -- defeated Democratic challenger  Tom Barrett .  Free Speech  The statutes “single out and encumber the rights of those
employees who choose union membership and representation solely
because of that association and therefore infringe upon the
rights of free speech and association guaranteed by both the
Wisconsin and United States constitutions,” Colas said.  Walker, in a statement issued that day, called Colas “a
liberal activist judge who wants to go backwards and take away
the lawmaking responsibilities of the legislature and the
governor.”  Van Hollen, in his brief filed today, argued that the
measure gave local governments more flexibility to provide
services without increases in taxes or state aid. He also said
the state would probably obtain a reversal on appeal.  The attorney general said municipal governments and their
workers will endure “substantial confusion” over the status of
decertified bargaining agents while the status of the law is
uncertain.  “We don’t think that the attorney general has made a
sufficient case for why this ruling should be stayed,”
plaintiffs’ attorney Lester Pines said today in telephone
interview, adding he didn’t think Colas would grant the request.  “This is not rocket science,” he said of Van Hollen’s
claim of ensuing municipal confusion.  The case is Madison Teachers Inc. v. Walker, 11-cv-3774,
 Dane County , Wisconsin, Circuit Court, Branch 10 (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 