-- Myanmar Oil Veteran Rebuffs Suu Kyi as Shell, Chevron Weigh Bids
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-09-18T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/myanmar-oil-veteran-rebuffs-suu-kyi-as-shell-chevron-weigh-bids.html
The former head of Myanmar’s state-
owned  oil company  defended it against criticism from Nobel
laureate  Aung San Suu Kyi  as U.S. explorers scout the country’s
oil and gas blocks for the first time since 1997.  Myanma Oil and Gas Enterprise , known as MOGE, is run by
technocrats who reported to government ministers and had no
authority to approve contracts, according to San Lwin, a former
managing director of the organization. Suu Kyi in June urged
governments to restrict partnerships with MOGE until it abides
by international rules for transparency.  “It’s just a puzzle,” San Lwin, who is now a consultant
to  Cnooc Myanmar Ltd. , said in an interview in Yangon last week,
referring to Suu Kyi’s criticisms. “MOGE alone doesn’t have the
authority to sign a production-sharing contract. How can you say
MOGE is not transparent?”  Myanmar is preparing to offer more oil areas to become
self-reliant in energy and help fuel an economy that the  Asian
Development Bank  said may grow as much as 8 percent a year for
more than a decade. President  Barack Obama  in July authorized
U.S. companies to invest in Myanmar for the first time in 15
years and said energy firms must  report  ventures with MOGE
within 60 days.  ConocoPhillips, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
were among Western  oil companies  that sponsored an energy forum
in Yangon this month. Myanmar’s government plans to join the
 Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative  to increase
investor confidence, Deputy Energy Minister Htin Aung told a
Euromoney conference in Naypyidaw on Sept. 12.  Future Bids  Bidding for onshore and offshore blocks will take place
“at the appropriate time,” Htin Aung said, without
elaborating. “As Myanmar’s upstream petroleum sector has now
started entering the international community, it will need time
to make many considerations before launching any more
international bidding rounds.”  Sixty two of the country’s 101 exploration blocks remain
open for investment, including 34 onshore, eight in shallow
water and 20 in deep water, Htin Aung said. Myanmar awarded nine
of 18 areas offered last year to companies such as Thailand’s
 PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  and Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,
 Malaysia ’s state oil company, known as Petronas.  Chevron declined to comment on whether it would bid for
blocks in Myanmar, saying in a statement that it “actively
pursues new business opportunities globally that meet our
criteria for investment” and avoids discussing specifics.
Shell, which doesn’t operate in Myanmar, issued a similar
statement in response to e-mailed questions, saying “commercial
sensitivities” prevent it from commenting. India’s  Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  will probably bid on the blocks, according to
D.K. Sarraf, managing director of overseas unit ONGC Videsh Ltd.  Power Shortage  Myanmar plans to use new discoveries for its own growth,
after President Thein Sein took power a year ago following about
five decades of military rule. Frequent power outages sparked
protests earlier this year as only about a quarter of the
population has access to electricity, according to an ADB  report 
released last month.  The country meets about a third of its crude oil demand and
half of its natural gas needs, while exporting about 80 percent
of gas produced to neighboring  Thailand , according to Htin Aung.
 China  National Petroleum Corp., China’s biggest energy producer,
is building oil and gas pipelines across Myanmar to access
Middle Eastern crude and pump offshore gas to landlocked areas
in southern China.  Suu Kyi, who spent 15 years under house arrest, joined
Parliament for the first time in April after her party won 43 of
44 seats it contested in by-elections. She is now traveling in
the U.S. on a 17-day tour in which she will be awarded the
Congressional Gold Medal, America’s highest civilian honor.  ‘Lacks Transparency’  MOGE “lacks both transparency and accountability at
present,” Suu Kyi told a press conference in Geneva in June.
Governments should not allow partnerships with MOGE unless it
adheres to standards such as the International Monetary Fund’s
code of good practices on fiscal transparency, she said.  Myanmar founded MOGE in 1963 after nationalizing the assets
of Burmah Oil Company, a U.K.-based firm that was eventually
acquired by BP Plc. Foreign companies must partner with MOGE to
operate in the country.  “Although some people have raised questions about
transparency, they actually have a fairly functioning regulatory
system, which can be understood,” Christopher Drew, country
manager for Twinza Oil Ltd., told an investment forum last week
in Naypyidaw, referring to the Energy Ministry. “It sometimes
takes a little while but there is nothing really hidden.”  PTTEP, Daewoo  During San Lwin’s five-year tenure as head of MOGE, he
negotiated contracts for blocks with PTTEP and  Daewoo
International Corp. (047050)  as part of a committee that included Energy
Ministry officials. Once terms were agreed, they were presented
for approval to the energy minister, attorney-general, Myanmar
Investment Commission and finally the Cabinet, San Lwin said.  “In the past, there may be some partiality,” he said.
“But right now it is not a major problem for interested parties
to get the same treatment. Anyone who can provide better terms
and conditions, they can get the block.”  Prior to this year, Chevron was one of the few U.S.
companies operating in Myanmar through its 2005 purchase of
Unocal Corp., which invested in a gas field and pipeline before
a 1997 ban on new investment.  Total SA  operates the project, in
which MOGE has a 15 percent stake.  Not Convinced  Simon Billenness, a Chevron shareholder who has pressed the
company to disclose all payments to the Myanmar government,
remains unconvinced that the country has changed for good. While
applauding moves to free some political prisoners, Billenness
said companies should urge authorities to release all detainees,
strike peace agreements in areas with ethnic minorities and
ensure free and fair national elections in 2015.  “On the transparency issue, I’ll believe it when I see
it,” Billenness, who is also part of the Business and Human
Rights Group at  Amnesty International USA , said by phone. “When
the Burmese government has successfully joined EITI, then I will
know they are serious about revenue transparency.”  Fourteen countries now comply with the Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative, which began in 2002 as part
of efforts to ensure natural resource revenues benefit the poor.
The government must sign up for the initiative.  The oil and gas sector has accounted for 77 percent of the
$3.8 billion in foreign investment Myanmar attracted from 2005
to 2010, according to the ADB. Natural gas exports increased to
about $3 billion last year and are set to rise in 2013 as more
gas fields and pipelines become operational, it said.  Gas Revenue  While revenue from gas exports over the past five years
helped boost international reserves to $9.9 billion, little
showed up in government accounts,  according to the IMF . A
managed float of the  exchange rate  in April will boost gas sales
in the current fiscal budget to 17 percent of total revenue, up
from less than 1 percent a year ago.  Money earned from gas sales went straight to government
coffers and not the pockets of MOGE officials, San Lwin said.  “I use a 20-year-old car and drive myself around,” he
said. “These days if someone is doing something wrong, it will
show up on the Internet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  