-- Myanmar’s Suu Kyi Calls on U.S. to Heed More Than Economy
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-09-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/myanmar-s-suu-kyi-calls-on-u-s-to-heed-more-than-economy.html
Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi said she was open to a U.S. relaxation of economic
sanctions on her country, even as she urged American leaders to
focus on more than its economy alone.  “I do support the easing of sanctions because I think that
our people must start taking responsibility for their own
destiny,” Suu Kyi said at an event at the U.S. Institute of
Peace, a nonpartisan policy group in  Washington  funded by
Congress. “I do not think we should depend on the U.S.
sanctions to keep up the momentum of our movement toward
democracy. We’ve got to work at it ourselves.”  The political dissident and democracy activist said she is
in the U.S. for the first time in about 40 years, a visit that
would have been unthinkable as little as two years ago when she
remained under house arrest. She is now a member of parliament.
She met with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  at the State
Department yesterday and will see lawmakers, activists and
officials while in Washington.  Suu Kyi asked U.S. leaders not to focus on Myanmar’s
economy to the exclusion of other issues, such as the rule of
law and democratic progress. In July, State Department officials
led the highest-level economic and commercial delegation to
Myanmar, also known as Burma, in more than 25 years. They also
took part in a business delegation that included more than 70
executives from 35 companies.  “While the  United States  seems to be concentrating a lot
on the economic aspect of its relations with my country,” Suu
Kyi said, “I hope they will do this in full awareness of the
need to promote rule of law and to help the president and his
executive to carry out the reforms they have in mind.”  Rule of Law  She cautioned that unless there is the rule of law and a
functioning judicial system to enforce it, companies coming to
Myanmar won’t have “either security or the freedom necessary
for them to operate effectively in our country.”  Suzanne Nossel, Amnesty International USA’s executive
director, said while what is happening is “not a complete
turnaround or the dawn of democracy and human rights in  Burma ,
it’s a very important beginning.”  Issues such as child labor, forced labor, political
prisoners and ethnic conflict must be dealt with, she said in a
telephone interview.  Clinton said that in addition to appointing an ambassador
and lifting sanctions on Myanmar, the U.S. had let companies
invest in the country and was ensuring that happened in a way
“that advances rather than undermines continued reforms.”  Nossel said that “what’s crucial is that the companies
that enter Burma take seriously their human-rights obligations
that are spelled out in international law and end up being a
force for good.”  ‘Real Risk’  She said that is important “because there’s a very real
risk if they put profits ahead of people they’ll end up
exacerbating a very precarious climate in terms of rights,
rather than helping to accelerate the progress.”  Clinton didn’t discuss the prospect of a further easing of
sanctions. State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  told
reporters yesterday that she wasn’t “in a position to predict
whether we’re going to take any new steps on Burma this week or
next.” She said the U.S. expects the country’s president,  Thein Sein , to visit  New York  next week for the  United Nations General
Assembly .  Both Suu Kyi and Clinton warned against complacency about
Myanmar’s move toward democracy, even with positive signs such
as the release of political prisoners Sept. 17. Suu Kyi said
yesterday that of the approximately 500 people released, about
200 were political prisoners.  Avoiding ‘Backsliding’  There is a need to “guard against backsliding, because
there are forces that would take the country in the wrong
direction if given the chance,” Clinton said as she introduced
Suu Kyi to the crowd at the U.S. Institute of Peace.  Clinton touched on other signs of progress, including
fragile ceasefires in some long-running internal conflicts, the
creation of an opposition and an easing of restrictions on the
media. She also underscored the need for more work.  She mentioned the need to release more political prisoners,
reduce ethnic violence that undermines internal stability, amend
the constitution, increase transparency, strengthen the rule of
law and curtail contacts with  North Korea .  “The State Department and the Obama administration are
certainly the first to say the process of political reform must
continue,” Clinton said. Using the country’s name at
independence, which is official administration policy, Clinton
said “the United States is committed to standing with the
people of Burma to support this progress that has begun, but
that is still a work in progress.”  Today, Suu Kyi will meet lawmakers at the Capitol and
receive the Congressional Gold Medal, the legislative body’s
highest award.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  