-- Yanzhou Slumps as Japan Land Dispute Sinks ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-18T20:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/yanzhou-slumps-as-japan-land-dispute-sinks-adrs-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks fell for a second
day in  New York  on concern a land dispute with Japan may curb
foreign trade at a time the economy is growing at the slowest
pace in three years.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in New York sank 0.9 percent to 91.53 yesterday
for a two-day retreat of 2.5 percent, the biggest in eight
weeks.  Yanzhou Coal (YZC)  Mining Co. slid and Aluminum Corp. of  China 
dropped the most in three weeks.  China Telecom Corp. (CHA)  lost the
most in three months while China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. slumped
as the companies cut the price for Apple Inc.’s iPhone 4S before
the smartphone’s new version is sold in the country.  Japanese retailers closed stores in China as a territorial
dispute has prompted thousands to protest in Chinese cities.
 Asia ’s biggest economy needs more subways, highways and sewage
plants, and construction of that infrastructure will help the
economy, Xu Lin, a senior official at the National Development
and Reform Commission, said yesterday in Beijing. Gross domestic
product expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the least
since 2009.  “The conflict with  Japan  doesn’t give investors
enthusiasm,” Elena Ogram, a portfolio manager at Bank am
Bellevue AG, which manages about $50 million of emerging-market
equity assets, said by phone yesterday from Zurich. “The
infrastructure spending plan may not be large enough to have any
real impact on the economy. The real issue here is Chinese
fundamentals, which are simply not very strong.”  ETF Put Options  Thirty-five of 70 cities tracked by China’s statistics
bureau reported prices gains in August, from 49 in July,
according to data released yesterday in Beijing.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 0.6 percent in its
second day of declines to $34.52.  Investors started to buy contracts protecting them from
future declines in the ETF on “geopolitical concerns and weak”
home prices data, Frederic Ruffy, a senior options strategist at
WhatsTrading.com, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Put
options (FXI)  show investors are betting the ETF may drop as much as
11.7 percent within the next 31 days, he said.  American depositary receipts of China Telecom, the smallest
among the nation’s three wireless carriers, declined 4.1 percent
to $59.16, the most since June 21. The company in March became
the second iPhone service provider in the nation after China
Unicom.  iPhone Prices  China Telecom will cut iPhone 4S prices by 2,000  yuan 
($316.5) starting today, the Shanghai Daily  reported  yesterday,
citing prices on the company’s website.  China Unicom reduced its sale prices of the iPhone 4S by
500 to 700 yuan on Sept. 14 after Apple released the new iPhone
5 model. Unicom is expected to start selling the iPhone 5 within
three months, Caixin magazine reported Sept. 13.  The ADRs of China Unicom dropped 1.5 percent to $16.74 in
its second day of declines. The ADRs traded 1.1 percent  above 
its  Hong Kong  shares, after posting discounts in previous two
days.  Yanzhou Coal, the fourth-largest producer of the fuel in
China, sank 4 percent to $15.31, the steepest retreat since
Sept. 5.  Aluminum Corp. of China, the nation’s biggest producer of
the light metal, lost 3.3 percent to $10.35, extending a two-day
slump to 6.4 percent, the most since June 1.  Youku Tudou Rallies  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , a Beijing-based video website operator
that completed a merger last month, rebounded 3 percent
yesterday to $19.32, after plunging 10 percent a day earlier.  “The sell-off yesterday was aggressive and overdone,”
Tian Hou, analyst at TH Capital LLC, an independent research
firm, said in a phone interview in New York. “Youku is in a
better position because of the merger and as more consolidation
takes place, they can increase their market share.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  dipped 0.1 percent to
1,459.32 yesterday as concern grew that  Europe ’s leaders will
struggle to resolve their debt crisis.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.9 percent to 2,059.54
yesterday for a two-day decline of 3 percent, the biggest since
March. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies lost 1 percent to 9,683.89.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  