-- Zloty Slips to One-Week Low on U.S. Growth Concerns, Euro Crisis
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2012-09-18T16:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-18/zloty-slips-to-one-week-low-on-u-s-growth-concerns-euro-crisis.html
The zloty hit a one-week low
against the euro as  market sentiment  soured amid signs of
slowing growth in the U.S. and a worsening  European debt crisis .  The Polish currency weakened as much as 0.6 percent to
4.1251 per euro, the weakest since Sept. 10, ans traded at
4.1193 per euro as of 5:35 p.m. in Warsaw. The yield on the
government’s 10-year zloty bond fell less than one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.97 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Luc Coene
said rising bond yields may force  Spain  into asking for aid
while Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  said yesterday that its
general economic index of manufacturing dropped to minus 10.41,
the lowest reading since April 2009. The developments are
weakening sentiment toward the zloty after bond buying pledges
by the Fed and the ECB increased appetite for riskier assets.  “Investor optimism created by Fed and EBC moves has
dampened,” Cezary Chrapek, an analyst at the Polish unit of
Citigroup Inc., said by phone from Warsaw today. “The zloty’s
drop is deepened by weaker economic data from the U.S.” and
“returning worries about the euro zone, visible in the falling
price of Spanish bonds,” he said.  Slowing economic growth is also affecting Polish companies,
whose combined net income fell by one-third in the second
quarter from a year earlier, according to a report published
today on the central bank’s website.  Earnings deteriorated most sharply in the energy, mining
and construction industries, according to a summary of the
report by the Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski’s research
institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  