-- American Air, Flight Attendants Fail to Reach Contract Agreement
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-02T04:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/american-air-flight-attendants-fail-to-reach-contract-agreement.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  and its
flight attendants’ union failed to agree on cost cuts, clearing
the way for a judge to rule on whether the bankrupt carrier can
void their contract to help reduce labor spending by $1.25
billion a year.  Talks ended yesterday after two days, the Association of
Professional Flight Attendants said in a statement late last
night. American and the union began the last-ditch negotiations
at the urging of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane. Another
bankruptcy judge oversaw the meetings.  The failure extends American’s history of discord with
employees. Industry-leading labor costs were cited when the
carrier sought  bankruptcy protection  on Nov. 29, after failing
to reach  contracts  with its major unions in talks going back as
far as 2006. Those labor groups agreed on contract terms with
Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  in April, conditioned
on a merger between the airlines.  “I firmly believe a merger is the right move for this
company,” APFA President  Laura Glading  said in the statement.
“A strong company will provide more job security than even the
best agreement American can offer as a standalone.”  American didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment after normal business hours.  US Airways , which hasn’t yet made a formal bid for American,
has said it’s meeting with the carrier’s bankruptcy creditors to
build support for a combination.  After Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR filed for Chapter 11,
American sought to cut flight attendant costs by $230 million a
year, or 20 percent, an amount the APFA argued in court was more
than the company needed.  The  Allied Pilots Association  is set to start three days of
mediated negotiations on June 4, while the Transport Workers
Union will hold talks June 11-12 for units representing American
mechanics and stock clerks. Members of five other TWU units
approved agreements with the airline on May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  