-- AOL Says ISS Reached Wrong Conclusion on Board Nominees
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-06-02T18:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/aol-says-iss-reached-wrong-conclusion-on-board-nominees-1-.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) , facing a fight with
investor Starboard Value LP, said Institutional Shareholder
Services Inc. was wrong in not recommending shareholders vote
for two of its eight board nominees.  AOL, in a statement today, said it agrees with the
shareholder advisory service’s recommendation that holders vote
against Starboard’s nominees.  In April, Starboard Value said the sale of AOL patents to
Microsoft Corp. doesn’t go far enough in solving the Internet
company’s problems, urging it to find new ways to extract value
from its advertising business. The investor also asked AOL to
return more cash to shareholders and said it planned to nominate
candidates to AOL’s board.  AOL said today that Starboard nominees  Jeffrey Smith  and
Dennis Miller lack an understanding of the company’s business
model, and don’t have a “viable plan for AOL other than to
break up and liquidate the company.”  Telephone calls placed to Starboard Value by Bloomberg News
outside of regular business hours today went unanswered, as was
an e-mail seeking comment.  Smith, 40, is co-founder and chief executive officer of
Starboard Value since February 2011, according to Starboard’s
May 29 proxy filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Miller, 55, is an adviser to Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp., and focuses on investing in media and
technology, according to Starboard’s filing.  5.3 Percent  A third Starboard nominee is James Warner, 58, the
principal of advisory firm Third Floor Enterprises, a company
specializing in digital marketing and media.  AOL said Egan-Jones Proxy Services on May 29 supported the
election of all of its nominees, and urged shareholders to
follow the Egan-Jones recommendation and not that of ISS.
Starboard Value  owned  about 5.3 percent of AOL’s shares
outstanding as of May 25.  AOL’s annual meeting is set for June 14.  Shares of New York-based AOL  fell  32 cents to $27.11 in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. The stock has
gained 80 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  