-- BCE, Ontario Teachers to Purchase Q9 Networks for C$1.1 Billion
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-06-02T14:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/bce-ontario-teachers-to-purchase-q9-networks-for-c-1-1-billion.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) , Canada’s largest
telecommunications operator, and an investor group including the
Ontario Teachers’  Pension Plan  said it will acquire data-center
operator Q9 Networks Inc. for C$1.1 billion (US$1.06 billion).  The pension plan, along with  Providence Equity Partners  and
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, will contribute C$420 million of
the equity funding, the group said today in a statement. BCE
will provide the remaining C$180 million.  The purchase adds to a buying spree by BCE, which has
announced plans to acquire two TV companies and a stake in the
owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs hockey team. The company is
wagering that smartphone customers will increase spending on
BCE’s sports and entertainment programming.  BCE’s last three major acquisitions were valued at a total
of $7.6 billion, including debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its most recent deal was to buy Astral Media Inc. for
C$3 billion in March.  Ontario Teachers’ is  Canada ’s third-biggest retirement fund
manager, with C$117 billion of assets as of Dec. 31.  The group said a portion of the transaction, which is
expected to close before year-end, will be funded through new
debt.  Q9, which runs 11 data centers in  Alberta , British Columbia
and Ontario, helps businesses run their computing operations,
working with hundreds of customers in a range of industries.
The company agreed to be acquired by private-equity firm Abry
Partners LLC in 2008 in a deal that valued Q9 at about $361
million.  Another Sale  Abry also is exploring a sale of Atlantic Broadband Inc., a
cable company that it owns with Oak Hill  Capital Partners ,
people familiar with the matter said this week. That deal, which
is being managed by Credit Suisse Group AG, may be worth about
$1.4 billion, one of the people said.  Q9 was founded in 1995 as Myna Communications, an  Internet
service provider  and Web-hosting company. The Toronto-based
company, run by Chief Executive Officer Osama Arafat, changed
its name to Q9 Networks in 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  