-- Bristol Immune Drug Success in Cancer May Spur Industry Race
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-06-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/bristol-myers-immune-drug-puts-deadly-cancers-on-hold-in-study.html
The early success of an experimental
drug from Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. that’s designed to unleash
the body’s immune-system defenses against cancer sets the stage
for an industry wide race to produce similar treatments.  The drug shrank tumors in people with advanced lung, kidney
and skin cancer in 18 percent to 28 percent of patients,
depending on the illness, who had failed on other therapies,
according to data from a 296-patient trial reported June 2 at
the  American Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting in  Chicago .  The findings hint that therapies like the Bristol drug,
that prompt killer T-cells to eliminate invaders, may work
against many tumors, said James Allison, an immunologist at
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York.  “There is no reason to think that all cancers might not be
susceptible to immune therapy,” Allison said by telephone,
noting that the human immune system can wipe out whole organs
when it rejects a transplant.  Drugmakers and scientists have been trying to find ways to
boost the immune system against cancer for decades, with little
successes until recently.  In 2010,  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ’s Provenge, a prostate cancer
treatment, was approved in the U.S. as the first therapy
designed to train the body’s immune system to attack tumor cells
as if they were a virus. Last year, Bristol-Myers immune
boosting antibody Yervoy was approved for advanced melanoma.  Now “the whole idea of immunotherapy is really
blossoming,” said  David Chang , a vice president for Amgen Inc.,
which is testing immune-boosting treatments for melanoma and
leukemia, in an interview at the oncology conference. “It is
going to be the next wave in cancer treatments.”  Pioneering Work  In the 1990s, Allison did pioneering work that led to
Yervoy. At that point, many researchers were skeptical that the
concept would work in people, he said. Just a few years ago,
when he gave talks to doctors at cancer meetings, the room would
only be half full, he said.  At the weekend’s oncology conference Allison discussed data
from Bristol’s trial and studies of competing immune drugs in a
hall packed with researchers, doctors, and industry officials.  Bristol-Myers’s  Yervoy  was a milestone for the New York-
based company, the first drug proven to extend the survival of
advanced melanoma patients. The therapy blocks a molecular off-
switch on the immune cells that keeps them from attacking cancer.
It has been shown in studies to shrink melanoma in 10 percent to
15 percent of patients.  The newest Bristol drug, BMS-936558, is an antibody that
blocks a different immune system off-switch, called PD-1. Many
types of tumors act to keep the off-switch in place to protect
themselves from the immune system.  Lung, Kidney, Skin Cancer  Results from the company-sponsored trial reported at the
cancer meeting showed Bristol-Myers’s anti-PD-1 drug shrank
tumors in 18 percent of  lung cancer  patients, 27 percent of
kidney cancer patients and 28 percent of melanoma patients.  Based on the findings, Bristol-Myers plans to begin a final
set of trials of the treatment in lung and kidney cancer this
year, and in melanoma by early next year, said Michael Giordano,
a Bristol-Myers senior vice president, in a phone interview.  Immune therapy will become “a new paradigm in the way
cancers are treated,” he said.  Maureen O’Grady, 59, of Milford,  Connecticut  was diagnosed
in January 2009 with lung cancer that had spread to her liver
and both kidneys. By June 2010, the disease had also moved into
to her heart despite several rounds of chemo and experimental
drugs. “It was all over the place,” she said in a telephone
interview. “My prognosis was poor.”  ‘Teach Your Body’  Scott Gettinger, O’Grady’s doctor at Yale Cancer Center in
 New Haven , Connecticut, gave her a choice of two experimental
drug trials, including the Bristol anti-PD-1 drug that might
“teach your body to recognize cancer.” She chose the PD-1 drug
and, within two months, her tumors started to shrink.  They have remained under control ever since then. The
remaining lesions may just be dead tissue, O’Grady said.  “It has extended my life and given me a second chance,”
she said in a phone interview. “Everybody is very happy I am
still here.”  Potential rivals to Bristol-Myers include  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , all of which are in early stages of testing
drugs that work by similar mechanisms.  The new class of drugs “is definitely a revolution in
the making,” said Keith Flaherty, head of developmental cancer
therapeutics for  Massachusetts General Hospital  in  Boston  and a
co-investigator on the study.  Year-Long Response  A promising aspect of new immune-boosting therapies is that
they may work for long periods of time, said  Suzanne Topalian , a
professor of surgery and oncology at  Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine  in Baltimore and a lead author on the study.  According to the results, 20 patients on the Bristol-Myers
PD-1 drug had tumor responses that have lasted a year or more.
This stands in contrast to existing drugs that hit mutated genes
on cancer cells. These often stop working in a matter of months
as the tumors become resistant, Topalian said in a phone
interview before the meeting.  Some patients who responded to BMS-936558 have now gone off
therapy without their tumors regrowing, Topalian said.  The immune system “has a memory component that continues
to hold to the tumor in check” even after therapy is stopped,
she said in the phone interview.  Potential Downside  A downside of boosting the immune system against cancer is
that it may also attack normal tissue. Three patients in the
trial died from lung inflammation linked to the drug, according
to the results.  There haven’t been any deaths since Bristol started a
program to aggressively treat patients who showed signs of the
lung inflammation, said Fouad Namouni, the Bristol-Myers vice
president who is leading the testing program for BMS-936558, in
a phone interview.  In addition to lung, kidney and melanoma patients, the
Bristol-Myers drug trial also included people with advanced
 colon cancer  and prostate cancer. None of those patients
experienced major tumor shrinkage, for reasons that aren’t clear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  