-- Canada Dollar Drops for Fifth Week as Jobs Data Adds to Gloom
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-02T04:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/canada-dollar-drops-for-fifth-week-as-jobs-data-adds-to-gloom.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped for a fifth
consecutive week in the longest losing streak in a year as
speculation a slowing recovery for the nation’s biggest trade
partner and  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis curtailed demand.  The currency touched the lowest since November after a
report yesterday showed the U.S. added the fewest jobs in a
year. Bank of Canada policy makers meet on June 5, four days
after Statistics Canada said growth stagnated in the January-
March period as  consumer spending  increased at the slowest pace
in three years, raising the chances of lower  interest rates  by
the end of 2012.  “You had the dual-pronged attack on the Canadian dollar,
with worse than expected payrolls and GDP,” said  John Curran ,
senior vice president in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an
online foreign-exchange dealer, in a telephone interview. “That
plays firmly into the hands of the ‘risk-off’ scenario which is
the underlying trade out there because of European concerns.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, slid 1.1 percent to C$1.0410
per U.S. dollar yesterday in Toronto, from C$1.0293 on May 25.
The currency touched C$1.0443, the weakest level since Nov. 28.
One Canadian dollar buys 96.06 U.S. cents.  Government bond yields fell to record lows as investors
sought safety. The price of the benchmark 10-year bond climbed
C$1.76 cents to C$110.32, driving the  yield  down 19 basis points
on the week to 1.63 percent. It touched 1.615 percent, the
lowest since at least 1950, according to data compiled by the
 Bank of Canada  and Bloomberg.  Century Lows  Thirty-year bond yields fell to 2.197 percent, the lowest
since 1991, when Canada first issued the debt, according to the
central bank data.  Monthly average yields for bonds with maturities of more
than 10 years never fell below 2.55 percent between 1919 and
1989, according to the Bank of Canada. Interest rates on long-
term bonds in January 1919, when the data series began two
months after the end of World War I, were 5.72 percent.  Bonds rallied and the loonie had its biggest intraday loss
this year yesterday after the U.S. Labor Department said
payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The median
projection called for a 150,000 May advance. The jobless rate
rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  Canada’s gross domestic product grew 0.1 percent in March,
Ottawa-based  Statistics Canada  said, less than the median
economist forecast of 0.3 percent.  ‘Bigger Risk’  “Short-term trend momentum remains bullish” for the U.S.
dollar versus the Canadian,  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, wrote
in a note to clients yesterday. “We still think the bigger risk
is to the topside and a move to C$1.06 at least.”  Investors increased bets the Bank of Canada Governor  Mark
Carney  will lower borrowing costs. Trading suggests the central
bank will cut interest  rates  by 35 basis points by year-end,
according to Bloomberg calculations on overnight rate swaps.
Canada’s 12-month overnight index swap rate, which is tied to
forecasts for the Bank of Canada’s policy rate, fell to 0.865
percent, the lowest level this year.  Investors are waiting to see if there’s any change in
language next week from Carney, who said last month interest-
rate increases may be necessary as growth and inflation outpace
his earlier projections, and as slack disappears from the
economy. Policy makers have kept the  benchmark rate  at 1 percent
since September 2010.  Volatility Rises  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback increased yesterday to the highest
level since Jan. 6, 10.31 percent, after falling to 6.59 percent
on April 30. The five-year average is 12 percent. Implied
volatility, which traders quote and use to set option prices,
signals the expected pace of currency swings.  The loonie gained 0.8 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation peers monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  was up 7.1
percent, and the euro fell 0.7 percent.  Australia ’s dollar slid
5 percent, and  Sweden ’s krona lost 3.1 percent.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell for a fifth week.
June futures dropped 8.4 percent to $83.23 per barrel in  New
York . Raw materials account for half of Canada’s export revenue.  Although the Canadian dollar may drop further versus the
greenback, it stands to gain against the euro, according to
 Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce.  “It’s tough to be anything but bearish on the euro,”
Stretch said by phone yesterday from  London . “The politicians
have to have their feet literally dragged into the fire before
they make the unpleasant decisions. C$1.25 is not an unlikely
target point. That’s probably got the majority of juice in it,”
compared with other crosses, he said.  The loonie ended yesterday at C$1.2869 versus the 17-nation
common currency, little changed on the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  