-- Cancer-Stricken Chavez Makes Brief Public Appearance in Caracas
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-06-02T20:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/cancer-stricken-chavez-makes-brief-public-appearance-in-caracas.html
Cancer-stricken Venezuelan President
 Hugo Chavez  made a public appearance for the first time in four
days.  Images captured by state television showed the Venezuelan
leader walking out of the presidential palace today in Caracas
after a meeting with Belarusian Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Semashko. He spoke for about 20 minutes on the palace steps.  Chavez, whose refusal to reveal a prognosis, exact location
or type of his cancer has fueled speculation he may not be fit
enough to contest elections in October, yesterday took the first
step of registering as his party’s candidate via the Internet.  The former tank commander, who is trying to extend his 13
years in power with another six-year term, said the Oct. 7
election represents a battle of ideas between his brand of
“21st century socialism” and bourgeois capitalism.  “This is a case of two models, it doesn’t matter who is
the candidate for the bourgeoisie,” he said today. “It’s the
bourgeois, privatizing, capitalist model that’s drowned this
world and broke  Venezuela  in a thousand pieces during the 20th
century and our own socialist, profoundly democratic model.”  Belarusian President Aleksandr Lukashenko will visit
Venezuela June 26, Chavez said.  Third Operation  Since announcing he would require a third operation since
June to remove a second tumor from his pelvic area, Chavez has
cut down public appearances, preferring instead to call into
state television, send messages from his Twitter account or hold
the occasional televised ministerial meeting from the palace.  Nelson Bocaranda, a journalist who reports on Chavez’s
health in the absence of official statements, has claimed recent
bouts of radiation therapy caused the Venezuelan leader’s femur
to fracture.  Chavez has widened his lead over Miranda state Governor
Henrique Capriles Radonski to 17 percentage points, according to
a survey by Caracas-based Datanalisis. Chavez had 43 percent of
voter preferences compared with 26 percent for Capriles,
according to the poll taken between April 9 and 18. The poll of
1,300 people had a margin of error of 2.73 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  