-- Chavez Registers Presidential Candidacy Via Internet
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-06-02T01:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/chavez-registers-presidential-candidacy-via-internet-correct-.html
(Corrects to add first name and title of electoral official
in second paragraph.)  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
carried out the first step of registering his candidacy for
October presidential elections via Internet today, an electoral
official said.  Opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski also
registered by Internet today and all candidates must present
documents to the council before June 11, electoral council head
Tibisay Lucena said in comments broadcast on state television.
Three other candidates also registered, Lucena said, without
providing names.  Chavez seeks to extend his thirteen years in power with
another six-year term while battling cancer. He has undergone
three operations to remove two tumors in his pelvic area since
June. His refusal to reveal a prognosis or the exact location
and type of his cancer has fueled speculation he may not be
healthy enough to campaign.  Capriles has announced plans to organize a march through
Caracas on June 10 that will culminate in him presenting the
documents to the three-person electoral board headed by Lucena.
Chavez, who hasn’t been seen outside the presidential palace in
public appearances since returning from his last session of
radiation therapy in Cuba on May 11, will register his candidacy
“in the coming days,” Vice President Elias Jaua said today,
without providing details.  Capriles’ campaign is the only one that has informed the
electoral council how it plans to register, Lucena said.  Chavez widened his lead over Capriles to 17 percentage
points, according to a survey by Caracas-based Datanalisis.
Chavez had 43 percent of voter preferences compared with 26
percent for Capriles, according to the poll taken between April
9 and 18. The poll of 1,300 people had a margin of error of 2.73
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 