-- EFG-Hermes Shareholders Approve QInvest Deal for Investment Bank
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-06-02T12:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/efg-hermes-shareholders-said-to-approve-qinvest-joint-venture.html
Shareholders of  EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE (HRHO)  voted in favor of creating an investment bank in which
QInvest LLC, a unit of  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK) , will own 60 percent.  The vote was confirmed by Doha-based QInvest Chief
Executive Officer Shahzad Shahbaz who said by phone today the
agreement will still requires regulatory approval. EFG-Hermes
shareholders approved the deal at a meeting today, two people
with knowledge of the vote had said earlier, asking not to be
identified because the decision hasn’t been made public. A
representative at EFG-Hermes’ media department declined to
immediately comment when contacted via e-mail.  QInvest will invest $250 million in the joint venture,
which will will exclude EFG-Hermes’ private equity business and
its stake in Lebanese commercial bank Credit Libanais SAL, the
two companies said last month. EFG-Hermes has a market value of
about 5.24 billion Egyptian pounds ($868 million.)  The vote puts into question a possible bid to acquire 100
percent of EFG-Hermes by  Planet IB Ltd. , a company led by a
group of Egyptian bankers. The bid, announced last week, is
backed by domestic, regional and international investors
including Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , Planet said.  “I will not shy away from Egypt’s first hostile
takeover,” Planet’s Chief Executive Officer Ahmed El Houssieny
said today in a statement to Bloomberg. “I have done Egypt’s
first corporate bond issuance, Egypt’s first leveraged buyout,
Egypt’s first securitization transaction.”  Referred to Trial  Planet said it raised $650 million in debt and a “lower
amount” in equity for the possible bid. El Houssieny, former
managing director at Cairo-based private equity firm  Citadel
Capital SAE (CCAP) , had said the offer hinged on EFG-Hermes’s
management allowing his company to conduct due diligence.  The shareholder vote comes after EFG-Hermes’ co-chief
executive officers were referred to trial in Egypt May 30,
charged with illicit gains related to the 2007 sale of  El Watany
Bank of Egypt . EFG-Hermes has denied the charges, which centered
around the lack of disclosure of trading activities and involved
seven others including Alaa and Gamal Mubarak, the sons of
former president  Hosni Mubarak .  EFG-Hermes shares have advanced 9.6 percent this year,
compared with a 29 percent gain for the benchmark  EGX 30 Index. (EGX30)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  