-- Merkel Rejects Debt Sharing as Obama Urges Europe Action
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-03T14:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/merkel-rejects-debt-sharing-as-obama-urges-end-to-crisis-cloud.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
hardened her opposition to joint debt sharing in the euro region
as President  Barack Obama  singled out Europe’s leaders for not
doing enough to arrest the financial crisis.  With Europe’s debt crisis cited last week for canceled
IPOs, weaker-than-expected Chinese manufacturing figures and a
rise in the U.S. jobless rate, Merkel rejected joint debt
issuance in the 17-nation euro area as a solution, saying
“under no circumstances” would she agree to Germany-backed
euro bonds.  Some “come along and ask for euro bonds, saying all we
need are equal interest rates and everything will turn out all
right,” Merkel said in a speech to members of her  Christian
Democratic Union  in Berlin yesterday. Instead, what’s needed is
an economic overhaul to tackle the lack of competitiveness in
 Europe , she said.  Merkel, the head of Europe’s biggest economy and the
largest contributor to bailouts for Greece, Portugal and
Ireland, is the pivotal player in efforts to resolve the crisis
now in its third year. As Spain struggles to avoid becoming the
next country to call for a rescue and the euro slides near a
two-year low against the dollar, Obama added to pressure on
Merkel from the  European Central Bank ,  France  and  Italy  to do
more to halt the spread of contagion.  European ‘Cloud’  Obama, speaking at a Chicago fundraiser on June 1 as he
bids for re-election in November, said that a report showing the
slowest month of U.S. employment growth in a year was in large
part “attributable to Europe and the cloud that’s coming over
from the Atlantic.”  “Europe is having a significant crisis in part because
they haven’t taken as many of the decisive steps as were needed
to deal with the challenge,” he said at a separate event in
 Minneapolis .  The president’s point person for the European crisis,  Lael Brainard , Treasury undersecretary for international affairs,
ended a three-day tour of Europe’s crisis capitals the same day
as work continued on erecting a financial firewall to stem
contagion. The European Union is targeting July 9 as the start
date for its permanent rescue fund, the 500 billion-euro ($620
billion) European Stability Mechanism, an EU official said.  Spanish Storm  Brainard held closed-door meetings with government
officials in Athens, Madrid, Paris, Frankfurt and Berlin in a
week when investors flocked to the perceived safety of German
and U.S. bonds. The euro tumbled against the dollar and dropped
to an 11-year low against the yen as uncertainty over the
outcome of Greek elections on June 17 shifted to take in  Spain ,
where Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government is struggling to
shore up banks amid a recession.  Merkel and Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  are urging
Rajoy to take an international bailout since Spain cannot solve
its banking woes alone, German news magazine  Der Spiegel 
reported yesterday, without citing a source for the information.
Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, declined to comment
on the report when contacted by telephone.  A Spanish government spokeswoman declined to comment,
refering instead to a speech Rajoy made yesterday in which he
said the euro region should have a centralized mechanism that
can directly recapitalize lenders as part of a “banking
union,” echoing a proposal by European Commission President
 Jose Barroso . Such a structure, which might include conditions
for banks receiving aid, would help meet Spain’s need for
external capital without the stigma of a formal rescue.  ‘Irrational’ Views  Spain “will emerge from the storm under its own efforts
and with the support of our European partners,” Rajoy said in
the speech in Sitges, near Barcelona, calling on analysts and
investors to moderate “irrational” views of Spain’s financial
situation. “We are not on the edge of a precipice.”  Spanish 10-year yields ended the week at 6.51 percent,
approaching the 7 percent level that triggered previous euro-
area bailouts, though below a euro-era record of 6.78 percent on
Nov. 17.  Germany ’s equivalent 10-year bund rate was at 1.17
percent after reaching 1.127 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg
began collecting the data in 1989. German two-year yields slid
below zero for the first time.  Proposals on a banking union are among elements of a
“master plan” to resolve the crisis being worked on by ECB and
EU officials for the next European summit at the end of June,
German newspaper Welt-am-Sonntag reported today, citing
officials it didn’t name. The European Commission is
“continuously adapting our crisis responses” as developments
dictate, Emer Traynor, a commission spokeswoman, said of the
report.  Irish Referendum  Irish backing for Europe’s fiscal pact failed to halt a
decline in European stocks for the fourth week in five, with the
 Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index dropping 3.1 percent to 235.09. The
benchmark measure has plunged 14 percent from this year’s high
on March 16. The euro closed at $1.2434 in Brussels on June 1.  Merkel lauded Rajoy’s efforts “for the first time to
undertake sweeping labor market reforms,” tackle the real-
estate crisis and address Spanish banks, where she said the
situation is “fragile.”  “That’s why it’s important to create transparency quickly
over what that means for the banks, what the situation is for
recapitalization,” she said. Germany and Spain are in close
contact over those efforts “as we must tackle the problems of
the past and start the future with a clean slate.”  Italian Critics  The German chancellor, who was besieged over her crisis-
fighting policy last week by Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
and ECB President  Mario Draghi , took aim at Italy as she cited a
“missed opportunity” offered by the euro’s introduction for
Europe to overhaul uncompetitive economies. The cheaper
borrowing that came with the euro meant “countries like Italy
became virtually on a par with Germany in terms of  interest
rates ,” she said.  “The freedom created by this situation wasn’t exploited to
improve long-term competitiveness,” Merkel said. “Instead, the
time was used to spend too much money in consumption and too
little time in tackling reforms.”  In Greece, where the crisis first emerged in late 2009,
Alexis Tsipras, head of the biggest anti-bailout party, Syriza,
appealed to voters two days ago to give him the power to cancel
the terms of the country’s international bailout, including
economic reforms. Moody’s Investors Service lowered Greece’s
highest possible credit rating the same day, saying there was an
increasing risk Greece may exit the euro region.  Greece Endgame  Greece is reaching an endgame regardless of the election
outcome, Germany’s best-selling Bild newspaper said,
underscoring the domestic pressure facing Merkel over her crisis
response.  Greece “is unravelling,” and ever-more aid cannot deliver
the new beginning that Greece needs, Nikolaus Blome, Bild’s
chief political columnist, said in an editorial in yesterday’s
edition.  The Greek state “must be rebuilt, like in a developing
nation,” he said. “Someone among the euro-zone leaders must
finally tell the Greeks the truth: this fresh start can only be
achieved with a radical first step. And that means leaving the
euro.”  Billionaire investor  George Soros , speaking yesterday in
Trento, Italy, said that European leaders, foremost among them
Merkel, have a three-month window in which to “correct their
mistakes and reverse the current trends.”  “We need to do whatever we can to convince Germany to show
leadership and preserve the European Union as the fantastic
object that it used to be,” Soros said. “The future of Europe
depends on it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  