-- Johan Santana Throws First No-Hitter in Mets’ 51-Season History
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-02T05:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/mets-santana-throws-third-no-hitter-of-mlb-season-in-8-0-win.html
Johan Santana , in his first season
back from shoulder surgery, broke an 8,011-game drought by
pitching the first no-hitter in the  New York Mets ’ 51-season
franchise history.  Santana, 33, threw the third no-hitter of the season in the
Mets’ 8-0 shutout of the  St. Louis Cardinals . Los Angeles Angels
hurler Jered Weaver had one on May 2, and Chicago White Sox
right-hander Philip Humber pitched a perfect game April 22.  “I hoped everything would work out quick,” Santana said
in a televised interview at Citi Field in  New York . “I was able
to locate and command and get some quick outs and get out of
there.”  Santana, who missed all of last season while recovering
from the surgery, threw a career-high 134 pitches last night,
striking out eight and walking five.  Santana accomplished a feat with the Mets that eluded seven
pitchers who went on to record no-hitters after they left the
National League team.  Texas Rangers President and Hall of Famer  Nolan Ryan  holds
the major league record with seven no-hitters, none during his
tenure with the Mets in 1966-1971. Hall of Famer Tom Seaver,
Dwight Gooden, Mike Scott, David Cone, Hideo Nomo and Humber
also pitched no-hitters after leaving the team.  Mets Resilience  “The no-hitter thrown tonight by Johan truly demonstrates
New York-style resilience and dedication, as after overcoming
injuries and setbacks, Santana has put his name among the giants
in baseball history,” New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said in a
statement.  Two key plays saved Santana’s bid for the no-hitter.  Carlos Beltran ’s line drive over third base in the sixth inning was
called foul by the third-base umpire.  “It was tough because it happened so quick I wasn’t able
to see anything,” Santana said. “The umpire made his call and
that was the end of it.”  In the next inning, Mike Baxter caught Yadier Molina’s line
drive to the warning track in left field and then crashed into
the wall, forcing him to leave the game with a bruised shoulder.  “When I saw him running back onto the warning track and he
made that play, it was amazing -- an outstanding play and he
saved the game,” Santana said. “All these guys, I want to
thank them for what we accomplished.”  ‘Crazy Night’  David Freese struck out swinging to give Santana his no-
hitter in his 11th start of the season.  “It was a crazy night trying to control my fastball,”
said Santana, who pitched his second consecutive shutout after a
9-0 victory on May 26 against the  San Diego Padres  -- who now
stand alone as the only Major League Baseball team without a no-
hitter.  Lucas Duda  drove in four runs for the Mets (29-23) with a
three-run homer and a sacrifice fly. Daniel Murphy drove in
three runs for New York.  Adam Wainwright (4-6) took the loss after allowing seven
runs on six hits in 6 1/3 innings for the Cardinals (27-25).  Santana, the American League Cy Young Award winner in 2004
and 2006 for the  Minnesota Twins , was traded to the Mets in 2008
for four players including Humber. He was treated for bone chips
in his left elbow in 2009, and a rotator cuff injury kept him
off the mound for the 2011 season.  Collins’s Limit  Santana pitched the season opener this year for the Mets,
his first appearance in a major league game since Sept. 2, 2010.
Manager Terry Collins had planned to limit Santana to 110 to 115
pitches a game as he recovered this season from his surgery.  “I just couldn’t take him out,” Collins said.  The win came the day after a $162 million settlement
between the owners of the Mets and the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm won court approval.  Under the settlement, with Mets owners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz and dozens of related parties, the Mets owners owe the
Madoff estate $162 million in phony profits from the fraud. The
Wilpon and Katz payments may be offset by their claims to have
suffered $178 million in losses.  As part of the agreement, the liquidator,  Irving Picard ,
dropped his claim that the Mets owners blinded themselves to
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme because it benefited their businesses.
Picard also gave up his demand that the Wilpon group return
principal they invested with Madoff and then withdrew.  The settlement resolves a case in which Picard had sought
$1 billion from the Mets owners for the benefit of former Madoff
customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  