-- Ex-Madoff Employee Craig Kugel to Plead Guilty, U.S. Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/ex-madoff-employee-craig-kugel-to-plead-guilty-u-s-says.html
U.S. prosecutors said in a letter
filed in federal court in  Manhattan  that they plan to bring
criminal charges June 5 against Craig Kugel, a former employee
of con man Bernard Madoff.  Kugel, who worked in human resources at Madoff’s former
firm, will plead guilty to one count each of conspiracy and
making false statements and three counts of filing false income
tax returns, prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in the letter, which was filed publicly yesterday.  Kugel, who wasn’t previously charged, will be the seventh
person to plead guilty in the government’s investigation into
Madoff’s former firm. He will cooperate with prosecutors,
according to the letter.  “There are charges against Mr. Kugel,” Barry Agulnick,
Kugel’s lawyer, said yesterday in a phone interview. “They are
totally unrelated to  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.”  The conspiracy and false statements charges each carry a
maximum sentence of 5 years in prison, according to the letter.
The top penalty for each of the tax charges is three years.  David Kugel, who is Craig Kugel’s father and a former
supervisory trader in Madoff’s proprietary trading operation,
pleaded guilty in November to aiding the fraud by creating phony
backdated trades beginning in the early 1970s and continuing
until the fraud collapsed in December 2008. David Kugel pleaded
guilty to six criminal counts and is cooperating with
authorities.  Frank DiPascali, Madoff’s chief financial officer, and
former employees Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz and Eric Lipkin, along
with Madoff’s former accountant David Friehling, also have
pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing.  Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history. He’s
serving a 150-year sentence in federal prison in  North Carolina .  The cases are U.S. v. Kugel, 10-cr-00228, Picard v. Kugel,
11-cv-04227, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  