-- Generali to Appoint Greco Chief as Perissinotto Ousted by Board
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-06-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/generali-plans-to-name-greco-as-ceo-to-replace-perissinotto.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  plans to
name Mario Greco, head of general insurance at Zurich Insurance
Group AG, as chief executive officer to replace Giovanni Perissinotto, ousted after shares slumped to a 26-year low.  Perissinotto’s powers were revoked “due to the necessity
to bring about change in the company’s management,” the
Trieste, Italy-based insurer said yesterday. Ten out of 17 board
members voted in favor of Perissinotto’s departure, Director
Claudio De Conto said. Chairman Gabriele Galateri will act as
the interim CEO.  Investors including  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , the insurer’s biggest
shareholder with a 13 percent stake, and Leonardo Del Vecchio,
who owns 3 percent of the company, are betting Greco, 52, can
revive the performance and strategy of  Italy ’s largest insurance
company. Profit has fallen for four consecutive quarters amid
writedowns of assets including Greek bonds and a drop in
earnings at the company’s life unit.  Perissinotto is “inadequate to lead Generali,” Del
Vecchio, founder of eyewear maker Luxottica SpA, said in a
statement June 1. “This was proved by poor operating results, a
more than negative perception by markets of his management and
more generally his total lack of a strategic vision.” Greco’s
appointment would bring a “new pace” to the company, Del
Vecchio said.  The shares have  fallen  27 percent this year, compared with
 the Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index ’s 5 percent  decline .
Generali gained 3.4 percent June 1 amid reports of
Perissinotto’s likely ouster. The stock closed at 8.49 euros,
valuing the business at 13.2 billion euros ($16.4 billion).  ‘Strong’ Profit  Perissinotto, 58, has led the company since 2001 when he
was named co-CEO, before becoming sole CEO in April 2010. He
joined Generali in 1980. The executive in March said he expected
“strong” profit this year as the company reduces costs and
sells assets to strengthen capital.  Board member Diego Della Valle backed Perissinotto today
and said he plans to resign June 4.  “I agreed neither with the form nor the substance” of his
departure, Della Valle told reporters in Milan.  Greco has already headed an insurance company in Italy. In
1998 he became CEO of Riunione Adriatica di Sicurta SpA, Italy’s
second-biggest insurer at the time, a company he ran until 2005,
when he joined  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  as head of its insurance
division.  ‘Track Record’  “The appointment of Mario Greco would likely be welcomed
by the market given his previous track record at the
underperforming RAS in the late 90s,” Richard Burden, an
analyst at Credit Suisse AG, wrote in a note June 1.  Greco combined several RAS units and expanded the insurer’s
sales channels and banking services after he took over as chief
executive in 1998. The former McKinsey & Co. consultant turned
the insurer into one of Allianz AG’s most profitable units by
fostering distribution alliances.  RAS shares rose about 66 percent under his management,
compared with a 50 percent decline of the Bloomberg  Europe  500
Insurance Index.  Perissinotto was summoned to Mediobanca’s Milan
headquarters and asked to resign by CEO  Alberto Nagel  and
Chairman Renato Pagliaro on May 30, Perissinotto said in a
letter to board members. Today’s board meeting was called after
he refused to resign.  Mediobanca has put “its interests above those of this
company, its policyholders, employees and the vast majority of
its shareholders,” Perissinotto wrote in the letter.  Mediobanca’s Role  “Mediobanca has obstructed Generali management efforts to
diversify risk into new high-growth areas,” because this might
have led to a dilution of its stake and “reduced influence”
over the group given the investment bank’s unwillingness to
subscribe to a capital increase.  Generali, which gets about 13 percent of its  operating
income  in central and eastern Europe, is expanding in  emerging
markets  to boost earnings following the financial crisis. The
insurer has repeatedly said that it’s focused on organic growth.  “We do not see this reshuffle as a solution,” Atanasio
Pantarrotas, an analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux, wrote in a
note June 1. “This is another dramatic reshuffle after several
major upheavals in recent years, due to tensions between top
management and Mediobanca.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  