-- Genting Plan for NYC Convention Center Fails, Cuomo Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-06-02T00:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/genting-plan-for-nyc-convention-center-fails-cuomo-says.html
Plans for  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  to build a $4
billion convention center in  New York City  have failed, Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  said.  The 3.8 million-square-foot convention center, which was to
be built at Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens by the Kuala Lumpur-
based company, was a centerpiece to Cuomo’s job-creating plans
announced in January. It would have been the biggest in the U.S.
Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, said today on New York’s WOR-AM
that discussions with Genting fell through.  “We had those conversations going on for a few weeks,”
Cuomo said in an interview with the host, former governor David Paterson. “Those conversations haven’t worked out.”  The broken deal is at least the second time this year that
U.S. plans by Asia’s second-biggest casino operator by market
value have failed. In February, its $3 billion hotel and casino
project in Miami stalled when a Florida House of Representatives
committee postponed a vote on a bill to expand casino gambling.  A Genting spokesman, Stefan Friedman, said the company may
still bid on a convention center project in the city.  The failed proposal would have replaced the Jacob K. Javits
Convention Center in  Manhattan  as Genting expanded the casino it
opened with electronic games in October at Aqueduct, near  John
F. Kennedy International Airport .  Competition Planned  Cuomo said he’s now discussing building a convention center
and casino with other companies. He said he plans a competition
next year after the Legislature sends to voters a constitutional
amendment that would allow Las Vegas-style casinos in the third-
most-populous state.  “We now look forward to working with Governor Cuomo and
participating in any competition for a convention center/casino
project that the governor designs,” Friedman said by e-mail. In
the failed negotiations, he said, “the uncertainties and
difficulties regarding the constitutional amendment, competitive
landscape,  tax rate  and infrastructure support made any decision
difficult.”  Mark LaVorgna, a spokesman for Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
declined to comment on the Genting news. The mayor is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  