-- Greek Credit Rating Cap Cut by Moody’s on Euro Exit Risk
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-06-02T02:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/greece-s-credit-rating-cap-cut-by-moody-s-on-euro-exit-risk.html
Greece had its highest possible
 credit rating  lowered by Moody’s Investors Service, which said
there’s an increasing risk the country may exit the euro region.  Greece’s country ceiling, the highest rating that can be
assigned to a domestic debt issuer, was cut to Caa2, Moody’s
said in a statement late yesterday in  New York . The best rating
on any Greek security is currently B1, four levels higher,
Moody’s said.  A Greek exit from the euro may exhaust official funding
sources and rack up direct costs of 360 billion euros ($444
billion), or 3.8 percent of euro-area gross domestic product,
Societe Generale SA said yesterday. Greek parliamentary
elections on June 17 may drive the risk of an exit higher,
according to Moody’s.  “If that were to occur, the maximum rating Moody’s would
assign to Greek securities would fall further,” Moody’s said in
its statement.  “Although the risk of a euro exit by  Greece  is
substantial, it is still not what it considers its ‘central
case’ or most likely scenario.”  Any rating changes stemming from the new ceiling, which is
Moody’s fourth-lowest junk rating, will be announced in the next
week, according to yesterday’s statement.  ‘Large Losses’  A Greek departure from the euro would land investors with
“large losses” because of redenomination of government debt
and private debt securities issued under Greek law, Moody’s said.
Such a scenario would also lead to “severe disruption” to the
nation’s banking system, the ratings company said.  Alexis Tsipras, head of Greece’s biggest anti-bailout party
Syriza, laid out his election platform yesterday in  Athens . He
appealed to Greeks to give him the power to cancel the terms of
an international bailout and restore pensions and wages.  A pledge to scrap the terms of the rescue loans amounts to
a bet the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  will
stop short of kicking Greece out of the 17-nation euro. Tsipras
has said he’ll try to keep Greece in the euro while pledging to
cancel austerity measures.  The cuts required for 240 billion euros of aid in the past
two years have driven the country into the worst recession since
World War II. Syriza’s plan is to revoke all austerity measures
that have deepened the recession.  Syriza was propelled to second place in inconclusive May 6
elections. Failed coalition talks prompted the need for a revote.
Most opinion polls show Syriza and  New Democracy , which voted
for the bailout, vying for first place. Neither has enough
support at this point to rule alone, the surveys show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  