-- Nadal, Sharapova Win at French Open as Lepchenko Springs Upset
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-02T23:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/li-na-beats-mchale-at-french-open-lepchenko-upsets-schiavone.html
Six-time champion  Rafael Nadal  and
women’s No. 2 seed  Maria Sharapova  won in straight sets to reach
the  French Open ’s fourth round, while unseeded American  Varvara
Lepchenko  upset 2010 winner Francesca Schiavone.  Nadal beat Eduardo Schwank of Argentina, 6-1, 6-3, 6-4 at
 Roland Garros  in Paris yesterday. Sharapova advanced with a 6-2,
6-1 win against China’s Peng Shuai.  “For the time being, everything is OK,” Nadal, the men’s
No. 2 seed, said in a news conference. “Maybe I could improve
my game a little, because the most difficult match is yet to
come.”  Lepchenko, 26, pulled off the surprise of the day by
beating 14th-seeded Italian Schiavone, last year’s finalist,
3-6, 6-3, 8-6 to move into the fourth round of a Grand Slam
tournament for the first time in her career. The victory, along
with Sloane Stephens’s win the day before, leaves two unseeded
American women in the final 16 of a major for the first time
since Wimbledon in 2002.  Both No. 1 seeds are in action today. Novak Djokovic of
Serbia, seeking to hold all four Grand Slam titles at the same
time, plays 22nd-seeded Italian Andreas Seppi and  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus meets Slovakia’s  Dominika Cibulkova , seeded
15th.  Roger Federer, the record 16-time men’s Grand Slam singles
winner, also plays today against qualifier David Goffin of
Belgium.  Nadal’s Birthday  Nadal, who celebrates his 26th birthday today, is seeking
to become the first man to win seven singles titles at Roland
Garros. The Spaniard next faces Argentina’s  Juan Monaco , who
beat Canada’s Milos Raonic in five sets.  Sharapova has lost five games in her first three matches as
she seeks a first French Open title. She next plays Czech Klara Zakopalova in the final 16.  “I’m certainly happy with the way I performed in those
rounds, in those matches, and followed through,” the Russian
said. “But in the next round, it starts from 0-0.”  Lepchenko, who was born in Uzbekistan and became a U.S.
citizen last year, beat Schiavone for the second straight time
after winning in Madrid last month. She next will face Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic, the fourth seed.  “I had to really pull it together and stay very aggressive
and fight,” Lepchenko said. “Until the very end, I didn’t know
if I’m going to win, but I kept believing in myself.”  Fellow American Stephens today meets U.S. Open winner
 Samantha Stosur  of Australia, the sixth seed. Christina McHale,
the third unseeded player from the U.S. in the third round, lost
yesterday to defending champion Li Na of  China , the seventh
seed, 3-6, 6-2, 6-1.  Murray Wins  Britain’s  Andy Murray  won 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 against Colombian
Santiago Giraldo. The No. 4 seed showed no effects of back
spasms that he said almost caused him to withdraw before his
previous match two days ago.  “I woke up this morning again feeling better than I did,
but that’s because of the work my physio has done the last 48
hours and all the recovery work that we’ve done between the last
match and now,” Murray, who next faces Frenchman Richard Gasquet, told reporters.  Denmark’s  Caroline Wozniacki , who has dropped to No. 9
after starting the season atop the world rankings, lost
yesterday to Estonia’s Kaia Kanepi in three sets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  