-- Indian Refiners Cut Record-High Gasoline Prices After Protests
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-06-02T12:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/indian-refiners-cut-record-high-gasoline-prices-after-protests.html
Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s
biggest refiner, cut gasoline rates a week after they were
raised to a record, after protests by some political parties and
a drop in global crude prices.  The price of the auto fuel will be reduced by 2.02 rupees a
liter in Delhi, Indian Oil said in an e-mailed statement.
Gasoline currently costs 73.18 rupees a liter. “Prices have
been cut because of the softening of global  oil prices . Its just
the hard numbers,” Indian Oil Chairman R.S. Butola said by
telephone today. Hindustan Petroleum Corp. and  Bharat Petroleum
Corp. (BPCL)  usually follow Indian Oil’s action.  Lowering gasoline prices will hurt the finances of Indian
Oil,  Bharat Petroleum  Corp. and  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. (HPCL) , which
are paying more to import crude as the rupee slumped against the
dollar. Train and bus services were disrupted and markets shut
in parts of India May 31 during a nationwide strike over the
increase in gasoline prices.  Indian Oil  shares  rose 0.2 percent to 256.15 rupees at the
close in Mumbai yesterday, compared with a 1.6 percent decline
in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  Bharat Petroleum fell 0.5
percent and Hindustan Petroleum climbed 2.3 percent.  Brent crude, a benchmark for almost all of the oil India
buys, dropped below $100 a barrel yesterday for the first time
since October. Prices have slumped 20 percent this quarter.  Gasoline  rates  were raised by 11 percent starting May 24,
the first increase in almost seven months. Opposition parties,
led by the  Bharatiya Janata Party , called the strike to protest
the move, while the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the government’s
second-biggest ally, said the increase caused “bitterness.”  Regulated Fuels  Mamata Banerjee , chief of the Trinamool Congress party, a
coalition member, led a protest march through the streets of
Kolkata on May 26, demanding a rollback.  Gasoline was freed from government control in June 2010.
Prices are reviewed every two weeks and can be adjusted
according to global benchmarks.  The refiners sell diesel, kerosene and cooking gas below
cost to curb inflation and they expect to lose 1.86 trillion
rupees in revenue in the current financial year.  China reduced gasoline and diesel prices on May 10 after
crude prices declined. Indian refiners import about 80 percent
of their crude requirements and the rupee’s decline has
countered lower oil prices.  India’s rupee completed a ninth weekly decline yesterday,
the longest losing streak since October 2008. It dropped 6
percent last month, the worst performance among the 11 most-
traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The rupee rose 0.9 percent to 55.5850 yesterday, after
sliding to an all-time low of 56.5150 May 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Clapham at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  