-- ISS Recommends AOL Holders Vote for Two Starboard Nominees
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-06-02T22:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/iss-recommends-aol-holders-vote-for-two-starboard-nominees.html
Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc. recommended that  AOL Inc. (AOL)  shareholders vote for six
directors selected by the  Internet company , as well as two
nominated by investor Starboard Value LP.  ISS recommended voting for Starboard nominees  Jeffrey Smith 
and Dennis Miller, according to a copy of the report provided to
Bloomberg News. “These two nominees appear particularly well-
equipped to drive the boardroom change the dissident has
demonstrated is necessary,” ISS wrote in the report.  In April, Starboard Value said the sale of AOL patents to
Microsoft Corp. doesn’t go far enough in solving the company’s
problems, urging it to find new ways to extract value from its
advertising business. The investor also asked AOL to return more
cash to shareholders and said it planned to nominate three
candidates to AOL’s board.  Smith declined to comment. A telephone call placed and e-
mail sent to ISS outside of regular business hours went
unanswered.  Maureen Sullivan , an AOL spokeswoman, said, “We kind of
expected this. ISS tends to vote with dissidents.”  AOL, in a statement sent earlier today, said that Starboard
nominees Smith and Miller lack an understanding of the company’s
business model, and don’t have a “viable plan for AOL other
than to break up and liquidate the company.”  Media, Technology  Smith, 40, is co-founder and chief executive officer of
Starboard Value since February 2011, according to Starboard’s
May 29 proxy filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Miller, 55, is an adviser to Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp., and focuses on investing in media and
technology, according to Starboard’s filing.  A third Starboard nominee is James Warner, 58, the
principal of advisory firm Third Floor Enterprises, a company
specializing in digital marketing and media.  AOL said Egan-Jones Proxy Services on May 29 supported the
election of all of its nominees, and urged shareholders to
follow the Egan-Jones recommendation and not that of ISS.
Starboard Value  owned  about 5.3 percent of AOL’s shares
outstanding as of May 25.  AOL’s annual meeting is set for June 14.  Shares of New York-based AOL  fell  32 cents to $27.11 in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. The stock has
gained 80 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  