-- J&J’s Zytiga Slows Prostate Cancer While Easing Pain in Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-06-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/j-j-s-zytiga-slows-prostate-cancer-while-easing-pain-in-study.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s prostate cancer
pill Zytiga, currently given after chemotherapy fails,
significantly slows tumor growth, prevents pain and lengthens
life when used earlier, researchers said.  Men treated with Zytiga plus steroids who had not received
chemotherapy gained at least 16 months before the cancer resumed
spreading, twice the 8 month progression-free survival seen in
those given steroids alone, according to research presented at
the  American Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting in  Chicago .
The benefits were so strong that a safety monitoring board
stopped the study in March and recommended all men take Zytiga.  The results position Zytiga from  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based Johnson & Johnson to compete against Seattle-based
 Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ’s Provenge as an option for stalling advanced
prostate cancer.  Medivation Inc. (MDVN) , based in  San Francisco , and
its partner Tokyo-based  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) , are also testing a
pill for use earlier in men with advanced disease.  “Taking Zytiga earlier can help patients maintain their
quality of life free of pain, reduce the need for chemotherapy
and live longer,” said lead researcher Charles Ryan, an
oncologist at the  University of California , San Francisco, in a
telephone interview.  About 30,000 men in the U.S. die from advance prostate
cancer each year, according to the  American Cancer Society .
Because patients generally live for about three years with the
disease, there are roughly 100,000 men with prostate tumors
looking for treatment, Ryan said. The malignancy is the second
most common cause of cancer death in men.  Delaying Chemotherapy  Bruce Roth, a professor of medicine at  Washington
University  in  St. Louis , said he has at least 100 patients who
are putting off chemotherapy who could benefit from Zytiga. He
said many patients delay chemotherapy as long as possible, even
as their disease progresses, because of the side effects, which
can include fatigue and neutropenia, a condition that increases
the risk of infections.  “The pool of patients is very large,” Roth said. “There
are patients who are waiting for something, but not willing to
take on the toxicity of chemotherapy and decrease their quality
of life.”  The findings could encourage doctors to start prescribing
Zytiga even before it receives U.S. Food and Drug Administration
clearance for use preceding chemotherapy, said  Larry Biegelsen ,
an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in  New York , in a May 31
note to investors. His $525 million sales estimate for Zytiga in
the U.S. this year may be too low, Biegelsen said. The drug is
on track to generate $1.3 billion annually by 2015, he said.  Approval Plans  The company plans to request broader  FDA approval  in the
second half of 2012, said Michael Meyers, Johnson & Johnson’s
compound development team leader for Zytiga. It will also
conduct another analysis of the study involving 1,088 men with
spreading disease that hasn’t yet caused severe symptoms, after
patients have been followed for a longer period, he said.  The study was stopped after an interim review of the
findings. Because more deaths occurred in patients given only
the steroid prednisone, the researchers were able to determine
their median overall survival was 27 months, the longest ever
seen in a study of patients with advanced prostate cancer.
Survival exceeded that seen in earlier trials of Dendreon’s
Provenge.  Men treated with Zytiga had a 25 percent reduction in their
risk of death during the time the study was under way, Meyers
said. Because it was halted early, the median overall survival
for those given Zytiga hasn’t been reached. Additional follow up
is needed to conclusively determine how much longer Zytiga
patients live and whether the difference is meaningful.  Finding the Benefit  About half of the men in the group given only steroids and
whose disease worsened subsequently got chemotherapy, and 10
percent of them were given Zytiga, Ryan said. The additional
treatments may have helped them live longer and could make it
difficult to distinguish the pre-chemotherapy survival benefit
from the Johnson & Johnson drug, he said.  Most men with advanced prostate cancer say their goals are
to keep pain at bay, function normally and delay the need for
more toxic treatment, Ryan said. Zytiga helps with all three
areas, he said.  “There is a highly significant delay in suffering from the
disease,” he said. “We never reached a median time where all
men had pain and needed opiates” to control it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  