-- Phil Jackson Restless in Retirement, Lakers’ Buss Says
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-06-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/phil-jackson-restless-in-retirement-lakers-buss-says.html
Retirement isn’t suiting  Phil Jackson 
a second time any better than it did the first.  The 66-year-old former coach, who won a record 11  National
Basketball Association  championships with the  Chicago Bulls  and
 Los Angeles Lakers , has mended physically since his final season
in 2011 and misses the game, according to Jeanie Buss, the
Lakers executive who oversees business operations and is
Jackson’s girlfriend.  “When a player leaves the game, it’s just such a loss in
their life,” Buss said in an interview. “Phil’s in that
situation. He’s not a good person to be retired. He doesn’t
build ships in a bottle.”  Jackson has spent most of his adult life in the sport.
Drafted in 1967, he played 12 years with the  New York  Knicks and
New Jersey Nets, then coached the Michael Jordan-led Bulls to
six championships in the 1990s, retiring for a first time after
the 1997-98 season. He came back a year later to coach the
Lakers, gathering five trophies with  Kobe Bryant .  Jackson turned down an offer to return to the NBA in a
front-office role with the Orlando Magic, the Orlando Sentinel
 reported  on May 31, citing an intermediary, former player and
coach Sam Vincent. He has decided on another opportunity, the
newspaper reported.  Todd Musburger, who represents Jackson, didn’t respond to a
phone call seeking comment after business hours yesterday in
Chicago.  The physical ailments that slowed Jackson in his final
seasons with the Lakers shouldn’t be an obstacle to his return,
Buss said in the interview yesterday, at the team’s practice
facility in El Segundo, California.  Jackson, whose medical past includes back problems, a 2003
heart angioplasty and two hip replacements, had a knee ailment
that caused him to gain weight in his final season, she said.
The knee was replaced and he has lost weight, she said.  “Is he driving me crazy? Yes,” Buss said. “Physically
he’s probably better than he was in the last few years.
Physically I think he could, but does he want to? I have no
idea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  