-- Roche’s Avastin Delays Tumor Growth in Ovarian Cancer
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-06-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/roche-s-avastin-delays-tumor-growth-in-ovarian-cancer.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s cancer treatment
Avastin helped extend the length of time before ovarian tumors
worsened in a study of patients whose disease had returned after
chemotherapy.  Patients who got Avastin together with chemotherapy had 6.7
months before their cancer progressed, compared with 3.4 months
for women who only got chemotherapy in the 361-patient study.
The data was released today at the meeting of the  American
Society of Clinical Oncology  in  Chicago .  The results didn’t show whether Avastin helped the women
live longer, an advantage it may need to win expanded approval.
Roche saw Avastin sales drop 7 percent last year as lack of a
life-extending benefit led the  Food and Drug Administration  to
revoke the drug’s approval for  breast cancer  patients. The
company is awaiting final data on ovarian cancer survival before
seeking U.S. approval for the indication, said Sandra Horning,
Roche’s global head of oncology development.  “We are impressed with the improvement in median
progression-free survival” in today’s study, Horning said in a
telephone interview.  The study focused on patients whose tumors recurred less
than six months after a course of chemotherapy. Two trials
showed last year that while Avastin delayed ovarian cancer
progression, it didn’t lengthen patients’ lives.  Avastin is approved in Europe to treat newly diagnosed,
advanced ovarian cancer, a different group of patients than
those studied in this trial. The medicine is also sold for
tumors in the gut, lungs and kidneys and remains on the market
for breast cancer in  Europe . Global Avastin sales were 5.3
billion Swiss francs ($5.5 billion) last year.  About 22,280 women are expected to be diagnosed with
ovarian cancer in the U.S. in 2012, and about 15,500 will
probably die, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  