-- Romney’s Net Worth Remains as High as $250 Million
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-06-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/romney-s-net-worth-remains-as-high-as-250-million.html
Mitt Romney ’s net worth remains as
high as $250 million, according to financial disclosure forms
that show the presumptive Republican presidential nominee sold
stock in companies such as McDonald’s Corp.,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   The Romney campaign said yesterday his net worth is between
$190 million and $250 million in a report filed with the U.S.
Federal Election Commission. The figures are unchanged from a
year ago, according to his forms, which list assets in broad
ranges. Romney is a co-founder of the Boston-based private
equity firm Bain Capital LLC.  Andrea Saul, a campaign spokeswoman, said the stock sales
were handled by an  investment adviser  and weren’t ordered by
Romney or his wife, Ann.  “Governor and Mrs. Romney’s assets are managed on a blind
basis,” Saul said in a statement. “They do not control the
investment of these assets, which are under the control and
overall management of a trustee.”  Romney, 65, a former Massachusetts governor, received
$260,390 from stock owed to him as a director of Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , a position he
resigned from before running for president. Marriott’s chairman,
J.W. Marriott Jr., is a major Romney supporter who donated $1
million to Restore Our Future, a political action committee
supporting his candidacy.  Speaking Fees  Romney also received $68,000 for speaking to the
International Franchise Association, a Washington-based trade
group; $68,000 for speaking to New York-based Goldentree Asset
Management LP; and $42,500 for the second straight year for
speaking to London-based  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  A Barclays lobbyist,
Patrick Durkin, is raising money for Romney’s presidential
campaign.  Four years ago, Romney disclosed assets of as much as $247
million as he spent $45 million of his own money on his
unsuccessful bid for the Republican presidential nomination.  Romney, who is seeking to unseat President Barack Obama,
made his first donation to the 2012 White House contest last
month. He and his wife each gave $75,000 to the joint
fundraising committee with the  Republican National Committee ,
according to a Romney aide speaking on condition of anonymity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 