-- Russia Exit Heralds End of Browne’s BP as Production Dips
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-06-02T08:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/russia-exit-heralds-end-of-browne-s-bp-as-production-dips.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s decision to consider selling
out of its Russian venture signals the end for  John Browne ’s
vision of a British driller able to challenge  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
as the world’s largest publicly-traded oil producer.  At the helm from 1995 to 2007, the former chief executive
officer forged a $100 billion series of deals that made BP
Europe’s largest oil company. Today, it’s shrinking.  Already forced to shed more than $20 billion of assets to
pay the costs of the Deepwater Horizon disaster in 2010, selling
TNK-BP would see BP’s oil and gas production drop to less than 3
million barrels of a day for the first time since 1997, putting
it behind  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   Bob Dudley, the company’s first American CEO, is betting
investors will back his move to create a leaner oil producer
that concentrates on exploring for new reserves rather than
overall production. Smaller producers have outperformed larger
rivals. Shares in Exxon,  France ’s Total SA and ConocoPhillips as
well as BP have all fallen over the past five years.  “This is hopefully the start of a new strategy that sees a
smaller BP,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Plc in
London. “The super-major model is broken. Who wouldn’t want to
be a smaller, nimbler company that grows faster?”  BP rose 1.8 percent to 402 pence yesterday, making it the
only gainer among 32 companies in Europe’s Stoxx 600 oil & gas
index after BP said it had received approaches for its 50
percent share in TNK-BP,  Russia ’s third-largest oil company. The
stake may be worth as much as $30 billion, according to Bank of
America Corp. analysts.  Positive Catalyst  “If they were able to extract something in the
neighborhood of $20 billion, talk about how that would
redeployed, it could be a positive catalyst for the stock,”
Macquarie analyst  Jason Gammel  said in a telephone interview.
The company may consider both acquisitions and a special
dividend, he said.  “If the proceeds from the equity are redeployed
effectively you do have a smaller company that could be better
able to grow,” he said.  Browne transformed BP from a former state-run producer
focused on the  North Sea  through the $56 billion acquisition of
Amoco Corp. in 1998, followed by Atlantic Richfield Co. two
years later for $32 billion.  In 2003, Browne struck an $8 billion deal with a group of
billionaires to form TNK-BP, the biggest single investment in
post-Soviet Russia.  Successful Move  TNK-BP was Browne’s most successful move, giving BP the
biggest Russian presence among the world’s largest oil
companies. The company has paid BP $19 billion in dividends so
far and provides more than a quarter of its production.  Without TNK-BP’s contribution of about 900,000 barrels a
day, BP’s output would drop to about 2.5 million barrels,
putting the London-based company close to Total SA.  Dudley has already started to shrink the company after the
Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in the  Gulf of Mexico  in April
2010, starting the worst U.S. oil spill. He’s sold fields from
 Venezuela  to  Alaska , raising $23 billion and cutting production
to a 10-year low.  BP’s share price remains 39 percent below its level on the
eve of the spill, a $40 billion loss in market value for
investors.  Difficult Relationship  While profitable, the investors in the TNK-BP venture have
had a difficult relationship. In 2008, Dudley, who was then CEO
of TNK-BP, was forced to step down and left Russia after a
dispute over company strategy. Last year, the billionaires took
BP to arbitration after they cut TNK-BP out of a deal to explore
Russia’s Arctic with state-run OAO Rosneft.  One of the Russian shareholders,  Mikhail Fridman , resigned
as CEO this week, casting renewed doubt on the future of the
business. The board hasn’t met this year because shareholders
can’t agree on a third independent director.  “It seems rather that BP’s hand has been forced,” said
Colin McLean, CEO at SVM Asset Management. “I don’t think this
is happening at BP’s choosing. As long as they don’t get a bad
price, it draws a line under what doesn’t appear to have been
handled well before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 