-- Russia to Press Syria to Enter Talks as UN Warns of Total War
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-06-02T16:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/russia-to-press-syria-to-enter-talks-as-un-warns-of-total-war.html
Russia said it agreed to step up
pressure on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government to
return to the negotiating table, as the  United Nations  warned
the risk of sectarian war was increasing daily.  Kofi Annan , the UN special envoy to Syria, said that the
level of violence has “escalated” and “the specter of total
civil war, with a worrying sectarian dimension, grows by the
day,” he told a meeting of Arab League foreign ministers today
in Doha, Qatar.  Speaking to reporters later, Annan said he will brief the
UN about Syria on June 7. Assad “must act now to implement all
points” of the UN’s six-point plan to resolve the crisis, he
said.  Annan spoke after President  Vladimir Putin  was pressed on
Russia’s response to the Syrian conflict yesterday in Berlin and
Paris during his first foreign trip since he returned to the
presidency.  Russia  and  China  have blocked UN Security Council
resolutions pushing for stronger sanctions on the Assad regime.  “With our German and French partners, we agreed to
increase our work” with the respective sides in the Syrian
conflict, Yuri Ushakov, a former ambassador to the U.S. who
advises Putin on foreign policy, told reporters in Moscow today.  France ,  Germany , the U.K. and U.S. accuse the Assad regime
of undermining Annan’s peace effort with continued deadly
military assaults against opponents of the regime. A massacre of
more than 100 people in Houla, including women and children,
hasn’t broken the Security Council impasse.  Houla Probe  The UN Human Rights Council has called for a probe into the
massacre, which it said was carried out by “pro-regime elements”
and government forces. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said in Olso yesterday that Russia’s supply of weapons to Syria
is propping up the regime.  France disagrees with Russia over “who is responsible for
the violence and over the need for Assad to leave,” President
 Francois Hollande  told a joint press conference in Paris with
Putin.  Putin said he doesn’t support either side in the Syrian
conflict, and that sanctions aren’t “efficient.” It’s “counter-
productive” to conclude that Annan’s peace mission has failed,
he said yesterday.  “We need to compel both the authorities and the opposition
to get the political process going,” said Ushakov, Putin’s
foreign policy adviser. “We’re prepared to do that, and we
called on our partners to also use their areas of influence to
actively weigh on the relevant forces and leaders.”  Russian Interests  Western and other leaders have called on Assad to stand
down and quit the country, saying he has lost the legitimacy to
lead.  Burhan Ghalioun, head of the Syrian National Council, said
at the Arab League meeting in Doha that the opposition will
accept Russians helping Assad leave the country and is willing
to guarantee Russian interests in  Syria . Arab League ministers
called on Syrian opposition factions to meet in Cairo as they
work on steps toward a political transition.  Ministers called on member states to withdraw their
ambassadors from Syria and urged the UN to find ways to protect
Syrian civilians, Kuwait Foreign Minister Sabah Khalid al-Sabah
said in Doha.  The Syrians have failed to implement the first point of
Annan’s six-point plan, and “are just playing for time,” Qatari
Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani, said
in Doha.  “We have lost all confidence with the other side, the
Syrian side,” he said. “The killing machine is still doing its
work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  