-- Saudi Arabian Shares Drop Most in 10 Months After Oil Tumbles
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   C l a u d i a   M a e d l e r
-- 2012-06-02T13:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/saudi-arabian-shares-drop-most-in-10-months-after-oil-tumbles.html
Shares in Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s
biggest oil producer, slumped the most in 10 months after crude
fell to the lowest since October as employment reports in the
U.S. and Europe signalled fuel demand may tumble.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest bank by market value,
retreated to the lowest since January and  Saudi Basic Industries
Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest petrochemical maker known as Sabic,
slid 3.7 percent. The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  tumbled 4.2
percent, the biggest drop since Aug. 6, to 6,681.18 at the close
in  Riyadh . The measure lost 7.7 percent in May, the biggest
monthly decline in two years.  Oil dropped 3.8 percent to $83.23 a barrel in New York
after the Labor Department said American employers added the
fewest workers in a year in May.  Oil prices  are down 24 percent
from this year’s closing high in February. Brent dropped below
$100 for the first time since October. Gulf Arab oil exporters,
including the  Saudi Arabia  and the United Arab Emirates, supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  “Oil prices are down to low levels and this is one of the
reasons why the market is down,” said Riyadh-based Turki Fadaak, head of research at Albilad Investment Co. “The global
economic reports and Europe’s debt problems are also pressuring
the market, but this is more of a psychological pressure than
anything else, because the link between the Saudi economy and
Europe are weak.”  The jobless rate in the euro region, which has been in the
grips of a debt crisis for three years, reached a record high,
of 11 percent in April and March. European stocks declined for
the fourth week in five and U.S. shares tumbled, erasing the Dow
Jones Industrial Average’s 2012 gain.  Al Rajhi  declined 3.1 percent to 70.50 riyals, the lowest
level since Jan. 4. Sabic fell to 90 riyals, the lowest close
since Nov. 27.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Persian Gulf
bourse operating on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  