-- SEC Said to Select Postal Inspector General for Watchdog Probe
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/sec-said-to-select-postal-inspector-general-for-watchdog-probe.html
The U.S.  Postal Service ’s inspector
general has been asked by the Securities and Exchange Commission
to oversee a probe of possible misconduct in the SEC’s watchdog
office, according to two people briefed on the matter.  David Williams , who has been at the Postal Service since
2003, will use his investigators to review allegations against
former SEC inspector general H.  David Kotz , said the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the decision hasn’t been
announced.  The SEC inspector’s office has been in an uproar since the
end of March when the unit’s chief investigator, David Weber,
alleged that Kotz may have had a personal relationship that
tainted reports on the agency’s failure to catch the  Bernard Madoff  and R. Allen Stanford Ponzi schemes, according to a copy
of a March 23 complaint from Weber to the Council of the
Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency.  On May 11, the council sent a letter to SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  declining to investigate because Kotz had left the SEC.
Kotz, who has denied the allegations, didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment.  Weber was placed on administrative leave when some of his
co-workers said they were bothered by his suggestions that he
and others should be able to carry guns on the job, people with
direct knowledge of the situation said.  Weber “was engaged in investigating several significant
matters at the time he was effectively excommunicated from the
SEC,” said Teresa Goody, an attorney at Kalorama Partners LLC
who is representing Weber. “That is something that could have a
devastating and chilling effect on future whistleblowers,
discouraging them from coming forward.”  Former Agent  Williams , who was a special agent with the U.S. Secret
Service, has been an inspector general at five agencies,
including the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission , the Treasury
Department and the  Social Security Administration , according to
his official biography.  He also was awarded the Bronze Star and the Vietnamese
Medal of Honor for his service in Vietnam.  Williams’s expected appointment comes after the commission
brought on Jon Rymer of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., to
run the SEC’s inspector general office on an interim basis.
Rymer started work at the SEC this week.  Agapi Doulaveris, a spokeswoman for Williams, and  John
Nester , an SEC spokesman, had no immediate comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  