-- Syria Says Houla Massacre Victims Wouldn’t Cooperate With Rebels
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-06-02T11:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/syria-says-houla-massacre-victims-wouldn-t-cooperate-with-rebels.html
Syria’s ambassador to  Russia  said
terrorists targeted families that refused to follow their orders
during the massacre of more than 100 people, including dozens of
children, in Houla last week.  “These families were killed because they refused to
cooperate with these terrorist groups,” Riad Haddad said in an
interview at the Syrian embassy in Moscow yesterday. “When the
parliamentary elections were held in Syria, these terrorist
groups went to villages and towns and stopped people from voting
and demanded candidates withdraw.”  The killings in Houla led to new calls for Russia to stop
supplying arms to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  said he doesn’t support either side in
the Syrian conflict. The United Nations Human Rights Council
called for a probe into the massacre, which it said was carried
out by “pro-regime elements” and government forces.  Among the dead in Houla was the family of a lawmaker who
refused to withdraw his name from the parliamentary vote, Haddad
said. Several hundred militants carried out the killings in
Houla, General Qassem Jamal Suleiman, who heads the Syrian
investigation into the killings, said May 31.  The rebel attack on Houla came after they fired two anti-
tank missiles at Syrian security forces gathering outside the
city, killing 31 troops, Haddad said. Among the civilian
casualties in Houla were three families from nearby Shomaliya,
whom the rebels killed there, he said, citing his government’s
preliminary investigation.  Povoking Interference  Syria  has found evidence that fighters from Libya and
 Tunisia  with ties to al-Qaeda are “already among the rebels,”
Haddad said, adding that some of the massacre was filmed. “The
main aim is to cause failure of the Annan plan and to provoke
foreign military interference.”  Putin, speaking at a press conference in Paris yesterday,
said additional pressure on Assad’s government risks
radicalizing the country. He called for more time to allow UN
envoy  Kofi Annan ’s peace plan to work.  “We want to achieve the situation where the violence ends
and there won’t be large-scale civil war,” Putin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  