-- U.S. Navy’s Pacific Presence to Expand, Panetta Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-06-02T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/u-s-navy-s-pacific-presence-to-expand-panetta-says.html
U.S. naval power in the Pacific will
increase as the Pentagon rebalances American forces toward the
Asia-Pacific region, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said in
 Singapore  while calling on countries to beef up their capacity.  By 2020, the “Navy will re-posture its forces from today’s
roughly 50/50 percent split between the Pacific and the Atlantic
to about a 60/40 split between those oceans -- including six
aircraft carriers, a majority of our cruisers, destroyers,
Littoral Combat Ships, and submarines,” Panetta said yesterday
at the  Shangri-La Dialogue . He heads to Vietnam today before a
visit to India.  Panetta is using his first visit to the annual Asian
security conference to elaborate on the U.S. military’s revamped
global strategy laid out in January. Pentagon officials have
billed the approach as an effort to focus more attention on a
region where  China ’s growing economic and military power is
causing friction with its neighbors.  Countries in the region must develop their own military
capacities as well as create rules to deal with territorial
disputes in the South China Sea, Panetta said.  Panetta is trying to show support for allies in the region
without encouraging them to be reckless in dealings with China,
said  Bonnie Glaser , an Asia specialist at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  Panetta, more than any other U.S. official, has made it
clear “we want the countries in the region to have the
capability to defend themselves and not take for granted or rely
on the U.S. to come and put out fires when there’s a problem,”
Glaser said in an interview in Singapore.  Oil Reserves  Disagreements and clashes in the  South China Sea  have been
building since 2009, according to “Stirring Up the South China
Sea,” a report published in April by Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group .  Oil reserves in the South China Sea may be as much as 213
billion barrels, according to Chinese studies cited in 2008 by
the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  In the most recent incident, China and the Philippines have
been in a standoff since April over the Scarborough Reef in the
South China Sea, which is claimed by both countries.  The U.S. opposes coercion, provocation and the use of force
to settle such disputes by either country and has told both
China and the Philippines -- a U.S. treaty ally -- that they
must resolve the matter peacefully under international law,
Panetta said.  Geographic Distribution  The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea may be
the best mechanism to resolve such disputes, according to the
 Congressional Research Service . The U.S. hasn’t ratified its
participation in the convention. Panetta and Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  urged the  U.S. Senate  to do so in testimony last
month.  The U.S. will increase the size and scope of military
exercises in the region and expand port visits by Navy ships,
Panetta said yesterday. In 2011, the U.S. Pacific Command
participated in 172 multilateral and bilateral exercises with 24
countries in the region, according to Panetta’s spokesman Carl
Woog.  U.S. Navy warships as well as cargo and hospital ships
attached to the Pacific Command made approximately 700 port
visits during 2011, according to Captain Lydia Robertson, a
command spokeswoman.  Panetta didn’t say how forces would be deployed across the
Pacific from the U.S. West Coast to  Guam ,  Japan  and the  Indian
Ocean . His 60 percent estimate encompassed all ships to be based
in Pacific waters, including three aircraft carriers in  San
Diego ; two in Everett, Washington; and one in Yokosuka, Japan,
according to Woog.  New Weapons  “The  United States  will have a significant forward
deployed and rotational presence in the Asia-Pacific region,”
Woog said in an e-mail. “We continue to work with partners and
allies on a geographically distributed fleet in the theater.”  Panetta told his audience in Singapore that the U.S. is
investing in new classes of weapons required to operate in the
Asia-Pacific region.  He said that key to the strategy are new weapons such as
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter that’s capable
of evading enemy radar; new Virginia-class nuclear-powered
submarines built by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , and Huntington
Ingalls Industries Inc.; “improved precision weapons;”
electronic warfare systems; a new Air Force long-range bomber
and refueling tankers.  Sino-U.S. Relations  On Panetta’s three-country trip, his Asian counterparts may
press him on how the strategy will affect them and what it will
mean for  U.S.-China relations .  The region’s leaders, such as Singapore’s Defense Minister
Ng Eng Hen, have said a lack of clarity about the U.S. strategy
risks creating friction if China sees the moves as an attempt to
contain its increasing power.  “I reject that view entirely,” Panetta said yesterday of
the prospects for a clash with China. The U.S. refocus is
“fully compatible with the development and growth of China,”
he said.  China can advance prosperity and security in the region by
“respecting the rules-based order” that has worked well for
six decades, Panetta said.  During a 30-minute question-and-answer session after his
speech, Panetta downplayed concerns that the U.S. shift to the
Pacific might raise tensions with China. He emphasized a need to
boost cooperation on common security challenges such as piracy
and disaster relief while noting the “ups and downs” in
relations.  ‘Not Naive’  “We are not naïve about the relationship and neither is
China,” Panetta said. “We both understand the conflicts we
have, but we also both understand that there really is no other
alternative but for both of us to engage and to improve our
communications.”  Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono on June 1
called on the U.S. and China to work together for the benefit of
countries throughout Asia.  “With their enormous economic potential, it is natural
that many countries want to build good relations with both China
and the Unites States,” he said in a speech opening the
conference. “Both the U.S. and China have an obligation not
just to themselves, but to the rest of the region to develop
peaceful cooperation.”  The Philippines and  Vietnam  have expressed alarm as China
has confronted them over territorial disputes and oil
exploration rights in the South China Sea. China’s neighbors
reject its map of the sea as a basis for oil and gas
development.  Military Exchanges  The Philippines and the U.S. have stepped up military
cooperation and exchanges of high-level visits. Panetta and
Clinton met with their Filipino counterparts Voltaire Gazmin and
Albert del Rosario in Washington last month.  The U.S. is helping the Philippines draft a long-term
military modernization plan that calls for the Pentagon to
supply coastal patrol vessels and maritime radar as well as
assisting the country in obtaining equipment from U.S. allies in
the region, according to U.S. officials who spoke with reporters
May 3 on condition of anonymity to discuss diplomatic matters.  Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff, will visit the Philippines after attending the
security conference in Singapore, Panetta said.  Rotating Troops  The U.S. is moving away from an era of permanent bases it
built in  Europe  after World War II that have proved to be
expensive to maintain.  Instead, the Pentagon will seek arrangements for U.S.
troops to rotate through the region. Australia already has
agreed to host a contingent of Marines at its northern port city
of Darwin, and the U.S. is working on “developing the same kind
of approach in the Philippines and elsewhere in the region,”
Panetta told reporters traveling with him to Singapore.  The U.S. is expanding partnerships with countries including
 India , Singapore and Indonesia, Panetta said. With current
treaty allies such as Japan, the U.S. is stepping up joint
military exercises and maritime surveillance missions as well as
developing new missile-defense technologies, he said.  As part of the Asia-Pacific strategy, the U.S. is trying to
determine what combination of military advice, technical
assistance and weapons sales will help each country in the
region, Panetta told reporters.  Diplomacy, Trade  President  Barack Obama ’s administration also is pursuing
diplomatic and trade measures to strengthen cooperation across
the region, Panetta said.  Developing the new classes of weapons and the successful
implementation of the Pentagon’s strategy depend on Congress
averting budget cuts of about $500 billion over the next 10
years, in addition to the $487 billion in reductions already
planned, Panetta told reporters.  The added cuts will take effect in January under a so-
called sequestration mechanism, unless Congress and the
president agree on an alternative to meet deficit and debt
reduction goals.  If additional budget cuts take place, “it’s going to
seriously impact our strategy and we may have to throw the
strategy out the window,” Panetta said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Singapore at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Singapore at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  