-- China’s May Non-Manufacturing PMI Declines to 55.2
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/u-s-employers-add-fewest-workers-in-year-as-jobless-rate-rises.html
The U.S. labor market stumbled in May
as employers added the fewest workers in a year and the
unemployment rate rose, dealing a blow to President  Barack Obama ’s re-election bid and raising the odds the  Federal Reserve 
will take steps to boost growth.  Payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, after a revised
77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated,
Labor Department figures showed yesterday in Washington. The
median projection called for a 150,000 May advance. The jobless
rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  “This is a total disappointment all the way around,” said
 Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. in Pittsburgh. “Once again the job market and the economy
looked stronger at the start of the year and come March, April,
May, it certainly got a lot of drag on its forward momentum.”  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  wiped out its 2012
advance, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell
below 1.50 percent for the first time and commodity prices
slumped. The labor data reinforced concern that the global
economy is heading for a third mid-year setback. Other reports
showed manufacturing shrank in  Europe  and slowed in  China .  Estimates of the 87 economists surveyed on May payrolls
ranged from increases of 75,000 to 195,000 after a previously
reported 115,000 rise in April. Revisions subtracted a total of
49,000 jobs to payrolls in March and April.  Lower Stocks  The Dow fell 2.2 percent to 12,118.57 at the close
yesterday in  New York . For the year, the index has dropped 0.8
percent.  The  unemployment rate  was forecast to hold at 8.1 percent,
according to the survey median. The jobless rate has exceeded 8
percent since February 2009, the longest such stretch since
monthly records began in 1948.  “Any time that unemployment goes up, that’s not a good
thing for our business or probably any other retailer because
people have less money to spend,” said  Robert Niblock , chairman
and chief executive officer of Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest
U.S. home improvement retailer.  “From a macroeconomics and jobs standpoint, we are trying
to be sufficiently cautious in our outlook,” Niblock told
reporters yesterday after the company’s annual shareholders
meeting in Charlotte, North Carolina.  Long-term Unemployed  The number of people unemployed for 27 weeks or more rose
as a percentage of all jobless, to 42.8 percent from 41.3
percent. Among them is Dexter Favors, 57, an Air Force veteran
who lives in Atlanta.  “I have been searching relentlessly and I can’t find
anything,” said Favors, who has been out of work for three
years, though his wife is employed. “It is kind of rough right
now because she is pulling the load.”  Favors, who worked last as a grocery store department
manager, said he has put out around 80 applications for work and
continues to search.  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican nominee in the
November presidential election, seized on the jobs figures to
attack Obama.  “It is now clear to everyone that President Obama’s
policies have failed to achieve their goals and that the Obama
economy is crushing America’s middle class,” Romney said in a
statement yesterday.  Obama Response  The administration, seeking to blunt the political impact,
highlighted private payroll gains over the past 27 months while
promoting measures Obama has proposed to boost hiring.  “We’ve known all along that this is a fragile world
economy, but we have been adding jobs,” Alan Krueger, chairman
of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu yesterday.
“We’d like to see more job growth given the enormous hole that
we face in terms of jobs in this country.”  It’s especially troubling for Americans such as Byron
Wilson, whose  unemployment benefits  have run out or are close to
expiring. Wilson, 41, of Marietta,  Georgia , said he lost his job
as a sales manager almost two years ago, and that his $1,200 a
month in unemployment benefits will run out in September.  Wilson, who has an 11-year-old son, said he has cut out
purchases of clothing and entertainment. He has been using the
time he’s been out of work to go back to Georgia Perimeter
College, where he is studying sports management.  Jobless Benefits  Unemployment benefits have been “extremely important,”
he said. “It is definitely a critical time for me.”  The employment report increases the odds that Fed policy
makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will take further action
to stimulate the world’s largest economy when they next meet on
June 19-20. The Fed’s program to extend the maturity of bonds on
its balance sheet, known as Operation Twist, is set to expire at
the end of the month.  “My feeling is that because the slowdown in the economy
has been fairly rapid compared to what they expected that
they’ll go ahead and extend Operation Twist,” said  John Silvia ,
chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in Charlotte,
 North Carolina .  The participation rate, which indicates the share of
working-age people in the  labor force , rose to 63.8 percent from
63.6 percent, the Labor Department report showed.  Some Adding  Some companies that are hiring aren’t dipping into the pool
of unemployed.  “Every person we’ve hired has been gainfully employed
somewhere else,” said Jeff White, chief executive officer of
timeRAZOR Inc., a tech startup that uses mobile applications to
inform users about local events.  The Leesburg, Virginia-based firm has 15 full-time
employees and is in the process of hiring three more.  Factory  employment  increased by 12,000, less than the
survey forecast of a 15,000 increase, yesterday’s Labor
Department report showed.  Employment at service providers increased 84,000 in May.
Construction companies cut 28,000 jobs, the most in two years,
and retailers boosted payrolls by 2,300. Government payrolls
declined by 13,000.  Americans’ average hourly earnings were 1.7 percent higher
than a year earlier, the smallest 12-month gain since December
2010. At the same time, they worked 34.4 hours a week on
average, six minutes less than the month before.  Underemployment Rate  The so-called  underemployment rate  -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- increased to 14.8 percent
from 14.5 percent.  Some bright spots in yesterday’s data came by way of
monthly reports on U.S. factories and  consumer spending . The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s index of  manufacturing  eased
to 53.5 in May, in line with the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey, from April’s 54.8. Readings greater than 50 signal
expansion. Orders climbed to the highest level since April 2011.  Household purchases increased 0.3 percent in April after a
revised 0.2 percent rise the prior month, according to figures
from the Commerce Department. The gain in spending matched the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  