-- Mubarak Sentenced to Life in Prison for Protester Deaths
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/mubarak-sentenced-to-life-in-prison-for-protester-deaths.html
Ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  was
sentenced to life in prison for failing to stop the killing of
protesters during last year’s uprising, a verdict that triggered
unrest two weeks before Egypt’s divisive presidential runoff.  Also sentenced yesterday to life for complicity in the
deaths was Mubarak’s long-time security chief, Habib El-Adli.
Both men plan to appeal. The deposed president and his two sons
were acquitted of corruption charges, while six senior police
officials who had been charged were also cleared of wrongdoing
in a case billed by state media as the “trial of the century.”  Mubarak’s critics say the officers’ acquittal may pave the
way for a reversal on appeal of the verdict against the former
ruler, 84. The presidential election, slated to begin June 16,
pits the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi against Ahmed Shafik, who briefly served as Mubarak’s last premier. Shafik has
been decried as a “feloul,” or remnant of the old regime
seeking to perpetuate his former boss’s legacy.  “This verdict is political. The blood of the martyrs has
gone in vain,” Hesham Naguib Mahfouz, a lawyer representing
some of the victims’ families, told reporters. “I am saddened I
even took part in the revolution. This country has gone to
waste.”  Test Case  Mubarak is the only Arab leader to appear in court, after
the so-called Arab Spring swept the region. For the families of
the roughly 850 people killed in the January 2011 uprising, and
others who participated in the revolution, the case was a test
of the new Egypt -- a chance for justice, they argued, that had
barely been practiced under the deposed president. Months of
hearings in a case they wanted swiftly concluded, however, had
eroded their confidence that justice could be had.  Within hours of the verdicts, thousands of protesters
poured into Cairo’s  Tahrir Square , which had served as the
epicentre for the uprising. Earlier, both pro-Mubarak
demonstrators and families of the victims clashed with security
forces outside the police academy that once bore Mubarak’s name
and where the trial was held.  Mubarak suffered a “health crisis” while en route to
prison, state media reported, without being more specific.  “This verdict is a continuation of the fight against the
revolution,” Ahmed Maher, one of the founders of the April 6
youth group movement that participated in the uprising.
“Tensions are running high and the people are preparing for a
new revolutionary wave against the old regime and its symbols
who are still there, like Shafik.”  ‘No Evidence?’  “Mubarak may be acquitted on appeal,” Maher said,
decrying the judge’s acquittal of the senior police officers on
lack of evidence. “What does it mean that there’s no evidence
for the killings? How did the protesters die then? Did they just
drop dead on their own?”  Presiding Judge Ahmed Refaat began the proceedings by
speaking of the new era that emerged in  Egypt  after Mubarak was
toppled from power. Under Mubarak, Egypt fell behind “the most
backward countries in the Third World,” the judge said. “God
wiped out the night, and allowed daylight to prevail.”  Last year’s uprising ended “30 years of bleak, bleak
darkness,” Refaat said. “God’s will was to inspire the
courageous people of Egypt, accompanied by angels. They were not
demanding the luxuries of life, but demanding that their
politicians and rulers, who enjoyed the riches and power, to
give them the bare minimum” of food, water, housing and jobs.  ‘God’s Ruling’  Before he read out the verdicts, the lawyers representing
the victims’ families made clear what they expected on white
sheets of paper that read: “The people’s ruling is execution”
and “God’s ruling is execution.”  Chaos broke out in court, with a fist-fight erupting after
the verdicts were read. Lawyers for the families chanted “null
and void” and “the people want the cleansing of the
judiciary.”  The timing of the ruling, between the first round of the
elections held on May 23 and 24 and the runoff June 16 and 17,
helped stoke the skepticism and frustration with which the
ruling was met, Hani Sabra, a Mideast analyst with the Eurasia
Group in  New York , said by phone.  “It’s very difficult, if you look at the timing of the
events, to imagine that this is largely a legal proceeding
that’s divorced from political reality,” he said.  The Muslim Brotherhood, in a statement, said the officers’
acquittal “sends a message to them and to others to continue
their aggression on citizens.”  Tora Prison  “This verdict means that only the head of the regime and
of the  interior ministry  have fallen. The rest of the regime
remains,” said the Brotherhood, whose political arm controls
almost 50 percent of the seats in parliament’s lower house.  The aging president, who has been held in hospital since
the trial began in August, was taken by helicopter to Cairo’s
notorious Tora prison, to be housed in a recently upgraded
hospital unit. His two sons, along with El-Adli and the other
defendants, had been held at the prison since the start of the
proceedings.  Mubarak’s sons, while acquitted yesterday of the charges
they faced in their father’s trial, remain imprisoned, awaiting
trial on charges filed in May of stock-market manipulation.  Mubarak had attended the trial while lying on a gurney
inside the defendants’ cage, shielded from view by his sons.  Supporters of the ousted leader repeatedly clashed with
families of those killed in the uprising outside the police
academy. The fights reflected the rifts in the country as
Egypt’s military rulers and other officials pushed ahead with
the nation’s rocky transition to democracy.  Appeal Planned  Essam Battawy, El-Adli’s attorney, criticized the ruling.  “This is a political verdict to appease public opinion,”
Battawy said in a phone interview. “We will use the causes
given for acquitting the senior police officers as grounds for
filing an appeal.”  Those acquittals were “proof of El-Adli’s innocence,” he
said.  Meanwhile, prosecutors said they would appeal the
sentences.  “It’s so unfair for the six others, the heads of evil, to
be acquitted,” Azeeza Mohamed, who said her son was killed
during the revolt, said by phone. “It is God who will avenge
our children in the afterlife, and I pray that he takes revenge
for them in this world.”  Ahead of the verdict, authorities set up a sweeping
security plan that included deploying 5,000 security officers to
prevent violence. Outside the fortified facility, scores of
black-clad riot police stood ready, backed by armored personnel
vehicles.  Market Jittery  Pro-Mubarak demonstrators pelted passing cars with rocks.
Families of the victims later began throwing rocks while
security forces kept the two sides apart.  The verdict, and the ensuing protests, further clouded the
country’s political and security landscape ahead of the pivotal
presidential vote.  The political tensions over the past week helped push the
benchmark  EGX 30 stock index  down 5.7 percent, and added to
concerns about an economy that has struggled to recover since
Mubarak’s ouster in February last year. Egypt has spent about 60
percent of its  currency reserves  in the period, as the central
bank sought to shore up the Egyptian pound. Political bickering
has delayed a $3.2 billion loan from the  International Monetary
Fund .  Mursi’s Candidacy  Those concerns have been amplified ahead of the upcoming
vote, and could be magnified even more after the verdict that
has been resoundingly criticized by the revolutionary youth and
others.  Shafik’s run is seen by Islamists and the youth
revolutionary groups who played a key role in the protests as an
attempt to revive the old regime. Mursi’s candidacy, however,
has also unsettled secularists and the country’s Christian
minority, who worry the Brotherhood will implement Islamic law.  Shafik said he respects the verdict and, in a statement by
his campaign, stressed that the ruling showed that “no one in
Egypt was above accountability.”  The trial served as a lesson to any presidential successor,
he said in the statement.  The trial produced scenes unthinkable before last year’s
uprising. After years of fearing to directly criticize Mubarak
or his family, Egyptians watched as he lay in the cage, his eyes
often masked by sunglasses while his sons stood stoically in
front of him, at times leaning down to kiss his forehead.  Mubarak was also charged with abusing his office to acquire
property for himself and his sons, and with selling natural gas
to  Israel  at below-market prices.  Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, a member of the Israeli parliament
and former defense minister who was close to Mubarak, said it
was a “very sad day.”  “This man was the leading force for stability in the
 Middle East ,” Ben-Eliezer told Israel Radio yesterday. “He saw
Israel as a crucial element in safeguarding the Egyptian
economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  