-- UPS Says It Hasn’t Told EU It Will Divest TNT Benelux, Germany
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-06-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/ups-says-it-hasn-t-told-eu-it-will-divest-tnt-benelux-germany.html
United Parcel Services Inc. (UPS)  and  TNT
Express NV (TNTE)  are preparing a formal merger notification and
haven’t made any offers to European Union antitrust authorities
to divest TNT Benelux or German units.  “Such commitments have not been asked by the European
Commission, nor were they offered by UPS or TNT,” the Atlanta-
based company said in a statement yesterday, responding to a
media report. “The Commission is expected to issue a decision
in the third quarter of this year.”  UPS, the world’s biggest package-delivery company,
announced in March that it would buy TNT Express for $6.8
billion to expand in  Europe . Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn
at the time said he was “confident” the deal would receive
regulatory approval by the end of the third quarter, adding that
it was too early to say what divestitures may be needed to
satisfy concerns.  Yesterday, Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant reported, citing
unidentified people, that UPS was considering shedding TNT’s
German and Benelux express services to overcome possible EU
objections to its takeover of the Dutch company. That could cost
thousands of jobs in the Netherlands,  Germany  and  Belgium , the
paper said.  “This would be very concerning,” Egon Groen, an official
at the FNV Bondgenoten labor union, said by telephone. “UPS and
TNT should give clarity as soon as possible on whether they are
considering to divest parts of Express in the Benelux to comply
with EU competition rules.”  Ernst Moeksis, a spokesman for Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based
TNT Express, said he was unable to comment on the report as
“this is a question for UPS.”  “Apparently UPS and TNT are talking to the European
Commission,” Groen said. “TNT’s employees have a right to know
how that is going.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  