-- VW CEO Winterkorn Shakes Up Management Ranks to Push Growth
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-06-02T12:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/volkswagen-ceo-winterkorn-shakes-up-management-to-push-growth.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Winterkorn  appointed a new trucks chief, added a top
executive for China and replaced three Audi board members as
part of a shakeup to push forward with his growth plans.  Scania AB (SCVB)  CEO Leif Oestling will join VW’s management board
to help forge a truckmaking alliance between Scania,  MAN SE (MAN)  and
the carmaker’s own commercial-vehicles unit, the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based carmaker said in a statement today. Current trucks
chief Jochem Heizmann will shift to a new board post with
responsibility for China, VW’s largest market.  Winterkorn is reshuffling managers as he pushes  Europe ’s
largest carmaker, which reported record 2011 profit, to surpass
 General Motors Co. (GM)  as the world’s biggest automaker. In addition
to seeking savings from cooperation between the truck units, the
CEO is integrating Porsche sports cars and Ducati motorbikes to
widen offerings from exotic two-wheelers to 50-ton trucks. VW
owns controlling stakes in Scania and MAN.  “All of the appointments are internal,” Winterkorn said
at a press conference in Stuttgart to explain the changes. “It
is important to have people in leadership positions who know the
company.”  Audi will replace three board members. Ulf Berkenhagen, the
purchasing chief at the luxury-car brand, will assume the role
of procurement chief at MAN. Berkenhagen will be replaced by
Bernd Martens, who currently works in VW purchasing.  Closer Ties  Audi will also replace development head Michael Dick with
Bentley chief  Wolfgang Duerheimer , and VW brand marketing head
Luca de Meo will take over for sales chief  Peter Schwarzenbauer ,
who is leaving the VW group.  VW commercial-vehicles chief Wolfgang Schreiber will move
to Bentley to replace Duerheimer as the head of the ultra-luxury
marque. All of the changes take effect Sept. 1.  VW has been working for six years on closer ties with MAN
and Scania. Volkswagen increased its holding in MAN to a
majority in 2011, then raised the stake to 73 percent in April.
VW Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said last month
that all options were open, including a domination agreement.  MAN CEO Georg Pachta-Reyhofen, 56, along with his duties
running the Munich-based truckmaker, will also join the VW
management board with responsibility for the group’s engines.  Pushing Integration  “This makes sense from an integration point of view,”
 Michael Tyndall , an analyst at Barclays in  London , said by
phone. “Scania is best in class, and in my mind there’s not a
lot of work that needs to be done to improve that business. I
think it’s taking some of that expertise and applying it to MAN
that’s the challenge. Oestling is a good man to do it.”  Under Oestling, who has run Scania for 23 years, the
Soedertalje, Sweden-based company has become an industry leader
in profitability, with annual  operating profit  in the last
decade increasing fivefold. The truck and bus maker’s earnings
before interest and taxes in 2011 were 12.4 billion kronor ($1.7
billion) compared with 2.47 billion kronor in 2001.  Oestling -- who spent decades eschewing acquisitions and
fighting takeovers, including an unsuccessful effort by MAN to
purchase Scania in 2006 -- said in 2010 that combining with MAN
is necessary to lower costs.  “The important thing here is that we’ll now get a clearer
leadership structure for VW’s commercial vehicles,” Oestling,
who will move to Wolfsburg, said in a phone interview today.
“These are complex industrial companies and it takes time.”  New Scania Chief  Oestling will be replaced at Scania by Martin Lundstedt,
the truckmaker’s sales and marketing chief. Lundstedt, 45, has
been with Scania since 1992, when he began as a production
engineer. He’s held several executive positions at the company,
including a stint as production director in  France . He has been
sales and marketing chief since 2007.  “You shouldn’t expect any big changes,” Lundstedt said in
a phone interview. “I’ve been with Scania for 20 years and know
the company well. We have a good cooperation with MAN and we’ll
continue to develop that.”  Current  China  chief Karl-Thomas Neumann was passed over for
the board post in favor of Heizmann. Winterkorn said today he’s
seeking a new role at VW for Neumann.  VW’s Chinese joint ventures plan to invest 14 billion euros
($17.3 billion) in the country through 2016 to expand
production. VW will open a new assembly plant in western China
as it pushes expansion beyond the country’s bustling coast.
Winterkorn signed a contract for the plant in Urumqi during an
April visit to Wolfsburg by Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao .  First-quarter earnings from VW’s Chinese joint ventures,
which aren’t included in group operating results, jumped 52
percent to 848 million euros. Volkswagen group Ebit in the
period gained 10 percent to 3.21 billion euros.  Volkswagen in 2011 boosted operating profit 58 percent to a
record 11.3 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  