-- Myanmar Open to Reducing Army’s Political Role, Minister Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-06-02T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/myanmar-open-to-reducing-army-s-political-role-minister-says.html
Myanmar is open to changing the
constitution to reduce the military’s role at an appropriate
time, according to Defense Minister Hla Min.  Myanmar’s charter allocates 25 percent of parliamentary
seats to soldiers, a requirement opposed by opposition leader
Aung San Suu Kyi. The country’s transition to democracy in
recent months after about five decades of military rule has
prompted the U.S. and European Union to ease sanctions.  “If you have a fish in fresh water, you cannot put the
fish into salt water,” Hla Min said yesterday at the Shangri-La
Dialogue in  Singapore  hosted by the  International Institute for
Strategic Studies , a London-based think-tank. “This 25 percent
participation could be reduced in the future if and when it is
appropriate.”  Myanmar is enhancing economic, military and political ties
with Western nations after years of isolation that left its 64
million people among  Asia ’s poorest. Hla Min said the government
has ended studies on a nuclear program, stopped pursuing ties
with  North Korea  and taken steps to make peace with ethnic
groups near its borders with  China ,  India  and  Thailand .  The military backs President Thein Sein “100-percent” and
has a history of following government orders, Hla Min said. Suu
Kyi told reporters in Bangkok on June 1 that she remained unsure
of the military’s backing for the reform-minded government.
Changing the constitution requires support from more than 75
percent of lawmakers.  “We have to win over all the civilian MPs plus at least
one soldier,” Suu Kyi said. “That one is going to be the
toughest job of all.”  Nuclear Activities  Hla Min blamed the media for exaggerating Myanmar’s nuclear
ambitions, saying the previous administration only conducted
studies and had “no practical ways and means to achieve” a
nuclear program. He called a suggestion for the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  to verify its nuclear activities
“irrelevant” because there was nothing to inspect.  “In this new government we have already given up all
activities on nuclear issues, and we have no further plans to
extend on this,” he said.  Hla Min called on the U.S. to fully lift sanctions to
improve the lives of Myanmar citizens. Speaking at the same
conference earlier, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said he would
discuss a security relationship with Myanmar officials as
engagement between the nations improves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  