-- Yen Gains on Slowing U.S. Growth, Europe Safety Bets
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-06-03T11:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-02/yen-gains-on-slowing-u-s-growth-amid-europe-crisis-safety-bets.html
(Corrects time reference to euro’s low against the dollar
in second paragraph of story published yesterday.)  The yen rose against all of its major
counterparts as concern  Spain ’s escalating banking crisis may
spread and the slowing U.S. economic recovery boosted demand for
the safest assets.  The euro fell to an 11-year low against the yen and an
almost two-year low against the dollar as Spanish officials
debated how to fund a bailout of Bankia group, the nation’s
third largest lender. The greenback declined after a report
showed the U.S. added the fewest jobs in a year last month,
increasing bets the  Federal Reserve  may introduce further
stimulus, which may debase the currency. The European Central
Bank will publish its latest economic projections when it meets
June 6.  “The yen certainly stood head-and-shoulders above its
major counterparts, getting a boost from not only safe-haven
flows but from record-low U.S. Treasury yields,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at Travelex Global
Business Payments, a currency-exchange network. “Until Europe
can do something to help restore investor confidence in the
region, the euro should remain on its back foot.”  The yen rose 2.8 percent to 97.01 per euro, gaining for the
sixth straight week and reaching 95.60 yesterday, the strongest
level since November 2000. The Japanese currency strengthened
2.1 percent against the greenback to 78.02, touching 77.66, the
strongest since Feb. 14. The euro lost 0.7 percent to $1.2434
and fell as low as $1.2288, a level not seen since July 2010.  Japan ’s currency typically strengthens in times of
political, financial and economic turmoil because the nation’s
historical  trade surplus  means it doesn’t have to rely on
overseas lenders.  Commodities Currencies  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries dropped after
China’s manufacturing grew at the weakest pace since December,
fueling concern of a global growth slowdown. The Purchasing
Managers’ Index fell to 50.4 in May from 53.3 in April, China’s
statistics bureau and logistics federation said yesterday in
Beijing.  The  Mexican peso  lost 2 percent to 14.3129, reaching
14.5997, the weakest since March 2009. The currency of
Australia, whose biggest trading partner is China, fell 0.6
percent to 97.01 U.S. cents.  The difference, or  spread , between the yield on 10-year
Treasury notes and that of similar-maturity Japanese debt fell
to the lowest level on record yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gap reached 59 basis points, or 0.59
percentage point, the narrowest since at least 1993 as the yield
on the U.S. benchmark fell to a record 1.4387 percent.  ‘Big Problems’  Spanish  10-year bond  yields surged to 6.7 percent May 30, a
level last reached in November. At the time, the  European
Central Bank  was purchasing the bonds of Italy and Spain in an
effort to allay concern of crisis contagion within the euro
bloc. The central bank has bought 214 billion euros ($266
billion) in bonds since its Securities Market Program began in
May 2010.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  told a European Union Parliament
committee the central bank can’t fill the “vacuum” of the lack
of fiscal prudence and governance in the euro area. Policy
makers are forecast to leave the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 1 percent when they meet June 6, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  “The main trend is still the downside of the euro,” said
 Mamoru Arai , a senior currency trader at  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411)  in  New York . “There are big problems in Spain and Greece.
Fiscal austerity is very important, but economic growth is much
more important.”  An index of executive and consumer sentiment among the euro
member nations fell to 90.6 from a revised 92.9 in April, the
lowest since October 2009, the European Commission said May 30.  Relative Strength  The 17-nation currency rose against the dollar on
speculation it may have fallen too quickly. The euro’s 14-day
relative strength index against the greenback remained below the
30 level, signaling an asset may reverse declines, for a ninth
day yesterday, the longest such stretch since 2008.  Bets that the euro will depreciate against the dollar rose
to a record in the futures market last week.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased their
bets on a euro drop for a fourth straight week in the five days
ended May 29, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed
yesterday. The difference in the number of wagers on a decline
in the shared currency compared with those on a gain -- so-
called net shorts -- was 203,415, the most since the euro’s
inception in 1999.  ‘Soft Patch’  The dollar dropped against the yen after payrolls climbed
by 69,000 last month, fewer than the most-pessimistic forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey, after a revised 77,000 gain in April
that was smaller than initially estimated, the Labor Department
reported yesterday. The median estimate called for a 150,000 May
advance. The jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent,
while hours worked declined.  “We’ve hit a soft patch in U.S. economic activity and jobs
growth and this employment report just further confirms that,”
said  Michael Woolfolk , a managing director and senior currency
strategist in New York at  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
world’s largest custodial bank. “What this does is raise
materially the odds of quantitative easing from the Fed.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has pledged to keep its
interest rate at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent through
2014. Additional accommodation, such as a third round of asset
purchases known as quantitative easing, or QE, could become
necessary if U.S. economic expansion falters, according to
minutes of the central bank’s April meeting released May 16.  ‘Excessive Moves’  Another report showed gross domestic product rose at a 1.9
percent annual pace in the first quarter, down from a 2.2
percent prior estimate. The number of Americans applying for
unemployment insurance payments rose last week to a one-month
high.  The yen pared some of its gains as concern increased the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  would intervene to curb the currency’s advance.  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  pledged to take
“decisive” action on currencies after the yen climbed to its
highest level since February against the dollar.  “We will continue to carefully monitor  currency market 
moves with more caution,” Azumi told reporters in Tokyo
yesterday. “If these excessive moves continue, I think I must
take decisive action” on the yen, he said.  Japan has intervened to curb the yen’s 60 percent
appreciation over the past decade. The currency surged to a
post-World War II record of 75.35 per dollar in October before
slipping 7.8 percent in the first quarter. It has since added 5
percent.  Loonie, Real  The dollar is the biggest gainer this year among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes, having risen 3.2 percent. The yen has
gained 1.5 percent and the euro has fallen 1.5 percent.  Canada’s dollar sank to the lowest in more than six months
versus the greenback after the nation’s gross domestic product
grew 0.1 percent in March, Ottawa-based  Statistics Canada  said,
less than the median economist forecast of 0.3 percent.  The so-called loonie fell 1.1 percent to C$1.0410, touching
C$1.0443 yesterday, the lowest since Nov. 28.  Brazil’s real fell the most among the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after a report showed the  economy  expanded
0.2 percent in the first quarter from the previous three months,
compared with the 0.5 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The real declined 2.6 percent to 2.0401 per  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  