-- ‘Dark Knight’ Finale Leaves Warner to Reboot New Batman
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/-dark-knight-finale-leaves-warner-to-reboot-new-batman.html
In “The Dark Knight Rises,”
 Christian Bale ’s Batman suits up to save Gotham City one last
time. Now Warner Bros. has to decide what’s next for the Caped
Crusader.  The movie, opening today, marks the third and final pairing
of actor Bale with director  Christopher Nolan , who combined to
create a rare hit franchise from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s DC Comics
library. “The Dark Knight Rises” is projected to generate as
much as $198 million in U.S. ticket sales its first weekend,
which would be the second-best film debut ever.  Batman will return in some form, according to the studio.
The challenge will be rebooting the franchise without alienating
hardcore fans. The first two Bale-Nolan films, “Batman Begins”
and “The  Dark Knight ,” collected $1.37 billion at the global
box office and won a supporting-actor Oscar for the late Heath Ledger as the Joker.  “Batman has been around in the comics for almost 75
years,” Michael Uslan, executive producer of all seven Batman
films from Warner Bros. since 1989, said in an interview at the
Comic-Con fan show in  San Diego  last week. “There have been so
many radical interpretations in the comic books, in the art, and
the story and the tone. He has really proven he is relevant to
every era.”  Starting with Michael Keaton’s portrayal of Batman and his
alter ego, millionaire Bruce Wayne, in 1989, the films have
brought in $2.63 billion in worldwide ticket sales, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo.  Nolan’s three Dark Knight pictures are inspired by the
comic-book and graphic-novel renderings of Frank Miller, who
envisioned a gritty, brooding Batman, in contrast to the campy
1960s television show.  ‘Superman Returns’  In the new Batman film, set eight years after “The Dark
Knight,” an aging Bruce Wayne walks with a cane because of his
many injuries and is facing financial ruin. He emerges from
retirement to fight Bane, a physically and intellectually
powerful villain who isolates Gotham City and orchestrates class
warfare between the haves and have-nots.  While the character has been a success for Warner Bros.,
other DC heroes have fallen flat at the box office.  “Superman Returns,” the studio’s 2006 attempt to
resurrect Superman, followed the Christopher Reeve films of the
1980s. Made for an estimated $270 million, the movie generated
$391 million in global ticket revenue shared with exhibitors,
according to Box Office Mojo.  “ Green Lantern ” flopped at the box-office and with
critics last year, collecting $219.9 million in global sales
against a $200 million budget, according to Box Office Mojo.  One challenge is how to use DC’s best-known characters,
Batman and Superman, to enhance the box-office appeal of the
others, such as Wonder Woman and The Flash.  One-Offs vs. Ensemble  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  managed the feat with “Marvel’s The
Avengers” -- a film that generated a record $207.4 million
opening weekend in the U.S. and  Canada , on its way to $1.46
billion in worldwide ticket sales -- by joining  Iron Man , the
Hulk, Thor and Captain America in a single picture.  “It’s a decision between two very very different
methods,” said Jeff Gomez, chief executive officer of  New York- 
based Starlight Runner Entertainment, which advised Sony Corp.
on “Men in Black 3.” “The first is that Warner will continue
to produce auteur-driven one-offs of their DC Comics characters,
like they’ve been doing. There is more power in the collective
than there is in these characters separated.”  The studio gives Superman another try with the June 2013
release of “Man of Steel.” Getting it right is a prerequisite
to bringing Superman and Batman together, Director Zack Snyder
said in response to a question at Comic-Con. The movie is being
produced and by Nolan, who also gets story credit, according to
Imdb.com, and stars U.K. actor Henry Cavill.  Justice League  “We know that Superman is the jewel in the DC crown and
really what we’re trying to do is get his house in order,”
Snyder said. “And then, who knows what’s possible.”  DC’s comic-book group has had its own Avengers-like team,
the Justice League, since 1960. The characters have united in
print stories and television cartoons to battle villains. The
studio had a Justice League script in the works that was
scuttled by the 2007 writers’ strike.  The film is back in development,  Warner Bros . said in a
statement, without disclosing specific plans for Justice League
or for Batman. The Burbank, California-based studio has hired
screenwriter Will Beall to develop a script for a Justice League
film, according to Internet Movie Database.  Time Warner’s film unit generated $1.26 billion in
operating profit in 2011, a 14 percent increase from a year
earlier and 20 percent of the New York-based media company’s
operating profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Aging Superhero  Time Warner  added  0.6 percent to $39.14 yesterday in  New
York  and has gained 8.3 percent this year. By comparison, the
 S&P 500 Media Index (S5MEDA)  has climbed 23 percent.  In “The Dark Knight Rises,” British actor  Tom Hardy 
portrays Bane.  Michael Caine  returns as Wayne’s butler, Alfred,
and  Gary Oldman  reprises his role as Police Commissioner Gordon.
The film also features  Anne Hathaway  as Catwoman.  The movie has an 87 percent approval rating on
Rottentomatoes.com. Of the 185 reviews compiled by the website,
161 are positive and 24 negative. The film accounted for 91
percent of yesterday’s advance sales at Fandango.com, the ticket
site owned by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , according to Harry Medved, a
spokesman.  Warner Bros. would be wise to introduce more of its DC
characters before jumping into a Justice League project,
Starlight Runner’s Gomez said. Batman and Superman are the only
ones who have a real presence in film, he said.  “You’re rushing your introduction in a film that’s clearly
going to favor Batman and Superman,” he said. “It would have
to because those are the characters we know and love.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  