-- ‘Shocked’ Snedeker Leads British Open After Record-Tying Day
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-20T20:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/-shocked-snedeker-leads-british-open-after-record-tying-day.html
Brandt Snedeker says he’s as
surprised as anyone to be at the top of the  British Open 
leaderboard and in the record book.  Snedeker shot a 6-under-par 64 today at Royal Lytham & St.
Annes in northwest  England  to move to 10 under and leads by one
stroke after two rounds of golf’s oldest major championship.  The American’s 36-hole total of 130 ties the Open record
set by  Nick Faldo  at Muirfield in  Scotland  in 1992, while his 64
matches the tournament record at Lytham shared by Tom Lehman in
1996 and  Adam Scott  yesterday.  “I’m sure everyone in this room is in as much shock as I
am right now,” Snedeker, 31, said at a news conference. “I’ve
played pretty well the first two days. Just going to keep trying
to do that over the weekend.”  Scott is second at 9 under following a 67 today.  Tiger
Woods  moved into third at 6 under by chipping in for birdie from
the bunker on the 18th hole to finish with 67.  Snedeker has been almost flawless the first two days. He’s
yet to make a bogey and has not put a ball in any of the 206
bunkers that dot the course.  The Nashville, Tennessee, native opened his round with a
birdie today to get to 5 under. Consecutive birdies at the sixth
and seventh holes were followed by another at No. 9 as he made
the turn in 30.  Back-to-back birdies got him to 10 under after 12 and he
played par golf the rest of the way, rolling in a 10-foot putt
on the 18th after hitting his tee shot wide right off the
fairway.  ‘No Bogey’  “No bogeys around here is getting some good breaks and
playing some pretty good golf,” said Snedeker, who has three
career U.S. PGA Tour victories. “My mantra all week has been to
get my ball on the greens as fast as possible. Once I’m there I
have a pretty good hand for the speed of the greens.”  Though Snedeker missed the cut in his three previous Open
appearances, it hasn’t dampened his enjoyment of links golf. He
said he first played the style on a golfing holiday to Britain
in 2001 and fell in love with it.  He also gives credit to a round he played with five-time
champion  Tom Watson  at Royal Birkdale, also in northwest
England.  “Talking to him about it, the more I’ve gotten to know
him, he really loves this lifestyle,” he said. “I could have
said I don’t like going to the British Open, I’ve missed three
cuts there. I love coming over here, it’s just so different from
what we get to do at home.”  Best Finish  Snedeker’s best finish at a major came at the 2008 Masters
when he finished tied for third behind winner  Trevor Immelman .
He said he learned a lot from watching how Immelman handled the
emotion of the situation.  And while he has the halfway lead at a major, Snedeker said
he’s not taking anything for granted as he heads into the final
two days.  “A great experience, but it gets you a lot of nothing,”
he said. “As anyone can tell you, there’s been a lot of leads
lost after 36 holes. I’m going to try and buck that trend this
weekend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  