-- Thaksin Criticizes Court Ruling, Calls for Talks Over His Return
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-07-20T04:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/thaksin-criticizes-court-ruling-calls-for-talks-over-his-return.html
Self-exiled former Thai Prime
Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  criticized a court ruling last week
that complicated efforts by his allies to change the
constitution, and called for talks over his return.  The  Constitutional Court  on July 13 said a referendum was
needed before a charter ratified after the 2006 coup that ousted
Thaksin could be rewritten. The party of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister, will “digest” the ruling before
deciding how to move forward, he said.  The decision “shows what we call judicial overreach,”
Thaksin said in a television interview on Singapore’s Channel
NewsAsia. “It’s against the rule of the separation of powers,”
which is central to democracy.  Thaksin’s allies are weighing whether to defy the court and
press ahead with a vote to overhaul the constitution during the
next parliamentary session that starts on Aug. 1. Yingluck’s
party wants to reduce the power of appointed bodies it says are
undermining elected governments to serve the interest of
royalists who backed the coup.  “Those who benefit from full-fledged democracy want to
bring it back,” Thaksin said. “Those who fear democracy may be
developed too far resist it. That’s the root cause of the
problem.”  Thaksin has lived overseas since fleeing a jail sentence in
2008 on charges stemming from a military-appointed panel.
 Thailand ’s parliament is considering a broad amnesty for
political offenses since the coup, a move that could overturn
the two-year sentence he has avoided by remaining overseas.  Thaksin’s Wealth  It may also undo a court ruling that led to the seizure of
about $1.5 billion of Thaksin’s fortune in 2010, two weeks
before his supporters began protests that led to more than 90
deaths and ended in a military crackdown. Thaksin’s opponents
have vowed to resist the initiatives in parliament, saying they
undermine the rule of law.  Thaksin said his return to Thailand would depend on when
reconciliation occurs. His enemies have turned him into
“Dracula” in part because parties backed by him have won the
past five elections, including one last year, he said.  “It’s time to face and talk,” Thaksin said in the
interview. “We can speak Thai together, we can talk open heart.
What do you want? What do you worry about?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  