-- American Electric Power Profit Rises for Second Quarter
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-07-20T12:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/american-electric-profit-rose-on-warmer-weather-correct-.html
American Electric Power Co. (AEP) , which
delivers electricity to more than 5 million customers in 11
states, said second-quarter profit rose 2.8 percent and next
quarter’s results would be lower after a storm knocked out power
to its  Ohio  customers.  Net income rose to $362 million, or 75 cents a share, from
$352 million, or 73 cents, a year earlier, Columbus, Ohio-based
American Electric said in a statement today. Excluding severance
costs, per-share profit was 5 cents more than the 72-cent
average of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Warmer-than-normal weather and economic recovery in some
states where the company operates increased revenue, Chief
Executive Officer Nicholas Akins said in the statement. Economic
growth in the western part of the company’s operations has
outpaced growth in the eastern states, he said.  Akins said the company won’t give out guidance for the year
and earnings for the third quarter are expected to be lower as
American Electric faces a review of its rate plan by Ohio
regulators and costs associated with storms that left more than
1.4 million people without power in June.  American Electric faces tough regulatory scrutiny in its
home state, where the Public Utility Commission of Ohio is
reviewing a proposal that will determine how much the company
can charge consumers and retail marketers during its three-year
transition to a competitive market, said Andrew Bischof, a
Chicago-based utilities analyst with  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   All Ohio  “With AEP, it’s all about Ohio,” Bischof, said in a phone
interview before results were announced. “It will continue to
be about Ohio through the remainder of the year.”  The Ohio commission on Feb. 23 rescinded an American
Electric rate settlement agreement tied to the market transition
after some consumers complained of 30 percent price increases.
Regulators are expected to complete their review this summer
after on July 2 setting a new capacity price for American
Electric that was greater than the charge recommended by its
opponents, Bischof said.  American Electric provides power from Ohio to  Texas  and
owns nearly nearly 39,000 megawatts of generating capacity and
owns the largest U.S. electricity transmission system, the
company said on its website.  The earnings were released before regular trading began on
U.S. markets. American Electric, which has 10 buy and 12 hold
ratings from analysts, rose 0.2 percent to $42 at the close
yesterday in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  