-- Apple Starts Sale of New IPads in China as Tablet Demand Surges
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-20T06:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/apple-starts-sale-of-new-ipads-in-china-as-tablet-demand-surges.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  began selling the latest
version of its  iPad tablet  computer in China, seeking to build
on gains in a market that contributed 20 percent of its revenue.  Apple opened its stores in Beijing and Shanghai at 8 a.m.
to scores of customers who placed reservations for the new iPad.
Consumers had to pre-order in order to collect the device today.  In January, police had to cordon off the Sanlitun shop in
Beijing to ward off crowds who waited outside for the start of
iPhone 4S sales, with some people pelting eggs at the premises.
Cupertino, California-based Apple is selling the new tablet
after paying $60 million to settle a two-year-old legal dispute
last month regarding the iPad trademark in the country.  “If they keep making great products, I will keep buying,”
said a consumer who identified himself only as Ray, an iPad
buyer at the Sanlitun store in Beijing today. “The reason I
don’t buy other products is because I don’t think they are as
good as Apple’s.”  Apple’s iPad  is locked in a battle with  Samsung Electronics (005930) 
Co.’s Galaxy Tab and Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle Fire in the market
for tablet computers. Expectations of strong demand for media
tablets in the second half of 2012 led International Data Corp.
 last month  to increase its forecast for the worldwide market to
107.4 million units for the year, up from its previous forecast
of 106.1 million units.  The iPad accounted for 72.5 percent of China’s tablet
market in 2011, according to research company Analysys
International. Lenovo Group Ltd. had 4.7 percent market share,
while Samsung had 4.6 percent, according to Analysys.  IPad Trademark  The maker of  iPhones and iMacs  settled the dispute with
Proview International Holdings Ltd., a case that threatened
sales in  China  of Apple’s second-best selling product. Before
the July agreement announcement, Proview had applied to Chinese
customs to block shipments of Apple’s iPad tablets in and out of
China, and asked local retailers to stop sales of the product.  Carolyn Wu, an Apple spokeswoman in Beijing, declined to
comment on sales of the iPad beyond the company’s July 10
statement about the product’s introduction in China.  Apple is adding partners in China including Baidu Inc.,
Sina Corp. and China Telecom Corp. to tailor its products for
local consumers and widen distribution.  For Apple, China has made up a growing slice of sales since
the introduction of the iPhone there in 2009. The most populous
country accounted for $7.9 billion of revenue, 20 percent of the
total in the second quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook 
said in April. That’s three times the level for a year earlier,
he said.  The new iPad, which went on sale in the U.S. in March, will
cost $499 to $829, depending on the amount of memory and the
device’s wireless-connection compatibility. The company unveiled
the product, with a retina display, in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  