-- Argentine Factory Output Tumbles as Brazil Buys Fewer Cars
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-20T19:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/argentine-factory-output-tumbles-as-brazil-buys-fewer-cars-1-.html
Argentina ’s  industrial production 
fell more than 4 percent for a second straight month in June,
the biggest two-month drop in a decade, as slowing growth in
 Brazil  undermines automobile exports and steel production.  Output fell 4.7 percent last month from a year earlier and
0.1 percent from May, the national statistics institute said
today in  Buenos Aires . The annual decline was steeper than
forecast by eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median
estimate was for a 4.5 percent fall. Auto production, which led
industrial growth in recent years, dropped 34 percent in June,
mainly because of lower demand from neighboring Brazil.  South America ’s second-biggest economy, which defaulted on
$95 billion in late 2001, will  expand  2.45 percent this year,
the least since 2009, according to the median estimate of six
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Economic activity  fell 0.5
percent in May from a year earlier, the first year-over-year
decline since July 2009, the agency said.  Brazil’s economy is recovering more slowly than expected
from a contraction in last year’s third quarter. Gross domestic
product expanded at a 0.8 percent annualized rate in the first
quarter, and economists in the latest central bank survey
lowered their 2012 growth estimate for the 10th straight week,
to 1.9 percent.  Import Rules  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
tightened import restrictions this year in a bid to help local
manufacturers. The measure led to shortages of machinery and
supplies that are imported, said Orlando Ferreres, a former
deputy economy minister who now runs Buenos Aires-based Orlando
Ferreres & Asociados.  “The lack of supplies has forced some companies to cut
output,” Ferreres said. His independent index of industrial
output showed a decline of 6.9 percent in June, led by
automakers and the agrochemicals industry.  Steelmaker  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s Argentine unit will reduce
production because of a drop in demand from neighboring Brazil,
newspaper El Cronista said today.  Acindar Industria Argentina de
Aceros SA,  the nation’s second-largest steel producer, will cut
a shift at its plant in  Santa Fe  province for five months, the
Buenos Aires-based newspaper said, citing Leandro Del Grecco, a
union leader.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  