-- Argentina Wheat Export Cap Benefits Heineken, Pig Farmers
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-07-20T17:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/argentina-wheat-export-ban-benefits-heineken-pig-farmers.html
Argentina ’s policy of capping wheat
exports to contain food inflation is having the “perverse
effect” of benefiting brewers such as  Heineken NV (HEIA)  and
cheapening feed for pig farmers in  China , wheat growers said.  Argentine farmers in an area known in the first half of
last century as the world’s granary basket will boost barley
planting by 17 percent this year at the expense of wheat, which
will shrink to the second-lowest in a century, the Buenos Aires
Cereals Exchange said yesterday. Barley isn’t part of President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s export restrictions. 
The government is considering increasing taxes on grain exports,
Lapoliticaonline reported today.  Breweries such as Heineken and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the
maker of Budweiser, stand to gain as Argentina lowers one of
their main costs, Raul Maestre, the treasurer of Argentina’s
wheat growers  association  said in a telephone interview
yesterday. Growers are also attracted to barley as rising corn
prices are causing pig and chicken farmers in China to switch to
barley as feed, he said.  “Farmers are running away from wheat because of this
government intervention,” Daniel Miro, president of agro-
industrial consulting company  Novitas SA  said in a telephone
interview yesterday from Buenos Aires. “Barley is an emerging
cereal.”  Barley and wheat are competing winter crops that are sown
in July and August and harvested in December, according to
Buenos Aires-based trader  J.J. Hinrichsen . Farmers traditionally
opted to grow wheat instead of barley because of its higher
value in export markets, Miro said.  Price Surge  The value of domestic wheat in Argentina has slumped below
$200 a metric ton, compared with  $210 a ton  for feed barley,
Maestre said. Wheat futures in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
have surged 49 percent since mid-June because of a drought and
reached $9.38 a bushel yesterday, the highest for a most-active
contract since Aug. 21, 2008. That’s the equivalent of about
$345 a metric ton.  Barley, which doesn’t trade on the CME, fetches between
$340 and $350 for high-quality cereal bought by brewers overseas
and between $300 and $320 for  animal feed , Miro said.  Animal feed costs are surging as crop-damaging drought in
the U.S. Midwest sparked a rally of more than 50 percent in corn
prices during the past month. China’s animal feed importers are
lowering their barley quality standards to make up a global
grain shortage, Miro said.  Saudi Arabia  is the biggest importer
of Argentine barley because the cereal is preferred as an animal
feed to corn, according to Novitas.  Approaches Record  Farmers will plant wheat on 3.6 million hectares (8.9
million acres), more than the 2009-2010 crop of 3.56 million
hectares that was planted during a drought, according to the
 Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange . The 2009-2010 crop was the least
wheat planted since the exchange began collecting data in 1910.
Soil conditions for sowing wheat are at the best in a decade,
the Rosario Cereals Exchange said July 18.  By contrast, barley planting has surged to an estimated
area of 1.35 million hectares in the 2012-2013 season, compared
with 339,000 hectares in the 2006-2007 season when the
government’s policies of capping beef, corn and wheat exports
were first put in place by Fernandez’s predecessor and husband
 Nestor Kirchner .  This year’s barley crop is forecast to reach 5 million
tons, up from 3 million tons last year, Miro said.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if the government decides to
intervene again in the market imposing taxes on barley
exportations,” he said. “It would be another mistake, but this
government has always taken the consumer side against the
producers side.”  Heineken, InBev  InBev’s press department didn’t respond to e-mailed
requests for comment sent outside of business hours.  Heineken doesn’t comment on “commodity costs,” said John-
Paul Schuirink, financial communications manager, in an e-mailed
response.  Alejandra Koser, a spokeswoman for Argentina’s agriculture
ministry, didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment and
wasn’t available to speak, an assistant said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  