-- Asia Stocks Fall, Paring Weekly Gain, on U.S. Data, China
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-07-20T08:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/asia-stocks-fall-paring-weekly-gain-on-u-s-data-china.html
Asian  stocks  fell, paring a weekly
gain on the benchmark regional index, amid speculation China
will keep property curbs in place and as U.S. economic reports
missed estimates.  Toyota Motor Corp., Asia’s top carmaker by market value,
fell 1.8 percent in  Tokyo .  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813) , a
developer that gets all its revenue from China, slumped 1.8
percent in  Hong Kong  after Xinhua News Agency said the
government won’t relax property controls. Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. declined 1 percent in Taipei after saying
revenue will “dip” in the fourth quarter amid a weak global
economy.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.7 percent to 116.73 as
of 5:25 p.m. in Tokyo, paring this week’s gain to 1.3 percent.
About five shares fell for every three that rose.  “The shape of recovery is still uncertain,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1 billion at Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. in Sydney. “Equity investors need to be patient
in any case, but more so at the present time. Valuations are low,
which means dividend yields are reasonable.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  has trimmed its loss from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday to a 8.9 percent
decline amid optimism central banks from China to the U.S. will
ease monetary policy. The Asian benchmark trades at 11.9 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.3 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 11 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined 1.4 percent, led
by insurers and brokerages. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  was little
changed.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  retreated 0.2 percent.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index declined 0.6 percent. Hong
Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 0.4 percent, while China’s Shanghai
Composite Index retreated 0.7 percent.  U.S. Housing  Futures on the  S&P 500 (SPXL1)  fell 0.2 percent today. The gauge
added 0.3 percent in  New York  yesterday after International
Business Machines Corp., the world’s biggest computer-services
provider, and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the largest Internet marketplace, beat
profit forecasts. Gains were limited after U.S. existing home
sales unexpectedly fell and manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region contracted for a third month.  Earnings have  exceeded  analyst estimates for 63 of the 86
companies listed on the  S&P 500  that have reported quarterly
results this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Profits have slumped 0.8 percent for the group.  Toyota slumped 1.8 percent to 2,967 yen. James Hardie
Industries SE, a building-products maker that receives about
two-thirds of its sales from the U.S., slumped 0.7 percent to
A$8.32.  Property Curbs  China  won’t relax property control policies and will
instead seek to keep a “firm grip” on the real-estate market
to prevent a rebound in housing prices, Xinhua News Agency said,
citing a government circular. Cities that have loosened controls
must “set straight” government policies, the report said.  Home prices  in June climbed in 25 out of 70 cities that the
government tracks, the most since July last year, according to a
report from China’s statistics bureau released on July 18.  Shimao slumped 1.8 percent to HK$11.16 in Hong Kong, while
China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., the biggest Hong Kong-
listed mainland developer by value, fell 2.6 percent to HK$17.10.  Taiwan Semiconductor declined 1 percent to NT$76.70 in
Taipei. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Morris Chang 
maintained the company’s record spending target while lowering
his full-year estimate for global chip market growth.  Nisshin Steel Co. (5407)  fell 6.5 percent to 86 yen in Tokyo after
Nucor Corp., the largest U.S. steelmaker by market value, posted
second-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates after
prices for the metal fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  