-- U.S. Stocks Fall Most in a Month as Euro, Metals Fall
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-20T20:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/asian-stocks-drop-with-euro-on-global-growth-concern-corn-gains.html
U.S.  stocks  fell the most in a
month, the euro weakened and commodities dropped after Spain
said the recession will extend into next year and Chinese
leaders pledged to clamp down on property speculation.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  retreated 1 percent to
1,362.66 at 4 p.m. in  New York , the biggest loss since June 25.
The euro sank to the lowest level against the yen since November
2000. The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell five basis points to
1.46 percent. The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities slid 0.5 percent
and oil in New York declined 1.3 percent. The additional yield
investors demand for Spanish debt instead of German bunds
reached a record.  “The problem hasn’t gone away and the unnerving part is
that it’s deepening,” said Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more
than $20 billion as chief investment strategist at the private-
banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland . “The Spanish ghost is
rising again. It’s not only the banks. The regional governments
also need help. We need global economic improvement before we
see a vibrant rally in the market. Things are not better yet.”  The Spanish region of Valencia prepared to seek a rescue
from the central government and European finance ministers
approved the bailout of the nation’s banks.  Spain ’s gross
domestic product will fall 0.5 percent in 2013 instead of rising
0.2 percent as the government predicted April 27, Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro said today in  Madrid .  The nation’s 10-year bonds fell for a seventh day, sending
yields up 26 basis points to 7.27 percent. Yields on Spanish
five-year notes climbed to a euro-era record high.  ‘Firm Grip’  China  won’t relax property control policies and will
instead seek to keep a “firm grip” on the real estate market
to prevent a rebound in housing prices, Xinhua News Agency said.
Commodities retreated for the first time in eight days. Copper
declined 2.7 percent to $3.44 a pound on the Comex in New York.
Oil was down to $91.44 a barrel. Corn rose 2.2 percent to $7.95
a bushel.  The  S&P 500  rose 0.4 percent this week. Google Inc. rallied
3 percent after the owner of the world’s most popular search
engine said revenue surged 35 percent. Xerox Corp. sank 6.8
percent. The provider of printers and business services cut its
full-year profit forecast as the economic slump in  Europe 
crimped demand for technology.  GE Earnings  General Electric Co., the world’s biggest maker of  jet
engines , power generation equipment and health-care imaging
devices, reported earnings that topped analysts’ estimates.
Profits at U.S. companies exceeded analyst forecasts at 73
percent of the 118 S&P 500 companies that have reported
quarterly results so far, according to data  compiled by
Bloomberg.   The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  lost 1.4 percent, trimming a
seventh weekly advance. The decline in the gauge pared this
week’s advance to 0.8 percent.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , Europe’s
largest mobile-phone company, slid 1.7 percent after posting
quarterly service revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates.  “The market is more concerned about Spain going down the
same route as  Greece , looking for a sovereign bailout,”  Dean Popplewell , an analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading
firm Oanda Corp., said in a telephone interview. “It doesn’t
paint a rosy picture for  capital markets .”  Euro, Yen  The euro dropped as much as 1.2 percent to 95.38 yen and
weakened 1 percent to $1.216. The yield spread between 10-year
Spanish and German securities widened to 611 basis points.
Spain’s credit-default swaps rose to the highest in a month,
climbing 17 basis points to 597, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Euro-area finance ministers today approved a bank bailout
for Spain of as much as 100 billion euros. The decision paves
the way for a first payment from Europe’s temporary rescue fund,
the European Financial Stability Facility.  The  rate  at which European banks say they see each other
lending in euros for three months dropped below the equivalent
London interbank offered rate for dollars for the first time
since January 2008.  The euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, for such loans
was 0.451 percent today, according to data from the European
Banking Federation. Three-month dollar Libor was at 0.4521
percent, data from the British Bankers’ Association showed.  Five-year note yields touched 0.5764, below the previous
record of 0.577 percent set on July 16. Reports  yesterday  showed
U.S. initial jobless claims were higher than estimated and
measures of manufacturing activity and sales of existing homes
missed estimates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.5 percent. The
gauge has risen 1.1 percent this week. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.7 percent, capping its fifth week of declines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  