-- Baker Hughes Rises After Profit Beat Estimates: Dallas Mover
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-07-20T20:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/baker-hughes-rises-after-2q-profit-beat-estimates-dallas-mover.html
Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the world’s
third-largest oilfield services provider, rose the most in more
than two years after improved results from  North America  beat
analysts’ estimates.  Baker Hughes, based in Houston, rose 9.2 percent to $45.59
at the close in New York, the most since June 10, 2010.  Net income rose 30 percent to $439 million, or $1 a share,
Baker Hughes said today in a statement today. That’s 23 cents
better than the average of 27 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue from North American operations rose 13
percent from a year earlier, to $2.67 billion.  “An impressive beat,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst J.  David Anderson  wrote today in a note to clients. JPMorgan rates
the shares at neutral, equivalent to a hold. “North American
land issues seem to be stabilizing ahead of expectations.”  Margins in the region are expected to be “flat to slightly
up” in the third quarter, Chief Financial Officer Peter Ragauss
told analysts and investors today on a conference call.  Baker Hughes has been working on reducing costs and
improving utilization in its hydraulic-fracturing business in
North America after customers shifted from natural-gas basins to
 oil fields . The company in the past has attributed much of its
fracking-business frustrations to being late to acquire much of
the necessary materials and logistics to do the work.  Self Help  Baker Hughes’ so-called “self-help” measures, such as
improving its supply chain for fracking, “helped prop up
margins,” Luke Lemoine, an analyst at Capital One Southcoast,
wrote today in a note to investors. “But we wouldn’t get too
carried away,” because fracking price cuts in the Bakken and
Permian formations have yet to fully impact the earnings, he
wrote.  The company’s costs for a fracking material known as guar
are expected to rise in the third quarter and erode margins for
that business after prices reached a “peak” of $12 a pound in
the second quarter, Chief Executive Officer Martin Craighead
said on the call. For the most part, the company was unable to
pass the cost increases on to its customers, Ragauss said.  Guar gum, made from beans, is used to blend materials in
hydraulic fracturing.  The shares, which have 14 buy and 16 hold ratings from
analysts, have fallen 6 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  