-- Bank of America Sued by Black Ex-Manager Alleging Bias
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-20T19:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/bank-of-america-sued-by-black-ex-manager-alleging-bias.html
Bank of America Corp.  was sued by a
former employee who alleged the bank segregates black workers 
in an “apartheid” system that creates a “vast inequality” in
business development, compensation and advancement.  Jack Mitchell, who is black, filed the lawsuit today in
federal court in  New York . He was employed as a “premier client
manager” from February 2007 to July 2008, working with high
net-worth customers, and was fired for speaking out against what
he described as a “discriminatory system,” according to the
complaint.  “The bank’s apartheid system of business allocation
created a vast inequality in business development and career
growth opportunities between the bank’s African American and
white employees,” Mitchell alleged in the complaint. He is
seeking at least $10 million in damages.  Bank of America paired managers with financial advisers in
teams, with compensation based on the value of assets in each
team’s portfolio, Mitchell said. The bank “segregated” black
workers by assigning them to work at branches in low-income and
minority areas, he said. Mitchell claims all of the members of
his team were black and he was denied repeated requests to
transfer to other branches.  The refusals were “based on the bank’s racist belief that
its white clients and/or white prospective clients would not
wish to do business with the bank’s small number of African
American employees,” Christopher Brennan, Mitchell’s lawyer,
alleged in the complaint.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said the bank had just received the
complaint and declined to comment on it specifically.  ‘Core Values’  “Diversity and inclusion are part of Bank of America’s
culture and core values,” Halldin said in a statement. “We
actively promote an environment where all associates have the
opportunity to achieve personal success and can contribute to
the growth in our business.”  In a separate suit filed today in federal court in New
York, Cantor Fitzgerald LP was sued by Jermaine James, a former
employee its equity department who is black. James, who said he
was employed at Cantor Fitzgerald from October 2004 to July
2008, alleged he was the victim of wrongful discharge and
employment discrimination based on his race.  James claimed that white coworkers subjected him to
“pervasive” harassment, including emitting “monkey noises”
and uttering racial slurs in his presence at boardroom meetings.  Fire Alarm  When a fire alarm went off in the building, another
employee suggested it was triggered by “too many blacks”
congregating in the area, James said.  When James complained, a superior told him that he “needed
to be around his own people,” according to the complaint. James
said he was fired even after becoming the highest-grossing
salesman at a minority-owned brokerage unit of Cantor’s.  Cantor doesn’t comment on litigation, Sheryl Lee, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based company, said in an e-mail.  The cases are Mitchell v. Bank of America NA, 12-CV-5593,
and James v.  Cantor Fitzgerald  LP, 12-CV-5374, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  