-- Bank of America Defends China’s GDP Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-24T09:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/bank-of-america-defends-china-s-gdp-data.html
(Corrects 13th paragraph of story published on July 21 to
add dropped word “all.”)  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  has stepped in
to defend  China ’s second-quarter economic-growth data after
analysts from Barclays Plc to Mizuho Securities Co. said the
figures may be overstated.  Shen Jianguang of Mizuho said in a research report this
week that deeper slowdowns in industrial and electricity output
contradict the gross domestic product statistics. Lu Ting, a
Bank of America economist in Hong Kong, said in a July 19 note
that industrial production is in line with GDP and that
electricity data may fail to capture some growth.  The debate shows how China’s government is still struggling
to win the trust of economists and investors for GDP statistics
that contain a fraction of the data released by the U.S. and
 Germany . Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  said in 2007 that GDP figures
were “man-made” and “for reference only.”  “No country’s economic data are absolutely reliable, but
China’s economic data are particularly unreliable,” said Dong Tao, Credit Suisse Group AG’s Hong Kong-based head of Asia
economics excluding  Japan , who has been covering the Chinese
economy for the Swiss bank since 1998. “It’s subject to
political intervention from both local governments and the
central government -- that’s why people are suspicious of the
data.”  Shen, Mizuho’s Hong Kong-based chief Asia economist, said
in an e-mail that actual growth is probably around 7 percent
when considering monthly data including electricity, housing,
infrastructure projects and lending. China may enact a “larger-
than-expected stimulus package,” he said.  Maintain Confidence  In a July 17 research note, Shen urged Chinese officials to
improve the reliability of economic data as part of efforts to
“maintain market confidence.” Government  actions  in recent
months show policy makers are “deeply concerned” about the
outlook, he said.  A deceleration in industrial production, “bleak”
industrial profits, increasing inventories and “very
pessimistic” opinions on the economy from manufacturers are
among circumstances that contradict GDP growth, Shen wrote. The
reported GDP “no longer adheres to the established
relationship” with indicators including industrial production
and manufacturers’ sentiment, he said.  Growth in  industrial production  has slowed to 9.5 percent
in June from a year earlier, compared with 15.1 percent in June
2011. Industrial companies’ profits in the first five months
were down 2.4 percent from a year earlier.  Accurate Indicator  Barclays economists led by Chang Jian in  Hong Kong  said in
a July 13 note that industrial production growth, the “most
accurate Chinese macro indicator,” suggests GDP gained between
7 percent and 7.3 percent last quarter.  The comments by Li, who’s expected to become premier next
year, were revealed in a diplomatic cable published by WikiLeaks
in late 2010.  Bank of America’s Lu said that while “data quality is a
big issue in China” and GDP statistics can be manipulated, he
disagreed with people who say growth has been overstated. His
report included a graph that he said shows the gap between
industrial-production and GDP growth was “quite volatile in the
past 10 years” and actually narrower during times of weaker
expansion.  In addition, electricity-output data may underestimate
production by excluding smaller  power plants , whose role has
been increasing over time, Lu said. Growth in power output and
consumption has also slowed this year in part because a surge in
2011 resulted from pent-up demand following an easing of a
government push for  energy efficiency , Lu wrote.  Not Cooked  “It’s unfair to say that all the numbers are deliberately
cooked,” Lu said in a telephone interview. “For instance,
local government officials may not have the incentive to
overstate their power consumption as energy efficiency is now a
new requirement from the central government.”  The government this year should introduce a stimulus
amounting to 1 percent of GDP, or about 470 billion yuan ($74
billion), to make up for slowing exports and fixed-asset
investment, Lu wrote. Authorities announced a 4 trillion  yuan 
package to cope with the crisis in 2008.  Sheng Laiyun, spokesman for the National Bureau of
Statistics, said at a July 13 press briefing that recent
assertions in foreign media about electricity consumption and
industrial output growth are “wrong.” “China’s economy is
generally stable and the slowdown is stabilizing,” Sheng said.
The first-half data show that “outside bearish views about the
Chinese economy are ungrounded.”  Field Anecdotes  Credit Suisse’s Tao said there’s “no alternative” to
relying on China’s official statistics and that he seeks field
anecdotes from exporters, construction companies, steel
merchants, salespeople and even housewives as part of his
research.  The China  Beige Book , a new private survey modeled on the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s Beige Book, was created in part to
respond to concerns about the accuracy and transparency of the
nation’s economic statistics. The second-quarter China Beige
Book report said official statistics may be lagging behind its
independent data that show a pickup, citing interviews of about
2,000 company executives and bankers.  Questions about Chinese data extend to the stock market,
where short-sellers such as  Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters LLC have
highlighted discrepancies that led to share plunges and
regulatory investigations for domestic companies listed abroad
including Sino-Forest Corp.  Even with the concerns about the quality of data, Tao said
the economy is probably not in worse shape than the statistics
show.  “ China’s economy  is in the process of a soft landing, and
I believe it,” Tao said. “It’s far-fetched to say that China’s
economic growth was much weaker than the headline GDP figure
simply citing some anecdotes like power consumption.”  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  