-- Barco Climbs as Sales Growth Recovery Allays Cinema Concern
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-07-20T17:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/barco-climbs-as-sales-growth-recovery-allays-cinema-concern-1-.html
Barco NV (BAR) , the Belgian maker of
digital cinema projectors, rose to a two-month high in Brussels
trading as a recovery in second-quarter revenue growth allayed
some concerns that slowing cinema sales may hurt profit.  Barco gained for a sixth straight day, adding 3.6 percent
to 47.16 euros at 5:40 p.m. on Euronext Brussels. That’s the
highest closing price since May 11. Second-quarter sales jumped
17 percent after growth had stalled in the previous three-month
period and  net income  in the six months through June increased
28 percent to 43.5 million euros ($53.4 million).  “An outstanding set of numbers, which comes as a relief
after the fairly disappointing first-quarter update,” said  Nico Melsens , an analyst at KBC Securities NV in Brussels, as he
raised his rating on the shares to buy. “The order book is up 5
percent, showing there’s nothing to worry about in terms of
orders.”  Barco introduced displays for surgery rooms and dental
radiology and stepped up marketing efforts in  emerging markets 
after shifting some manufacturing to  China . Its cinema-projector
business, which accounts for about 30 percent of total sales,
may have peaked as the value of firm orders won by the company’s
entertainment division fell almost 14 percent in the first half.  That division, which also includes projectors for corporate
presentations and events, was by far Barco’s most profitable in
the period, generating 56 percent of earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization.  Cash Flow  The Kortrijk, Belgium-based company said it generated 29.1
million euros of cash not required for reinvestment in the
period and used most of that money for  acquisitions , according
to its first-half report.  It bought JAOtech Ltd., a U.K.-based maker of patient
bedside terminals, for 10 million euros and spent an additional
15.2 million euros on the purchase of Sunnyvale, California-
based IP Video Systems Inc., which offers decoders, servers and
software for Internet-based video streaming.  Any proceeds from future disposals will be deployed to
strengthen the four main divisions, Chief Executive Officer Eric Van Zele told analysts on a conference call today.  “Rather than milking Barco for higher levels of
profitability, we will become more aggressive in terms of
investing in new growth initiatives,” he said. “I wouldn’t
expect spectacular Ebit-growth in the second half because that
isn’t our intent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  