-- Batman Theater Massacre Among Deadliest Recent Rampages
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2012-07-20T19:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/batman-theater-massacre-among-deadliest-recent-rampages.html
The rampage that claimed at least 12
lives at a  Colorado  theater showing the latest Batman movie is
among the deadliest mass shootings in the U.S. in the past 15
years.  The toll approaches the 15 killed in the 1999 massacre at
Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado, about 20 miles (32
kilometers) from Aurora, where today’s shooting occurred during
an early morning  screening  of “The Dark Knight Rises.” The
deadliest such incident in the U.S. since then is the Virginia
Tech rampage of April 2007 in Blacksburg, Virginia, in which
Seung-Hui Cho took 33 lives, including his own.  Prosecuting such crimes raises the inevitable question of
the defendant’s sanity, according to Richard Kornfeld, who
represented the family of Columbine shooter Dylan Klebold. James
Holmes, 24, was arrested at the scene of the Aurora shooting,
Police Chief Dan Oates told reporters. Any defense of Holmes
would have to initially determine his mental state, Kornfeld, of
Recht Kornfeld PC in Denver, said in a phone interview.  “Most people think an insanity defense is a hyper-
technical cop-out, as if it existed in the law just to get
around things,” Kornfeld said. “The real analysis from the
lawyer’s perspective is: Can this person assist you in trying to
help them.”  In Jail  Arapahoe County District Attorney Carol Chambers said at a
press conference today in Aurora that Holmes will be in court
next week. She didn’t specify a date. He’s currently in county
jail, Oates said. Holmes isn’t known to police and doesn’t have
a criminal record, the chief said. There’s no indication of a
terrorism link at this point, officials said.  In March 2009, 13 people died when Jiverly Wong, an
unemployed immigrant from  Vietnam , opened fire on a civic center
in Binghamton,  New York . He killed himself. That same month,
Michael McLendon fatally shot 10 relatives and bystanders in
what Alabama authorities called the single deadliest crime in
the state’s history. He also committed suicide.  Later that year, Nidal Hasan, a U.S. Army major, allegedly
shot and killed 13 people at Fort Hood in  Texas . Hasan, who
survived and is awaiting trial, had been communicating by e-mail
with Anwar al-Awlaki, a U.S.-born radical cleric who was part of
al-Qaeda in Yemen. Al-Awlaki was killed in a U.S. drone strike
last year.  Giffords Shooting  Six people died in January 2011, when Jared Lee Loughner
allegedly went on a rampage in Tucson,  Arizona , at a community
meeting organized by U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , who
survived a head wound sustained in the incident. Loughner has
pleaded not guilty to murder and attempted murder.  Most recently, One Goh was charged with multiple counts of
murder for the lethal shooting of seven people at a college in
Oakland,  California , in April.  Outside the U.S., 77 people died a year ago this week in
 Norway  in twin attacks by Anders Behring Breivik.  Motivations behind the attacks can vary, when they are
discernible at all.  The Columbine shooters, Klebold and Eric Harris, who
committed suicide after killing 13 people, were motivated by
thoughts of glorious suicide, revolution and vengeance for petty
slights, according to Dave Cullen’s book “Columbine.” Harris
bragged in his journal about “topping” Timothy McVeigh, who
killed 168 people in the 1995 bombing of a federal building in
 Oklahoma , Cullen said.  Hasan communicated with Islamic radicals before the
shootings at Fort Hood, according to investigators.  Youth Camp  Breivik, who’s fighting to be found sane, has said the
murders were “gruesome but necessary” to fight
multiculturalism and the spread of Islam. Most of his victims,
some as young as 14, were attending a Labor Party youth camp.  Wong, who allegedly fired 99 rounds at the upstate New York
civic center where he was studying English, sent a letter to a
local television station accusing police of harassing him for
two decades.  Loughner, the former college student accused of attacking
the Giffords gathering in Arizona, was diagnosed with
schizophrenia. He has been undergoing psychiatric treatment and
forced medication to render him competent to stand trial.  McLendon, the Alabama shooter, left behind a letter
describing “ill feelings” toward his family. A self-proclaimed
survivalist, he carried two assault rifles, a shotgun and a
handgun and fired at least 125 rounds during his rampage. He
shot his mother first, then her four dogs, before setting them
on fire.  Video Manifesto  The  Virginia  Tech shooter, Cho, in a videotaped manifesto,
cited grudges against the world and said he was inspired by past
U.S. school shootings, of which perhaps the most famous was
Columbine, in Colorado.  A white Hyundai belonging to Holmes was parked at the
theater, Oates said. Police found four weapons, three of which
were used at the scene. A 40-caliber Glock handgun was found in
the car. Police aren’t sure if that was used and it’s unclear
how many rounds Holmes fired, Oates said.  Holmes was dressed in all black and wore a bulletproof
helmet, vest and leggings, according to Oates.  “If he’s competent I fully expect it will be a case where
the prosecution seeks capital punishment,” said Craig
Silverman, a former prosecutor in the Denver District Attorney’s
Office who’s now in private practice.  Death Penalty  To seek the death penalty prosecutors need to establish one
statutory aggravating factor. The fact that the case involves
multiple victims, some children, qualifies, Silverman said.
Capital cases are rare in Colorado, Silverman said.  Three men are on the state’s death row, according to the
Colorado Department of Corrections website. One, Nathan Dunlap,
was convicted of killing four people at a Chuck E. Cheese
restaurant in 1993. The last person executed in Colorado was 53-
year-old Gary Lee Davis on Oct. 13, 1997.  “Colorado is not some wacko state,” Kornfeld said. “I
don’t think Colorado is crazier than any other place when it
comes to angry people and easy access to firearms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  