-- Beer Trucks Hit Road Early as Fuller Hopes Olympics Saves Summer
-- B y   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-07-20T11:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/beer-trucks-hit-road-early-as-fuller-hopes-olympics-saves-summer.html
     July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Fuller, Smith & Turner Plc (FSTA) , the
brewer of cask ales including London Pride, said the Olympics
may salvage a rainy summer that has kept Britons away from pub
gardens, even as event traffic presents delivery challenges.  Fuller, which operates more than 360 pubs in the U.K.,
plans to make deliveries in the small hours as some road lanes
in London are dedicated to athletes and dignitaries from 6 a.m.
to midnight, Chairman  Michael Turner  said in an interview.
Trucks will deliver from 1 a.m. to 5 a.m. from the brewery in
Chiswick, on the Thames a few miles west of the Olympics site.  The delivery plan should beat traffic congestion and if the
weather cooperates, U.K. brewers will make up lost ground with
the  Summer Olympics , Turner said. Fuller’s like-for-like sales
at its managed pubs and hotels declined 1.1 percent in the 15
weeks ended July 14, following the wettest June since 1910, as
fewer people drank outdoors.  “The sun needs to come out and play so that we can all go
out and celebrate team  Great Britain  with a pint of London
Pride,” Turner said in the July 18 interview.  The company completed the acquisition of 30 pubs last year,
increasing the size of its chain before the games, which start
July 27.  “Fuller’s massive investment in new pubs is performing well
and it is excellently positioned to benefit from the Olympics,”
 Paul Hickman , an  analyst  at Peel Hunt, said in a note to
clients, reiterating a buy recommendation on the stock.  Young’s Beer  The decline in pub revenue missed a prediction for growth
of 1 percent by Lindsey Kerrigan and Simon French, analysts at
Panmure Gordon. While Fuller’s recent acquisitions are
“impressive,” the analysts said in a note to investors that
they “continue to prefer Young’s for those seeking exposure to
London and the southeast.”  Young & Co.’s Brewery Plc (YNGA) , another capital-city favourite
with almost 250 pubs, moved its beermaking out of London several
years ago after operating what was considered the oldest
continually operating brewery in the city. Its shares are
down 2.8 percent this year through yesterday, compared with a
2 percent decline for Fuller.  Young’s said July 10 that “trading has improved
significantly” in recent weeks after being depressed by the
rainy weather despite the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee celebrations
and the Euro 2012 soccer championship. The brewer opened The
Calf pub at the Stratford Westfield shopping center in June and
also operates The Cow “on the doorstep of the Olympic Park,”
Chairman Nick Bryan said in a statement.  Fuller’s beer volume rose 1 percent in the 15 weeks through
July 14 as it introduced new brews including “Hope and Glory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Tadeo in  London  at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  