-- Belgium’s Wallonia May Buy Stake in TNT’s Air Operations
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-20T13:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/belgium-may-buy-tnt-airways-stake-to-save-carrier-after-ups-sale.html
The Belgian region of Wallonia is
looking at buying a stake in  TNT Airways  to retain the cargo
carrier’s European status and safeguard operations following the
5.16 billion-euro ($6.3 billion) purchase of parent  TNT Express
NV (TNTE)  by  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , a union official said.  Employee representatives have proposed the investment to
Jean-Claude Marcourt, economy minister for Wallonia, where TNT
Airways’ Liege cargo hub is located, SETCA union permanent
secretary Marc Sparmont said today in a telephone interview.  The acquisition of Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based TNT by UPS,
which has its headquarters in Atlanta, calls into question the
future of TNT Air, since companies from outside the European
Union may not hold stakes above 49 percent in carriers based in
EU countries. The airline could retain its operating license
were majority ownership to remain in local hands.  At a meeting with labor representatives, Marcourt told the
union he was “open to the proposal,” Sparmont said, adding that
a third-party financial investor would most likely also buy a
stake to ensure a European majority.  “It would be a way for UPS to retain control, albeit not
direct control,” he said.  Ernst Moeksis, a TNT spokesman, declined to comment on the
future of the unit, saying it’s still being evaluated, while UPS
spokesman Anton van der Lande couldn’t be reached.  Nathalie Lafontaine, a spokeswoman for Marcourt, said in an
e-mailed response that she was unaware of the issue. The Belgian
transport ministry didn’t immediately return phone calls.  UPS said July 13 it expects to complete the takeover of TNT
in the fourth quarter, with EU antitrust regulators likely to
carry out a full examination of the deal.  TNT Express’s Liege operations comprise the airline, which
primarily handles cargo, and a sorting facility. UPS uses
 Germany ’s Cologne-Bonn Airport, about 65 miles (105 kilometers)
away, as the fulcrum of its European air cargo operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  