-- Biomet Said to Seek Maturity Extension on Loans to 2017
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-07-20T18:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/biomet-said-to-seek-maturity-extension-on-loans-to-2017-1-.html
Biomet Inc., the Warsaw, Indiana-
based maker of medical devices, is seeking to extend the
maturity date of two term loans by more than two years,
according to a person with knowledge of the request.  The company is extending the maturity of a  U.S. dollar  and
a euro term loan to July 2017, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the terms are private. The U.S. loan was
about $2.2 billion as of May 31, according to a July 17
regulatory filing.  The extended U.S. term loan would pay an  interest rate  of
375 basis points to 400 basis points more than the  London 
interbank offered rate, the people said. The Euro loan would pay
an interest rate 25 basis points more than the U.S. dollar
slice. Libor is the rate at which banks say they can borrow in
dollars from each other.  Investors agreeing to an amendment for the extension would
be paid a 10 basis-point fee, the people said. Those that agree
to also extend will be paid an additional 15 basis points. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Bank of America Corp ., Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo &
Co. are the arrangers. There will be a call on July 23 at 11
a.m. in  New York  to discuss the request, the people said.  Commitments for the U.S. loan are due July 25 at 5 p.m. in
New York and July 26 at 2 p.m. in London for the euro loan, the
people said.  Biomet was taken private by Blackstone Group LP, Goldman
Sachs, KKR & Co. and TPG Capital in 2007, according to a  news
release .  Bill Kolter, Biomet’s corporate vice president, public
affairs, didn’t immediately return a telephone call seeking
comment.  A term loan B is sold mainly to non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations, bank loan mutual funds and
 hedge funds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  