-- BNDES Shuts $3.5 Billion Wind Market to Five Companies
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-07-20T20:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/bndes-shuts-3-5-billion-wind-market-to-five-companies.html
Five of the biggest wind-turbine
makers have been shut out of Brazil’s $3.5 billion market by the
national development bank BNDES after failing to meet local-
content requirements.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) ,  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
 Acciona SA (ANA)  and Fuhrlaender AG aren’t getting at least 40 percent
of their parts from local suppliers and are no longer eligible
for BNDES financing, the country’s only source of loans for
turbines, Elbia Melo, executive president of the wind-industry
trade group,  Associacao Brasileira de Energia Eolica , said in an
interview.  Developers can’t tap BNDES loans for 2,000 megawatts of
turbines they agreed to buy from the suppliers, and will either
suspend construction on some projects or switch vendors, Melo
said. The world’s top turbine makers are setting up Brazilian
plants to meet surging demand and haven’t established the
domestic supply chain they pledged to create, according to
government officials.  “BNDES and the turbine makers agreed on a timeline to
develop factories and turbine makers didn’t keep to it,”
Henrique Tinoco, a director at state development agency
Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste, said in a
telephone interview. “This is a public bank with limited
resources. Of course it’s going to prioritize the acquisition of
capital goods produced nationally.”  Wind-turbine installations in Brazil may almost triple to
1,695 megawatts this year from 2011, making it the fifth-largest
market, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, and the
country is promoting policies to ensure the boom benefits other
parts of its economy.  Vestas, based in Aarhus,  Denmark , dropped 58 percent this
year. Pune, India-based Suzlon fell less than one percent over
the same period compared with the  Bloomberg Wind Energy Index (BWIND)  of
64 companies that’s lost 14 percent.  Surprise Audit  BNDES, formally Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
e Social, conducted an unannounced audit last month of companies
in Brazil providing turbines to developers that use government
loans, according to a bank press official who didn’t want to be
named because of a company policy.  The audit found that Fuhrlaender and Acciona have yet to
build factories, while Siemens, Vestas and Suzlon have
facilities that aren’t meeting the 40 percent requirement, Melo
said.  ‘No Employees’  “Some sites had no employees, no machines, not even guard
dogs,” she said. With BNDES financing cut off, development on
some projects may grind to a halt within two weeks.  Industrias Metalurgicas Pescarmona SA, an Argentinean
turbine company that’s building a second plant in Brazil, still
qualifies for BNDES financing, as do  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
 Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) , Wobben Windpower - Industria e
Comercio Ltda. and  WEG SA. (WEGE3)  BNDES offers wind developers 16-year
loans with  interest rates  as low as 6.8 percent, less than the
central bank benchmark rate of 8 percent.  BNDES is in contact with wind-farm developers to ensure
projects will be built on schedule, the agency said in an e-
mail. The turbine companies will be able to requalify for
financing when they demonstrate compliance with the local-
content requirements.  Turbine makers are initially required to get 40 percent of
their components, which may include towers and blades, from
Brazilian suppliers. The local-content requirement eventually
rises to 60 percent on a schedule that varies by supplier, and
BNDES may decide to extend those shifts, Melo said.  Vestas, the world’s biggest turbine maker, was approved for
BNDES loans in 2010 and has asked the agency to explain why it’s
no longer considered compliant, Maria Jose Vazquez, senior
manager for communication and branding, said in an e-mail.  Seeking Information  Suzlon,  India ’s biggest turbine company, hasn’t been
notified about the suspended financing and asked BNDES for more
information, according to a press official who didn’t want to be
named because of company policy.  Acciona will build a hub factory in Bahia state by October
and source blades from a factory in Fortaleza “to meet the
requirements established by the BNDES” to qualify for loans,
Elisa Banos, a spokeswoman for the Alcobendas, Spain-based
company, said in an e-mail.  Siemens, based in Munich, is asking BNDES to explain why
its turbines no longer qualify for financing. Liebenscheid,
Germany-based Fuhrlaender didn’t reply to calls seeking comment.  Importing Blades  Vestas, with more than 550 megawatts of announced deals
with developers in  Brazil , may struggle to meet the
requirements, Brian Gaylord, an advisor at  Make Consulting LLC ,
said in a telephone interview. Unlike other suppliers, Vestas
plans to import blades from outside the country.  “Everyone else is sourcing blades” in Brazil, he said.
“I’m not sure how you can meet the 60 percent index without
producing parts of the nacelle” domestically, he said of the
unit that houses a turbine’s power-generating components, if it
isn’t using local blades. Wind companies are unwilling to
manufacture turbines in Brazil when they have factories idle in
their home countries, he said.  BNDES’s move to cut financing may undermine the nation’s
efforts to diversify its energy matrix, according to Ricardo
Izar Jr., a Social Democrat deputy who represents Sao Paulo in
Brazil’s lower house.  “BNDES is completely wrong,” he said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a  development bank  so that’s what it should be
doing -- facilitating the development of strategic industries”
and creating a stable investment environment.  The finance restrictions will delay projects and payment
for turbine-makers, who don’t get fully compensated until wind
farms comes online, Philip Totaro, principal at the  Santa
Barbara , California-based consulting company Totaro &
Associates, said in a telephone interview. Turbine makers may
lose “tens of millions of dollars a project” in revenue if
developers choose to switch suppliers.  Next Auctions  Foreign turbine-suppliers rushed to set up factories in
Brazil after the government organized an auction in 2009 for
contracts to sell wind power, said Eduardo Tabbush, a wind
analyst with New Energy Finance in  London . Countries in other
regions were ratcheting back renewable-energy subsidies
following the economic downturn.  Brazil auctioned contracts for 2,905 megawatts of wind
farms in three auctions last year, according to the national
energy agency Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica. Those turbines
will cost about $3.5 billion, Tabbush estimated.  The five turbine companies are seeking to requalify for
BNDES financing before two energy auctions set for October when
developers will apply for loans to buy turbines. They are
competing for a limited, and possibly inadequate, supply of
local components, Melo said.  “For some suppliers it’s going to be practically
impossible to meet their requirements,” she said. It can take
eight to 10 years to create a local supply chain. “Brazil’s
industry is very new. You can’t create a whole supply chain
overnight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  