-- BOE Wanted Its Name Off Libor Review Over Governance Issues
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-07-20T13:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/boe-didn-t-want-its-name-on-libor-review-over-governance-issues.html
The Bank of England favored having
its name removed from the 2008 review of Libor by the British
Bankers’ Association over concern its improvement of governance
didn’t go far enough.  The view was contained in 80 pages of correspondence
between the central bank and the BBA and the  New York  Federal
Reserve on the London interbank offered rate. The documents were
published today after a request earlier this week from U.K.
lawmakers investigating the scandal over the global rate.  “On governance, what the BBA say they will do seems
broadly incrementally sensible as far as it goes, although we
have concerns that they may not go far enough,” Bank of England
official Michael Cross said in a note to colleagues. “Given
this, we might want to have direct and indirect references to
the Bank (and the Fed) removed.”  The note is dated June 4, 2008, a week before the BBA
published a consultation document on its review of Libor. In a
response the same day, a memo says Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  “agrees the BOE references should be removed and
replaced with ‘all interested parties.’” King had said in a
note dated May 31 that the BBA’s initial proposals seemed
“wholly inadequate.”  ‘Greater Energy’  King and Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  have been questioned
by lawmakers after London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was hit with a
record $451 million fine last month for its part in manipulation
of  Libor. The Bank of England initially became embroiled in the
scandal over an October 2008 phone call between former Barclays’
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Tucker.  On June 26, 2008, King said Tucker, who at the time was
markets director at the central bank, should “impress” on the
BBA the “need for greater energy” on the Libor review.  Tucker must “make clear that we would not stand in the way
of alternative market initiatives to provide alternatives to
Libor,” King said in a handwritten message.  Contained into today’s release was an internal  Bank of
England  document sent to Tucker on May 22, 2008, stating that
the BBA, which oversees the setting of Libor, warned banks to
submit honest rates on April 16, 2008. The spread between three-
month dollar Libor and the overnight indexed swap rate widened
12 basis points in the three days following the warning,
according to the note.  ‘Close to Desperate’  The document to Tucker also said that because banks
contributing Libor submissions have no obligation to trade, or
to have traded, at the rates they give, “it is at least
plausible that these are influenced by commercial incentives.”  Another e-mail from Cross to Tucker and others at the
central bank says that BBA Chief Executive Officer  Angela Knight 
is “close to desperate for even a small hook to imply that
there will be a dialogue with central banks -- so there is a bit
of a judgement to be made here on wider diplomacy and the
relationship with the BBA.”  In a statement accompanying today’s release, the Bank of
England said that because the Libor system “was, and is, a
private sector arrangement and was not subject to financial
regulation, it was not appropriate for the public authorities to
endorse or determine the outcome of the BBA review.”  “When the amended proposals were adopted in December 2008,
the bank was not aware of any dissenting views expressed by the
official or private sectors,” the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  