-- Boeing Sues U.S. for $260.4 Million for Launch Program
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-21T07:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/boeing-sues-u-s-for-260-4-million-over-space-program-costs.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  claims in a lawsuit that
it and a venture it has with  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  are owed more
than $260.4 million by the U.S. for equipment and launch
services used by the space program.  Boeing and the joint venture, United Launch Services LLC,
allege the  Air Force  has failed to reimburse the companies in
violation of agreements “designed to secure Boeing’s
participation” in the space program, according to a complaint
filed in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims.  “Through these agreements, the government ensured its
continued access to space via Boeing’s Delta IV launch vehicle,
an expressed national security priority for both Congress and
the president,” according to the complaint filed in June.  On July 10, a judge ordered the parties into a dispute-
resolution program to discuss whether the case could be resolved
without additional court proceedings.  Last year, United Launch repaid the Pentagon $89.2 million
and lost another $199 million in prior billings because Boeing
violated federal accounting standards, according to the  Defense
Contract Management Agency , the military’s contract management
agency. Boeing lost bids to have those decisions reversed.  In an e-mailed statement, Chicago-based Boeing, which
claimed it sued to preserve its ability to recover the money,
said the total amount in dispute is $385 million.  ‘Allowable Costs’  “ULA and Boeing believe that the 2006 and 2008 agreements
with the government are appropriate recognition of legitimate,
allowable costs, and that the United Launch Alliance’s recovery
of these costs is fully compliant with all cost accounting
standards and government regulations,” according to the
statement.  Boeing and Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, the
largest defense contractor, established the United Launch
Alliance in December 2006 to consolidate the military launch
business. Boeing’s Delta IV and Lockheed Martin’s Atlas V
rockets are the primary methods for launching U.S. military
satellites.  The case is United Launch Services LLC v. U.S., 12-00380,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  