-- BofA’s Debt Cuts Leave 3-Year Capital Cushion: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-07-20T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/bofa-s-debt-cuts-leave-3-year-capital-cushion-corporate-finance.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s record $53
billion reduction of long-term debt in the second quarter will
help the lender go three years without needing to tap the  bond
market , the biggest cushion in its history.  Bank of America said this week its long-term debt fell to
$302 billion as improving loan performance led to a $2.46
billion quarterly profit after a record loss a year earlier. The
second-biggest U.S. bank by assets said it probably won’t issue
long-term senior bonds this year and won’t need to tap capital
markets for another 37 months.  The bank has hustled to pare its  balance sheet , cut debt and
get in line for pending regulation that requires higher capital
cushions. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm has repaid
all of its debt from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s
Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, including $24 billion in
the second quarter.  “They’re on the Jenny Craig diet, getting down to fighting
weight, selling off assets that aren’t profitable, being very
rational about their costs,” said  David Hendler , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. with an “outperform” rating on the lender’s
fixed-income securities. “Whereas a year ago, you weren’t sure
they were going to reach capital levels, now it’s pretty much a
layup.”  Defective Mortgages  The lender’s bonds surged this week, with its $2.25 billion
of 5.7 percent notes due in 2022 and issued in January reaching
115.7 cents on the dollar, the highest ever, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The notes ended yesterday at 114.7 cents
to yield 3.84 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, has soothed
investor doubts about whether the firm was on track to comply
with coming capital rules set by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision . He has sold more than $50 billion in assets,
committed more than $40 billion to clean up defective mortgages
and targeted $8 billion in annual cost cuts since taking over in
2010.  The company’s Tier 1 Common ratio, a measure of financial
strength that includes common stock, retained earnings and
perpetual stock, is now 11.2 percent, up from 8.2 percent in the
second quarter last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
elaborate on executives' comments related to debt financing.  ‘Extraordinary’ Improvement  “In terms of balance sheet repair, their results are
extraordinary,” said Allerton Smith, senior director of the
capital markets research group at Moody’s Corp. The firm’s
retail banking operations meant that “their earnings were not
as vulnerable to what at least is a cyclical and what is perhaps
a secular slump in the banking and trading business.”  Moynihan said the firm will rely more heavily on consumer
deposits to fund operations. While it costs the company roughly
$2.5 billion per quarter for its $302 billion in  long-term
corporate debt , interest payments on $1 trillion in deposits
only run $500 million per quarter, he said on a July 18
teleconference to discuss second-quarter earnings with analysts
and investors.  “The Bank of America deposit base is absolutely
fantastic,”  Warren Buffett , whose Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
invested $5 billion in the bank, said in a July 13 interview
with Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu . “Brian has been doing
exactly the right things in terms of correcting problems of the
past, exactly what I would be doing.”  Risk Declines  Bank of America reduced its long-term debt by $53 billion
in the quarter, which translates to about “$25 million per
hour, or more than $400,000 per minute, or $6,815 a second,”
David Havens, a credit-desk strategist at RBS Securities, wrote
in an e-mail July 18.  Credit-default swaps on Bank of America have declined 17
basis points to 250 basis points this month, compared with an
average drop of 11 basis points for the six biggest U.S. banks,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The company’s bonds are the best performing this month
among the 50 largest lenders in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporates, Banks index, with a 3.45 percent gain.  Mortgage Costs  Investors worried last year that mortgage costs and a
slowing U.S. economy would force Bank of America to raise
capital through an equity sale.  Swaps linked to Bank of America surged last year to 483
basis points. With the pressures fading, “it’s somewhat of a
relief trade,” said Marc Beulke, an analyst at Minneapolis-
based Thrivent Financial for Lutherans, which oversees more than
$75 billion in assets including Bank of America bonds. “There
has been more comfort that things maybe aren’t the greatest, but
aren’t getting worse and worse.”  The extra yield investors require to own Bank of America
debt instead of Treasuries has declined 278 basis points to 287
this year through yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Last year was a funky year for Bank of America,” Hendler
of CreditSights said in a telephone interview. “It looks like
Bank of America has for the most part ring-fenced their mortgage
exposure, which was the major credit threat.”  Stock Drops  Moynihan’s moves have aided bondholders more than stock
owners. Bank of America has  dropped  8.3 percent in  New York 
trading since the company reported second-quarter results on
July 18, the worst performance in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average . The Dow Jones index has climbed 1.1 percent over that
span.  Stock investors are concerned by record demands from
mortgage-bond investors that the firm repurchase defective
loans. The requests jumped by more than 40 percent to $22.7
billion, the lender said this week. Bank of America has said
that many of the queries are illegitimate and current reserves
will cover some of them.  “What’s even worse than poor performance is just complete
uncertainty about the direction or the size of possible
losses,” David Nowakowski, credit strategist at Roubini Global
Economics LLC in  London , said in a telephone interview.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is the biggest U.S. bank by assets.  Bank of America is insulated from volatility in the  capital
markets  because it is “hugely dependent” on U.S. consumers,
whose finances have stabilized this year, Beulke said.  The company is paying down debt “like an industrial,” he
said. “They’re using deposits to pay it down. It’s less risky
from a bondholder perspective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 goldstein5@bloomberg.net  