-- Brazil Inflation Unexpectedly Jumps, Ending Downward Trend
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-07-20T16:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/brazil-inflation-unexpectedly-jumps-ending-downward-trend-1-.html
Brazil ’s  inflation  unexpectedly
accelerated this month, reinforcing investors’ bets that the
central bank will soon end a cycle of interest rate cuts that
has taken borrowing costs to a record low.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15  price index  rose
0.33 percent in the month through July 13, exceeding all 42
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey whose median forecast
was for a 0.18 percent increase. The annual inflation rate
accelerated for the first time in 10 months to 5.24 percent, the
national statistics agency said in  Rio de Janeiro  today.  Brazil’s central bank has cut the benchmark Selic rate by
450 basis points since August to a record low 8 percent, saying
slower global growth will have a disinflationary effect on  Latin
America ’s biggest economy. Traders pared bets that the central
bank will cut the key rate to as low as 7.25 percent this year
as today’s report showed inflation remains a concern.  “The downward trend has run its course and you’re now
going to see inflation hovering above 5 percent,”  Newton Rosa ,
chief economist at SulAmerica Investimentos, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “This is beginning to limit the
central bank’s ability to keep cutting.”  One More  Rosa said that today’s inflation report supports his
prediction that policy makers led by bank President Alexandre Tombini will stop reducing rates after one more half-point cut
at its next meeting in August.  The  International Monetary Fund  said Brazil’s central bank
should be prepared to raise rates by year-end as the effects of
monetary easing begin to take hold. The extension of current
monetary policy through 2013 would keep inflation “well above
the target mid-point,” the IMF said its annual review of
Brazil’s economy released today. The bank targets inflation of
4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo , rose 11 basis points to 7.79 percent
at 1:52 p.m. local time. The real fell 0.6 percent to 2.0251 per
 U.S. dollar .  Lower Estimates  Brazil’s economy is recovering more slowly than expected
from a contraction in last year’s third quarter. Gross domestic
product  expanded  at a 0.8 percent annualized rate in the first
quarter, and economists in the latest central bank survey
lowered their 2012 growth estimate for the 10th straight week,
to 1.9 percent.  The bank, in the minutes to its July 10-11 meeting released
yesterday, signaled it will further reduce borrowing costs while
predicting that economic activity will accelerate in the second
half of the year. Inflation is on a declining trend and is
converging toward the bank’s 4.5 percent target, the bank said.  Analysts in the central bank survey forecast consumer price
increases of 4.87 percent in 2012 and 5.5 percent next year.  So far, a series of stimulus measures, including tax cuts
on industrial and consumer goods, increased loans from the state
development bank BNDES, and lower borrowing costs have failed to
spur the economy.  Industrial output dropped for a third straight month in
May, while retail sales showed the steepest fall in more than
three years and  consumer confidence  fell in June to its lowest
level since September. Some companies, such as carmakers Volvo
and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, have ordered layoffs and
furloughs to cope with lower demand.  The jump in inflation was largely due to increased food
prices associated with droughts in Brazil and abroad, and will
not prevent the central bank from further cutting borrowing
costs, according to  Tony Volpon , head of emerging-markets
research for the Americas at Nomura Securities.  Supply Shock?  Adverse weather conditions hurt crops, pushing up food
prices 0.88 percent in the month, led by a 29 percent increase
in tomato prices. Personal expenses rose 0.92 percent, while
transport costs fell for a second straight month as a result of
government tax breaks to stimulate the purchase of new vehicles.  “The central bank would see this as a supply shock, which
is what weather is,” Volpon said by phone from  New York . “It
will not change their game plan, but I do think you’re going to
see inflation, which was kind of converging to target, begin to
rise again.”  Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on July 4 that
Brazil’s GDP will grow 3.5 to 4 percent in the six-month period.  The IGP-M index, which is 60 percent weighted in wholesale
prices, rose 1.11 percent between June 21 and July 10, the
Getulio Vargas Foundation said yesterday. That was more than the
forecast of all 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, whose
median estimate was for a 1 percent rise.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  