-- Brazil’s Robusta Coffee Premium Rises as Local Roasters Purchase
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-20T09:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/brazil-s-robusta-coffee-premium-rises-as-local-roasters-purchase.html
Buyers of robusta coffee from
 Brazil , the world’s second-biggest producer of the variety, are
paying a bigger premium for their beans as local roasters and
soluble industry make purchases, according to Flavour Coffee.  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known, are at a
premium of 10 cents a pound ($220 a metric ton) to the NYSE
Liffe exchange in London for August shipment, the Rio de
Janeiro-based broker said in a report e-mailed yesterday. That
compares with 7 cents a pound a week earlier, data from the
broker show. Robusta beans are used in instant coffee and
espresso and are harvested mainly in  Asia  and parts of  Africa .  “Differentials remain at high premiums over Liffe, even
considering the new Liffe level this week,” Flavour Coffee said
in the report. Differentials refer to a discount or premium paid
to obtain physical coffee in relation to the futures price.  “New buying” from roasters and the instant coffee
industry, associated with short-covering and higher prices in
 London  have “given additional fuel” to the market, the broker
said. Short-covering denotes purchases to close out bets on
lower prices.  Robusta coffee prices have climbed 6.7 percent in London so
far this week as supplies from top-producer  Vietnam  remain
limited as the harvest there approaches an end. Beans from
third-ranking Indonesia were trading at a premium to the
exchange price last week, according to Volcafe, the coffee unit
of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.  Arabica Discount  Buyers of arabica coffee from Brazil continued to get the
same discount as last week even as the price on the ICE Futures
U.S. exchange in  New York  climbed 1.1 percent, the broker said.  Fine cup coffee for shipment in September to December is
getting a discount of 12 cents a pound to the ICE price,
according to the report. Good cup quality beans for August and
September are trading at a discount of 20 cents a pound. Fine
cups are usually more expensive because of their taste profile.  The “market is going up and so far the differentials are
pretty much the same as last week,” Thiago Cazarini, a broker
at Varginha, Brazil-based Cazarini Trading Co., said in a report
e-mailed yesterday. “On the external market, demand increased
for quick, prompt shipments, but also the availability of coffee
for these inquiries is far below the demand.”  Rains last month delayed the crop and are threatening to
reduce the quality of beans. Harvesting in  Sao Paulo  and  Minas
Gerais , Brazil’s biggest arabica-producing states, has reached
only 10 percent to 20 percent of the total area, according to a
July 17 report from Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo research
group.  “New crop cup quality profile is definitely inferior to
previous years,” Flavour Coffee said.  Dry weather is forecast through to July 23 in most coffee
areas, Sao Paulo-based weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia
said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  The “weather is definitely colder and the rains that
happened Monday and Tuesday are gone,” Cazarini said. “I hope
they don’t come back anytime soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 