-- Canada Growth Risks Lagging U.S. as Exports Cool: Economy
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-07-20T20:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/canada-growth-risks-lagging-u-s-as-exports-cool-economy.html
Canada’s economic growth is at risk
of falling behind the U.S. next year for the first time since
2006 as exports slow and spending by companies and consumers
cools.  A lower-than-forecast increase in  consumer prices  reported
today by  Statistics Canada  adds to evidence of a slowdown. Data
this month showed the trade deficit widened in May and factory
sales fell.  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  this week
lowered his growth projection for the world’s 10th largest
economy this year to 2.1 percent from 2.4 percent.  Carney reiterated that it “may become appropriate” to
raise the benchmark  lending rate  for the first time since
September 2010, even as a slowing global economy prompts central
banks from China to the U.S. to ease policy. Investors are
skeptical of Carney’s outlook: trading based on overnight index
swaps shows no chance of an increase through the end of the
year. The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg is
for the first increase to come in the second quarter of 2013.  While today’s report probably doesn’t fundamentally change
the central bank’s outlook, it “does allow them to stay on hold
for longer given that inflation has been surprising on the low
side,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist at Bank of
Montreal, by telephone.  The  consumer price index  climbed 1.5 percent in June from a
year earlier, compared with a 1.2 percent gain the prior month,
Statistics Canada said today. The core rate, which excludes
eight volatile products, increased 2.0 percent after a gain of
1.8 percent in May. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a
1.7 percent gain for CPI and 2.3 percent increase for the core
figure.  Slowing Growth  Bonds rose, with the yield on the benchmark 2-year falling
2 basis points to 0.95 percent at 4:27 p.m. in Toronto.  The  International Monetary Fund  this month  projected  that
Canada’s economy will expand 2.2 percent in 2013, less than
growth of 2.3 percent in the U.S. Canada is forecast to grow 2.1
percent this year, compared with 2 percent in the U.S., which
buys more than 70 percent of its exports.  “The very material risk is that Canada faces a prolonged
period of softer growth than the Bank of Canada is
anticipating,”  Derek Holt  and Dov Zigler, economists with the
capital-markets unit of Bank of  Nova Scotia , said in a research
note this week. Holt and Ziegler say Carney may not move until
the second half of next year “at the earliest” and possibly
not even until 2015.  U.K. Budget  Elsewhere today, data showed Britain had a bigger  budget
deficit  than economists forecast in June, casting fresh doubt on
whether Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  can meet his
full-year fiscal goals.  The shortfall, which excludes government support for banks,
was 14.4 billion pounds ($23 billion) compared with 13.9 billion
pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said
in London today. The median forecast of 20 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a deficit of 13.4 billion pounds.  Canada’s slowdown may dim the nation’s allure for investors
seeking havens from Europe’s debt crisis. Foreigners purchased  a
record  net C$26.1 billion ($25.8 billion) of Canada’s bonds,
stocks and money-market paper in May.  Canadian  government bonds  have underperformed their U.S.
counterparts, returning 2.32 percent this year through July 19,
compared with 2.56 percent for Treasuries. Canada’s benchmark
stock index, the S&P/TSX Composite Index, has lost 2.8 percent
so far in 2012, compared with an 8.4 percent rise in the U.S.
S&P 500 index.  Trade Deficit  The nation’s merchandise trade deficit widened to the most
in almost a year in May as energy exports fell while imports
rose to a record, a July report showed. Businesses and consumers
are unlikely to fill the gap as exports slow, said  David Watt ,
chief economist at HSBC Bank Canada in Toronto.  “It’s just more difficult to see consumers and business
investment carrying that burden of growth,” Watt said. “We
know that net exports and  government spending  are not going to
be carrying that burden.”  The Bank of Canada’s quarterly  survey  of executives showed
that, on balance, companies intend to boost spending on
machinery and equipment. The balance of opinion was 24
percentage points in the second quarter, unchanged from the
prior survey and down from 30 percentage points a year earlier.  Oil Prices  The central bank also reiterated “the persistent strength
of the Canadian dollar” will restrain exports, which account
for roughly one-third of gross domestic product. The currency
declined 0.4 percent to 1.0118 per  U.S. dollar .  “The net impact of lower  oil prices  on Canada is
negative,” Carney told reporters at a news conference in Ottawa
July 18. “It impacts investments, it impacts government
revenues, it impacts incomes.”  Among companies scaling back investment plans is BCE Inc.,
Canada’s largest phone company. The company cut  capital spending 
by 19 percent in the first quarter to C$817 million from the
previous quarter, while auto-parts supplier Magna International
Inc. cut spending by 53 percent to C$250 million.  Consumers, saddled with debts, have also shown signs of
fatigue as job growth slows.  Retail sales have fallen in two of the past three months
and were lower in April -- the last month data is available --
than at the end of 2011.  Debt Ratio  Canadians’ ratio of debt-to-income reached a record 154.3
percent in the first quarter as the U.S. ratio declined to 141.2
percent. Employment growth totaled 15,000 in May and June,
slowing from 140,500 in March and April, the fastest back-to-
back monthly increase in more than 30 years.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  introduced changes on June 21
that will make it harder for some buyers to qualify for
mortgages, undercutting another area of economic strength. The
same day as Flaherty issued the new rules, the country’s banking
regulator, the Office of the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions, released tougher standards for mortgage lending.  Residential construction was the fastest expanding segment
of the economy in the first quarter, according to Statistics
Canada data, and was responsible for almost half of Canada’s 1.9
percent annualized growth rate.  Canadian existing home sales fell 1.3 percent in June from
the previous month, the second straight monthly decline, the
 Canadian Real Estate Association  said this week.  Housing Slump  A slump in the country’s housing market driven by
overbuilding by developers of condominiums will probably cause
growth to be slower than the central bank expects in the second
half of this year, said  Jonathan Basile , a Credit Suisse
economist based in New York.  “We’re going to start to see some drag coming from
housing,” Basile said by phone from Toronto. “Once housing
starts to turn, it won’t necessarily turn in a gradual or
orderly fashion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  