-- Canada June Consumer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-07-20T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/canada-june-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s  consumer price index  report for June released
by  Statistics Canada .  Consumer prices rose 1.5% in the 12 months to June,
following a 1.2% gain in May. The increase in the Consumer  Price
Index  (CPI) was led by higher prices for the purchase of
passenger vehicles and, to a lesser extent, for electricity.  Prices for the purchase of passenger vehicles increased
3.9% year over year in June, after rising 1.7% the previous
month. The June increase was the result of less discounting by
manufacturers compared with June 2011.  The cost of electricity rose 5.9% year over year in June,
mostly as a result of increases in Ontario, Alberta and British
Columbia.  Despite the increase in electricity prices, the energy
index declined 0.8% in the 12 months to June, following a 1.6%
decrease in May. Gasoline prices fell 1.8% after declining 2.3%
in May. Prices for natural gas also declined in the 12 months to
June, although at a slower rate than in the previous month.  Excluding energy, the CPI increased 1.7% in the 12 months
to June. While this matched the year-over-year change recorded
in May, the CPI excluding energy continued to increase at a
faster rate than the All-items CPI.  12-month change in the major components  The 1.5% increase in the June CPI was led by year-over-year
price gains for shelter and transportation. Prices rose at a
faster rate in five of the eight major components in June
compared with May.  Shelter costs advanced 1.3% in the 12 months to June. In
addition to price increases for electricity, homeowners’
replacement cost rose 2.1% and rent went up 1.3%. Conversely,
natural gas prices and mortgage interest cost declined year over
year in June.  Prices for transportation increased 1.7% year over year in
June after rising 0.8% in May. In addition to higher costs for
the purchase of passenger vehicles, drivers paid more in
passenger vehicle insurance premiums. In contrast, prices for
gasoline decreased in the 12 months to June.  The cost of food rose 2.0% between June 2011 and June 2012,
following a 2.5% increase in May. The year-over-year price
change for food purchased from stores slowed to 1.8% in June
from 2.5% in May. This was led by slower price increases for
meat. Prices for food purchased from restaurants continued to
increase.  12-month change in the provinces  Consumer prices rose in every province in the 12 months to
June. Price increases for the purchase of passenger vehicles
were a factor in all provinces.  The Ontario CPI (+1.2%) increased the least of all
provinces in the 12 months to June. Prices for food purchased
from stores rose 1.0%, the smallest year-over-year gain among
the provinces. This was largely the result of slower price
increases for meat. At the same time, Ontario consumers paid
5.0% less for gasoline, the largest year-over-year decline
recorded in all provinces.  Prices in  Alberta  rose 1.3% in the 12 months to June,
following a 0.4% increase in the previous month. This faster
rate of growth was led by gasoline prices, which advanced 0.5%
year over year in June, after declining 6.6% in May. Smaller
price declines for natural gas were also a factor.  Seasonally adjusted monthly Consumer Price Index decreases  On a seasonally adjusted monthly basis, the CPI declined
0.2% in June, after decreasing 0.3% the previous month. These
monthly declines have brought the seasonally adjusted index to a
level just below what it was in January.  The seasonally adjusted index for transportation fell 1.2%
in June, following a 1.8% decline in May. The food index
declined 0.2% after rising 0.4% the previous month.  The index for alcoholic beverages and tobacco products also
decreased in June, while the clothing and footwear index was
unchanged. The indexes for all other major components increased
on a seasonally adjusted basis in June.  Bank of Canada’s core index  The Bank of  Canada ’s core index
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/62-001-x/2012006/technote -
notetech2-eng.htm) rose 2.0% in the 12 months to June, following
a 1.8% gain in May. Price increases for the purchase of
passenger vehicles and electricity were main contributors to the
year-over-year increase in the core index.  On a monthly basis, the seasonally adjusted core index rose
0.1% in June, after declining 0.1% in May.  Note to readers  The special aggregate “Energy” includes: electricity;
natural gas; fuel oil and other fuels; gasoline; and fuel, parts
and supplies for recreational vehicles.  The Bank of Canada’s core index excludes eight of the
Consumer Price Index’s most volatile components (fruit, fruit
preparations and nuts; vegetables and vegetable preparations;
mortgage interest cost; natural gas;  fuel oil  and other fuels;
gasoline; inter-city transportation; and tobacco products and
smokers’ supplies) as well as the effects of changes in indirect
taxes on the remaining components.  A seasonally adjusted series is one from which seasonal
movements have been eliminated. Users employing Consumer Price
Index data for indexation purposes are advised to use the
unadjusted indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  