-- Canada’s Inflation Was Slower Than Forecast in June
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-07-20T14:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/canada-s-inflation-rises-less-than-forecast-in-june.html
Canadian  consumer prices  rose less
than forecast in June as fuel costs extended their decline,
reinforcing forecasts the nation’s central bank won’t raise its
policy rate until at least next year.  The  consumer price index  climbed 1.5 percent in June from a
year earlier, compared with a 1.2 percent gain the prior month,
Statistics Canada said today from Ottawa. The core rate, which
excludes eight volatile products, increased 2.0 percent after a
gain of 1.8 percent in May. Economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
projected a 1.7 percent gain for CPI and 2.3 percent increase
for the core figure.  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  kept his policy
interest rate at 1 percent this week and said inflation will
“remain noticeably below” his 2 percent target over the next
year, even as he said higher policy  interest rates  may be needed
as the world’s 10th biggest economy approaches its capacity.  While today’s report probably doesn’t fundamentally change
the central bank’s outlook, it “does allow them to stay on hold
for longer given that inflation has been surprising on the low
side,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist at  Bank of
Montreal (BMO) , by telephone.  The Canadian dollar weakened after the report, falling 0.5
percent to 1.0128 per  U.S. dollar  at 9:57 a.m. in Toronto. One
Canadian dollar buys 98.74 U.S. cents. Bonds rose, with the
yield on the benchmark 2-year falling 3 basis points to 0.95
percent.  Benign Inflation  The benign pace of inflation gives the Bank of Canada room
to keep interest rates on hold while it gauges the strength of
the global economy, said  David Watt , chief economist with HSBC
Canada Bank in Toronto.  “The factors that it can usually control, which are the
domestic things, are suggesting the bank is probably too easy,
but it’s the global factors over which the bank has little
impact that could potentially have a larger impact on the
Canadian economy,” Watt said in a phone interview. He doesn’t
expect Carney to raise the central bank’s key lending rate until
2014.  Natural gas prices declined 13.7 percent in June from a
year earlier, following a 16.6 percent drop in May, Statistics
Canada said. Gasoline costs fell 1.8 percent, the second
straight decline.  Encana Corp. (ECA) , the country’s biggest natural-gas producer,
has seen its  stock fall  almost 30 percent over the last year as
natural gas prices fell. The company’s shares traded at C$20.75,
a decline of 18 cents.  Cheaper Video  Inflation in June was also restrained by a 14.9 percent
drop in video equipment prices, while mortgage interest costs
fell 1.0 percent.  Prices of passenger vehicles rose 3.9 percent in June
compared with a year earlier, while electricity costs increased
5.9 percent.  On a monthly basis, both the total and core price indexes
fell 0.4 percent in June. Economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
predicted consumer prices would fall of 0.2 percent in the month
and the core index would decline 0.1 percent.  Seasonally adjusted consumer prices fell 0.2 percent in
June from May, while the core index rose 0.1 percent.  Statistics
Canada  also revised its estimate of May’s decline in seasonally
adjusted prices to 0.3 percent from 0.2 percent, and revised its
core index estimate to a decline of 0.1 percent from no change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  