-- Canadian Dollar Declines as CPI Rise Trails Forecast
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-20T21:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/canadian-dollar-depreciates-before-consumer-price-report.html
Canada’s dollar fell the most in two
weeks versus its U.S. counterpart as the nation’s annual
inflation rate rose less than forecast in June, dimming the
outlook for higher  interest rates .  The currency declined against half of its major
counterparts as futures on crude oil, the nation’s biggest
export, dropped and stocks weakened. The  consumer price index 
climbed 1.5 percent in June from a year ago,  Statistics Canada 
said today in Ottawa, compared with a forecast for a 1.7 percent
increase in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “Risk sentiment was already weak and this CPI data has put
a damper on the Canadian-dollar bulls,”  Steve Butler , managing
director in Toronto at Scotiabank, said by e-mail. “The market
was leaning on CPI coming in slightly higher than
expectations.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, dropped 0.5
percent to C$1.0125 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It
reached the largest intraday decline since July 6. One Canadian
dollar buys 98.77 U.S. cents.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1 percent while crude
oil futures lost 1.3 percent to $91.44 a barrel in New York.  Technical Levels  After falling below its 200-day moving average, the loonie
failed to break support levels at C$1.0050, according to a note
to clients from analysts at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  in Toronto. If
the dollar continues to strengthen against the loonie, it could
post a bullish reversal. Near-term resistance is at C$1.0200.  “Moving through that seemed like it could be a signal that
more downside in dollar-Canada was in the cards, but some of
these bigger-picture risk issues are really driving the pair at
the moment,”  Greg Moore , a currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion bank in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “The
market started to look ahead and there’s a lack of clarity on
where the steps are from here.”  Canada’s dollar recorded a second-straight weekly increase
after crude oil rose yesterday to the highest since May. It’s up
2.4 percent this year, according to Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes, which track 10 major currencies, on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will embark on another round of
quantitative easing to spur growth.  Appeal Levels  “In an environment where people are betting on QE and the
Canadian dollar isn’t too expensive, the appeal of the Canadian
dollar as a safe haven or a bet on QE is going to rise,”
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Government bonds  rose. Canada’s 10-year yield dropped four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.61 percent, after
decreasing on July 16 to 1.598 percent, the lowest yield since
1950, according to Bank of Canada and Bloomberg data. The 2.75
percent security maturing in June 2022 increased 42 cents at
C$110.35.  The core inflation rate, which excludes eight volatile
products, increased 2 percent after a May gain of 1.8 percent.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the June core rate
would increase 2.3 percent.  On a monthly basis, both the total and core price indexes
fell 0.4 percent in June. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted consumer prices would fall of 0.2 percent in the month
and the core index would decline 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  