-- Capital & Regional’s $193 Million German Portfolio Loan Defaults
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-07-20T07:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/capital-regional-s-193-million-german-portfolio-loan-defaults.html
A  Capital & Regional Plc (CAL)  joint
venture defaulted on a 158 million-euro ($193 million) loan
after it failed to meet a loan-to-value test that would have
allowed the company to extend the payment deadline.  The loan to the German portfolio 4 venture forms part of
the Talisman-6 Finance Plc commercial mortgage-backed security,
Capital & Regional said in a statement today. The London-based
retail-property investor said 18 million euros of the loan is
junior debt owned by the company and its venture partner.  Writing off the assets in the “worst case” scenario would
lead to a 3.5 pence per share reduction in Capital & Regional’s
net asset value, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a note to
investors today.  All of the loans in the Talisman CMBS “are over-leveraged
and are unlikely to refinance without a large equity
injection,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a June 27 note downgrading
the bonds. “The bulk of the pay down will have to come through
asset sales which, given limited investor demand, will be
problematic.”  Capital and Regional plans to put the German loan into
special servicing, according to the statement, and the default
will not have a material effect on the company’s first-half
results. The 22 properties backing the loan have a vacancy rate
of 7 percent, according to a note sent to investors by servicer
Hatfield Philips International Ltd. on May 8. The buildings are
leased mainly to retailers, according to the origination
documents.  Capital & Regional declined 1 penny, or 3.8 percent, to
26.5 pence in  London  trading. The company has a market value of
89 million pounds ($140 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 