-- Carlyle’s Metaldyne Said to Draw Apollo, Linamar Bids
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-07-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/carlyle-s-metaldyne-said-to-draw-apollo-linamar-bids.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
 Linamar Corp. (LNR)  are among bidders in the second round of the
auction for  Carlyle Group ’s Metaldyne, a maker of engine
components, two people familiar with the sale process said.  Linamar, a Guelph, Ontario-based maker of axles and drive
shafts, and Apollo bid about $825 million, or about 5.5 times
last year’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of about $150 million, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the information is private.  Bank of
America Corp.  is handling the sale, the people said.  Carlyle, which raised $671 million in an initial public
offering in May, led a group of investors that acquired
Metaldyne out of bankruptcy for $39.5 million in 2009. The group
also assumed $32 million in obligations and $425 million of the
company’s secured debt, most of which Carlyle held. The company
probably will sell for more than $900 million, one of these
people said. Metaldyne had 2011 revenue of about  $1 billion .  Linamar declined to comment, Andrea Bowman, an assistant to
Chief Executive Officer Linda Hasenfratz, said yesterday.
Spokesmen for Carlyle and Apollo declined to comment. David
Lawson, a spokesman for Metalyne, didn’t immediately answer a
voice message and e-mail seeking comment.  2009 Bankruptcy  Metaldyne, based in Plymouth, Michigan, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in May 2009, citing the global slowdown in
automobile sales and an inability to obtain financing. At the
time Metaldyne was a unit of  Asahi Tec Corp. (5606) , which acquired it
in 2007.  Metaldyne, which has 24 facilities in 13 countries, employs
about 4,000 people making the rods that connect pistons to crank
shafts, as well as pistons, clutch modules and transmission
covers. Its customers include automakers  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Ford (F)  Motor Co. and suppliers  BorgWarner Inc. (BWA) , and
Linamar.  Linamar also makes metal engine parts for light and heavy-
duty vehicles, including cylinder blocks and heads, crankshafts,
pistons and connecting rods. The company, whose customers
include Ford, GM and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , had C$2.86 billion ($2.83
billion) in revenue last year.  Carlyle Group (CG) , based in Washington, rose 1.8 percent to
$23.42 at the close yesterday in New York. Linamar fell less
than 0.1 percent to C$21.99.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  