-- CFPB Says Students Victimized by ‘Subprime-Style’ Lending
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-07-20T19:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/cfpb-says-students-were-victimized-by-subprime-style-lending.html
Students grew indebted and went into
default at the hands of a “subprime-style” private loan market
that contracted amid the 2008 financial crisis, a U.S.
government report issued today concluded.  “Our findings reveal that students were yet another group
of consumers that were hurt by the boom and bust,”  Richard Cordray , director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Too many student loan borrowers
are struggling to pay off private student loans that they did
not understand and cannot afford.”  Education Secretary  Arne Duncan , whose department co-wrote
the study, urged students to make federal loans their “first
option” to pay for college.  “Subprime-style lending went to college and now students
are paying the price,” Duncan said in the statement. “We still
have some work to do to ensure that students who take out
private student loans have the same kinds of protections offered
by federal loans.”  Private loans can have higher interest rates and lack the
same protections as federal loans, including fixed rates,
deferments and income-based repayment programs. They represent
about 15 percent of the $1 trillion educational debt load.  The CFPB was created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to protect
them consumer from abuses related to financial products
including  student loans , mortgages and credit cards. The act
required it and the Education Department to report on the
private loan industry one year after the CFPB officially started
work on July 21, 2011.  Congressional Action  Cordray recommended that Congress require schools to
certify that private loans being offered do not exceed the
borrower’s need and that it reconsider a 2005 law that made it
harder to discharge student debt in bankruptcy. He also called
for better publicly available data on private loans.  In a conference call with reporters, Cordray declined to
specify what the CFPB might do with its authority under the
Dodd-Frank law to regulate private loan terms.  Duncan made similar recommendations in the report. He also
suggested Congress require schools to determine whether students
exhaust their eligibility for federal loans, which often have
lower  interest rates , before resorting to private lenders.  The American Securitization Forum, a New York-based lobby
group for the industry, said it would oppose changes to
bankruptcy law, which could reduce the value of securities
backed by student loans.  Inhibiting Lending  “Such action would eliminate educational opportunities for
a broad swath of borrowers, as lenders would be less willing to
offer loans, thereby curtailing credit availability,” its head,
 Tom Deutsch , said in a statement.  The report found no evidence that the contrary was true.
The 2005 change, which created a high legal standard for
discharging student debt in bankruptcy, didn’t lead to cheaper
or more available loans, the report states.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has highlighted
student lending issues as college-bound Americans grapple with
the rising cost of a higher education. Earlier this year, the
CFPB and the Education Department created a model form for
outlining the costs to attend college, explaining the difference
between loans that have to be repaid and grants that don’t.  Easy Credit  The report outlines a pre-crisis cycle that resembles the
one from which the housing market is still recovering. Pushed by
demand for asset-backed securities, many lenders made profits by
originating and selling private student loans with declining
regard for the borrowers’ creditworthiness.  The market for private loans rose from $5 billion in 2001
to more than $20 billion in 2008 before shrinking to less than
$6 billion in 2011, by which time many investors had pulled out
of the market.  Using data from lenders and other sources, the agencies
found that students now owe $864 billion in federal loans and
about $150 billion to private lenders. Students are in default
on more than $8.1 billion, representing 850,000 distinct loans.  Richard Hunt , head of the Washington-based Consumer Bankers
Association, which represents lenders, said companies see
student loans as a part of the retail business, which is
focusing on building deeper relationships with customers.  Borrower Preference  “Some people would rather deal with their bank than the
federal government,” Hunt said in an interview. “They do all
their other banking there like auto or mortgage, and they can do
student lending too.”  Hunt said the report should also have considered the impact
of federal student loans, which constitute most of the market.
“The report does not provide a complete, clear and objective
analysis of the student lending market,” he said in an e-mail.  Critics of the private lending business don’t dispute the
need for it, since federal loans can’t cover the rising cost of
a higher education. They do emphasize the need for students to
use all of their federal options before getting private loans.  “It’s like taking a subprime mortgage if you qualify for a
prime loan,” Pauline Abernathy, vice president at  The Institute
for College Access and Success , an advocacy group. “There’s no
reason to do it.”  Senate Bill  Senators  Richard Durbin  and  Tom Harkin , Democrats from
 Illinois  and  Iowa , respectively, introduced a bill in March that
would require colleges to counsel students about taking out the
maximum in federal loans before taking out private educational
debt.  About 30 lenders are issuing private loans today. Among the
largest are  SLM Corp. (SLM) , better known as  Sallie Mae ;  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ; and  Discover Financial Services (DFS) , according to the consumer
bankers group.  “Some banks have exited, some have stayed. Very, very few
have entered,” said Hunt. “But the ones that have stayed have
seen a good retention rate and a slight increase in the
portfolio.”  Private loans offer mostly variable rates that can be more
than twice what some people pay in the federal program. The rate
for unsubsidized Stafford loans for undergraduates is 6.8
percent. Several private lenders have introduced fixed-rate
student loans.  In addition to banks, some quasi-state agencies can issue
private loans, including the Iowa Student Loan Liquidity Corp.,
the Rhode Island Student Loan Authority and the South Carolina
Student Loan Corp. Many of those nonprofit agencies offer fixed-
rate loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  