-- China Will Not Relax Property Controls, Xinhua Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-20T07:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/china-will-not-relax-property-controls-xinhua-reports.html
China  won’t relax property controls
and ordered local governments that have relaxed housing policies
to “strictly implement” them to prevent a rebound in prices,
Xinhua  News Agency  reported, citing a government circular.  Real estate curbs are still at a “critical stage,” the
 Ministry of Land and Resources , and the  Ministry of Housing and
Urban-Rural Development  said in an “urgent notice,” the
official news agency said yesterday. “Fluctuations have
appeared recently in the  property market  and land market.
Although they have not changed the overall picture, the
complexities and instabilities have increased in the market.”  China’s property market is showing signs of rebounding even
as Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to keep in place curbs that
include increased down payments and limits on the number of
units owned. Prices in June rose in the most cities tracked by
the government in 11 months, the statistics bureau said July 18,
and home sales have picked up.  “These orders follow what the Premier has said before,”
said Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK
Securities Research. “The market hasn’t gone far enough that
the government would introduce new enforcements. They are now
just emphasizing the existing policies.”  A  gauge  of property stocks traded in  Shanghai  declined 1
percent, to the lowest since April, and was the biggest drop
among the five industry groups on the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
benchmark at the close of trading.  Government Warning  Local governments should set “reasonable” starting prices
for land auctions and adjust their sale plans in advance if the
sites are “highly likely” to generate record prices, Xinhua
reported, citing the notice. The Ministry of Land and Resources
will step up monitoring of the land market, it said.  Residential land in Beijing’s Haidian district sold at
auction on July 10 for a record 2.63 billion  yuan  ($413 million),
or 33,831 yuan per square meter (10.76 square feet). That makes
it the most expensive tract ever sold in the capital, higher
than the previous record set in 2009, when Chinese property was
in the middle of a price bubble that started deflating last year.  Wen said July 7 that citizens are worried prices will rise
again, reiterating a vow that his government will
“unswervingly” continue property controls. At the same time,
the People’s Bank of China, concerned about slowing economic
growth, cut its benchmark  interest rates  on July 5 for the
second time in a month.  Local governments should not relax property curbs without
authorization, while those that have already eased should
immediately correct, the notice said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  