-- China Profits Sinking May Pressure Wen to Reduce Taxes: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-20T04:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/china-profits-sinking-may-pressure-wen-to-reduce-taxes-economy.html
Profit declines for hundreds of
Chinese companies in the first half may increase pressure on the
government to reduce corporate taxes as part of efforts to stem
the economy’s  slowdown .  Net income declined from a year earlier for more than half
of 760 listed companies to report results, worse than in the
first six months of 2009,  Societe Generale  SA said yesterday.
 Credit Agricole  CIB sees tax cuts as a likely policy tool.  The breadth of the declines raises the urgency for Premier
 Wen Jiabao  to move beyond boosting investment and  monetary 
stimulus in dealing with the worst deceleration in the world’s
second-largest economy since the global financial crisis. Wen
this month repeated his call for structural tax changes and the
State Council may be poised to announce measures to support
growth, the  China  Securities Journal reported July 16.  “The stakes are very high -- it’s about the corporate
world’s confidence in the whole economy,” said Yao Wei, China
economist at Societe Generale in Hong Kong. “The positive sign
is that the central government has realized the problem and is
talking more frequently about the issue.”  Tax cuts are among “fundamental changes” that can’t wait
much longer, Yao said.  The government may loosen policies through tax cuts as well
as fiscal measures and reductions in banks’ reserve requirements,
Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist and strategist at Credit
Agricole in Hong Kong, said July 9.  Private Investment  Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  said this month that the government
should implement structural tax reductions and encourage and
guide private investment, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported.  Corporate income tax is 25 percent and the nation also has
a 17 percent value-added tax.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.4 percent
today at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break, the first drop in four
days. The gauge has declined 22 percent over the past year,
compared with a 16 percent fall in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Among companies reporting profit declines,
telecommunications equipment maker  ZTE Corp. (000063)  said first-half net
income may have fallen as much as 80 percent from a year earlier
on reduced investment income, foreign-exchange losses and
delayed contracts.  Air China Ltd. (601111) , the world’s second-biggest carrier by
market value, said profit may have declined more than 50 percent
on weaker demand and higher fuel costs. China Southern Airlines
Co. and China Eastern Airlines Corp. forecast similar slumps.  Sany Forecast  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , China’s biggest maker of
excavators, has lowered its annual unit-sales forecast, Vice
Chairman Xiang Wenbo said in a July 11 interview. A “meaningful
recovery” in demand for earth-moving equipment may not be
visible until the first quarter of next year, Xiang said.  Sany is postponing a $2 billion share sale in  Hong Kong 
after struggling to attract investors, two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  “Many people think our industry will see a substantial
decline, which I think is reasonable,” Xiang said in the
interview, adding that the government’s past stimulus measures
had provided a growth opportunity that was “abnormal” and
“irrrational.”  A government report last month showed industrial companies’
profits fell for a second month in May, dropping 5.3 percent
from a year earlier to 390.9 billion yuan ($61 billion). Revenue
in the first five months rose 11.9 percent to 34.5 trillion yuan.
The statistics bureau releases June data on July 27.  Depressed Prices  “Despite the rapid disinflation of input costs like raw
materials, profit margins continued to shrink as weakened demand
has depressed finished goods prices while some cost components
such as wages have remained sticky,” UBS AG analysts led by
 Wang Tao  said in a report yesterday. They were commenting on
industrial companies’ profits, and said that net income is
likely to rebound in the fourth quarter as growth accelerates on
additional policy support.  Some U.S. companies doing business in China indicated this
month that they’re struggling with the deceleration of economic
expansion.  Dell Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  said July 17
that the computer maker is seeing a slowdown.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ,
owner of the KFC and Pizza Hut restaurant brands, reported
second-quarter profit gains that were short of analysts’
projections as labor and commodity costs increased in China.  Gao Shanwen, chief economist for Essence Securities in
Beijing, said tax cuts are “more symbolic than serious.” More
 government spending  is necessary to help the economy, even as
corporations bear the brunt of the slowdown, said Gao, who
previously worked for the People’s Bank of China and the State
Council’s Development Research Center.  Revenue Growth  Government revenue is rising at a faster clip than economic
expansion, up 12 percent in the first half from a year earlier
to 6.38 trillion  yuan . The official target of 9.5 percent growth
in fiscal revenue for this year compares with a 7.5 percent goal
for GDP.  China has “relatively large” room to boost fiscal
spending to support economic growth and can allow the fiscal
deficit to widen if necessary to a size similar to 2009’s gap,
Zhang Peng, a Beijing-based researcher with the Fiscal Research
Institute at the Ministry of Finance, said in a telephone
interview this week.  Wen Jiabao said in March that the government plans a
deficit of 800 billion yuan this year; the shortfall was 950
billion yuan in 2009, ministry data show.  Right Decisions  Even with the deceleration, China is likely to “continue
to grow very well” and leaders will make the right decisions in
their management of the economy,  David Cote , chief executive
officer of Honeywell International Inc., said on a July 18
conference call, according to a transcript. “You should bet on
them, not against them,” he said.  Elsewhere today in the Asia Pacific region, import prices
in  Australia  rose 2.4 percent in the second quarter from the
prior period, while export prices gained 1 percent, both faster
than forecast. Taiwan may say export orders fell in June from a
year earlier for a fourth straight decline.  In  Europe ,  Germany ’s producer prices may have declined 0.2
percent in June from the previous month, based on the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists. It would be the
second consecutive drop following four increases.  Mexico’s central bank is forecast to leave its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 4.5 percent, where it’s been since
2009. Canada will report a 1.7 percent increase in the  consumer
price index  from a year earlier, according to analysts.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  