-- China Stocks Extend Slump to 5th Week on Property Curbs
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-07-20T07:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/china-s-stock-index-futures-drop-on-property-controls-earnings.html
China’s stocks  fell, sending the
benchmark index to a fifth week of declines, after the
government said it won’t relax property controls and the
nation’s two largest-listed brokerages posted profit declines.  China Vanke Co. dropped to a two-week low, leading
developers lower, after the government said it will seek to keep
a “firm grip” on the real estate market to prevent a rebound
in housing prices. Citic Securities Co. and Haitong Securities
Co. retreated after estimating falling profits in the first half
of this year. Hisense Electric Co., China’s biggest manufacturer
of flat-panel televisions, slumped 5.1 percent after Citic
Securities reduced its earnings forecast.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.7 percent to 2,168.64
at the close, capping a 0.8 percent loss this week. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  fell 1.1 percent to 2,398.46. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, added 2.3 percent in  New York .  “The news on property curbs is adding pressure to
developers and is dragging down the market,” said Tang
Yonggang, an analyst at Hongyuan Securities Co. in Beijing.
“Also, the market has risen for three days and there isn’t
enough liquidity to sustain the gains. There’s no need to be too
optimistic about A-shares.”  The  Shanghai  Composite has fallen 12 percent from this
year’s high recorded on March 2 amid concern an economic
slowdown is deepening. The measure is valued at 9.7 times
estimated profit, compared with the average of 17.5 since
Bloomberg began compiling the  data  in 2006. About 7.9 billion
shares changed hands in the Shanghai Composite yesterday, 3.5
percent lower than the daily average this year. Thirty-day
 volatility  in the gauge was at 15.49, the lowest since June 12.  Property Measures  Property stocks, the best performing industry group in the
Shanghai index this year with an 17 percent gain, tumbled the
most today, retreating 1 percent. China Vanke, the largest
developer, slid 1.5 percent to 9.30  yuan , the lowest close since
July 5. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second-biggest,
decreased 1.8 percent to 11.35 yuan.  Cities that have loosened controls must “set straight”
government policies, the official news service reported, citing
notices from the  Ministry of Land and Resources  and the  Ministry
of Housing and Urban-Rural Development .  China’s two-year effort to curb the  property market 
included raising down-payment and mortgage requirements,
imposing a property tax for the first time in Shanghai and
Beijing, increasing building of low-cost social housing, and
placing home purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.  Brokerages Drop  While Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said he won’t waver from curbs
to keep prices affordable, local governments have started easing
some property policies. The eastern city of Yangzhou in May
introduced home subsidies, Beijing allowed some discounts on
mortgages for first-home buyers and Shanghai raised the tax
threshold on purchases of some homes.  Citic Securities, the largest-listed brokerage, fell 0.9
percent to 12.82 yuan. Its first-half net profit slid 24 percent
to 2.25 billion yuan from a year ago, according to a preliminary
earnings statement to the  Shanghai Stock Exchange . Haitong
Securities dropped 1.3 percent to 9.92 yuan. The brokerage
estimated net income slumped 9.4 percent to 2.03 billion yuan in
the first six months of this year.  Hisense plunged 5.3 percent to 9.03 yuan, the lowest close
since Jan. 16. Citic said price competition and increased panel
costs had hurt the company’s profitability. It cut Hisense’s
earnings per-share estimate for this year by 7.6 percent to 1.22
yuan and for 2013 by 6.3 percent to 1.32 yuan.  Cheap Stocks  Chinese stocks are  cheap  and the economy is poised to
recover, making it a “dangerous” strategy on the part of some
investors to bet on further declines in the equities market,
said Herald Van Der Linde, head of Asia Pacific equity strategy
at HSBC Holdings Plc.  “At this point in time, with low valuation and massive
shorts in the market, it is not rational to bet that  China  will
further fall from here,” he said in an interview from HSBC’s
Singapore office yesterday. “It’s a dangerous strategy, not a
rational one to do.”  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index has plunged 19
percent from this year’s peak on Feb. 29, dragging down
estimated price earnings to 7.7 times, compared with the five-
year average of 14.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The government may reduce reserve-ratio requirements for lenders
four more times this year, Van Der Linde said.  Muddy Waters  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced 2.2 percent yesterday
to a two-week high of $33.71.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) ’s  American
Depositary Receipts  bounced back to $11.20 yesterday, from $9.50
in the previous day. Shares surged as much as 37 percent
yesterday after it said  Muddy Waters  LLC’s allegations in a July
18 report contained errors and was misleading.  The company owned 664 schools and learning centers by the
end of May, and Muddy Waters’s allegation that a large part of
them are franchised outlets is wrong, Beijing-based New Oriental
said in yesterday’s statement. The education service company has
never counted the 21 cooperation facilities it has and their
student enrollments as its own, it said.  In a  report  July 18, Muddy Waters questioned the ownership
of some of New Oriental’s schools and the consolidation of their
financial statements with the parent company. A day earlier, the
Chinese company said the SEC issued an order of investigation to
review the consolidated earnings of its subsidiaries.  Carson Block , founder of Muddy Waters and the short seller
who sparked a 74 percent drop in Sino-Forest Corp. shares before
it filed for  bankruptcy protection , said today his latest
allegations against New Oriental Education will force the
company to disclose more details about its business.  “I think there are a lot more revelations that are going
to come forward,” Block said in an interview with Bloomberg TV
from  San Francisco .  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  