-- China Probes U.S., South Korea Solar-Grade Polysilicon
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-20T12:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/china-probes-u-s-south-korea-solar-grade-polysilicon-1-.html
China  is investigating whether
exporters from the U.S. and  South Korea  sold solar-grade
polysilicon below cost, a practice known as dumping, as part of
a probe following complaints from four domestic companies.  The world’s biggest supplier of solar panels also started a
countervailing duty investigation into the commodity from the
U.S., China’s Ministry of Commerce said in two separate
 statements . The investigation, scheduled to last a year from
today with the possibility of an extension to Jan. 20, 2014,
will cover the 12 months from July 1, 2011.  The actions escalate a trade dispute between the world’s
biggest economies after the U.S. said in May it will impose
duties on Chinese solar cells, which are devices made from
polysilicon and assembled into panels that convert sunlight into
electricity.  “It’s negative” for foreign suppliers such as  MEMC
Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  and Hemlock Semiconductor Corp., which
sell products to China, Keith Li, an analyst at CIMB Securities
HK Ltd., said by phone. “The investigation may have little
impact on prices of polysilicon, which has suffered from a
supply glut and weak demand.”  Poly Prices  The average spot price of  polysilicon  tumbled to a decade
low of $21.92 a kilogram as of July 9, a 56 percent decline from
a year ago, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “This review is part of a broader trade conflict extending
far beyond polysilicon,” said Robert D. Hansen, president and
chief executive officer of Dow Corning Corp., the majority
shareholder of Hemlock. “The issue is serious and could impact
Hemlock Semiconductor’s ability to sell material to China, its
largest market.”  China will examine a tax-exemption program for the
“advanced-energy manufacturing industry” promoted by the U.S.
federal government and 15 state-government sponsored programs in
 Michigan ,  Tennessee ,  Washington  and  Idaho , the ministry’s
statement on the countervailing duty investigation said.  Company Complaints  Companies that filed the complaint include  GCL-Poly Energy
Holdings Ltd. (3800) ,  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) ,  Daqo New Energy Corp. (DQ)  and China
Silicon Corp. They account for more than 50 percent of the raw
material for solar cells in China during the past four years.  “We believe the industry is harmed” by dumping and
subsidies and “hope to return to a fair market competition
environment,” Kevin He, Daqo’s investor relation’s manager,
said by phone.  Two calls to Li Longji, LDK Solar’s spokesman, were
unanswered during regular business hours. A call to China
Silicon’s media relations department wasn’t answered.  Under Pressure  Solar manufactures globally are under pressure from an
oversupply in all parts of the supply chain. At least 14 U.S.
and European solar companies have filed for bankruptcy,
including Solyndra LLC, which was backed by a $535 million U.S.
government loan guarantee.  “The products are unfairly subsidized by the U.S. and
South Korean governments, which allow them to dump into the
Chinese market,” Jessy Fang, a spokeswoman at GCL-Poly said by
e-mail. “There’s enough evidence showing that the dumping
action has already harmed the Chinese solar industry. Even
though any anti-subsidy tariff is imposed by the Chinese
government, it will not have much effect on polysilicon prices
and we see this complaint as a correction for the polysilicon
industry.  The U.S. Commerce Department on May 17 set preliminary
tariffs of as much as 250 percent on imports of Chinese solar
cells, which companies including the U.S. unit of  Germany ’s
 SolarWorld AG (SWV)  said were being sold at a loss in the U.S. In
March, President  Barack Obama ’s administration imposed
preliminary duties of as much as 4.73 percent on the imports to
make up for subsidies they received from China’s government.  Trade War  The Washington-based Coalition for Affordable Solar Energy,
which opposes the U.S. tariffs, called for talks between China
and the U.S. ‘‘to prevent this destructive trade war,”
according to an e-mailed statement. “We urge all countries to
avoid unilateral actions that impede trade and resolve conflicts
in a bilateral or multilateral context.”  China in November began a probe into U.S. state support for
renewable power.  The South Korean government is aware its Chinese
counterpart is conducting a preliminary probe into the sale of
Korean products, an official at the South Korean Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs  and Trade said on July 17.  Market Reaction  The shares of  OCI Co. (010060) , South Korea’s biggest maker of
polysilicon, fell 1 percent to close at 199,000 won in  Seoul .
OCI’s shares, which fell 3.5 percent on July 17 after media
reports said China’s Ministry of Commerce had notified the South
Korean Embassy that it had begun investigations, are trading at
their lowest since early June.  China and Chinese module makers “have more to lose than
domestic polysilicon producers have to gain” from this action,
Charles Yonts, an analyst at CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong, said by e-
mail. Given the quality gap between Western polysilicon makers,
including OCI, and most Chinese producers, customers from China
will still have to procure some products from abroad, CLSA’s
Yonts said.  China this year quadrupled a domestic installation goal for
sun-derived energy projects to 21 gigawatts by 2015 to support
prices and help absorb excess supply of panels.  Hong Kong-based GCL-Poly, the biggest maker of polysilicon,
was down 0.7 percent at HK$1.37 as of 2:39 p.m. in  Hong Kong 
trading.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  