-- China’s Hu Pledges $20 Billion in Loans to African Nations
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-20T02:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/china-s-hu-pledges-20-billion-in-loans-to-african-nations-1-.html
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  pledged
$20 billion in new loans to  Africa  for infrastructure and
manufacturing, promising to expand the relationship between the
continent and its largest trading partner.  China  will also offer 18,000 government scholarships and
send 1,500 medical staff to the continent, Hu said in a speech
yesterday at the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation in Beijing.
He promised China will play a “positive and constructive role
in African affairs.”  Hu’s speech underscored China’s push both to tap Africa’s
natural resources to fuel its economic growth and deliver its
goods to African markets. The country has put itself forward as
an alternative to western partners, offering trade deals and
infrastructure loans without preconditions involving human
rights or governance reform.  “We will continue to stand firm with the African people
and forever be a good friend, good partner and good brother of
the African people,” Hu said. “We should oppose the practices
of the big bullying the small, the strong domineering over the
weak, and the rich oppressing the poor.”  China’s two-way trade with Africa was $166 billion in 2011,
three times the 2006 amount, Hu said, and China became the
continent’s biggest trading partner in 2009. China also paid for
and built the African Union’s $200 million new headquarters in
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia’s capital.  Loan Distribution  Hu didn’t say how the $20 billion in loans, which total
more than Zambia’s annual gross domestic product, will be
parceled out across the continent. The loans will be distributed
over three years, Hu said.  After Hu spoke and leaders from several African nations
extolled the relationship, South African President  Jacob Zuma 
warned that the current trade relationship between the two sides
couldn’t last.  China delivers debt relief, human resources development and
investment, while Africa has supplied raw materials and
technology transfers, Zuma said.  “This trade pattern is unsustainable in the long term,”
Zuma said. “Africa’s past economic experience with Europe
dictates a need to be cautious when entering into partnership
with other economies.”  That comment reflected how, even as African leaders seek
closer ties with China, some people on the continent are
becoming more critical of the relationship and the imbalances in
it, according to Adams Bodomo, the director of the African
Studies Program at the University of  Hong Kong .  Begging Bowls  “I am uncomfortable that China grabs headline news: ‘We
will offer U$20 billion credit-lines and loans to Africa over
three years!’ and yet we hear nothing from the Africa side,”
Bodomo said. “What did the African leaders bring to Beijing?
Empty begging bowls which are now filled with $20 billion? This
is a shame.”  China is willing to work with  South Africa  on balancing
bilateral trade, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said, according to
the official Xinhua News Agency.  Later yesterday, more than 20 Chinese and African
enterprises signed economic cooperation agreements worth $341
million, Xinhua said. The forum in Beijing was attended by
leaders from across Africa, including  Benin ,  Kenya , Ivory Coast
and Equatorial Guinea.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  