-- Citic Gets Research Team for Overseas Growth in CLSA Deal
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-07-23T02:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/citic-says-it-will-buy-credit-agricole-s-clsa-for-1-25-billion.html
Citic Securities Co. (6030) , China’s
largest brokerage by market value, agreed to buy  Credit Agricole 
SA’s CLSA unit for $1.25 billion, joining banks across  Asia 
acquiring the assets of troubled European financial firms.  The Chinese firm completed its purchase of a 19.9 percent
stake in the brokerage for $310.3 million, the companies said in
a statement on July 20. Citic Securities will buy the remaining
80.1 percent for $941.7 million, subject to conditions including
regulatory approval, the companies said.  Buying CLSA would give Citic Securities the overseas
research component lacking in its operations as Chairman Wang Dongming seeks to expand beyond mainland China. His challenge
will be to marry CLSA’s independent-focused culture with that of
the state-backed brokerage, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said.  “In the long term, this transaction, if successfully
executed, could become critical” for Citic Securities to
compete with investment banks at home and abroad, Joseph Leung
and Josh Klaczek of JPMorgan wrote in a note on July 20. “The
downside risk is execution, particularly given cultural
differences.”  Shares of Citic Securities fell 4.8 percent to HK$13.84 at
10:45 a.m. in  Hong Kong , paring their advance since their
October debut to 4.1 percent. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slid
2.5 percent in morning trading.  Europe’s Retreat  Wang entered exclusive talks with Credit Agricole in March
over the French bank’s remaining CLSA stake. Credit Agricole
shares have plunged 28 percent this year as European banks
including HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
sell assets to cope with the region’s debt crisis.  “This is a symbol of European banks’ retreat,” said
Christophe Nijdam, an analyst at AlphaValue in Paris who
recommends buying Credit Agricole shares. “CLSA was considered
a jewel.”  CLSA, founded by journalists Gary Coull and James Walker in
1986, has more than 1,500 employees in 20 locations spanning 13
countries providing equity research, trading, asset management,
and advising on stock sales and mergers, according to its
 website . The Hong Kong-based firm’s research business covers
about 1,000 companies listed in 12 Asia-Pacific markets and
includes its New York-based Calyon Securities unit in the U.S.
where it covers more than 200 stocks, the website shows.  Wood, Mayo  Among CLSA’s analysts are  Christopher Wood , chief equity
strategist and author of the Greed & Fear report, and Mike Mayo,
who covers U.S. lenders and wrote “Exile on  Wall Street : One
Analyst’s Fight to Save the Big Banks From Themselves.”  The firm is known for its annual forums where guests have
included former U.S. President  Bill Clinton , former vice
presidential candidate Sarah Palin and filmmaker  Francis Ford
Coppola . Singers  Sheryl Crow  and  Tom Jones  are among those who
have performed at the event.  It’s “too early to say” if the takeover would affect
CLSA’s independence, said Zhang Ying, a Shanghai-based analyst
at Industrial Securities Co. “I’m guessing they will want to
preserve the independence as this is something unique and
important to CLSA.”  CLSA  was bookrunner on 150 deals raising more than $22
billion from 2005 to 2010, according to its website. It became a
wholly owned subsidiary of Credit Lyonnais SA in 1990. Credit
Lyonnais merged with Credit Agricole in 2003. That year, CLSA
became the second overseas investment bank to open a Chinese
joint venture selling securities on  China ’s stock market.  Independent Management  Credit Agricole’s corporate- and investment-banking unit
owns 65 percent of CLSA, with the broker’s staff owning 35
percent. CLSA will keep the existing independent structure of
its management team, according to the statement.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet is trimming
Credit Agricole’s balance sheet and cutting costs amid higher
capital demands from regulators and a decline in trading and
underwriting commissions. The bank, based near Paris, has
entered exclusive talks to sell its other brokerage, CA
Cheuvreux, to Kepler Capital Markets SA.  Credit Agricole declined 6.4 percent to 3.21 euros in Paris
on July 20, giving  France ’s third-largest bank a market value of
about 8 billion euros ($9.7 billion).  Citic Securities aims to complete the deal on the remaining
80.1 percent CLSA stake by the middle of next year, the
companies said. The firm plans to develop cross-border business
through CITICS International, it said in the statement. Citic
Securities, founded in 1995, is controlled by the state-owned
Citic Group, which is backed by China’s Cabinet.  Asian Buyers  Sumitomo Mitsui  Financial Group Inc.,  Japan ’s second-
biggest bank,  Malaysia ’s CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and KB
Financial Group Inc., owner of  South Korea ’s largest bank, are
among Asian buyers of European financial firms’ assets this year.  In January, Sumitomo Mitsui said it would buy RBS’s
aviation unit for $7.3 billion gaining control of a 206-plane
fleet. Koichi Miyata, president of Sumitomo Mitsui, plans to buy
“several hundred billion yen” of assets being sold by European
lenders, he said in an interview in December.  KB Financial Group Chairman Euh Yoon Dae last week said his
company plans to bid for ING Groep NV’s South Korean life
insurance business. CIMB, Southeast Asia’s top-ranked investment
bank over the past three years, agreed in April to buy most of
Edinburgh-based RBS’s investment banking and cash equities
businesses in the region for $142 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  