-- Colorado Shooting Suspect Avoided Gun Reporting Rule
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-07-21T02:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/colorado-shooting-suspect-avoided-gun-reporting-requirement-1-.html
The suspect in the  Colorado  shooting
bought two pistols, a semiautomatic rifle and a shotgun since
May, avoiding federal reporting requirements and taking
advantage of the state’s failure to pass significant firearms
legislation since the Columbine massacre 13 years ago.  The suspect, James Holmes, 24, didn’t purchase the handguns
from the same store within five days, which would have triggered
a requirement for the seller to notify the U.S. Justice
Department, according to a federal official who asked for
anonymity and wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. Holmes hadn’t
committed any offenses that would have raised an alarm during
required background checks, the official said.  The shooting early yesterday killed 12 inside an Aurora,
Colorado, movie theater. The incident renewed debate over gun
laws, with advocates saying the slayings show the need for
tighter controls. Lawmakers haven’t clamped down on firearms
after earlier shootings gripped public attention, including one
in January 2011 that wounded  Gabrielle Giffords , then a
Democratic U.S. Representative, in Tucson,  Arizona .  “You get this fervor in people when something like this
happens,” said Ron Teck, a former Republican state senator from
 Grand Junction , Colorado. He was a lawmaker when the Columbine
High School killings took place. “I would be really surprised
if anything actually does happen.”  Deadliest Shooting  The deadliest shooting in the U.S. in recent years occurred
on the Virginia Tech campus in 2007, when Seung-Hui Cho took 33
lives, including his own. In the 1999 Columbine attack, two
students shot 12 classmates and a teacher in the suburban Denver
school before killing themselves.  After Columbine, a measure requiring background checks for
purchases at gun shows passed the  U.S. Senate  and stalled in the
 House of Representatives . No major gun-control laws passed
following the Virginia Tech shooting or after Jared Lee Loughner
opened fire last year in a Tucson parking lot, killing six and
wounding Giffords.  In Colorado, state lawmakers refused to pass new gun-
control measures after Columbine. Voters responded by approving
a constitutional amendment that required background checks
before firearms could be purchased at a gun show.  A bill that would have eliminated Colorado’s background
check system, known as InstaCheck, passed the Republican-
controlled Colorado House this year and stalled in the Senate,
led by Democrats. The measure was backed by the  National Rifle
Association , which said the check duplicates federal
requirements.  Guns Recovered  After the attack in Aurora, authorities seized a Glock G22
and a Glock G23, both .40 caliber pistols, one Remington 870
Express Tactical 12-gauge shotgun and one Smith & Wesson M&P
.223 caliber semiautomatic rifle, the federal official said.  Holmes used the shotgun, rifle and one of the Glocks in the
shooting, Aurora Police Chief Daniel Oates told reporters.  Two of the guns were purchased at the Denver store of Bass
Pro Shops, said Larry Whiteley, manager of communications for
the Springfield, Missouri-based company. The store followed
federal requirements and background checks were conducted,
Whiteley said in a statement.  In Colorado, there are no specific rules that would
prohibit those guns from being owned, said  Robert Brown , the
agent in charge of background checks at the state Bureau of
Investigation.  Waiting Period  Colorado doesn’t require gun registration and there is no
specific waiting period to buy a firearm. Instead, purchases are
approved as soon as U.S. authorities clear a list of 10
criteria, such as assuring the buyer isn’t a fugitive or an
illegal alien, and the state conducts its own checks, including
for restraining orders and juvenile arrests.  Residents can carry concealed weapons in Colorado. Sheriffs
approve concealed-carry permits if applicants are at least 21,
haven’t committed perjury and complete a gun-training course,
among other requirements. The state also recognizes concealed-
carry permits from 30 other states.  Colorado residents with a permit can’t carry a firearm in
schools, some government buildings and on private property where
guns are prohibited by the owner, Brown said.  ‘Future Tragedies’  Congress should “prevent future tragedies” and pass
stricter gun control laws in response to the movie theater
shooting, Dan Gross, head of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun
Violence, said in a statement. The Washington-based group
describes itself as the country’s largest pro-gun-control lobby.  The NRA, a membership organization that says it’s widely
recognized as a “major political force” and the country’s
“foremost defender” of Second Amendment rights, declined to
comment on the gun-control debate.  “Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their
families and the community,” NRA public affairs director Andrew Arulanandam, said by e-mail. “NRA will not have any further
comment until all the facts are known.”  The NRA has persuaded state lawmakers to make it easier to
buy and carry guns, said  Adam Winkler , a  University of
California ,  Los Angeles , law professor who wrote about the
subject in his book, “Gunfight: The Battle over the Right to
Bear Arms.”  Winkler pointed to states such as Arizona and  Wyoming  that
don’t require permits to carry guns. Florida lawmakers in 2008
forced business owners to let employees and shoppers bring
firearms on their property and leave the firearms locked in
their cars.  Virginia lawmakers this year repealed a cap on buying more
than one handgun per month.  “Tragic incidents like this don’t move gun-control laws,”
Winkler said in an interview. “No matter how many people die,
gun control reforms go nowhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  