-- Colorado Suspect Is Shy Grad Student From California
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2012-07-21T03:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/colorado-rampage-shooting-suspect-began-buying-weapons-in-may.html
The suspect in the deadliest U.S.
shooting in three years is a 24-year-old honor student who grew
up in  California , was dropping out of graduate school and may
have planned the attack for at least two months, officials said.  James Holmes was arrested in the Denver, Colorado, suburb
of Aurora early yesterday in the parking lot of the theater
showing the new Batman movie, where he fatally shot at least 12
people and wounded 58, police said.  Holmes was withdrawing from the University of Colorado
Denver’s graduate program in neurosciences after enrolling about
a year earlier, according to the school. He is formerly of San
Diego County, where his parents still live in a two-story home
with a Spanish tile roof.  The suspect lived in a three-story brick building about a
block from the medical school on the corner of 17th Avenue and
Peoria Street, a major thoroughfare, in an Aurora neighborhood
that residents said was known for car break-ins and bar brawls.  Ben Leung, 27, lives two floors below the suspect. Though
the two never spoke, Leung said he had a friend who once tried
to say hello to the suspect and received no response.  “He didn’t seem like a guy who stood out,” Leung said in
an interview as he stood near yellow police tape blocking access
to the building.  Nighttime Noise  Leung said he was among building residents, some in
pajamas, whom police evacuated at about 2 a.m. local time. A
couple living below Holmes called police before the evacuation
complaining about loud music from the suspect’s apartment, Leung
said.  Holmes is a shy, intelligent person raised in a family that
belonged to a Presbyterian church and hosted a Christmas party
for residents, according to the  Associated Press , which cited
neighbors and others who knew him. The suspect, who has a
younger sister, played soccer as a teenager and ran cross
country, AP reported. His father manages a  software company  and
his mother is a nurse, the news service said.  Holmes earned a bachelor’s degree with honors in
neuroscience in 2010 from the  University of California ,
Riverside, said Timothy P. White, the school’s chancellor.
Holmes, who attended the school on a merit scholarship, had no
run-ins with campus police, White said.  Top Student  “He obviously, academically, had the capability to do just
about anything he wanted,” White  said  of Holmes in a news
conference yesterday, adding that he was at “the top of the
top” academically.  Police described explosive devices found at Holmes’s
apartment yesterday as “pretty sophisticated.”  Following his graduation from college he returned home and
had trouble finding work, eventually landing a part-time job at
McDonald’s, the  Denver Post   reported . Holmes described himself
as a “quiet and easy-going” student in an apartment rental
application he submitted early last year, according to the
newspaper. A poster of Will Farrell in the movie “Anchorman”
was hanging on the kitchen wall in his current apartment, it
said, citing a neighbor.  Holmes had a workspace in one of the Denver school’s
research towers on its medical campus until mid-June. Thousands
of employees were sent home this afternoon so that police and
police dogs could sweep the buildings. Nothing suspicious was
found, said Jacque Montgomery, a university spokeswoman.  In Solitude  Holmes’s parents have asked for police assistance, said San
Diego Police Chief William Lansdowne, whose force is working
with Aurora authorities.  “The parents have asked us to build a fence, so to speak,
so they have time to react to what has happened,” Lansdowne
said in a television interview. “Right now, they are going
through a difficult time and they need some space to grasp what
their son has done.”  Officials at Westview High School north of  San Diego 
confirmed that Holmes graduated in 2006 as part of the school’s
first graduating class. The suspect’s parents’ home is about
two miles from the school.  San Diego Police Lieutenant Andra Brown said Holmes’s
father left the home early yesterday with unidentified law-
enforcement officials and that the family was cooperating. Brown
asked the public to respect the family’s privacy.  “Our hearts go out to those who were involved in this
tragedy and to the families and friends of those involved,”
read a letter released by the family. “We are still trying to
process this information and we appreciate that people will
respect our privacy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at   edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Callahan in San Diego at  callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  