-- Court Said Wiretap Violated Constitution’s 4th Amendment
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-07-21T18:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/court-said-wiretap-violated-constitution-s-4th-amendment.html
On “at least one occasion” the
federal government violated the Constitution’s ban on
unreasonable searches in using its power to wiretap people in
the U.S. without a warrant, a federal court said.  The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court’s finding was
disclosed without any details in a letter yesterday to
Democratic Senator  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon  from a top aide to
Director of National Intelligence James Clapper. Wyden is a
member of the Senate Intelligence Committee and a critic of the
law permitting warrantless wiretaps.  The letter, also sent to the Senate committee chairman,
Democrat  Dianne Feinstein  of  California , and ranking Republican
 Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia , says Clapper concluded “the public
interest in disclosure outweighs the damage to the national
security that might reasonably be expected from disclosure.”  The July 20 letter provides a rare glimpse into the
government’s use of its wiretapping authority, which was
expanded after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the U.S. and
continued under the Obama administration.  The FISA court considers government requests for electronic
surveillance and physical searches of foreigners in the U.S.
suspected of engaging in espionage or terrorism. It approved all
1,674 federal government applications to conduct electronic
surveillance in 2011, according to an April 30  Justice
Department  report to congressional leaders.  Declassifying Opinions  The Obama administration created a process to consider
declassifying FISA court opinions starting in 2010, after
lawmakers called for greater transparency. On May 8, the Justice
Department said in response to a public records request that no
court rulings had been cleared for release.  Members of Congress are debating a proposed five-year
extension of the warrantless wiretap authority, which Wyden
threatens to block until he and other lawmakers get more
information about whether the government is intercepting and
reviewing communications of “law-abiding Americans.”  The 2008 law would expire at the end of the year if it’s
not extended. The House Judiciary Committee voted 23-11 on June
19 to reauthorize the post-Sept. 11 law. On July 20, by a 10-8
party-line vote, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved a
measure that would extend FISA for three years.  Addressing Concerns  The letter to Wyden from Clapper’s director of legislative
affairs, Kathleen Turner, clears the way for Wyden to argue
publicly that he believes the government’s implementation of the
1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act “has sometimes
violated the spirit of the law.”  A spokesman for Clapper said in a telephone interview that
the  Office of the Director of National Intelligence  has
addressed the concerns raised in secret by the FISA court, a
point the letter stressed to Wyden. Clapper’s office coordinates
the work of 16 U.S. intelligence agencies, including the
National Security Agency, which conducts electronic
surveillance.  “We’ve identified and we’ve admitted that there were some
concerns, but FISC has continued to approve the collection as
consistent with the statute and reasonable under the  Fourth
Amendment ,” said Mike Birmingham, a spokesman for Clapper.  Tom Caiazza, a spokesman for Wyden, said the agency’s
decision allows the senator to speak out about some problems in
implementing the law that he’s been aware of for some time.  “We can start this transparent debate,” Caiazza said.  Wyden is scheduled to speak on the issue at a July 25  forum 
on “The Surveillance Iceberg: The FISA Amendments and Mass
Spying Without Accountability,” at the  Cato Institute , a
Washington policy research organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  