-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as Spanish Yields Climb on Fiscal Woes
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-20T21:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-spain-bank-bailout-terms-finalized.html
A gauge of U.S. company debt risk
rose for the first time in four days after approval of a bank
bailout failed to stop a surge of Spanish bond yields,
escalating concern that  Europe ’s fiscal turmoil is intensifying.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, jumped by
the most in two weeks, climbing 3.3 basis points to a mid-price
of 111.3 basis points at 5:01 p.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts tied to  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Bank of America Corp . climbed the most since May.  A worsening recession in Spain and heightened demands on
government rescue funds are fueling investor concerns that
Europe’s crisis will slow the global economy, constraining
borrowers’ ability to repay debt. Spanish government bond yields
jumped to the highest since the creation of the euro, even after
the currency bloc’s finance chiefs agreed to make emergency
loans available for the nation’s lenders.  “The deal reached for  Spain ’s banks was a
disappointment,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $204 billion
as chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , wrote in an e-mail. “It’s another
case of two steps forward and two steps back.”  Euro-area finance chiefs signed off today on a bailout of
as much as 100 billion euros ($122 billion) for Spanish lenders.
Officials are still debating whether the burden of the loans
will be assumed by the government or the banks.  Emergency Fund  Gross domestic product will decline 0.5 percent in 2013,
compared with a 0.2 percent gain the government called for on
April 27, Spain Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said after the
Cabinet met in  Madrid . Valencia, one of the nation’s most
indebted states, said today it would need to tap an 18 billion-
euro emergency-loan fund created by the government last week.  Spanish five-year  note yields  jumped 47 basis points, or
0.47 percentage point, to 6.88 percent at 12:04 p.m. in New
York, after touching 6.903 percent, the most since the euro
started in 1999. The gap between Spanish and German 10-year bond
yields widened to 613 basis points today, the most since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1993.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of Citigroup
climbed 12.9 basis points to a mid-price of 261.1 basis points
at 4:58 p.m. in  New York , Bloomberg prices show. That’s the
biggest jump since the contracts surged 13.4 basis points on May
11. Bank of America’s credit-default swaps soared 13.3 basis
points, the most since May 30, to a mid-price of 262.7 basis
points.  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  