-- Dickson Becomes Roubini When Regulating Banks
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-07-20T14:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/dickson-becomes-roubini-when-regulating-banks.html
The secret to success for Julie Dickson, the most-powerful woman in Canadian banking and
watchdog for the world’s soundest lenders, is to assume  Nouriel Roubini  is always right.  “It wouldn’t matter if people gave me reassurance,” said
Dickson, who is raising Canadian capital standards faster than
others even as lenders such as  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  are hailed
as industry bedrocks. “Some people are glass half-full types
and some people are glass half-empty. In this role, I’m a glass
half-empty type.”  Dickson has built on a tradition of emphasizing safety over
growth in five years as head of the Ottawa-based Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions. The policy has helped
make world beaters of Canadian lenders.  Canadian banks held four of the top 10 spots in Bloomberg
Markets magazine’s annual ranking of the world’s strongest
banks, released in May. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
placed third, followed by Toronto-Dominion in fourth,  National
Bank of Canada  in fifth and  Royal Bank of Canada  in sixth.  In a 45-minute interview at her Ottawa office last week,
Dickson offered hints to her methods: focus on bearish
forecasters like Roubini, the  New York  University professor who
predicted the U.S. housing bubble before the market peaked in
2006; assume the worst; and avoid complacency.  “In my business, I don’t pay attention to all the people
who are upbeat; we focus more on what could go wrong,” Dickson
said. “What’s the right word for people like Nouriel Roubini?”  Roubini couldn’t be reached for comment on this story.  ‘False Comfort’  This focus means OSFI is bolstering stress tests at
financial institutions, even while warning them not to take
“false comfort” from the results. Dickson also has led a broad
review of the country’s six biggest banks and three biggest life
insurance companies as part of efforts to augment their
governance and risk management.  She recommends banks strengthen the role of chief risk
officer, arrange for third-party reviews of oversight functions
and appoint board members with financial industry experience.  Under Dickson, “expectations regarding governance and risk
management have been and are in the course of being taken to the
next level,” said Koker Christensen, a Toronto-based lawyer at
Fasken Martineau LLP who specializes in financial services.  Day-to-day monitoring of banks and insurers has also
increased, with OSFI burrowing deeper into the books of their
units and subsidiaries. Being in close contact with financial
institutions allows OSFI to remind them they shouldn’t be
“assuming everything will turn out just fine,” Dickson said.  Model Of Success  “Despite what you may wish to see happen, despite how
markets are behaving, despite what may be a majority view,
things don’t always happen that way,” Dickson said in the
interview.  “Julie Dickson truly understands what high-quality,
comprehensive supervision means, as well as its critical
importance to building and sustaining a strong global financial
system,” said  Richard Waugh , chief executive officer of  Bank of
Nova Scotia. (BNS)  “The Canadian banking system has been a model of
success, particularly over the past several years, and effective
principles-based supervision has played a key role.”  It was concern about complacency that led the regulator to
make the nation’s banks meet new capital standards ahead of
global peers. Dickson is requiring Canadian banks to comply with
new  capital requirements  stipulated by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  by 2013, even though regulators have six
more years to implement the new standards. OSFI also has
introduced requirements for “contingent capital” that would
help banks cover future losses and limit the need for taxpayer-
funded bailouts.  Resisted Pressure  The measures have come as banks complain about regulatory
fatigue amid waning profit. In April, the Canadian Bankers
Association said policy makers should “hit the pause button”
to take stock of  rules  put in place since the financial crisis.  Dickson “has resisted pressure to go down the path of more
prescriptive rules like you find in some other jurisdictions,
which I think creates a much better regulatory environment,” TD
CEO Edmund Clark said in an e-mail.  While the average return on equity at  Canada ’s five biggest
banks fell to 16.7 last year from 21.8 in 2007, Dickson’s
approach has served investors well. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Commercial Banks Industry Index, which consists of
Canada’s eight publicly traded banks, has lost 4.3 percent since
the start of July 2007, compared with a 60 percent decline for
the 24-company KBW Bank Index of U.S. lenders.  Dickson remains “very highly regarded” in the industry
because of her balanced approach, Fasken Martineau’s Christensen
said.  First Woman  Earlier this year, she backed away from proposals requiring
 home equity loans  to be paid off over a specific period amid
pressure from lenders, which was part of a broader package
tightening mortgage lending practices.  “OSFI and Julie do a good job of maintaining high
standards while still dealing with the issues that need to be
dealt with in a practical way that takes account of the needs of
industry,” Christensen said.  Dickson, 55, born in Saint John,  New Brunswick  in eastern
Canada, is the first woman to be top banking regulator. None of
Canada’s six largest banks has had a female CEO. The two largest
lenders by assets, Royal Bank and Toronto-Dominion, have female
financial chiefs.  ‘Real Dialogue’  Dickson studied economics at Queen’s University in
Kingston, Ontario, the alma mater of Royal Bank CEO  Gordon Nixon . Before joining OSFI, she worked 15 years at the finance
department as Canada revamped industry regulations and
legislation following the failure of two small banks and
Confederation Life in the 1980s and 1990s. At finance, she
worked with Nicholas Le  Pan , her eventual predecessor at OSFI.  Dickson joined Le Pan at OSFI in 1999. Their time has been
marked by a more hands-on approach after the regulator received
additional powers to intervene quickly with troubled lenders.
That period also featured the introduction of “real dialogue”
with executives and company boards, which has been one of the
system’s strengths, said former Bank of Canada Governor  David Dodge , who was deputy finance minister between 1992 and 1997.  “It’s not what Julie has done since 2007 and 2008, it’s
how things evolved with Nick and her as the leaders,” Dodge
said. “That’s what stood us in good stead when things started
to run into trouble in the spring of 2007. The strength was to
not get into trouble in the first place.”  Dickson’s analytical ability and Canada’s small number of
lenders have helped keep the industry stable, according to
Dodge.  Subprime Mortgages  “We have relatively few banks that occupy a big chunk of
the space,” he said. “If you keep that under control and if
those operate reasonably efficiently you don’t have a system
that goes bananas.”  Dickson replaced Le Pan as OSFI chief on an interim basis
in 2006 and began a seven-year term in July 2007. That was just
as the U.S. subprime mortgage market was beginning to collapse,
profits at Canadian banks were falling and the industry was
struggling to sell commercial paper.  Among Dickson’s first tasks was to defend OSFI from
criticism that lax rules allowed the collapse of Canada’s market
for non-bank administered asset-backed commercial paper.  “Why is it that warnings about risks can be everywhere but
when the risks come to pass, people are really surprised?”
Dickson said in October 2007 in her first  speech  after being
named head of OSFI. “I do not have the answers to these
questions, but it is OSFI’s job to consistently remind the
institutions we regulate to prepare for the bad times.”  OSFI Reputation  The system inherited by Dickson had undergone three decades
of increasingly stringent regulation and tighter oversight that
included the introduction of liquidity leverage ratios in the
1980s, increases in capital provisions in the 1990s and an
industry wide ban on consolidation.  It’s a legacy that has helped bolster OSFI’s reputation.
Dickson said that one of the most important things she
accomplished in the past five years is to found and chair a
group of supervisors within the Financial Stability Board.
There, she has had the chance to bring the Canadian regulatory
style to her global peers -- you don’t always have to be right,
but you always have to be ready.  Asked what she thought about Roubini missing the U.S.  stock
market  rally that has seen the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  more than double
since March 2009, Dickson replied: “You don’t expect
perfection.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  