-- Dinklage of ‘Thrones’ Masters Moliere’s Comedy: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-07-20T09:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/dinklage-of-thrones-masters-moliere-s-comedy-review.html
I dodged motorcycles on the Taconic
State Parkway to catch one of Peter Dinklage’s last performances
in “The Imaginary Invalid” at Bard College.  You should, too.  By turns outrageously funny and unexpectedly moving, the
production startles from the moment you enter the theater. Set
designer Laura Jellinek places the audience on either side of a
wide, raised stage. We feel like spies into the morning room of
a mansion, with high creamy walls at either end, and just a few
pieces of furniture.  Under the main playing area, we can also see down into the
home’s columned entry hall. The split-level view unbalances us
with its peek into some barely discernible but important action
of the play.  Moliere’s last comedy (he died after a performance in the
title role) takes aim at medical frauds and their wealthy dupes.
In this case it’s the hypochondriac Argan, who opens the show
sitting in a recliner going through his doctor’s bills for
various, usually enema-related, procedures.  Argan is tormented by the servant Antoinette, who knows how
to play up to Beline, Argan’s gold-digging new wife. Antoinette
is also tight with Angelique, Argan’s daughter, who wants to
marry the handsome Cleante.  Quack Dynasty  Papa has other plans, which include marrying her off to the
quack son of an even more pretentious quack, thereby ensuring a
lifetime of free attention to his multitude of imagined
ailments.  Erica Schmidt’s free-wheeling, all-male production owes as
much to Italian commedia as to French comedy of manners. Eyes
roll, foreheads meet backhands and everyone hollers a lot. If
you’re expecting Richard Wilbur’s elegant rhyming couple -- the
standard for translations of Moliere’s alexandrines -- you’re in
for a rude surprise.  It all works breezily, in no small part due to superb
casting. Ethan Phillips is almost sympathetic as the idiot gull
Argan. Zachary Booth is gorgeous and subtly malicious as Beline,
and Preston Sadler is hilariously willful as Angelique.  Anyone who’s seen Dinklage in “The Station Agent” or
“ Game of Thrones ” already knows that this is an actor who
refuses to be defined by his modest stature.  His stage presence is even more of a revelation, combining
those intense blue eyes, physical grace and a gift for comedy
that’s all the merrier for the switch-flips between foot-
stomping insolence and brow-furrowing petulance.  Schmidt, his wife, knows exactly how to exploit his
strengths. You have four more chances to get in on the secret.  Through Sunday at Bard College’s Fisher Center for the
 Performing Arts , Anandale-on-Hudson. Information: +1-845-758-
7900;  http://www.fishercenter.bard.edu . Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s  New York weekend,
 Warwick Thompson  on U.K. theater and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 