-- Duke CEO Switch Probe Shows Pain Inside Progress Merger
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n ,   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-07-20T20:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/duke-ceo-switch-probe-shows-pain-inside-progress-merger.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s ousted Chief
Executive Officer  Bill Johnson  offered rare insight into the
strains that can occur in multibillion-dollar takeovers in
testimony at a hearing before North Carolina regulators
yesterday.  “They had buyer’s remorse,” Johnson said of Duke’s $17.8
billion takeover of Progress Energy Inc. “They wanted the
merger, then they didn’t want it, then they couldn’t get out of
it, then they didn’t want to be stuck with me as the person who
dragged them to it.”  Johnson, who had been CEO of Progress, said he was
blindsided when the Duke-led board threw him out only hours
after the merger closed July 2 and replaced him with Duke CEO
 James Rogers , who had been slated to become executive chairman.
Johnson claimed he lost his job because he insisted on
completing the merger after Rogers wanted to back out.  Johnson contradicted the version of events Rogers gave July
10 during testimony to the state’s regulators. Rogers portrayed
Johnson as an autocratic leader who lost the Duke board’s
confidence because of concerns over his management ability at
Progress.  During the six months leading up to closing the deal,
Johnson said he relied solely on Rogers to communicate with the
Duke board. He said his own efforts to meet with the board were
rebuffed.  Emotional Testimony  Johnson became emotional during his testimony when
describing his abrupt exit and inability to thank and say
goodbye to Progress employees. On the day the long-fought deal
closed, Johnson said he had donned a new tie given him by his
wife for the occasion and met with senior management and Rogers.  That afternoon, Rogers told him “‘We have to go to the
4:30 board meeting, we can’t be late for your election,”
Johnson said. “I’m elected CEO, handshakes, pats on the back,
congratulations all around. Two hours later, I’m gone. I had no
idea.”  The  North Carolina  Utilities Commission and Attorney
General Roy Cooper are investigating the Duke board’s surprise
decision because the 2011 merger agreement it approved had
stipulated Johnson would lead the combined company. Cooper, a
Democrat, is investigating whether state laws were broken, while
the commission could rescind its June 29 approval. Florida
regulators have asked Rogers to testify Aug. 13 about how a
crippled reactor figured into the CEO switch.  Growing Distrust  Johnson testified yesterday that distrust between the
companies became so great this year that Progress hired outside
litigation counsel to ensure Duke didn’t back out of the deal.  Duke told Wall Street analysts the company would be better
off without Progress and prepared them for the idea that the
merger might fall through, Johnson said.  Rogers attacked Johnson’s management of its nuclear fleet
and considered whether structural damage at its Florida Crystal
River reactor might constitute a “material adverse event” that
would allow them to cancel the takeover, Johnson said.  Rogers “explored every avenue to get out of the merger,”
Johnson said. “We were having to drag them every step of the
way.”  Other utility mergers have had to overcome internal
tensions, and some have fallen apart as the result of executive
conflicts. FPL Group Inc., now called  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) ,
canceled a $15.8 billion buyout of New Orleans-based  Entergy
Corp. (ETR)  in 2001 after executives disagreed over who would lead the
combined company.  Juicy Details  “In the recent wave of merger activity, we haven’t gotten
an in-depth look at the personalities and negotiations that have
gone on behind the scenes,” said  Travis Miller , a Chicago-based
analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  “This set of hearings is unique in
that it aired a lot of details that investors might not have
otherwise known from standard regulatory filings.”  Duke supported the merger,  Tom Williams , a Duke spokesman
told reporters in Raleigh, North Carolina, yesterday.  “We were contractually obligated to do so and the fact is,
we got the merger done,” Williams said. Rogers’ message to Wall
Street analysts was, “We’re well-positioned either way,”
Williams said.  Duke’s stock has fallen 5.2 percent since the deal closed
July 2.  Standard & Poor’s  placed it on rating watch negative.
Duke rose 0.2 percent to $66.22 at the close in  New York .  State regulators are unlikely to withdraw their approval of
the merger, said Hugh Wynne, a New York-based analyst for
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Duke’s Compliance  “The fact that Duke closed the deal despite their intense
reservations is a reflection of the how tight the merger
agreement was and the desire of Duke’s board to comply with
their obligations under it,” said Wynne, who owns shares of
Duke and rates the company “market perform.”  If the merger approval was rescinded, Duke might be forced
to divest Progress, Christopher Ayers, a partner at Poyner
Spruill LLP that represents companies in front of the
commission, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “That’s the only way I see them splitting,” he said.
“It’s such an unknown, nothing has ever happened that’s
anywhere near this in the utility world.”  Rather than unwind the deal, the commission might impose
additional regulatory conditions on Duke, such as a requirement
to notify the NCUC if the board discusses management changes,
Ayers said.  Fraying Relationship  Johnson testified his personal relationship with Rogers
frayed in December when the Duke CEO gave an interview
suggesting the company paid a lower price for Progress by
promising Johnson the top job.  Tensions flared between the companies over costs associated
with the transaction after the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission issued new demands to resolve its concerns that the
combined company would have too much pricing power, he said.  Johnson said he remained committed to the deal and fought
Duke’s attempts to back out.  “We signed a merger agreement, we came up here and swore
we were going to do it,” he said. “It was in the best
interests of everybody, including the Progress customers,
shareholders and employees.”  Duke directors E. Marie McKee and James Hyler Jr., both
formerly of Progress, testified in support of Johnson yesterday.  Duke’s lead director, Ann Maynard Gray, said today that the
company’s board lost confidence in Johnson after he delayed
access to the company’s nuclear insurer and provided inadequate
information about its damaged Crystal River reactor. Duke
director Michael Browning also testified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  