-- Duke Board Lost Confidence in New CEO on Nuclear Delays
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-07-20T17:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/duke-board-lost-confidence-in-new-ceo-on-nuclear-delays.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s board lost
confidence in  Bill Johnson  as its next chief executive officer
after he missed deadlines and failed to provide adequate
information about a troubled nuclear reactor, the lead director
said.  Johnson, the CEO of Progress Energy Inc. before its
acquisition by Duke, made the board wait nine weeks after it
requested a meeting with the Crystal River nuclear plant’s
insurer, Ann Maynard Gray testified to the North Carolina
Utilities Commission today. That was a “tipping point,” she
said at the hearing in Raleigh.  “For me that was a very, very important part of this and I
think some other directors felt that as well,” Gray said. She
never spoke to Johnson about her concerns on the delay, which
followed “many failed deadlines” for the reactor.  The  North Carolina  Utilities Commission is holding its
third day of hearings on why Duke’s board replaced Johnson hours
after the $17.8 billion merger closed on July 2. Yesterday,
Johnson told commissioners he was blindsided when the board
replaced him with Duke CEO Jim Rogers 18 months after the deal
was announced. He said he was fired because he insisted on
completing the merger when Duke wanted to back out.  Board Meetings  North Carolina’s attorney general is investigating the
change and shareholders of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke
have sued the board.  Duke rose 0.2 percent to $66.27 at 12:51 p.m. in New York.
The shares have fallen 5.1 percent since the deal closed.  Johnson met the Duke board twice, including a November 2010
meeting in which he told the directors he “liked to learn, but
not to be taught,” Gray said. She took that to mean he didn’t
want feedback from the board.  In the six months prior to the merger’s completion, Duke’s
board became concerned that Johnson’s leadership style would not
be a good fit for the combined utilities, Gray said. He was too
“controlling” of information and options for the Crystal River
reactor, she said.  The Florida reactor, shut since 2009, was the subject of
claims with Nuclear Electric Insurance Ltd.  Johnson said yesterday he kept Duke informed on Crystal
River and repeatedly requested meetings with the company’s
board. He said Duke had “buyer’s remorse” about the deal and
was searching for reasons to end it after a federal regulator
demanded more concessions.  ‘Good Idea’  Duke’s board views the acquisition as a “good idea,” Gray
said. Given the size of the deal, “for us to have a CEO in whom
we don’t have confidence because of certain leadership styles
was just not the right choice,” she said.  Progress wanted to “complete the deal at any costs,” said
Gray. Johnson testified yesterday that the company faced job
cuts and spending reductions if it didn’t complete the Duke
transaction.  A Progress report on nuclear operations was “inadequate,”
Gray said, and the company didn’t deliver a mid-May letter from
the insurer raising new issues about Crystal River until May 30,
she said.  Asked in February for a face-to-face meeting alongside
Rogers with the Crystal River reactor insurer, Johnson instead
arranged a conference call in May, Gray said. One day after the
call, the board hired outside counsel to advice it on
potentially replacing Johnson.  The board was “pretty stunned our request was
outstanding” that long, Gray said. “You’d never go radio
silent for nine weeks like that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Raleigh at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 