-- Health-Care Stocks Will Climb on Obamacare, Charles Schwab Says
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-07-20T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/health-care-stocks-will-climb-on-obamacare-charles-schwab-says.html
U.S. health-care companies will rise
more than the benchmark index after the Supreme Court decision
in favour of President  Barack Obama ’s overhaul of the industry,
amid growing uncertainty over the economy, according to  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW)   The firm, which has $1.8 trillion of assets worldwide, is
increasing its bets on stocks driven by regular cash flows and
dividends amid concerns of a global economic slowdown, said
Kully Samra, who manages U.K. clients for Charles Schwab.  The U.S. Supreme Court on June 28 upheld the core of
Obama’s health-care overhaul, saying Congress has the power to
make Americans carry insurance or pay a penalty. The justices
also let stand a plan to expand Medicaid by about 16 million
people, though they limited the power to punish states that
don’t comply.  “We’re turning a bit more defensive now, so sectors such
as health care look more attractive,” Samra said in an
interview yesterday. “The companies have strong fundamentals
and the valuations are pretty decent. There was some uncertainty
earlier over the government bill, but the Supreme Court ruling
has made that clearer.”  Health-care companies were raised to outperform, the
equivalent of buy, from market perform by Brad Sorensen, an
analyst at  Charles Schwab  in a report dated July 12.  Index Performance  An  index of health-care equities  on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index has gained about 3.2 percent since the ruling,
compared with 3.3 percent for the overall benchmark measure, as
of midday  New York  time, July 19.  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the biggest
U.S. hospital chain, has risen 5 percent over the same period,
while  Molina Healthcare Inc. (MOH) , a Medicaid insurer, has surged 24
percent.  “Investors will be able, at least in the near term, to
focus a bit more on the fundamentals of the group,” Sorensen
wrote. “Balance sheets in the health-care sector remain flush
with cash, boosting the possibility of higher dividend payments,
share-enhancing stock buybacks, and mergers and acquisitions.”  Charles Schwab also downgraded its recommendation on
companies in the materials sector to underperform, the
equivalent of sell, from market perform as commodity prices
decline and the dollar strengthens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  