-- Heat Hangs Over U.S. Midwest, Seasonal Weather Moves East
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-20T13:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/heat-hangs-over-u-s-midwest-seasonal-weather-moves-east.html
The U.S. Midwest will probably stay
hot and dry through the end of the month while the East Coast
may be spared another heat wave for the next two weeks.  Temperatures along the East Coast may remain at or slightly
above seasonal norms and energy consumption for cooling will
probably be about normal as well, said  David Salmon , owner of
Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  In the Midwest, temperatures are expected to remain 3 to 8
degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 4.4 Celsius) above normal as rainfall
lags behind normal levels for this time of year from July 25 to
Aug. 3, according to Joel Widenor, co-founder of Commodity
Weather Group LCC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Temperatures may reach 100 degrees in  Chicago  next week,
said MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Drought now affects 78 percent of the U.S. corn crop, the
world’s largest, and prompted the Agriculture Department on July
11 to cut this year’s estimated harvest by 12 percent. Both
soybean and corn fields are in their worst shape since 1988,
sending prices soaring.  While heat hangs on across the Midwest, the seasonal
temperatures expected in the Northeast next week may lower
energy use there. Electricity producers account for about 36
percent of U.S. natural gas consumption, according to Energy
Department data.  New York  will probably have normal energy consumption,
while the six New England states may use 10 percent to 30
percent less than usually expected at this time of year, Salmon
said.  Mid-Atlantic Outlook  Temperatures in the mid-Atlantic region may be slightly
above normal through the same time period, and that could
translate into about 10 percent more energy being used to cool
homes and businesses, according to Salmon.  “The East will see ongoing variability that should keep
persistent heat from setting up,” MDA said.  For July 24, the normal average temperature is 78 in New
York. It’s 74 in Boston; 80 in Washington; 85 in Houston; 74 in
Chicago; 80 in Atlanta; 67 in  Seattle  and 75 in Burbank,
California, according to MDA.  -With assistance from Whitney McFerron in  London  and Phoebe
Sedgman in Melbourne. Editors:  Charlotte  Porter, Richard Stubbe  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  