-- Eaton to Buy Cooper for $11.8 Billion as Power Unit Grows
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-20T20:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/eaton-to-buy-cooper-for-11-8-billion-as-power-unit-grows.html
Eaton Corp. (ETN)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) 
are working on competing projects to develop a $500 home
natural-gas fueling station, enticing car owners to switch to a
fuel that has become cheap because of shale drilling.  Their efforts are part of a U.S. Energy Department push to
reduce the cost of such stations, which can sell for more than
$5,000, and the time it takes to refuel as a way to attract more
people to drive natural-gas-powered vehicles.  Falling prices have spurred interest in natural gas to
power cars and light trucks. Prices have dropped to as low as
$1.90 per million British thermal units on April 19 from $13.69
per million Btu on July 2, 2008, as producers have developed
technology to recover the gas from shale rock. Natural gas
yesterday closed at $3 per million Btu.  An affordable natural-gas station for homes could
“revolutionize” how Americans commute, Dane Boysen, director
of an  Energy Department program  to encourage use of the fuel in
vehicles, said in a statement today from Cleveland-based Eaton.  “My hope is that these advanced technologies will enable
us to use our abundant domestic supply of natural gas for
transportation, diversifying our nation’s fuel and refueling
portfolio for the future,” he said in the statement.  Compressed natural gas sells at retail for the equivalent
of about $2.09 a gallon, according to Chesapeake Energy Corp.
The U.S.  average retail price  for regular gasoline was $3.45 a
gallon as of yesterday, according to AAA.  Eaton said its technology will tap into a home’s existing
natural-gas system. The company is developing the home station
with the  University of Minnesota , funded in part by a $3.4
million Energy Department grant. The company said it will draw
on its experience installing electric-vehicle charging stations
across the U.S.  GE Effort  GE said in a July 18 statement that it’s working with Chart
Industries Inc. and the  University of Missouri  to develop a
fueling station. The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company
received a $1.8 million Energy Department grant, according to
Todd Alhart, a GE spokesman.  The department is also  funding projects  including  storage
tanks  being developed by Ford Motor Co. and United Technologies
Corp. in separate efforts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  