-- Heineken Bids $6 Billion for Asian Brewer to Block Thai
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-07-20T11:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/heineken-offers-s-5-1-billion-to-fraser-neave-for-apb-assets.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
biggest brewer, offered as much as $6 billion for full control
of  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  to prevent one of Thailand’s
richest men from muscling in on a vital emerging-market asset.  Heineken, which owns 42 percent of APB, said today it will
seek to acquire the outstanding shares in the Singapore-based
maker of Tiger beer, mainly a 40 percent stake owned by  Fraser
and Neave Ltd. (FNN)  Fraser & Neave, or F&N, said it’s considering an
offer from the Dutch company, though there’s no certainty that
an agreement will be reached.  Heineken, which has been involved with APB since 1931,
proposed paying as much as S$7.5 billion ($6 billion) to protect
its position after  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , controlled by billionaire
Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi, this week offered to buy a 22 percent
stake in F&N. A company owned by his son-in-law Chotiphat
Bijananda is acquiring about 8.4 percent of APB. Brewing assets
in high-growth  emerging markets  are in short supply following a
decade of consolidation in the industry.  “Heineken’s been spurred into action by what happened this
week,” said  Ian Shackleton , an analyst at Nomura in  London .
“They may succeed with their bid, but our view is that they’re
going to have to pay more than they’ve offered now. What’s very
clear is that the status quo is not a long-term solution.”  Heineken, responding to what it described as a “sudden
development” when  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC)  agreed to sell
the stakes in Fraser & Neave and APB into Thai control, will
fund any bid through existing cash and new debt facilities,
John-Paul Schuirink, a spokesman, said by phone today.  Changing Dynamics  The deal would be the Amsterdam-based company’s largest
after offering $7.4 billion in 2010 for the beer operations of
Coca-Cola bottler Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB, or Femsa.  “In the past, Heineken was quite comfortable in the
partnership with F&N, but the entry of Thai Bev really changed
the dynamics of the relationship,” Goh Han Peng, an analyst at
DMG & Partners Securities in  Singapore , said by phone. “If
Heineken had not responded, over time Thai Bev could have
increased its stake in F&N and really controlled the interest.”  The S$50 a share bid is 19 percent above APB’s closing
price yesterday of S$42 and more than the S$45 that Bijananda’s
company is paying for a stake. The average premium paid in 45
takeovers of beermakers announced in the last two years is 25
percent. The stock, along with F&N, was suspended from trade
today.  Heineken shares  rose 1.1 percent to 43.50 euros at 1:05
p.m. in Amsterdam.  High Price  The purchase would be the latest step in the consolidation
of the industry as brewers buy each other or seek full control
of joint ventures.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest
brewer with an 18 percent share of the market, bid $20.1 billion
for the remaining 50 percent of Grupo Modelo SAB last month,
tightening its hold on the Mexican market.  “We’re going to see less M&A in beer as there’s less to be
done, but prices are going to go up,” Nomura’s Shackleton said.
“It starts to raise a bit of a question about whether you can
add value in these deals.”  The APB deal is expensive for Heineken from a valuation
perspective and the Dutch company may have to raise its bid to
satisfy Thai Bev and  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , the Japanese brewer
which owns about 15 percent of Fraser & Neave, according to Dirk van Vlaanderen, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd.  Emerging Markets  The transaction values APB at about S$13 billion, or about
17 times the S$754 million in earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization the company recorded in the 12
months to the end of March. In nine brewery takeovers worth more
than $1 billion over the past five years, the median multiple
for the same pretax earnings measure has been 13, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Heineken’s offer is “a very full price in our view and may
still need to go higher,” Van Vlaanderen wrote in a note.  Rising incomes in emerging markets make them attractive for
beer, wine and spirits companies, who expect consumption levels
to rise over time to match developed markets, said Thomas Jastrzab, an analyst for Bloomberg Industries in  Hong Kong .  “You have large populations with a higher proportion of
younger consumers combined with an expanding middle class,” he
said by phone. “As incomes rise consumption of alcoholic drinks
will increase and consumers will trade up to premium products.”  Heineken, which accounts for about 8.8 percent of the
global beer market, has the smallest emerging-markets presence
of the world’s big three brewers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About 37 percent of  operating income  came from
western  Europe  last year, the data show.  Better Fit  Besides the Singaporean Tiger brand, APB has rights to brew
Bintang beer in  Indonesia , Anchor in  China , Southeast Asia and
Sri Lanka, and Heineken from China to  New Zealand .  APB would fit better with Heineken’s assets than in
Charoen’s Thai Bev empire, said  Hugh Young , Singapore-based
managing director at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd.  “It’s Heineken’s DNA as a business,” Young said. “Yes,
the Thais brew beer as well, but Heineken has really been the
founding father” of APB. The S$50 a share offer was “quite
high,” he said.  Aberdeen owns 7 percent of OCBC, from which Thai Bev bought
its 22 percent stake in F&N. The  fund manager  also owns less
than 1 percent of F&N and less than 0.1 percent of APB.  Chareon’s holdings of publicly traded assets are worth $6.1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Thai Bev’s
shares rose 7.4 percent to 36.5 Singapore cents at the 5 p.m.
close of trading in the city-state, the highest since May 4.  It’s Heineken’s “right to move,” Vichate Tantiwanich, a
Thai Bev spokesman, said today in a mobile-phone text message,
adding that the Thai company’s purchase of the F&N stake would
“go on.” He said the company will “make the deal friendly,”
declining to give further details.  Kirin isn’t likely to block Heineken’s bid for APB,
according to Mikihiko Yamato, deputy head of research for JI
 Asia  in  Tokyo . Kirin’s stake in Fraser & Neave makes it the
biggest shareholder before Thai Bev’s purchase is completed,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hajime Kawasaki, Kirin’s spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  