-- Emerging Stocks Head for Steepest Weekly Gain This Month
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-20T21:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/emerging-stocks-head-for-steepest-weekly-gain-this-month.html
Emerging-market stocks fell by the
most in a week after Xinhua News Agency reported China won’t
ease restrictions on its property market and as concern deepened
that Europe’s debt crisis will sap global growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 0.5 percent to 936.87
in  New York . Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer,
contributed to the decrease in Brazil’s Bovespa index, which
fell from a two-week high. Oil producer OAO Tatneft pushed
Russia’s Micex Index lower. The Shanghai Composite Index slid
0.7 percent, capping its fifth week of declines.  China won’t relax property control policies and will
instead seek to keep a “firm grip” on the real estate market
to prevent a rebound in housing prices, Xinhua said.  Spain  said
its recession will extend into next year as it cut its growth
forecast, indicating a worsening  European debt crisis  situation.
The yield premium for Spanish benchmark bonds over German bunds
surged to a record.  “The  property market  is an important part of the Chinese
economy and such moves would negatively affect growth,” Echo He, an analyst at Maxim Group in New York, said by phone. “If
Chinese demand is lower, then a lot of commodity-driven  emerging
markets  will be affected.”  MSCI’s index of developing nations, which has gained 2.2
percent this year, trades at a multiple of 10.2 times estimated
earnings, compared with 12.4 for the MSCI World Index of
developed nations, which has advanced 4.1 percent in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 1.5
percent to $38.59. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets  ETF (EEM)  Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, jumped for the first time
in four days by 3.1 percent to 24.65.  Bovespa Drops  The Bovespa Index declined 2.1 percent to 54,194.79, as
Vale dropped 1.8 percent. The Micex gauge fell 1.3 percent. OAO
Tatneft, the oil producer based in the Tatarstan region, dropped
2.6 percent.  The difference in yield between Spain’s 10-year bonds and
Germany’s widened to a record 610 basis points, or 6.1
percentage points, as European foreign ministers gave approval
to a Spanish bank bailout. The Spanish region of Valencia will
tap the government’s regional financing facility, it said on its
website.  Investors withdrew $796 million from emerging market equity
funds in the week through July 18, according to EPFR Global data
cited by Troika Dialog.  Property Stocks  Chinese property stocks slid 1.1 percent in Shanghai, the
most among the five industry groups in the Shanghai Composite
Index.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the largest developer, slipped 1.5
percent, while  Poly Real Estate (600048)  lost 1.8 percent.  A gauge of  emerging-market energy  companies slipped 1
percent, the biggest contribution to the fall of the overall
MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprise (HSCEI)  Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  rose 0.6 percent.  China Telecom Corp. gained 3.6 percent and  China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. (726)  jumped 7.2 percent as a report showed mobile
phones overtook desktop computers as the most popular Internet
portals in China.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries added five basis points to 350,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net 
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  