-- Enbridge Says Northern Gateway to Get Better Pipe, Monitoring
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-07-20T17:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/enbridge-says-northern-gateway-to-get-better-pipe-monitoring.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , which is seeking to
build an oil pipeline across the western third of  Canada , said
it will use thicker steel than previously planned for the line.  Enbridge will boost the thickness along the entire 1,177-
kilometer (730-mile) pipeline and especially at river crossings,
it said in statement today. The company also said it will spend
more monitoring the line. The improvements will cost C$400
million to C$500 million ($397 million to $496 million), adding
9 percent to the projected cost.  Enbridge, owner of Canada’s largest oil-pipeline network,
plans to install dual leak detection systems and permanently
staff remote pumping locations, the company said.  “After years of consultation with stakeholders and after
personally attending many regulatory hearings for Northern
Gateway, it has become clear -- we have to do everything we can
to ensure confidence in the project,” said Executive Vice
President Janet Holder said in the statement.  Enbridge has previously said the pipeline will cost C$5.5
billion. It will cross territory claimed by aboriginal groups
including the Saik’uz First Nation and other members of the
Yinka-Dene Alliance, a group of aboriginal communities in
central British Columbia which opposes the proposed pipeline.  Enbridge is counting on growing demand for the  fossil fuel 
in  Asia . The company has come under fire for its handling of a
2010 spill which poured 20,082 barrels of oil into a river in
 Michigan  and cost more than $800 million to clean up.  Different Than Michigan?  “I can’t see us being any different than Michigan,” said
Jackie Thomas, the elected chief of the Saik’uz Nation, in a
phone interview today. “Enbridge makes a lot of assumptions
about what will happen with a spill -- like the Coast Guard and
other government agencies will clean up. With all the cuts,
that’s not going to happen.”  The pipeline would terminate in the town of Kitimat, on the
Pacific coast of British Columbia. An  oil spill  on the coast
would involve a complicated cleanup, reminiscent of the Exxon
Valdez disaster on the Alaskan coast in 1989, according to the
Pembina Institute, a Canadian environmental research
organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary via   jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  