-- MetLife Affirms Plan for GE Deal, Can’t Specify Date
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-07-20T20:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/metlife-says-fdic-approval-expected-for-bank-asset-sale-to-ge.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  told the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission it expects to win approval
from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. for a deal to sell
banking assets to  General Electric Co. (GE)  and can’t specify when
permission may be granted.  “We do not believe that any events have occurred that
ultimately will interfere with or materially threaten the
consummation of the transaction,” New York-based MetLife said
in a May 21 letter to the SEC that was released today.  MetLife Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian , who is
working to limit U.S. oversight after regulators rejected his
plan to raise the dividend, said in March that the insurer would
probably no longer have bank status by the end of June. He
subsequently declined to reiterate the prediction in a
conference call, prompting the SEC to ask in a May 7 letter if
the deal was threatened.  The insurer said it based its original timetable on a
review of other requests for bank deals. After the process took
longer than expected, the company concluded it is “no longer
appropriate for it to specify the timing for obtaining the
requisite regulatory approvals,” Chief Counsel Matthew Ricciardi said in the May 21 letter.  The SEC said May 30 that it finished its review. Such
correspondence is typically made public less than two months
after the completion of a review.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, said in December
that it agreed to sell about $7.5 billion in deposits to
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE. The FDIC doesn’t comment on
pending applications, according to  David Barr , a spokesman.  “We are working with the regulator and waiting for
approval,” said  Russell Wilkerson , a GE spokesman, in an e-
mail. MetLife’s  Christopher Breslin  said his firm is also
awaiting permission, and declined to comment on the
correspondence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in New York at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  