-- Euro Finance Chiefs Give Final Approval to Spain Bank Rescue
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-07-20T16:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/euro-finance-chiefs-give-final-approval-to-spanish-bank-rescue.html
Euro-area finance ministers gave
final approval to as much as 100 billion euros ($122 billion) of
bank aid for  Spain , putting  Greece  back on the front line of the
bloc’s crisis-fighting agenda.  The decision paves the way for the European Financial
Stability Facility to raise 30 billion euros “which can be used
in case of urgent unexpected financing needs,” according to a
 statement  from the group of 17 ministers. Banks will be able to
receive payments via the Spanish government’s bank-rescue fund
after submitting approved restructuring plans.  “Providing a loan to Spain for the purpose of the
recapitalization of financial institutions is warranted to
safeguard financial stability in the euro area as a whole,” the
ministers said in the statement after a conference call today.  The ministers didn’t decide on other aspects of their quest
to tame the debt crisis now in its third year, such as how
they’ll make sure Greece can make a 3.1 billion-euro bond
payment in August or tackle rising borrowing costs in  Italy .
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of euro
finance chiefs, said earlier this month that the single-currency
bloc would find a technical solution to help Greece in August,
before the next scheduled meeting of ministers in September.  Further Steps  “The goal of today’s conference call was above all
Spain,” Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden told reporters.
“The troika in Greece still has to check several more things,
and until that work is completed, no further steps can be
taken.”  The euro extended a three-week loss, dropping to a two-year
low against the dollar. Spain’s 10-year bonds fell for a seventh
day, driving the yield to as high as 7.27 percent. The extra
yield investors demand to hold the securities instead of German
bunds rose to as much as 610 basis points, the most on record.  Spain agreed to shore up its banking sector and rein in
public spending as a condition of the aid package, which will be
spelled out in a final memorandum of understanding “that will
be signed in coming days,” according to today’s statement.
Spain’s Fund for Orderly Bank Restructuring will receive loans
with an average maturity of up to 12.5 years, with a 15-year
maximum maturity for individual disbursements.  “Spain will be expected to maintain its commitments to
correct its excessive deficit in a sustainable manner by 2014
and to adopt the structural reforms set out,” European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in a
separate  statement . He said the bank aid is for solvent banks
unable to find private financing, so they can restructure and
not require future public assistance.  Bad Bank  An  asset management company , or bad bank, will be created
to buy “problematic assets of aided banks,” the memorandum
said. The bad bank, set to be operational by November, will buy
mainly real-estate development loans and foreclosed assets, as
well as “other assets if and when there are signs of strong
deterioration.”  It will pay “real long-term economic value” for the
assets, according to the document, posted on the Spanish Economy
Ministry website. A Spanish official, who asked not to be named,
said at a briefing in  Madrid  that the mechanism avoids selling
assets at firesale prices and 10 years would be a reasonable 
period to hold the assets. Lenders that use the bad bank may 
end up holding stakes in it, along with the FROB bailout fund, 
another official told the same briefing.  Investors holding tier 1, upper tier 2 and lower tier 2
bonds, which account for lenders’ capital buffers, potentially
could face losses of their principal under the burden sharing
exercises to be conducted by banks receiving public aid, another
economy official said at the same briefing. Senior bondholders
won’t face losses, EU and Spanish officials said.  Burden Sharing  “The involvement of the private sector in burden sharing
would be restricted to shareholders and junior bondhonders,”
Simon O’Connor, a spokesman for Rehn’s office, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “That’s made very clear in
the memorandum.”  Still, the document does open the door to liquidation of
banks, even as the Spanish officials said there were no plans to
do so.  Spain will have to present “an orderly resolution plan”
for banks that aren’t viable, which will protect deposits,
minimize the burden to the taxpayer and involve the transfer of
assets to the bad bank, the document said.  Key Plank  The bank rescue is a key plank in Spain’s efforts to
maintain access to financial markets and rein in debt-crisis
contagion. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  began mapping out
Spain’s economic path through the next 18 months today in the
face of mounting pressure from protesters and investors, who
have pushed bond yields above 7 percent.  “Whether the bailout program for Spain will help to calm
the markets and reduce the funding costs of the sovereign is
unclear,” Antonio Garcia Pascual, Barclays Capital chief
economist for Southern  Europe , said in a note to clients.
“International investors remain on the sidelines, as well as
some of the domestic financial institutions. Key in our view
will be the program execution.”  Spain’s bailout will start through the EFSF, which has 240
billion euros in remaining capacity. The permanent 500 billion-
euro European Stability Mechanism is on hold until a German
court ruling due in September. It won’t be allowed to work
directly with Spanish banks until the euro area establishes a
common bank supervisor with an expanded role for the  European
Central Bank .  The ESM will take over the rescue program once it is up and
running. When the transfer takes place, the loans won’t gain any
kind of seniority status, the euro ministers said in their
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  