-- European Stocks Decline, Trimming Seventh Weekly Gain
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-20T15:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/european-stock-futures-little-changed-heineken-may-move.html
European stocks dropped, paring
their seventh successive weekly advance, as the yield premium
for Spanish benchmark bonds over German bunds surged to a
record, sparking concern the euro-area debt crisis is deepening.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  lost 1.7 percent after posting quarterly
service sales that trailed forecasts.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  tumbled 7.4
percent after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the company’s debt.
 Scania AB (SCVB) , the Swedish truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen AG,
rallied 3.9 percent.  The Stoxx 600 fell 1.4 percent to 258.17 at the close in
London. The gauge still rallied 0.8 percent this week, its
longest winning streak since January 2006, as companies reported
better-than-expected quarterly earnings.  “Caught in a pincer movement between waning domestic
demand for its debt and the rapid withdrawal of foreign
investors since the end of last year, Spain’s ability to access
funding markets is imperiled,” Nicholas Spiro, managing
director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , wrote in an e-
mail. “For the time being, Spain remains the focal point for
investor anxiety. But the greater the pressure on Spanish
spreads, the bigger the concern about  Italy .”  Spanish bonds declined, pushing the extra yield investors
demand to hold the nation’s 10-year securities instead of
similar-maturity German bunds to the most on record. The similar
spread for Italy surged above 5 percentage points for the first
time since Jan. 16. Bunds, which serve as a haven for investors
pulling money out of troubled economies, extended a third weekly
gain.  Spanish Bailout  Euro-area finance ministers gave the final approval for the
bailout of Spanish banks for as much as 100 billion euros ($122
billion). Today’s decision, made on a conference call, paves the
way for a first payment from the region’s temporary rescue fund,
the  European (SXXP)  Financial Stability Facility.  The EFSF can now raise 30 billion euros, including a 10
billion-euro “longer-term prudential cushion.” The money will
held in reserve and available in emergencies, according to a
draft of today’s agreement. Banks will be able to receive
payments once they have submitted approved restructuring plans.  National benchmark indexes dropped in all of the 18 western
European markets today, except in Iceland and  Greece .  Germany ’s
DAX fell 1.9 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 1.1
percent. France’s CAC 40 slid 2.1 percent. Spain’s IBEX 35
slumped 5.8 percent, the most since May 2010, and Italy’s FTSE
MIB declined 4.4 percent.  ‘Additional Stress’  Spain’s plan to offer cash-strapped regional
administrations emergency loans leaves the Treasury with 12
billion euros ($15 billion) of additional funding needs that the
government says won’t affect its borrowing plans.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos yesterday said the
region’s funding mechanism won’t add “additional” stress to
the market, at a time when investors demand more than 7 percent
to lend to the central government for a decade.  Spain  said the recession will extend into next year as the
region of Valencia prepared to seek a rescue from the central
government and European finance ministers approved the bailout
of Spanish banks.  Gross domestic product will fall 0.5 percent in 2013
instead of rising 0.2 percent as the government predicted April
27, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said after the Cabinet met
today in  Madrid . The government will spend 9.1 billion euros
($11 billion) more paying interest than in 2012, he said.  Vodafone, Nokia  Vodafone,  Europe ’s largest mobile-phone company, fell 1.7
percent to 180 pence after saying that its service revenue,
excluding currency swings and the impact of acquisitions, gained
0.6 percent in the three months through June. Analysts had
predicted growth of 0.8 percent, according to the average of
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Nokia dropped 7.4 percent to 1.42 euros after Fitch Ratings
cut the company’s debt, already at junk status at the three
biggest rating companies, two steps to BB- after the Finnish
mobile-phone maker’s second-quarter loss widened.  Italian banks led a gauge of European lenders lower, with
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  dropping 7.2 percent to 2.44 euros and  Banca
Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna Scrl (BPE)  falling 11 percent to 3.15
euros.  Orkla ASA (ORK)  slumped 3.8 percent to 41.80 kroner, the most
since April 20, as the Norwegian industrial and branded goods
company reported second-quarter net income of 285 million kroner
($47 million). That missed the 727 million kroner average
analyst estimate.  Galenica Declines  Galenica AG retreated 5 percent to 591 Swiss francs after
Carla Baenziger, an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, cut the
stock to reduce from hold and reduced her price estimate for the
company’s shares by 3.4 percent to 536 francs.  Shares of European utilities as a group posted the second-
worst performance on the Stoxx 600, dropping 3.1 percent.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-biggest utility, fell 6 percent to
31.87 euros and Electricite de France SA decreased 5.7 percent
to 16.44 euros after UBS AG cut both stocks to sell from
neutral.  Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , the insurance buyout firm founded by  Clive
Cowdery , tumbled 5.4 percent to 215.5 pence, the most since
April 18, after it canceled plans to return 250 million pounds
($392 million) to shareholders, citing economic and regulatory
uncertainty. The decision follows “careful consideration” of
the capital requirements of Friends Life, its life insurance
unit, Resolution said today.  Scania rallied 3.9 percent to 120.10 kronor. The company
said second-quarter orders rose from the first three months of
2012 because of Russian demand, and it predicted a growing need
in Europe to replace vehicles.  Sulzer AG (SUN)  climbed 2.7 percent to 124 francs after the pump
maker reported first-half sales of 1.92 billion Swiss francs,
topping the average 1.89 billion-franc analyst estimate, as new
orders climbed 11 percent. The company also said it sees a high
single-digit percent increase in full-year sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  