-- European Stocks Rise for Seventh Week on Company Earnings
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-07-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/european-stocks-rise-for-seventh-week-on-company-earnings.html
European stocks  climbed for a
seventh straight week, the longest winning streak in more than
six years, as better-than-expected earnings offset concern that
the euro area crisis is deepening.  ASML Holding NV (ASML) , Europe’s biggest semiconductor equipment
maker, Akzo Nobel NV, the world’s largest paintmaker, and  SEB AB (SEBA) 
all advanced this week after posting results that beat analyst
estimates.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.8 percent to 258.17
this week, for the longest stretch of gains since January 2006
even after falling 1.4 percent on Friday. The gauge has
rebounded 10 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as central
banks from Europe to China eased monetary policy to help spur
economic growth.  “Investors have been given the rare opportunity to focus
on companies as the earnings reporting season continued to
filter through,” said Simon Reynolds, a  fund manager  at Octopus
Investments in London. “Upbeat U.S. earnings have helped lift
equity markets.”  Of the 46 companies on the Stoxx 600 that have reported
earnings this quarter, 48 percent beat forecasts, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. On the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
73 percent of the 118 companies that have reported quarterly
earnings have topped analyst estimates, the data show.  National benchmark indexes rose in 11 of the 18 western
 European (SXXP)  markets this week. Germany’s DAX rallied 1.1 percent,
France’s CAC 40 advanced 0.4 percent and Switzerland’s SMI
gained 1.7 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 0.3 percent, while
Spain’s IBEX 35 fell 6.3 percent and Italy’s FTSE MIB retreated
4.7 percent.  Friday Decline  European stocks dropped on Friday, paring their weekly
advance, as the yield premium for Spanish benchmark bonds over
German bunds surged to a record. Spanish bonds declined, pushing
the extra yield investors demand to hold the nation’s 10-year
securities instead of similar-maturity German bunds to the most
on record.  Spain’s recession will extend into next year as the region
of Valencia prepared to seek a rescue from the central
government and European finance ministers approved the bailout
of Spanish banks, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said after
the Cabinet met on Friday in  Madrid . Gross domestic product will
fall 0.5 percent in 2013 instead of rising 0.2 percent as the
government predicted April 27, Montoro said.  ASML surged 9.7 percent after the chipmaker said second-
quarter net bookings climbed 9.8 percent and that technological
advances will boost business in the longer term.  Akzo Nobel (AKZA)  jumped 10 percent. The company reported second-
quarter earnings ahead of analyst forecasts as Chief Executive
Officer Ton Buechner drives ahead with a revamp to improve
profitability.  SEB, Nordea  SEB, the second-largest lender in the Baltic countries, and
Nordea Bank AB, the Nordic region’s biggest bank, also reported
earnings that topped analysts’ estimates. The shares gained 8
percent and 2.1 percent respectively.  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO)  increased 6.1 percent in Paris as
France’s second-biggest distiller reported an increase in first-
quarter sales that also topped projections.  CSR Plc (CSR)  surged 37 percent after Samsung Electronics Co.
agreed to buy its wireless technology unit for $310 million.  Homeserve Plc (HSV)  jumped 17 percent after the emergency-repair
provider said it was on track to reach its full year customer
targets for the U.K. Shares surged on Wednesday after the
 Daily Telegraph  reported the company had been approached by
private-equity buyers. Homeserve said in a statement that it
isn’t in any discussions which could lead to a possible offer.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank,
fell 1.5 percent as concern about the euro-area debt crisis saw
the yield premium for Spanish benchmark bonds over German bunds
surging to a record.  The lender climbed earlier in the week after posting an
increase in second-quarter net income and announcing measures to
cut costs and boost capital by 8.7 billion Swiss francs ($8.9
billion).  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  dropped 4.8 percent as the bank’s head of
group compliance, David Bagley, told a U.S. Senate hearing he
would step down as lawmakers probe whether the bank broke anti-
 money laundering  rules.  Executives at Europe’s biggest lender were questioned by
the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations over
claims that bank affiliates gave terrorists, drug cartels and
criminals a portal into the U.S. financial system by failing to
guard against money laundering.  HSBC is also among banks that are being investigated for
involvement in allegedly manipulating Libor rates.  Nokia Slides  Nokia (NOK1V)  slid 5.8 percent as the unprofitable mobile-phone
maker’s debt, already at junk status at the three biggest rating
companies, was lowered further by two steps at  Fitch Ratings 
after its second-quarter loss widened.  The long-term rating was cut to BB- from BB+ with a
negative outlook, Fitch said in a statement on Friday. Nokia on
Thursday reported an operating loss at its handset division
equivalent to 9.1 percent of revenue adjusted for some items and
forecast similar losses for the current period.  Puma SE dropped 2.1 percent after Europe’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker cut its forecasts for sales and profit
growth in 2012.  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  plunged 23 percent to its lowest level
since March 2009 after posting a second-quarter loss on waning
demand. France’s largest telecommunications equipment supplier
also said it expects to miss a 2012 profitability target.  In the U.K.,  G4S Plc (GFS)  sank 13 percent as the world’s biggest
security company said it may incur a 50 million-pound ($78
million) loss after failing to provide enough guards for the
 Olympic Games .  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  lost 13 percent after Royal Dutch Shell Plc
pulled out of the race for the East Africa-focused explorer,
leaving Thailand’s PTT Exploration & Production Pcl as the sole
bidder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  