-- Euro Bailout Bid Gets Vote of No-Confidence as Markets Dr
-- B y   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 2012-07-20T22:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/european-bailout-bid-gets-vote-of-no-confidence-as-markets-drop.html
European policy makers received
another vote of no-confidence in their efforts to stem economic
turmoil as the euro fell to its lowest in more than two years
following final approval for a bailout of Spanish banks.  The decision by euro finance chiefs failed to offset
trouble elsewhere. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  forecast
a second year of recession and Valencia became the first state
to say it would seek a rescue from the central government.
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  blamed unrest in Spain for
surging borrowing costs, and an ally of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  endorsed the prospect of  Greece  exiting the euro.  “We’re looking at a situation when people are realizing
we’re at a point of debt restructuring and repudiation,”  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd.
in  London , said in an interview yesterday. “It’s cold-hearted
reality. The great blag and bluff of the euro zone has always
managed to kick the can down the road, but it is no longer a
viable strategy. We’re getting to a crunch point.”  The market declines came exactly a year after European
leaders pledged a second bailout for Greece and empowered their
rescue fund to aid banks and extend credit lines to safeguard
 Spain  and  Italy . Those efforts have fallen short, and Greece is
now fighting for more help after the biggest debt restructuring
in history. Spain is meanwhile paying record costs to borrow.  Markets Slide  The euro fell 1 percent to $1.216 at 7:59 p.m. in Brussels
yesterday. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index slid 2.8 percent, led by
 Italian banks . The  risk premium  to lend to Spain instead of
 Germany  rose to the highest on record. In Italy, that spread
climbed to the most since January. Investors who pay to lend to
Germany for two years drove those securities higher.  “It looks like a lack of willingness of traders to hold
positions over weekends,” said Tom Russo, a partner at
Lancaster, Pennsylvania-based Gardner Russo & Gardner, which
oversees $5 billion including U.S.-traded shares of  Nestle SA (NESN) 
and  Heineken NV. (HEIA)  “Because you just never know. You have two
days’ worth of risk and you can’t trade. Why not just de-risk
your portfolio for the weekend?”  Even with euro-area finance ministers signing off on
providing aid of as much as 100 billion euros ($122 billion) to
Spanish banks, the officials continue to squabble over whether
the burden of the emergency loans will be assumed by the Spanish
government or the banks.  Greek Redemption  Next, attention turns to the concerns looming over Greece.
The country owes a 3.1 billion-euro bond payment, mostly to the
 European Central Bank , in August and the so-called troika of
international creditors is due to arrive in Athens next week to
begin quantifying how far off bailout targets Greece is.  While European officials have said the bond redemption
won’t be an issue for cash-strapped Greece, they have declined
to specify how they’ll ensure the payment gets made.  “Over the summer, we’re not going to see much progress and
markets remain nervous,” said  John Stopford , head of fixed
income at Investec Asset Management in London, which oversees
$98 billion. “The crisis is happening. The euro is
disintegrating from the inside with a lack of cross-border
lending.”  Monti, speaking in  Rome , said the surge in his country’s
borrowing costs resulted from anti-austerity demonstrations in
Spain that are adding to investor concerns about European debt.  The difference between the yield on 10-year Italian debt
and similar maturity German bunds rose 22 basis points to 500
basis points yesterday. Italian spreads haven’t ended a trading
day above that level since Jan. 11.  Contagion Concerns  “It’s difficult to say to what extent the contagion comes
or came from Greece, or from  Portugal , or from Ireland, or from
the situation of the Spanish banks, or of the one apparently
emerging from the streets and the squares of  Madrid ,” Monti
told reporters. “Obviously, without the problems in those
countries, Italy’s interest rates would be lower.”  The ongoing crisis will force the ECB to cut its benchmark
0.75 percent interest rate in October and also reduce the rate
it pays on overnight  bank deposits  to below zero, Greg Fuzesi,
an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a report.  The aim would be to reduce funding costs for banks in the
periphery reliant on ECB support, pulling down market borrowing
costs and forcing investors to buy riskier-assets, he said.  In Spain, Rajoy is fending off international investors,
domestic protesters and his own states as the slump in the
fourth-biggest euro economy deepens. The Ibex stock index
tumbled 5.8 percent, the biggest daily drop since May 2010. Ten-
year yields rose to 7.28 percent, driving the gap with German
bonds to a euro-era record of 610 basis points.  Economy Shrinks  Gross domestic product will fall 0.5 percent in 2013
instead of rising 0.2 percent as the government predicted April
27, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said after the Cabinet met
in Madrid. The government will spend 9.1 billion euros more
paying interest than in 2012, he said.  Meantime, Valencia, Spain’s second-most indebted state,
said it would tap an 18 billion-euro emergency fund Rajoy set up
last week for bailing out regions.  “This is a region which we’ve known for some time, which
has been widely known for some time, has been facing
difficulties,” European Union spokesman Simon O’Connor said in
a Bloomberg Television interview. “The financial assistance
comes with very strict conditionality which in many ways mirrors
the system that we’ve put in place for the  euro zone .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  