-- Euro Loan Costs Drop Below Dollar Libor for First Time Since ’08
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-07-20T11:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/euro-loan-costs-drop-below-dollar-libor-for-first-time-since-08.html
The cost of borrowing euros for
three months  fell below  a similar dollar loan measure for the
first time since 2008, following official benchmark  interest
rates  and government bond yields lower.  The euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, for three-
month loans fell to a record 0.451 percent, as the  London 
interbank offered rate, or Libor, for three-month dollar loans
fell to 0.452 percent. It’s the first time since Jan. 3, 2008
that Euribor has been below Libor.  Euribor, which is derived from a daily survey of 43 lenders
for the European Banking Federation, has fallen 19 basis points
since the  European Central Bank  lowered its deposit and
refinancing rates in a bid to spur lending. The benchmark has
fallen for nine consecutive days since the cut while dollar
Libor has been little changed in accordance with the Federal
Reserve target  rate  at 0.25 percent.  “These benchmarks are sensitive to moves in official rates
and the recent decline in Euribor is a result of the ECB’s cut
in its deposit rate,” said  Chris Clark , an interest-rate
strategist at  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest interdealer broker.
“U.S. dollar Libor, meanwhile, has remained stable, reflecting
the Fed’s unchanged target rate.”  Investors are snapping up bonds of the safest sovereigns,
in some cases agreeing to pay to lend to the nations. Germany’s
two-year note yield fell to minus 0.074 percent on July 18 while
Austrian, Swiss and Finnish rates also turned negative this week
for the first time.  Euribor Cross  Euribor last fell below Libor on Dec. 18, 2007 and didn’t
climb above the London-based rate until January 2008.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank, was fined a
record 290 million pounds ($450 million) last month for
attempting to rig Libor and Euribor to manage its reputation
during the financial crisis and boost earnings before it. At
least 12 banks including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are being investigated
for manipulating Libor.  Euribor-EBF Chief Executive Officer Guido Ravoet regrets
the loss of confidence in Euribor following the investigations
of rigging, he said in an interview today from Brussels with
 Maryam Nemazee  on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  Libor is determined by a daily poll carried out on behalf
of the  British Bankers’ Association  that asks banks to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies.  Euribor Futures  Three-month Euribor may continue to slide, according to
futures contracts. The implied rate on the contract expiring in
September was little changed at 0.365 percent at 12 p.m. in
London.  The euro overnight index average, or Eonia, was set at 12
basis points yesterday from 11.9 basis points on July 18. The
measure of overnight unsecured lending in the  interbank market 
declined for four days after the ECB’s deposit rate cut took
effect.  “Euribor is unlikely to fall much further in the coming
weeks, given that Eonia now appears to have found a base
following the recent ECB rate cut,” said Clark, whose firm is
among those regulators are investigating for Libor manipulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  