-- Ex-BofA Executive Indicted for Fraud in Bond Probe
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-07-20T22:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/ex-bofa-executive-indicted-for-fraud-in-municipal-bond-probe-1-.html
A former  Bank of America Corp. 
executive was indicted for allegedly participating in what
prosecutors said was a “far-reaching conspiracy” to defraud
municipal bond investments through bid rigging.  Phillip D. Murphy, former head of Bank of America’s
municipal derivatives desk, was charged with conspiracy to
defraud the U.S.,  wire fraud  and conspiracy to make false
entries in bank records, according to the indictment filed
yesterday in federal court in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  Murphy “allegedly participated in a complex fraud scheme
and conspiracies to manipulate what was supposed to be a
competitive process,” Scott D. Hammond, a deputy assistant
attorney general in the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The division recently convicted
at trial several individuals in this investigation, which is
ongoing.”  So far, 13 individuals from banks including Bank of
America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  have pleaded guilty in
the Justice Department’s investigation. Bank of America,
JPMorgan, UBS,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and General Electric Co. have
paid more than $700 million in restitution and penalties.  Four Years  Bank of America, which self-reported the illegal activity,
has been cooperating for more than four years with  Justice
Department  prosecutors who say that bankers paid kickbacks to
CDR Financial Products to rig bids on investment contracts sold
to local governments. Municipalities bought the contracts with
money raised through bond sales, which allowed them to earn a
return until the funds were needed for schools, roads, and other
public works.  From 1998 until 2006, Murphy allegedly conspired with CDR
Financial Products to increase the number of and profitability
of investment agreements and municipal finance contracts that
went to the bank, according to the indictment. Murphy won
auctions for the investment contracts after other banks
submitted intentionally losing bids, the government said.  The wire fraud charge has a maximum penalty of 30 years in
prison while the conspiracy charges have a maximum penalty of
five years in prison. The court today issued a summons to Murphy
ordering him to make his initial appearance in the case on
Aug. 20.  Susan Necheles, Murphy’s lawyer, said her client would
plead not guilty.  ‘Lack of Evidence’  “The government has been investigating this for, I
believe, seven years,” Necheles said. “I think it’s indicative
of the lack of evidence against him that it took such a long
time for them to bring any charges.”  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Charlotte-based Bank of
America, declined to comment on the charges.  Prosecutors say that favored bankers received inside
information from brokers who handled the bidding so they could
carve up the market. Kickbacks were disguised as fees on
derivative transactions.  In October 2001, CDR arranged for another bank to submit an
intentionally losing bid to ensure the company referred to as
financial institution A won an investment contract for the J.
David Gladstone Institutes, a bio-medical research center in  San
Francisco , according to the indictment.  In exchange, Murphy agreed to pay CDR a $70,000 kickback,
according to the indictment. The payment, made in January 2002,
was disguised on a trade ticket as a fee in connection with a
swap that was unrelated to the Gladstone Institutes deal, the
U.S. said.  ‘Kitty’ Fund  The money was paid out of a fund that Murphy and his co-
conspirators created and referred to as the “kitty,” the
government said.  Prosecutors say the bid-rigging cheated taxpayers from
 California  to  Pennsylvania  because bond money was invested at
below-market rates.  In May, three former General Electric bankers, Dominic Carollo, Steven Goldberg and  Peter Grimm , were found guilty by a
federal jury in  Manhattan  of conspiring to rig bids for
municipal bond investment contracts.  Peter Ghavami, the former co-head of UBS’s municipal
derivatives group, and two other former UBS employees are
scheduled to be tried July 30 on bid-rigging charges.  On June 28, 2002, Douglas Campbell, a former municipal
derivatives salesman at Bank of America, wrote in an e-mail to
Murphy, that he had paid $182,393 to banks and brokers not tied
to any particular deals. Three payments totaling $57,393 went to
CDR, which played no role in any transaction connected to that
amount. A copy of the e-mail was contained in a North Carolina
lawsuit filed by Murphy against Bank of America in 2003.  Guilty Pleas  “The CDR fees have been part of the ongoing attempt to
develop a better relationship with our major brokers,” Campbell
wrote. He pleaded guilty to fraud and conspiracy in September
2010.  Six former employees of CDR, including its founder and
former chief executive officer  David Rubin  have pleaded guilty
in the Justice Department’s investigation. The government said
that CDR received as much as $475,000 in kickbacks for rigging
bids.  The case is U.S. v. Murphy, 12-cr-00235, U.S. District
Court, Western District of North Carolina (Charlotte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 