-- Ex-Donald Broker Sentenced to 1 Year for Stock Scheme
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-07-20T23:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/ex-donald-broker-sentenced-to-1-year-for-stock-scheme.html
A broker for the now-defunct Donald
& Co. Securities Inc. was sentenced in a Central Islip,  New
York , court to a year and a day in prison for his role in a
stock-fraud scheme, according to a spokesman for federal
prosecutors.  Slava Volman had pleaded guilty to charges including
 securities fraud , conspiracy to commit securities fraud and
conspiracy to commit  money laundering , said  Robert Nardoza ,
spokesman for the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New
York, in an e-mailed statement.  Volman, a former principal of Donald & Co.’s Garden City,
New York, branch, was charged along with eight other former
Donald & Co. brokers in an indictment filed in 2004. He
cooperated with the government on the investigation, according
to court documents.  Prosecutors alleged the brokers profited by selling “house
stocks” in which they had a secret stake, including telephone
service firm Elec Communications Corp. and Italian cheese
importer Classica Group, both of which became bankrupt.  The brokers kept the stock price artificially high by
making unauthorized trades in customers’ accounts and
disregarding sell orders, prosecutors alleged.  “None of these manipulative and deceptive acts and
practices and unlawful sales techniques” were disclosed to
customers because that “would have jeopardized the success of
the fraudulent scheme,” according to the indictment.  Charles A. Ross, an attorney for Volman, didn’t immediately
return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on the sentence.  The case is USA v. Ingrassia, 2:04-cr-0455, in the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of New York ( Central
Islip ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  