-- Ex-NYPD Officer Masso Gets 57 Months for Gun-Running Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-20T22:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/ex-nypd-officer-masso-gets-57-months-for-gun-running-scheme-1-.html
A former New York City Police
officer was sentenced to 57 months in prison for his role in a
scheme to transport guns and stolen cigarettes across a state
line as part of a $1 million conspiracy.  William Masso, 48, of  Brooklyn  pleaded guilty in February
to four counts of conspiracy, charged in October with scheming
to transport M-16 rifles and handguns with defaced serial
numbers across state lines. He was one of 12 people charged, all
but one of the men have pleaded guilty in the case and awaits
trial, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a
statement.  Prosecutors said Masso was the ringleader of the scheme and
had even recruited other police officers to join him. Eventually
the group would include eight active-duty and retired New York
police officers.  “He’s the leader of the team, a team he put together,
including an officer he’d been entrusted to train,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney Carrie Cohen said in court today.  Agents with the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation set up
an undercover operation and working with a confidential
informant, supplied Masso and other officers with purportedly
stolen property, Bharara’s office said. Masso recruited others
to the scheme telling one agent he told the confidential
informant he could get him a “good army set up here” and
advised him how to avoid detection by authorities. He
transported weapons that included three M-16 rifles and at least
16 handguns with their serial numbers defaced.  State Lines  Masso also volunteered to transport the weapons across
state lines and placed his NYPD jacket in the window to avoid
being stopped, Cohen said.  “In this case, the offenses are indisputably serious
without any hint of justification and without any hint of
excuse,” U.S. District Court Judge John G. Koetl in Manhattan
said today. “The defendant was ready, willing able to
participate in the conspiracy,” he said.  Koetl said that U.S. Probation officials had recommended a
term of 57 months to 71 months in prison for Masso, citing his
position as a police officer, the fact that he’d recruited
others, abused his authority and was a leader of the scheme.  The judge said he credited Masso’s 19 years of service as a
police officer with an unblemished record. Masso must surrender
to U.S. Prison officials by Oct. 10 and Koetl said he would
recommend that he be designated to serve his term at the federal
prison in Fort Dix,  New Jersey .  Leniency Sought  His lawyer, Ronald Fischetti, asked the judge for leniency,
citing the more than 50 letters which friends, relatives and
supporters had written to the court, describing Masso’s good
deeds. Calling Masso’s crimes “mind-boggling” Fischetti said
that because his client had lost his job and wouldn’t get his
police pension, his wife and three children were now
impoverished.  “The question is how much is enough for a broken man, a
disgraced cop who has no pension. He’s learned his lesson, he’s
destitute,” Fischetti said.  Masso wept openly during the sentencing and clutched a
rosary as he spoke to the court.  “I don’t know how to express how sorry I am,” Masso said.
“My actions disgraced my family, my friends and especially the
 New York  Police Department, who I consider my family. It cost me
my job and now it’s taken my whole life.”  M-16 Rifles  The FBI supplied Masso and his co-conspirators with
purportedly stolen goods including three M-16 rifles, a shotgun,
16 handguns, 12  slot machines  and thousands of cartons of
cigarettes, prosecutors said. The goods had a street value of
about $1 million, prosecutors said.  Masso has agreed to forfeit $50,000, representing the
amount of the proceeds of his crimes and his interest in three
guns that were seized, prosecutors said. He was terminated by
the NYPD after his guilty plea without pension or benefits.  The case is U.S. v. Masso, 11-02730, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mary Romano at 
 mromano6@bloomberg.net  