-- Mexico Maintains Key Rate Amid Forecasts Inflation Will Slow
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-07-20T22:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/mexico-leaves-key-rate-unchanged-at-4-5-as-inflation-quickens.html
Mexico’s central bank left its key
 interest rate  unchanged at a record low, stretching the period
since its last move to three years, on forecasts the inflation
rate will drop back into the target range by year end.  The bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, kept
the overnight lending rate at 4.5 percent today, matching the
forecast of all 21 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The bank
hasn’t changed the rate since before Carstens took the helm in
January 2010 and will stay on hold until the third quarter of
next year, according to a separate survey by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s inflation rate surged to an 18-month high of 4.34
percent in June after economic growth accelerated and a
lingering drought in some parts of the country put pressure on
food prices. The central bank targets inflation of 2 percent to
4 percent. Policy makers said today that the medium-term risks
for inflation have abated based on the increased chances for a
“severe weakening” in the global economy.  “It’s true that in the short-term the outlook for
inflation has deteriorated,”  Alberto Ramos , an economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York , said in an interview.
“It’s also true that in the medium-term it has actually
improved. If you calibrate monetary policy looking more at the
medium term, rather than the immediate term, this is a dovish
sign.”  On Hold  Mexico’s economic activity has shown a positive trend,
although the growth outlook has deteriorated, the central bank
 said .  The yield on Mexican local-currency bonds due in 2024 fell
13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 5.10 percent, the
lowest level since the securities began trading in 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price increased
1.54 centavos to 144.95 centavos per peso.  The peso lost 1 percent today to 13.3620 per dollar.  Mexico ’s central bank has kept monetary policy on hold
since July 2009, or for 28 straight meetings, after cutting the
rate seven times that year to spur growth amid the worst
recession since the so-called Tequila Crisis in 1995. By
contrast, the central bank in Brazil, Latin America’s only
larger economy, has adjusted its Selic rate 17 times in the past
three years.  The central bank’s board noted that due to lower inflation
in advanced and “a large number of developing nations there has
been a relaxation of the monetary stance.”  “It’s probable that several of these economies will adopt
more accommodative monetary stances in the following months,
leading them to an unprecedented level of laxity,” the board
said.  ‘Trigger’  Ramos said that trend “could eventually be a trigger for
monetary easing in Mexico, even though they don’t say it
explicitly.”  Mexico’s economy grew 4.6 percent in the first three months
of 2012, the fastest pace in six quarters, and is set to outpace
Brazil for a second year, according to the median forecasts of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  At 4.5 percent, Mexico’s central bank rate is the lowest
since Carstens’ predecessor,  Guillermo Ortiz , began targeting
the overnight lending rate in 2005. Previously,  Banco de Mexico 
implemented monetary policy by targeting the  money supply .  Mexico’s rate compares with less than 1 percent in the U.S.
and  Europe . Brazil last week cut its Selic rate to a record low
8 percent to boost its stalling economy as indebted consumers
facing a tougher job market cut back on spending.  Shares, Currency  Mexico’s IPC stock index has climbed 59 percent since the
central bank last adjusted rates, compared with a 4.4 percent
gain for Brazil’s Bovespa index and more than benchmark equity
measures in  Peru ,  Argentina ,  Colombia  and  Chile .  The peso weakened 0.2 percent against the dollar in the
past three years, compared with a 4.9 percent drop in Brazil’s
real.  Even as Europe’s debt crisis has damped global demand,
Mexico’s economy is showing signs of resilience.  Car exports and production rose to records during the first
half, the Mexican Automobile Industry Association said. Retail
sales climbed 5.2 percent in May, compared with the 4.8 percent
median forecast of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Bird Flu  Demand from the U.S., Mexico’s largest trading partner and
the buyer of 80 percent of the nation’s exports, has helped
bolster the Mexican economy. Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker
in the Americas, said today that its second-quarter loss
narrowed, spurring a 5.9 percent rally in the Monterrey-based
company’s stock.  Carstens said in a July 4 interview that a neutral monetary
stance is “adequate” and that inflation will “very likely”
slow to within the target range this quarter.  Still, a continued drought in some parts of the country and
an outbreak of bird flu may prevent the inflation rate from
dropping within target until the fourth quarter, said  Miguel Messmacher , the  Finance Ministry ’s top economist.  “It looks complicated,” Messmacher said in a July 10
interview, partly because the bird flu outbreak in western
Mexico is pressuring egg prices. Carstens said in his interview
that the effects from the bird flu won’t last.  Economists raised their year-end inflation forecast to 3.94
percent from 3.81 percent in a July 19 bi-weekly survey from
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Banamex unit.  Peso Strength  Since declining to 14.3755 per dollar on May 31, its
weakest since March 2009, the peso has climbed 7.6 percent, the
most among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The peso
reached 13.1579 per dollar on July 17, its strongest level in
more than two months, following European efforts to resolve the
debt crisis and Enrique Pena Nieto’s victory in Mexico’s
presidential election.  The incoming president, from the  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , has pledged to overhaul the tax and labor
code and open the state-run oil industry. Allowing more private
investment in the  energy industry  may boost GDP by as much as
0.8 percent a year, according to research firm  Capital
Economics .  Yields on Mexican interbank rate futures contracts due in
December, known as TIIE, dropped three basis points yesterday to
4.75 percent, indicating traders expect the central bank to stay
on hold for the rest of the year.  “Even after three years of no changes in the fondeo rate,
we continue to expect Banxico to remain on hold,”  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  economist Gabriel Lozano wrote in a July 19
research note. “We expect supply shocks to continue to add
upward pressure to consumer prices, but demand-side pressures
remain absent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  