-- Mexico Likely to Keep Stable Rate Policy as Inflation Picks Up
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/mexico-likely-to-keep-stable-rate-policy-as-inflation-picks-up.html
Mexico ’s central bank probably will
hold its key interest rate steady today, marking three years
since the last change, after policy makers said the economic
outlook worsened and inflation rose above the target range.  The bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, will
leave the overnight lending rate at a record low of 4.5 percent
for the 28th consecutive meeting, according to all 20 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. The decision will be announced at 9 a.m.
in Mexico City.  The inflation rate surged to an 18-month high of 4.34
percent in June after economic growth quickened and a drought
lingered in some parts of the country, pressuring farm prices.
The central bank targets inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent.
Still, central bankers  downplayed  the risks to inflation in
their previous decision published June 8, saying that global
economic uncertainty has worsened Mexico’s growth outlook.  “The central bank will keep the rate unchanged for a long
time,” said  Gabriel Casillas , Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB’s
chief economist and research head in Mexico City. For now, the
stable interest rate policy seems “indefinite,” he said.  Banorte lifted its year-end inflation forecast to 4.2
percent from 3.8 percent on July 16 on higher agricultural and
gasoline prices.  Carstens said in a July 4 interview that a neutral monetary
stance is “adequate” and that consumer price increases will
“very likely” slow to an annual rate below 4 percent this
quarter.  Drought  A continued drought in some parts of the country and an
outbreak of bird flu may prevent inflation reaching the target
range until the fourth quarter, said  Miguel Messmacher , the
 Finance Ministry ’s top economist.  “It looks complicated,” Messmacher said in a July 10
interview, partly because the bird flu outbreak in western
Mexico is pressuring egg prices. Carstens said effects from the
bird flu won’t last.  Economists raised their year-end inflation forecast to 3.94
percent from 3.81 percent in a July 19 bi-weekly survey from
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Banamex unit.  Yields on peso-denominated securities due December 2014
dropped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, yesterday
to 4.6 percent.  Mexico’s key lending rate compares with less than 1 percent
in the U.S. and  Europe , while exceeding only  Peru ’s 4.25 percent
among the major Latin American economies.  Economic Growth  Economic growth will probably fall short of the high end of
the central bank’s 3.25 percent to 4.25 percent forecast from
May, Carstens said on July 4. He said gross domestic product
will likely expand 3.5 percent to 4 percent this year.  Even as Europe’s debt crisis has damped global demand,
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy is showing signs of
resilience.  GDP  expanded  4.6 percent in the first three months of the
year, the fastest in six quarters, and car exports and
production rose to records during the first six months, the
Mexican Automobile Industry Association said. Retail sales
climbed 5.2 percent in May, compared with the 4.8 percent median
forecast of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Since weakening to 14.3755 per dollar on May 31, the peso
has climbed 8.7 percent, the most among 16 major currencies, to
13.2242 yesterday, following European efforts to resolve the
debt crisis and Mexican presidential elections. Enrique Pena Nieto of the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , who has pledged
key economic overhauls, won the July 1 vote by a margin of 6.6
percentage points.  Improvement in the U.S. and Europe, combined with Mexican
economic expansion, could push the currency to almost 12 per
dollar, Carstens said, helping to limit import prices.  “Even after three years of no changes in the fondeo rate,
we continue to expect Banxico to remain on hold,”  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  economist Gabriel Lozano wrote in a July 19
research note. “We expect supply shocks to continue to add
upward pressure to consumer prices, but demand-side pressures
remain absent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  