-- MF Global U.K., Quinn’s Nephew, Polish Builders: Bankruptcy
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-07-20T14:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/mf-global-u-k-quinn-s-nephew-polish-builders-bankruptcy.html
A London court gave administrators
of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s U.K. unit approval to start
returning shares and other securities held at the failed broker
to its customers.  The assets covered by  the administrators’  plan don’t
include cash and are valued at about 50 million pounds ($78
million), according to documents filed at the court.  “I’m satisfied that this is a plan that the court should
approve,” Judge David Richards said.  MF Global Holdings, the New York-based brokerage run by
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Co-Chairman and New Jersey
Governor  Jon Corzine  until he resigned Nov. 4, filed the eighth-
largest U.S. bankruptcy after a $6.3 billion trade on European
bonds led to margin calls.  KPMG  LLP, appointed to wind up the U.K. unit, estimated in
June that as much as $3.2 billion would eventually be recovered
to return to clients and creditors.  KPMG has received about 1 billion pounds worth of claims
for client assets which it doesn’t recognize as valid. Those
claimants won’t receive anything, KPMG’s lawyer  Martin Pascoe 
told the court. No clients appeared at the court hearing to
object to KPMG’s plan.  Irish Judge Directs Police to Bring Peter Quinn Before Court  An Irish judge directed police today to bring Peter Quinn,
the nephew of  Sean Quinn , formerly Ireland’s richest man, before
the court in a hearing on a contempt case.  Quinn, his son Sean and nephew Peter Darragh Quinn
continued to place assets outside the reach of nationalized
IBRC, formerly Anglo Irish Bank Corp., after the court ordered
them to stop last year, Judge Elizabeth Dunne found last month.
Dunne temporally put aside “punitive” sanctions on June 29 as
she made an order for asset disclosure.  Peter Quinn’s lawyer said his client was unable to attend
court because of illness. Dunne said that “in the event of a
genuine and real illness” that the police should “exercise
their discretion.”  Polish Builders Like PBG to Get Government Help, PM Tusk Says  Poland may help building companies, including  PBG SA (PBG) , the
Polish construction company under protection from creditors,
Prime Minister Donald Tusk said.  Poland is ready to help troubled construction companies on
condition that banks share the burden of builders’ losses, Tusk
said in a televised press conference.  The court-appointed supervisor of PBG on July 17 ordered
the builder to retake possession of 46 million shares in its
 Energomontaz Poludnie SA (EPD)  unit it sold to its  Rafako SA (RFK) 
subsidiary on Dec. 20, PBG said.  Polimex-Mostostal SA (PXM) , Poland’s second-largest builder, is
still in talks about a four-month delay in paying back its debts
and as many as 95 percent of its creditors are ready to sign the
standstill agreement, Puls Biznesu reported, without saying
where it got the information.  Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA (BGZ) , controlled by Rabobank
Groep, doesn’t want to join the deal, the newspaper said. The
bank’s press office declined to comment, Puls said. Polimex has
250 million zloty ($73 million) of debt due this month,
according to the newspaper.  Hypo Alpe Says Liquidation Most Expensive Option for Austria  Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, the nationalized
Austrian lender loaded with bad debt, said it will continue to
sell and wind down assets gradually because this will reduce the
burden for taxpayers.  Risks for taxpayers may materialize if the bank is
liquidated immediately, Hypo Alpe Chief Executive Officer
Gottwald Kranebitter said, when asked about a report in Format
magazine that the bank would need more than 5 billion euros
($6.1 billion) if it was dissolved.  Kranebitter, speaking to reporters in Vienna, said he
rejects this strategy and that Hypo Alpe only calculated the
costs of liquidation and of accelerated asset sales on request
of the European Commission’s probe into state aid the lender
received. He declined to comment on specific numbers.  “Liquidation is the most expensive scenario for the
taxpayer,” Kranebitter said. “The European Union, as in every
state aid probe, requires us to calculate a liquidation
scenario,” he said. “Our scenario is a going-concern scenario
in which we have a banking part that we’re giving back to the
market, and a wind-down part which we are reducing bit by bit.”  Hypo Alpe is one of three banks which  Austria  rescued from
looming collapse since 2009 after shareholders walked away. The
risks of further capital injections into those and other banks
was one of the main reasons the Alpine republic lost its triple-
A rating at  Standard & Poor’s  and was slapped with a negative
outlook at Moody’s earlier this year.  Kranebitter declined to say precisely how much less his
plan for the bank would cost taxpayers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  