-- Finland Rejects Talk of Euro Exit After Backing Spain Rescue
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-07-20T13:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/finland-rejects-talk-of-euro-exit-after-backing-spanish-rescue.html
Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki
Katainen  dismissed speculation his government is considering
dropping the euro should the debt crisis deepen after the Nordic
nation’s parliament agreed to back a Spanish bank bailout.  “We will not and do not consider exiting the euro,” the
premier said today in an interview in Helsinki. “We want to be
at the heart of European development. A stronger euro, a better
euro is the only, and reasonable, thing for  Finland .”  Finland’s demand that bailouts come with strict terms such
as austerity and burden sharing, coupled with Katainen’s
rejection of common bonds, has prompted economists including
 Nouriel Roubini  to suggest the nation may ultimately quit the
euro in protest.  The northernmost euro member today sanctioned the Spanish
bailout, as parliament interrupted its summer break for the
first time in 50 years to guarantee a part of  Spain ’s 100
billion-euro ($122.6 billion) bank rescue. Finland, one of four
remaining AAA rated euro nations, this week reached a deal with
Spain to get collateral for its guarantees, signaling it’s
prepared to back the bloc as it strives for more integration.  Euro area finance ministers also gave final approval today
to the Spanish assistance, paving the way for the European
Financial Stability Facility to raise 30 billion euros to be
held in reserve for the banks, which will be able to receive
payments after submitting approved restructuring plans.  ‘Unpopular’  “We believe that we need to a certain extent more
integration,” Katainen said. “It doesn’t mean mutualizing
liabilities, but it means we have to have better rules.”  Finland, which saw the anti-bailout party the “The Finns”
become the third-biggest in elections in 2011, also demanded
collateral to back a second bailout for  Greece  last year. It was
not an easy decision to back Spain, Katainen said.  “It was a necessary decision to take, even though it’s
very hard,” he said. “It’s unpopular, but we have to take
responsible moves and steps because the economic situation is so
challenging.”  Sales abroad account for about 40 percent of Finland’s
economy, and a third of its exports go to the single-currency
bloc. That dependence means a direct hit on the economy from a
decline in demand for Finnish goods. The economy contracted 8.5
percent in 2009 when the post-Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
credit crunch led to the collapse in trade worldwide.  Misplaced Concerns  Concerns that Finland might abandon the single currency are
“largely misplaced,” Jan von Gerich, chief fixed-income
analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Helsinki, said in a note to clients
today. “For now, there is no real alternative, and one will not
be found quickly either.”  The current crisis has caused a widening rift between
sovereign bond yields within the euro area. Finland’s two-year
yields fell below zero for the first time this week, as the
country joined  Germany  in being paid to hold investors’ money
for that long. Spain’s two-year debt yields 5.35 percent and
 Italy ’s 3.75 percent.  Katainen rejected that the idea that low borrowing costs
would compensate for the decline in demand.  “Finland isn’t benefiting from the crisis,” he said.
“We’re an export-driven economy and once the European market
isn’t doing well, we suffer a lot.”  “The Finns” surge in the elections in April last year put
Finland’s commitment to the bloc to the test and pushed Finance
Minister Jutta Urpilainen’s Social Democrats to demand extra
security in any bailouts. Katainen agreed after two months of
talks, forming his six-party coalition.  No Concessions  “Finland is likely to continue to act as a counterweight
to growing demands for less onerous bailouts and greater support
for the peripheral economies,”  Ben May , European economist at
London-based Capital Economics Ltd, wrote in a note yesterday.
The demand for collateral from Spain “suggests that Finland
remains in no mood to offer major concessions to the euro zone’s
peripheral economies.”  Inside the euro area, Finland shares its top  credit rating 
with Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The other
countries in the monetary union are  Austria ,  Belgium , Cyprus,
 Estonia , France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta,  Portugal ,
Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.  Finland’s stance toward bailouts has been consistent since
Katainen’s cabinet was sworn in a year ago, von Gerich said.  “Despite Finland playing hard ball regarding future aid
packages, the country remains very committed to the euro
project,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  