-- Ford Profit Squeezed by Excess Plant Capacity in Europe: Cars
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/ford-profit-squeezed-by-excess-plant-capacity-in-europe-cars.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , with overseas losses
reducing total profit, is under pressure to close at least one
factory in  Europe , where it may have more excess capacity than
 General Motors Co. (GM)   While layoffs and plant closings are difficult in Europe,
GM and PSA Peugeot Citroen announced plans to do just that in
the past six weeks, which could ease the way for Ford. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s assembly plants in
Southampton,  England , and Genk, Belgium, may be vulnerable.  Ford said last month it will report second-quarter earnings
that are “substantially lower” because losses in Europe,  Asia 
and  South America  will triple from the first quarter to $570
million. Ford is using just 63 percent of its factory capacity
in Europe, where pretax losses this year may exceed $1.1
billion, double what the automaker previously said, Adam Jonas,
an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in June.  “By our calculations, Ford’s capacity utilization in
Europe is even lower than GM’s, making it lower than any
automaker besides Fiat” SpA, Jonas said yesterday in an e-mail.
“Ford must address its excess-capacity situation with
decisiveness to stay ahead of the wave.”  Producing to real demand -- without big incentives -- has
been a pillar of the automaker’s comeback under Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally . Ford said it’s developing a plan to
match capacity to demand in the economically ravaged region,
where it closed a plant a decade ago and has been profitable
for six of the last eight years.  Faring Better  While GM has lost $16.4 billion in Europe since 1999, Ford
has fared better,  earning $1.73 billion  since 2007, even while
losing money in two of the last three years. Ford of Europe has
enjoyed stable leadership under CEO Stephen Odell, who took on
the job in 2010 after running Volvo Cars. GM this week named a
turnaround expert as deputy CEO of its Opel operations after
Karl-Friedrich Stracke ran the unit for less than eight months.  Ford’s net income in the second quarter may have fallen to
$1.09 billion, the average of four  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg, down 54 percent from $2.4 billion a year earlier.
Profit excluding some items may have fallen to 29 cents a share,
according to the average of 17 estimates, from 65 cents a year
earlier. The company said it will report earnings on July 25.  “A lot of companies need to close a plant in Europe and
Ford is probably among them,” said  Efraim Levy , equity analyst
for S&P Capital IQ, who rates Ford a buy and July 17 cut his
2012 earnings estimate for the automaker by 8 percent. “Ford
lost market share in Europe in June and they’re clearly facing
competitive pressure to discount to move the metal.”  Economic Slump  A stubborn sovereign debt crisis and collapsing  consumer
confidence  has sent car sales skidding for nine consecutive
months in Europe, as the auto market there falls to its lowest
level in 17 years, according to the Brussels-based European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association.  “Our European team expects no recovery in the region’s
demand before late 2014, leaving sales 20 percent below peak
even two years from now,” Jonas said in an e-mail.  Ford, which has resisted deep discounts, is faring worse
than average. It said its sales in Europe fell 16 percent in
June, ahead of the total market decline of 1.7 percent. In the
first half of this year, Ford’s European sales fell 10 percent,
while industrywide deliveries were off 6.3 percent.  Closing factories is a difficult and slow process in
Europe, where strong labor unions and state ownership in auto
companies conspire against shutdowns and layoffs. GM said last
month it plans to close its plant in Bochum,  Germany , at the end
of 2016, the first shutdown of a German car plant since World
War II. PSA Peugeot Citroen said it will close a French factory.  Ford Shrinkage  Ford last closed a major car factory in Europe 10 years
ago, when it shut its Fiesta assembly plant in Dagenham,
England. It sold its Halewood, England, plant and two other U.K.
factories to India’s  Tata Group  as part the 2008 sale of its
Jaguar and Land Rover luxury lines. Ford also got rid of two
major assembly plants in Europe when it sold Volvo Cars to
Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. in 2010.  “Ford has done a lot to cut capacity in the past,” said
Garel Rhys, president of the Center for Automotive Industry
Research in Cardiff, Wales. “It’s not a big bloodletting Ford
needs.”  Concerns about the financial crisis in Europe have weighed
on Ford’s stock, which is  down  29 percent from a year ago. Over
the same period, GM shares declined 31 percent and the  S&P 500
Index  gained 3.8 percent.  European ‘Morass’  “Europe has been a morass for a long time for the American
automakers and it will continue to be a challenge,” said S&P’s
Levy. “And Ford has a bigger exposure to Europe than GM.”  Unlike Morgan Stanley, consultant IHS Automotive estimates
that Ford’s capacity-utilization in Europe is higher than GM’s:
66 percent to 62 percent. Neither analysis is encouraging,
because automakers rarely turn a profit with less than 80
percent utilization.  Ford said in a June 28 federal filing that the “serious
economic crisis” in Europe is “compounded by an intensifying
competitive environment as manufacturers react to lower consumer
demand and excess production capacity.”  Ford’s factory in Southampton, which produces chassis cabs
for the Transit commercial van, built fewer than 30,000 vehicles
last year, using less than one-third of its capacity, according
to IHS Automotive. That plant, with 550 workers, could be “low-
hanging fruit” as Ford looks to reduce capacity, said  Michael Robinet , IHS managing director.  “Southampton is down to 30,000 units a year; you could
build that in your garage,” said Robinet, who is based in
Northville,  Michigan . “Appropriate scale in most facilities
going forward is going to be at least 100,000 units. So any time
you’re below that, that’s a huge warning sign.”  Genk, Belgium  Ford’s plant in Genk also could be vulnerable, according to
Rhys. Genk built 178,000 vehicles last year, about 68 percent of
its capacity, according to Ford. The plant builds the Mondeo,
the European equivalent of the Fusion, the S-Max wagon and
Galaxy minivan. Ford said Mondeo sales fell 11.5 percent this
year, S-Max is off 6.6 percent and Galaxy up 1.4 percent.  “Genk is hanging on as a marginal plant,” said Rhys, who
said the European market is shrinking for mid-sized sedans like
the Mondeo. “Can you justify making a Mondeo at that plant for
what’s basically now become a very, very small market?”  Ford has said it will begin building a redesigned version
of the Mondeo in Genk next year, and it has a labor contract to
build mid-sized models there that runs through 2014.  Asked about possible plant closings,  Mark Truby , a company
spokesman, said: “It’s premature to talk about what our plans
may be.”  Align Capacity  “We understand the environment we’re in,” Truby said.
“We know what it takes to be profitable in Europe: We’ve been
profitable in six of the past eight years. We’ll work to match
capacity with demand while accelerating new-product
development.”  Mulally will unveil new European models, including the
restyled Mondeo, in Amsterdam in September, Truby said. Ford is
bringing 20 new models to Europe by 2014.  Concerns about Ford’s widening losses in Europe have caused
analysts to cut earning per share estimates by an average of 20
percent since June 1, according to  Brian Johnson , a Chicago-
based analyst with Barclays who rates Ford overweight.  “We believe there is a significant risk that Ford will
reduce its full-year guidance on pretax profit (to be roughly
equal to 2011 profit of $8.7 billion) on the basis of weaker
international earnings,” Johnson wrote in a July 18 report.  Mulally’s Turnaround  Ford’s pretax operating loss of $149 million in Europe in
the first quarter was more than offset by the $2.1 billion
profit it recorded in  North America . Ford posted its 12th
consecutive profitable quarter in the first three months of the
year, with net income of $1.4 billion, or 35 cents a share, down
from $2.55 billion, or 61 cents, a year earlier.  Mulally, 66, turned around the automaker in the U.S. by
focusing on  fuel efficiency , technology and quality. He also
insisted factory capacity conform to real market demand. Ford
earned $29.5 billion in the last three years after $30.1 billion
in losses from 2006 through 2008.  Ford’s U.S. car and light-truck sales rose 6.6 percent to
1.14 million vehicles in the year’s first half, trailing the
industry’s gain of 15 percent, according to Autodata Corp.,
based in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey. Ford’s U.S. market share
fell to 15.7 percent from 16.9 percent as Japanese automakers
restocked inventory and made a sales push following last year’s
production interruptions due to the earthquake and tsunami.  Quarterly Estimates  Ford’s second-quarter  revenue  may have fallen to $32.4
billion, the average of eight analysts’ estimates, from $35.5
billion a year earlier. Pretax profit may have fallen 38 percent
to $1.6 billion, the average of seven analysts’ estimates.  By borrowing $23.4 billion in late 2006, Ford avoided the
bailouts and bankruptcies that befell the predecessors of GM and
Chrysler Group LLC in 2009. The automaker put up all major
 assets  as collateral, including its blue oval logo.  Ford recovered those assets May 22 when Moody’s Investors
Service became the second major rating company, after  Fitch
Ratings , to raise the automaker to investment grade.  Standard &
Poor’s  still rates Ford one step below that level.  Now Ford must confront its overcapacity in Europe to return
to profitability there, said Morgan Stanley’s Jonas.  “It won’t be easy,” said Jonas. “But we believe they
have the balance sheet and political will to pull it off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  