-- Former IMF Economist Says He's `Ashamed of Links to Fund
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-07-20T17:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/former-imf-economist-says-he-s-ashamed-of-links-to-fund.html
An  International Monetary Fund 
economist who said he is leaving the institution wrote that he
is “ashamed” of being associated with it and criticized it for
what he said was a failure to send warnings about the global
financial crisis and the European debt turmoil.  “The consequences include suffering -- and risk of worse
to come -- for many including  Greece , that the second global
reserve currency is on the brink, and that the fund for the past
two years has been playing catch-up and reactive roles in the
last-ditch efforts to save it,” according to the letter written
by Peter Doyle, who worked as a division chief in the European
department.  The letter, dated June 18, was addressed to the senior
member of the IMF board, Shakour Shaalan, as well as to IMF and
government officials and Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer . It was first  reported by CNN , whose website linked to a
copy of the letter. The document’s authenticity was confirmed to
Bloomberg by IMF spokesman  William Murray .  Doyle, who worked in a division overseeing Denmark, Sweden
and Israel, said weaknesses in the fund’s monitoring mission
have become more entrenched, including during the period of a
little more than a year during which  Christine Lagarde  has been
managing director. Lagarde, a former French finance minister, is
“tainted” because the process to select her was not
legitimate, Doyle said.  Well Documented  Murray, the IMF spokesman, said in an e-mail that Doyle’s
remarks on surveillance failures “are well documented in the
public record, including reports issued by the Independent
Evaluation Office, via the Triennial Review of Surveillance, and
in many statements by the Managing Director, including on the
findings in these various reports.”  The IMF has been trying to strengthen monitoring of its
member countries after being criticized for failing to detect
signs that led to the 2008 financial crisis. It is now co-
financing three bailouts in countries using the euro and last
month obtained $456 billion in new resources to help protect the
world from  Europe ’s turmoil.  Doyle, who wrote that he had 20 years of service, said the
factors that led to weaknesses in surveillance include
“analytical  risk aversion , bilateral priority, and European
bias.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  