-- Gasoline Slips on Concern Economic Slowdowns May Reduce Demand
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-07-20T14:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/gasoline-slips-on-concern-economic-slowdowns-may-reduce-demand.html
Gasoline fell from an eight-week
high on concern that Europe’s debt crisis, slower growth in
 China  and a stagnant  U.S. economy  will reduce fuel demand.  Futures slid as the euro declined against the dollar after
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  abandoned his forecast for
a return to growth next year. A report indicated that China may
be reluctant to lower  interest rates . U.S. economic reports
yesterday showed weakness in the labor and housing markets.  “This may have reignited worries about Europe,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “The rally was getting overextended.
Yesterday’s U.S. economic data was bad and if the dollar
continues to rally, it puts the market under more pressure.”  August-delivery gasoline sank 3.19 cents, or 1.1 percent,
to $2.907 a gallon at 9:55 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , after settling yesterday at the highest level since
May 21.  The euro fell 1 percent against the dollar at 9:52 a.m. in
New York, the lowest level since June 14, 2010.  China won’t relax property control policies and will
instead seek to keep a “firm grip” on the real estate market
to prevent a rebound in housing prices, Xinhua News Agency said,
citing a government circular.  “Perhaps the Chinese government may be hesitant to lower
interest rates more because that may inflate the property
bubble,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price
Futures Group in Chicago.  Jobless Claims  Labor Department figures yesterday showed  jobless claims 
rose 9.7 percent last week, the biggest percentage gain since
Jan. 25, 2008.  Existing home sales  fell 5.4 percent, data from
the National Association of Realtors showed.  August-delivery heating oil declined 3.4 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $2.913 a gallon, the first loss in eight days.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 1 cent to $3.447 a gallon, according to AAA. Prices
are the highest since June 21 after rising every day but two
since July 1, gaining 12.1 cents. Gasoline reached a year-to-
date high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  