-- GE Rises as Finance Joins Energy to Fuel Earnings Growth
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-07-20T23:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/ge-profit-tops-estimates-as-finance-growth-joins-energy-gain.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  rose after
gains in energy, its biggest industrial business, and finance
fueled higher earnings than analysts estimated.  Earnings from continuing operations advanced to $4.01
billion, or 38 cents a share, greater than the 37-cent average
estimate from analysts. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt 
said the company is on track to expand profit margins in its
industrial units by 0.3 percentage point to 0.5 percentage point
this year.  GE is benefiting from the CEO’s efforts to boost industrial
earnings while shrinking the finance arm after $32 billion of
credit losses in the financial crisis. GE Capital profit rose 31
percent to $2.12 billion, while energy earnings climbed 13
percent even though wind-turbine demand fell, the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company said today in a statement.  “The industrial businesses are building up some decent
momentum that hasn’t been derailed by  Europe  or the broader
economic slowdown,”  Matt Collins , an Edward Jones & Co. analyst
in  St. Louis , said in an e-mail. “The key for the rest of the
year is margins. If they meet the guidance and finally start
turning around, that should support the stock heading into
2013.”  The company said separately it would divide its energy
business, which has about 100,000 employees and makes up about
30 percent of sales, into three separate units. Vice Chairman
 John Krenicki , who headed the division, will leave at the end of
2012 and the chiefs of the three new units will report directly
to Immelt.  ‘Logical Position’  “We had kind of a $50 billion company within a company,”
after making $11 billion in energy acquisitions through 2011,
Immelt said on a conference call with analysts and investors.
“The idea to get a little bit faster and more focused on those
businesses seemed to be a logical position.”  Reorganizing the energy unit, which will take effect in the
fourth quarter of this year, will eliminate a layer of
management and bring three senior executives within one step of
Immelt.  Steve Bolze , who leads the GE Power & Water business;
Dan Heintzelman, head of GE Oil & Gas; and Dan Janki, in charge
of GE Energy Management, will report directly to the CEO once
the changes take effect.  GE expects the move will save it $200 million to $300
million in costs, Immelt said on the call, without giving
details.  Order Backlog  GE rose 0.4 percent to $19.87 at the close in  New York ,
outperforming declines in the broader Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and  Dow Jones Industrial Average . The shares climbed as
much as 2.9 percent in intraday trading.  Accounting changes included in a U.S. transportation
spending bill signed into law by President  Barack Obama  earlier
this month will reduce pension expense by $2.5 billion through
2013, Immelt said on the call.  The industrial division’s order backlog climbed to a record
$204 billion from $201 billion in the three months through
March, GE said. Orders in those businesses fell 1 percent,
dragged down by a 37 percent slide in demand for  wind turbines 
ahead of the scheduled expiration of a U.S. power-production tax
credit later this year.  “We prepared ourselves for a pretty tough year this year,
certainly a volatile year,” Immelt said on the call. “We
haven’t been disappointed.”  Profit declined at the health-care business and the
aviation unit, which makes  jet engines  for airplanes. In the
transportation division, which builds diesel locomotives,
earnings increased 58 percent to $282 million.  Including $352 million in pension expenses and $553 million
in costs from discontinued operations such as the WMC mortgage
business sold in 2007, GE’s  net income  declined 18 percent to
$3.11 billion, or 29 cents a share, from $3.76 billion, or 35
cents. Revenue climbed 2 percent to $36.5 billion, trailing
analysts’ estimates of $36.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  