-- Georgian Billionaire to Quit Business in Bid for Premiership
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-07-20T08:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/georgian-billionaire-to-quit-business-in-bid-for-premiership-1-.html
Georgian billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili said he may quit business after raising more than $1
billion selling Russian assets as he prepares to challenge
President Mikheil Saakashvili’s alliance in October elections.  “I won’t return to business in  Russia  and may never return
to business altogether,” Ivanishvili said in an interview
yesterday at his party’s headquarters in the capital, Tbilisi.
The proceeds from asset sales will be invested elsewhere, he
said, without elaborating.  Ivanishvili, 56, said he agreed with Forbes magazine’s
estimate of his wealth at $6.4 billion, equivalent to almost
half of Georgia’s $14.4 billion economy. In May, he sold his
Russian property assets and stakes in Moscow-based Rossiyskiy
Kredit Bank and the Doctor Stoletov pharmacy chain. Another deal
to relinquish his agricultural businesses in Russia will be
completed within days, he said, adding that he valued his
holdings in the country at no less than $2.5 billion before
their sale.  Behind in the polls, Ivanishvili is divesting properties to
mount a challenge to become the premier and to burnish his
credentials before the Georgian public. In April, he created an
opposition political party called Georgian Dream -- Democratic
 Georgia , pledging to remain in politics for two years before
leaving to become an “active member of Georgian society.”  Georgian Investments  Ivanishvili said he no longer controls his main investments
in Georgia after they were seized by the government for refusing
to pay a multi-million dollar fine for violating party funding
rules. His holdings included Cartu Bank, the nation’s sixth-
largest lender by assets, and a stake in a local lender
controlled by soccer star Kakha Kaladze.  In the post-Soviet years, Ivanishvili divided his time
between homes in Moscow, Paris and Georgia before moving in 2002
to live full-time in his native village, Chorvila, about 130
kilometers (80 miles) from Tbilisi.  The billionaire has held a Georgian passport since 2004
until the government revoked it last year and also picked up
French citizenship in 2010. He renounced his Russian citizenship
and remains a French citizen.  In May, lawmakers approved a law that opened the
opportunity for the billionaire to run in parliamentary
elections this year even without Georgian citizenship. He
repeatedly condemned the amendment, saying it was wrong to
tailor legislation to a single individual and refused to
petition Saakashvili directly to grant him dual citizenship.  Russian Ties  Ivanishvili, who is campaigning on promises to provide free
health care and improve schools, pensions and  living conditions 
for rural people, has criticized Saakashvili for stifling free
speech and provoking a war with Russia. The billionaire has in
turn been denounced by Georgian politicians, who accuse him of
being an ally of President  Vladimir Putin .  “Ivanishvili has had enormous wealth in Russia,” said
Giorgi Kandelaki, a ruling-party lawmaker. “It’s more than
obvious that the sales of some of those huge assets and shares
can’t take place in Russia without the direct blessing of Mr.
Putin. In fact, Mr. Ivanishvili has never even criticized Mr.
Putin.”  Since entering politics last year, Ivanishvili has remained
a supporter of improving Georgia’s relations with Russia, which
were damaged after a five-day war between the former Soviet
states in 2008 over the breakaway region of South Ossetia.
Georgia can restore control over South Ossetia and Abkhazia,
another separatist region, both of which were recognized by
Russia, according to Ivanishvili.  Democracy, Economy  “The key to doing so is in Georgia, not elsewhere, by
improving democracy and the economic situation, making Georgia
more interesting to live and invest in,” he said.  Motivating the more than 1,000 Georgian millionaires living
abroad to invest in their homeland would be essential to
boosting economic growth, according to Ivanishvili.  “I am sure Abkhazia and  South Ossetia  are burdens for
Russia and we will find a common language on this issue with
Russia,” he said, rejecting the possibility of another military
conflict unless Saakashvili “overreacts.”  Ivanishvili estimates he has given away about 1.2 billion
lari ($727 million) since returning to Georgia, sending money to
pay for restoring landmarks and building roads. He wants to
create a $200 million museum of modern art for his $1 billion
collection of works by artists including Picasso.  He says that he spent as much as $10 million since entering
politics.  Parliamentary Majority  While polls show Saakashvili’s party losing support to
Ivanishvili’s opposition coalition before the elections, the
billionaire’s allies remain short of a parliamentary majority.
As many as 36 percent of likely voters would back Saakashvili’s
National Movement while 18 percent would support Ivanishvili’s
party, according to a nationwide survey conducted by the
National Democratic Institute and released July 16.  Ivanishvili said he doesn’t trust the survey and expects to
secure a majority in the legislature, adding that he will
refrain from calling for public protests if the vote is free and
fair.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  