-- German Stocks Retreat; RWE, EON, Deutsche Post Decliners
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-07-20T15:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/german-stocks-are-little-changed-deutsche-post-declines.html
German stocks  declined, snapping
four days of advances as  Spain  said its recession would continue
into next year, and the yield on 10-year bonds surged.  RWE AG (RWE)  slid after UBS AG advised selling the shares.
 Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  fell after Handelsblatt reported that it may
face a writedown after mail-order company Neckermann filed for
bankruptcy.  Solarworld AG (SWV) , Germany’s biggest solar-panel maker,
jumped 9.5 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 1.9 percent to 6,630.02 in  Frankfurt .
The measure still posted a 1.1 percent increase this week, its
second successive gain as companies reported better-than-
expected quarterly earnings. The broader HDAX Index fell 1.7
percent today.  Spain’s recession will extend into next year as the region
of Valencia prepared to seek a rescue from the central
government and European finance ministers approved the bailout
of Spanish banks, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said after
the Cabinet met today in  Madrid . Gross domestic product will
fall 0.5 percent in 2013 instead of rising 0.2 percent as the
government predicted April 27, Montoro said.  “European markets have taken a turn for the worse today,
smacked by headlines out of Spain,” Ishaq Siddiqi, a market
strategist at Etx Capital in London, wrote. “Although EU
finance ministers have adopted the Spanish bank bailout,
sentiment has been rattled by Spain painting a bleaker outlook
than previously by downgrading its economic growth forecasts.”  The Spanish 10-year yield earlier rose eight basis points
to 7.09 percent, pushing the spread over equivalent German bunds
12 basis points wider to 591 basis points, the most since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1993.  RWE fell 6 percent to 31.87 euros. UBS cut its
recommendation on the shares to sell from neutral, saying the
power supplier may have “zero earnings growth” until 2020 due
to the negative generation outlook.  EON AG slid 4 percent to 17.04 euros.  Germany ’s biggest
utility halted its Oskarshamn-2 nuclear reactor in  Sweden 
yesterday, the Dusseldorf-based company said today in a filing
to the Nord Pool Spot AS power exchange.  The facility stopped because of “problems with one of the
auxiliary power diesel generators,” EON said.  Deutsche Post lost 1.9 percent to 14.65 euros. Europe’s
largest mail carrier may face a double-digit million-euro
writedown in 2012 after Neckermann filed for bankruptcy,
Handelsblatt reported. Deutsche Post spokesman Sebastian Steffen
said it’s too early to comment on the effect of the bankruptcy.  Solarworld gained 9.5 percent to 1.15 euros. Chief
Executive Frank Asbeck will relinquish his pay until the company
is profitable again, he told Handelsblatt.  European Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co.  jumped 4.1
percent 28.79 euros. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
recommendation on the shares to buy, saying the stronger dollar
is a “significant” new positive for EADS on top of a “robust
up-cycle” in aerospace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  