-- Germany Default Swaps Lower as Haven Bid Fuels Bonds Distortion
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-07-20T10:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/germany-default-swaps-lower-as-haven-bid-fuels-bonds-distortion.html
The cost of insuring against default
on German government debt tumbled to the lowest level since
April this week as investors sought to profit from a dislocation
between the nation’s bonds and credit-default swaps.  Debt protection contracts on  Germany  plunged to as low as
72 basis points on July 17 and were at 74.5 basis points as of
11:22 a.m. in London, from 84 a week ago, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. They were the most-traded swaps globally
in the week ending July 13,  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. 
data show.  Investors seeking a haven from the sovereign debt crisis
are snapping up bonds of the safest European governments, in
some cases paying to lend to nations such as Germany and
 Finland . Some investors are choosing to sell default insurance
instead of buying securities that yield less than zero,
according to Jochen Felsenheimer, a managing director at
Assenagon Credit Management in Munich.  “It definitely makes sense to sell protection on
Germany,” said Felsenheimer. “CDS is paying more and there are
some accounts that are trying to sell protection rather than
buying bonds. However that’s still a rather limited part of the
market.”  Sovereign Risk  Germany’s two-year note yield fell to minus 0.074 percent
on July 18 and was minus 0.64 percent today, while Austrian,
Swiss and Finnish rates turned negative this week for the first
time.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments dropped to 259 basis points this
week, the lowest level since the series started trading in
March, before rising 1.4 basis points to 263 today, Bloomberg
prices show. A decline signals an improvement in investors’
perceptions of  credit quality .  The cost of insuring corporate and financial debt
increased, paring weekly declines.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 European companies
with mostly high-yield credit ratings rose two basis points to
644, up from yesterday’s two-week low. The Markit iTraxx Europe
Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings climbed one
basis point to 162.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers rose one basis point to 272.5 and the
subordinated index increased one basis point to 443.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($12.2 million) of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  