-- Google Said to Face EU Demand for Mobile in Antitrust Settlement
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-20T18:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/google-said-to-face-eu-demand-for-mobile-in-antitrust-settlement.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is being urged by
European Union regulators to include mobile applications as part
of an offer to modify its search engine and end an antitrust
probe, according to two people familiar with the situation.  Google made a proposal to the European Commission earlier
this month to respond to EU concerns that the operator of the
world’s largest search engine discriminates against rivals. EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said last month that he
would send Google a formal antitrust complaint if the company’s
commitments were unsatisfactory.  Regulators want Google to extend the offer to mobile
applications for smartphones and tablet computers, according to
the people who can’t be identified because the negotiations
aren’t public. Google is concerned that the EU request may make
it more difficult for users to use its search apps, one of the
people said.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
 Argentina  and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google, said in an e-mail that
the company continues to work cooperatively with the commission.  In 2010, the EU’s antitrust agency began investigating
claims Google discriminated against other services in its search
results and stopped some websites from accepting competitors’
ads. While  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post
last year, citing data from regulators.  The Financial Times reported the EU request yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 