-- GSA Spent $269,000 on One-Day Conference After Las Vegas Junket
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-07-20T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/gsa-spent-269-000-on-one-day-conference-after-las-vegas-junket.html
The  General Services Administration 
held a one-day event at a cost topping a quarter of a million
dollars less than a month after spending more than $823,000 at a
Las Vegas conference that triggered a shake-up of the agency.  The GSA’s inspector general is investigating a $269,000
awards ceremony that featured a guitarist, violinist and $21,000
in drumsticks given to participants, according to a letter
yesterday from Inspector General  Brian Miller  to Senator  Claire McCaskill , chairman of a Senate subcommittee on contracting
oversight. The event in November 2010 took place in Arlington,
 Virginia , about a 12-minute drive from the GSA’s offices in
Washington.  U.S. lawmakers have been scrutinizing the agency since an
April 2 report by the inspector general exposed lavish spending
at a gathering at the M Resort Spa Casino in Henderson,  Nevada ,
near Las Vegas. GSA Administrator Martha Johnson resigned amid
the scandal and the inspector general has referred the matter to
the  Department of Justice .  “I’m cautiously optimistic that uncovering these past
abuses of taxpayer dollars means a new era of accountability and
transparency at an agency that has sorely lacked both,”
McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement.
“There’s a new sheriff at GSA, and it’s good to see that he’s
turning over every rock to find wrongdoing and correct the
abuses of the past.”  Administrative Investigation  Dan Tangherlini, who replaced Johnson as GSA acting
administrator in April, brought the incident to the inspector
general’s attention, according to Miller’s letter. Miller wrote
that his office has “opened an administrative investigation.”  “Under the new GSA leadership, this event and type of
spending is not tolerated,” Betsaida Alcantara, GSA’s
communications director, said in an e-mailed statement.  The agency has been holding the awards ceremonies since
2002, Alcantara said.  The GSA’s awards ceremony in 2010 had a “whole host of
questionable charges,” Representative  John Mica , a  Florida 
Republican who heads the House transportation committee, which
in part oversees GSA, said at a press conference yesterday.  Mica said his committee is also investigating the event at
the Crystal Gateway Marriott. In addition to the drumsticks, it
included $21,000 in catering charges and $28,000 for 4,000
“time temperature picture frames,” according to Miller’s
letter.  Lease Issue  The committee plans to hold a hearing on the Virginia
event, possibly within the month, said Justin Harclerode, a
spokesman for Mica’s committee.  The transportation committee had been working in harmony
with Tangherlini until this week, Mica said. He said the acting
administrator was “subverting” the committee’s process with
regard to approving leases.  Mica said he was looking at potential legislation to “take
GSA out of the property management business, period.”  The GSA manages property and purchases goods and services
for other government agencies. Alcantara didn’t respond
specifically to Mica’s comment on leases.  Taxpayers have funded at least $27.8 million in GSA
conferences since 2005, almost a third of it spent in the
popular vacation spots of  Las Vegas ,  New Orleans  and  Orlando ,
Florida.  Tripled Conference Costs  The agency almost tripled its expenditures for such events
from 2005 to 2010, according to a June 13 Bloomberg story based
on data obtained through the Freedom of Information Act. The GSA
has paid for more than 200 overnight gatherings attended by at
least 50 of the agency’s employees since 2005.  The agency spent $840,616 on the Las Vegas event, which
featured a clown and a mind reader, according to the records,
about $17,000 more than the inspector general previously
reported.  Tangherlini told lawmakers in April that he had canceled 35
GSA conferences in response to the inspector general report,
saving taxpayers $995,686. On April 15, he issued a memorandum
stating that “all travel for internal GSA meetings, training,
conferences, seminars, leadership or management events” would
be suspended until the end of the fiscal year, with some
exceptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in  Washington  at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  