-- Li Ka-shing Gives Elder Son Victor Bigger Share of Family Trust
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-07-20T06:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/li-ka-shing-gives-elder-son-victor-bigger-share-of-family-trust.html
Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s richest man,
transferred a one-third stake in a family trust from son Richard
to elder brother Victor, moving to consolidate succession
planning for an empire worth more than HK$850 billion ($110
billion).  Victor Li’s holdings in the trust, which controls Hong
Kong-listed  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ,
will increase to about HK$290 billion, Winnie Cheong, a
spokeswoman for  Cheung Kong , Li Ka-shing’s flagship developer,
said in a phone interview today.  The elder Li, 14th on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index with
a net worth of $23.9 billion, has been nicknamed “Superman” by
the local media after expanding Cheung Kong Group across
industries including property, ports and energy in more than 50
countries. Victor Li will run Cheung Kong and Hutchison in the
future, Li Ka-shing said in May, adding that he has no immediate
plans to retire.  The 83-year-old billionaire also said in May he will offer
financial support to allow  Richard Li  to build businesses
outside of the family’s Cheung Kong Group of companies.  Richard Li is in talks with “several sizeable
enterprises” for possible acquisitions, the elder Li said at
the time, without identifying the targets. Li Ka-shing said he
has set aside funding for Richard Li that is “multiple times”
his son’s current assets.  Richard Li acquired a fund management firm from  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2010 and has pursued an independent
business career since quitting as a director of Hutchison
Whampoa in 2000.  Cheung Kong’s shares rose 1.5 percent to HK$101.80 at 1:18
p.m. in Hong Kong, the biggest gainer in the seven-member Hang
Seng Property Index. Hutchison, Li’s biggest company with
business ranging from telecommunication to retail, rose 0.7
percent to HK$71.40.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  