-- Microsoft Contracts Gain as Companies Upgrade Software
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-20T20:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/microsoft-multiyear-contracts-gain-as-companies-upgrade-software.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  had a bigger gain in
multiyear software deals than analysts predicted last quarter, a
sign that businesses are flocking to the company’s programs as
consumers delay purchases or opt for competitors.  Fourth-quarter unearned revenue, a yardstick of future
sales, was $20.1 billion in the three months that ended June 30,
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said yesterday in a
statement. Analysts on average expected $19.4 billion, according
to  Heather Bellini , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Bellini’s own estimate was for $18.9 billion.  Unearned sales got a boost as companies placed long-term
orders for such products as Office and  database software .
Business buying helped compensate for diminished demand from
consumers awaiting the Oct. 26 release of Windows 8, the next
version of Microsoft’s main operating system, or opting for
tablets made by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and other computer manufacturers.  “Microsoft is a very strong enterprise player, Tony Ursillo, an analyst at Loomis Sayles & Co., said in an interview
yesterday. ‘‘There was lots evidence in tonight’s report that
they are a force to be reckoned with in the enterprise.’’  Profit -- excluding a writedown that gave Microsoft its
first loss as a publicly traded company -- also topped estimates
after Microsoft reined in expenses. Excluding the writedown,
related to the purchase of AQuantive Inc., profit was 67 cents a
share. That exceeded the 62-cent average estimate  compiled by
Bloomberg . Sales rose 4 percent to $18.1 billion, compared with
the $18.2 billion average projection.  Expense Reduction  Sales and marketing costs dropped 3.5 percent to $3.78
billion. Those savings, as well as a  tax rate  that was lower
than analysts had predicted, contributed to profit, Microsoft
Chief Financial Officer  Peter Klein  said in an interview.  Microsoft shares  fell 1.8 percent to $30.12 at the close in
 New York . The stock has gained 16 percent this year. It fell 5.2
percent in the three months through the end of June, compared
with a 3.3 percent  drop  for the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  During the quarter, Microsoft wrote down $6.2 billion for
the impairment of goodwill related to its $6.3 billion purchase
of Internet-advertising company AQuantive, an indication the
company’s online business won’t grow as quickly as Microsoft
once projected. That non-cash charge is not factored into
analysts’ quarterly profit estimates.  Microsoft said operating expenses for the year that began
July 1 will be $30.3 billion to $30.9 billion, reiterating a
projection made in April.  PC Weakness  Revenue in the Windows division fell 13 percent to $4.15
billion, below the $4.44 billion average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That was the fifth time in seven quarters
that the unit has fallen short.  Consumer PC demand was weaker than corporate demand in the
period, as was the case in other recent quarters, Klein said.
The trend will probably start reversing with the release of
Windows 8, he said. He declined to give a projection. Windows
sales have suffered as some consumers opt for tablets instead of
cheaper laptops running Windows.  ‘‘Windows 8 has to work for them,” Ursillo said. “Tablets
are a big phenomenon on the consumer side, and it’s a big pool
of revenue that Microsoft needs to participate in.”  Global PC shipments stalled in the quarter, marking a
seventh-straight quarter of tepid growth, amid weakness in
 Europe  and the growing popularity of tablets, research released
this month by Gartner Inc. showed.  Top chipmaker  Intel Corp. (INTC)  this week scaled back its annual
sales forecast as personal computer-demand fails to rebound
among consumers in the U.S. and Europe.  Low Expectations  Tablets with Windows 8, including Microsoft’s first-ever
foray into the computer hardware market with its own Surface
tablet, are set to go on sale Oct. 26. Until then, Microsoft
won’t be able to materially reverse the trend of customers
defecting to rivals’ tablets, Klein has said.  Sales in the Business Division, largely made up of Office
software, rose 7.1 percent to $6.29 billion. That compares with
the $6.35 billion average analyst estimate.  The company is also in the final stages of development on a
new version of Office, code-named Office 15, which was unveiled
and released in a public test version this month.  Server and Tools revenue rose 13 percent to $5.09 billion.
Analysts had estimated $5.18 billion, on average.  Revenue in Entertainment and Devices, the unit that
includes the Xbox gaming console, rose 20 percent to $1.78
billion. That compares with a $1.66 billion average estimate.  “It was a great fourth-quarter for them in terms of
signing contracts,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC
Partners LP. “Let’s be honest, it wasn’t the highest bar for
them this quarter because of the poor macroeconomic environment
and the PC market. People weren’t expecting that much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  