-- Lieberman Revamps Cybersecurity Bill to Boost Senate Chances
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-07-20T19:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/lieberman-revamps-cybersecurity-bill-to-boost-senate-chances.html
Senator  Joe Lieberman  offered a
revamped version of his U.S. cyber defense bill, altering
elements opposed by some Republicans as he seeks to build
support for the stalled measure.  The revised proposal introduced yesterday would set up
voluntary incentives for operators of critical infrastructure
such as power grids and chemical plants to improve security
against computer attacks. Lieberman’s original bill would have
allowed the Department of  Homeland Security  to create mandatory
security standards for infrastructure.  “We are going to try carrots instead of sticks as we begin
to improve our cyber defenses,” Lieberman, a Connecticut
independent, said in an e-mailed statement. “If that doesn’t
work, a future Congress will undoubtedly come back and adopt a
more coercive system.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, will
probably take the first procedural step toward a vote on
Lieberman’s measure after the Senate finishes with a tax bill,
which could be as early as the middle of next week, said Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Reid. The Senate’s summer recess is
scheduled to start Aug. 6.  The revised measure would create a National Cybersecurity
Council, led by the secretary of Homeland Security, to work with
industry groups to develop voluntary standards on the best ways
to defend against computer attacks. It would offer benefits,
such as liability protection and expedited government security
clearances, to owners of critical infrastructure who meet those
standards, according to Lieberman’s statement.  Obama Support  “This is exactly the kind of responsible, collaborative
approach to an urgent national-security challenge that Americans
expect but that Washington too rarely provides,” President
 Barack Obama  wrote in a commentary for the Wall Street Journal,
released by the White House. He urged the Senate to pass
Lieberman’s compromise measure.  Lieberman’s original bill drew opposition from some
Republicans for setting mandatory requirements for
infrastructure. They said it would saddle companies with
bureaucracy and fail to keep pace with evolving hacker threats.  ‘Best Chance’  The proposed compromise “represents the Senate’s best
chance to pass cyber legislation this year,” said Republican
 Susan Collins  of Maine, a co-sponsor of the measure. “Our bill
is a good-faith effort to address the concerns of members of
both sides of the aisle by establishing a framework that relies
upon the expertise of government and the innovation of the
private sector.”  Democrats  Jay Rockefeller  of West Virginia,  Dianne Feinstein  of California and Tom Carper of Delaware also co-
sponsored the measure.  Lawmakers have so far failed to reach consensus on an
approach for protecting U.S. networks from cyber espionage and
potential disruption of vital assets such as utilities and
transportation networks that are connected to the Internet.  The Republican-controlled House passed legislation in April
that would encourage voluntary sharing of cyber threat
information between businesses and government without setting
security requirements. Eight Senate Republicans, including  John McCain  of Arizona, introduced a similar measure.  Brian Rogers , a spokesman for McCain, declined to comment
on the revised bill proposed by Lieberman, who is chairman of
the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee.  Avoiding Gridlock  A group of senators took to the Senate floor yesterday to
argue for the need to strengthen protections for privately owned
infrastructure. The group included Democrats Sheldon Whitehouse
of  Rhode Island , Barbara Mikulski of Maryland,  Richard Blumenthal  of Connecticut, Christopher Coons of Delaware and
Republican Roy Blunt of Missouri.  “I don’t want to wake up one day and find out America’s
been hit because of gridlock here,” Mikulski said.  Whitehouse and Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican, had
been working on a compromise proposal that would use voluntary
incentives rather than requirements to spur infrastructure
companies to boost their digital defenses.  The revised Lieberman bill made significant privacy
improvements in its information-sharing provisions, such as
having companies share data with civilian rather than military
agencies, Michelle Richardson, legislative counsel for the
 American Civil Liberties Union , said in an interview.  The ACLU and other civil-liberties groups had criticized
the original Lieberman measure as well as the McCain and House
bills, saying they didn’t provide adequate privacy safeguards
for sensitive consumer data that might be exchanged.  Lieberman’s revised bill is S. 3414. The McCain bill is S.
3342. The House bill is H.R. 3523.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 