-- Cinema Security Tightened After ‘Dark Knight’ Shootings
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-07-20T16:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/time-warner-cancels-batman-premiere-in-paris-after-deaths.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  canceled the Paris
premiere for “The  Dark Knight  Rises,” and  New York City 
deployed police officers to cinemas showing the Batman film
after a gunman killed at least 12 people at a Colorado theater.  As many as 50 were shot when the gunman wearing a gas mask
set off a tear gas bomb and opened fire at about 12:30 a.m. in
the theater in Aurora, Colorado, operated by  Cinemark (CNK)  Holdings
Inc. Police found explosives in the home of a 24-year-old man
arrested at the adjacent shopping mall, Aurora Police Chief Dan Oates told reporters.  “The Dark Knight Rises” was expected to be one of New
York-based Time Warner’s biggest movie of the year. The film was
projected to generate as much as $198 million in U.S. ticket
sales in its first weekend, which would be the second-best ever.  “ Warner Bros . and the filmmakers are deeply saddened to
learn about this shocking incident,” the Burbank, California-
based studio said today in a statement. “We extend our sincere
sympathies to the families and loved ones of the victims at this
tragic time.”  The studio halted plans for the red-carpet debut of the new
Batman film in France. Interviews with stars  Christian Bale  and
 Anne Hathaway , and director  Christopher Nolan  were called off,
according to the statement.  Time Warner was little changed at $39.12 at 12:20 p.m. in
New York. Cinemark, based in Plano, Texas, declined 3.8 percent
to $23.35. It’s the third-largest cinema operator in the U.S.  New York City Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said the
department would deploy officers to showings of the film in the
five boroughs as a precaution against copycats and to ensure
public safety.  Theater Statement  “Cinemark is deeply saddened about this tragic incident,”
James Meredith, a company executive, said in a statement. “We
are grateful for the quick and professional reaction of all
local  law enforcement  and emergency responders.”  President  Barack Obama  said the federal government would do
whatever is necessary to bring the responsible parties to
justice and to ensure public safety.  “My daughters go to the movies,” Obama said in Fort
Myers,  Florida . “What if Malia and Sasha had been at the
theater?”  The alleged shooter was identified as James Holmes, 24.
Oates, Aurora’s police chief, described the suspect’s apartment
as “booby-trapped.”  Sales Projections  The movie, which opened today, marks the third and final
Batman pairing of actor Bale with director Nolan.  Los Angeles 
Times critic Kenneth Turan, in a favorable review, called it
“the bleakest, most despairing superhero film ever made.”  Knoxville, Tennessee-based  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , the
largest U.S. theater operator, said it would adjust security as
necessary.  Carmike Cinemas Inc. (CKEC) , based in Columbus Georgia, said
it already employs uniformed and plainclothes police officers
for security.  “Police reports indicate the suspect acted on his own,”
Terrell Mayton, a Carmike spokesman, said in an interview.
“There’s no evidence of any continuing threat. That’s what
we’re being told.”  In the latest film, the Caped Crusader comes out of
retirement to fight the villain Bane, who bombs roads in and out
of Gotham City and triggers class warfare between the haves and
have-nots.  Batman Marathon  Film fans at the theater in Aurora initially thought the
incident was part of the movie, after the suspect pushed through
a security door, set off the tear gas bomb and began shooting.  “I thought it was firecrackers or fireworks I didn’t think
it was anything serious,” said Donovan Tate, 19, who was
watching the movie in the theater next door to the one where the
shooting occurred.  Some moviegoers had spent the afternoon watching the first
two pictures in the Nolan-directed Batman trilogy. Tate bought
tickets in advance with his football buddies, according to his
mother Arlene Tate, 44.  ‘Total Disregard’  “It’s really sad in this time and age you can’t go out and
enjoy a movie,” she said. “Some people have a total disregard
for life.”  The picture took in $28 million in midnight showings,
beating the $18.7 million gross recorded for Walt Disney Co.’s
“Marvel’s The Avengers,” the top-selling film this year,
according analyst  Eric Wold  at B. Riley & Co. in  San Francisco .  “A lot of people, a lot of parents will re-evaluate
whether they send their children to a theater, not just this
movie, any movie,” Wold said.  Matt Harrigan, an analyst with Wunderlich Securities Inc.
in Denver, said he would be less concerned as a investor in Time
Warner and more concerned about impact on Cinemark.  The shooting, Harrigan said, was “certainly enough for mom
to stop a 12-year-old from going alone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  