-- Impossible for Traders at 5 Banks to Rig Euribor Rates, EBF Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-07-20T10:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/impossible-for-traders-at-5-banks-to-rig-euribor-rates-ebf-says.html
Traders at five banks would have
found it impossible to successfully manipulate the euro
interbank lending rate known as Euribor, said the head of the
European Banking Federation.  “It’s impossible for those five banks to really have an
impact on the daily Euribor index,” Guido Ravoet, the EBF’s
chief executive officer, told Bloomberg Television in an
interview today. “You need at least more than 15 banks really
aligning their quotes to have any effect on the Euribor.”  Confidence in the Euribor and London interbank offered
rate, or Libor, benchmarks for trillion of dollars’ worth of
financial products worldwide, has been dented by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
admission that it submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond , who
resigned as London-based Barclays’s CEO after the bank was fined
290 million pounds ($455 million), told British lawmakers this
month that other banks also lowballed Libor submissions.  Ravoet said in a separate interview that he had no direct
knowledge of whether any traders had attempted to rig Euribor
and was referring to press articles that cited the involvement
of traders at five banks.  He said he is confident that Euribor rates weren’t
successfully manipulated because of the difficulty of
coordinating rates between the 44 banks on the panel.  “They can have an attempt to do it but we are quite sure
that there is no impact on the integrity” of the rate, Ravoet
said on Bloomberg TV. “We condemn very strongly the wrongdoing
of some traders” and their apparent attempts to fix the rate.  Antitrust Raids  Barclays’s submitters received at least 58 requests for how
they should report the Euribor rate from September 2005 to May
2009, 20 of them from traders at other banks, the U.K. Financial
Services Authority said last month. Short-term interest-rate
contracts valued at 241 trillion euros ($295 trillion) are based
on the three-month Euribor futures contract, making it the
world’s fourth-largest interest-rate futures contract by volume,
the FSA said.  European Union antitrust regulators in October raided banks
that offer financial derivatives linked to the Euribor rates,
saying they were investigating possible collusion. The European
Commission is also separately reviewing the governance of
interbank lending rates, which are based on banks’ own estimates
of what it would cost to lend or borrow every day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 