-- Hingis Sees More Wins for Former Ball Boy Federer
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-07-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/hingis-sees-more-wins-for-former-ball-boy-federer.html
Martina Hingis  defeated Timea Babos,
a Hungarian teenager ranked 66th in the world, 5-3 in  World Team
Tennis  on Randall’s Island last week, as snippets of Journey and
Pearl Jam were broadcast between points.  The coed league that  Billie Jean King  helped start in 1974
features music, on-court coaching and sets that end when a
player wins five games, not six. That makes it easier for
retired stars to play singles, doubles and mixed doubles in an
evening.  “I felt sore for two days after my first match, and it
didn’t even seem that hard, right?” Hingis, 31, said days later
in an interview at the Sportime facility on Randall’s Island,
home of the WTT’s  New York Sportimes . “I’m not 17 anymore.”  Thirteen years after she won the last of her five grand
slam singles titles, Hingis’s rapid patter still suggests the
ebullience of a teenage prodigy. Her life as a retiree,
following $20.1 million of career prize money, doesn’t sound
bad. In addition to WTT, she plays exhibitions, works with elite
juniors at a Paris tennis academy and occasionally rides horses
and jumps competitively.  In 2010, she married Thibault Hutin, a French show jumper
six years her junior. For fun, they play golf. She recently
started working with a Vancouver apparel company,  Tonic , on her
own line of tennis wear.  ‘Pretty Cool’  It’s Hingis’s fifth season playing WTT. She said she
particularly enjoys the camaraderie and the doubles, a game in
which she won nine grand slam titles.  “You have your teammate, you help each other out,” she
said. “Even on a day when you’re not feeling great you have
someone to lift you up and vice versa. I think it’s pretty
cool.”  To a first-time visitor, a surprise of WTT is how seriously
players take it, running down balls and questioning the umpire’s
calls. They have a financial incentive, with bonuses for
performance. Base pay is $15,000 to $25,000 per 14-match season,
said Chuck Adams, a former world No. 34 who coaches the
Sportimes. Hingis earns about $7,000 a match, plus bonus.  Her racket skills are near her peak, Adams said. “She’s
consistently beating girls who are (ranked) 60 to 80 in the
world, which isn’t easy to do,” he said.  Sweep  Last night, she won in singles, doubles and mixed doubles -
- pairing with  John McEnroe  to best Andre Agassi and Carly
Gullickson-Eagle.  “Come on, harder,” Hingis playfully taunted Agassi after
he smacked a first serve long against her.  “I don’t want to get in a rally with you,” Agassi
replied. “It’s embarrassing.” (Earlier, Agassi beat McEnroe in
singles.)  Although three months younger than  Venus Williams , Hingis
has no plans for a comeback.  “Sometimes it’s tempting, if I feel good out there and I’m
playing well,” she said. “But I know the grind behind it. It’s
not just playing one match. It’s another match and another match
and another match. The week-after-week living out of the bag,
the lifestyle and everything, I don’t miss that at all.”  Hingis retired from the pro tour in 2007 after she
disclosed that she tested positive for cocaine while competing
at Wimbledon. She repeatedly denied taking any recreational
drugs. Her two-year suspension by the  International Tennis
Federation  ended in 2009.  Midway through Wimbledon last month, she presciently
blogged that the prime beneficiary of  Rafael Nadal ’s second-
round loss was her countryman  Roger Federer , who decades earlier
worked as a ball boy at a tournament that she played in Basel.  “He has a great chance to win the Olympics,” she said in
the interview, which was before the reigning Olympic tennis
champion, Rafael Nadal, announced that he was dropping out.  The WTT regular season continues through July 28 around the
U.S.  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Craig
Seligman  on film.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 