-- Insider Traders Face Longer Sentences as Judges Get Tough
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-07-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/insider-traders-face-longer-sentences-as-judges-get-tough.html
Inside traders have more to fear
when they stand before  Manhattan  federal judges for sentencing.  Since Jan. 1, 2011, the judges have sent the average
violator to prison for more than 22 months, according to an
analysis of sentencing data by Bloomberg News. That was a
20 percent increase from the average term of 18.4 months during
the previous eight years.  The harsher sentences come three years into a federal
crackdown on insider trading on  Wall Street . Since August 2009,
federal prosecutors in Manhattan have charged 71 people with
insider trading and won 65 convictions, with six cases still
pending. Some of those convicted, including former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta , are awaiting sentencing.  “There are different insider-trading cases now,” Ellen Podgor, a professor at Stetson University College of Law in
Gulfport, Florida, said. “You look at the individuals they’re
going after now -- it’s a higher level.”  Judges in  Manhattan federal court  are also slightly more
likely to send offenders to prison. Twenty-one of 36 defendants
sentenced for insider trading since the start of 2011 -- or 58
percent -- were jailed. By comparison, 24 of the 43 defendants
sentenced from 2003 through 2010, or 56 percent, lost their
freedom. Of late, most of those who avoided prison cooperated
with the government.  The longer terms for insider trading are consistent with
lengthier terms nationally for all forms of fraud. According to
U.S. Sentencing Commission statistics, the average sentence in
fraud cases in fiscal 2011 rose to 23 months from 14.4 months
eight years earlier, a 60 percent increase.  “White-collar sentences all across the U.S. are going
up,” Podgor said in a phone interview.  Galleon, Rajaratnam  Most of those sentenced in Manhattan since 2011 have been
connected to hedge fund Galleon Group LLC or the expert-
networking firm  Primary Global Research LLC . Other cases
involved unrelated tips about  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Human Genome
Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  and Mariner Energy Inc. The crackdown has been
focused in  New York  because it is home to many of the banks,
 hedge funds  and  stock exchanges  where the crimes took place.  The longest prison terms were imposed last year on Raj Rajaratnam, 55, the Galleon co-founder who got 11 years, and ex-
Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer , who was sentenced to 10 years. Gupta,
63, who was convicted by a jury last month, will be sentenced on
Oct. 18 for leaking tips to Rajaratnam. Prosecutors in the
office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan haven’t
recommended a prison term for him yet.  Inmates who behave well in prison may see their sentences
cut by 14.8 percent, said Ed Ross, a  Federal Bureau of Prisons 
spokesman.  Longest Sentence  Bloomberg’s analysis is based on decisions by almost 30
judges in 79 cases since 2003. It focuses on cases only in
Manhattan, where the crackdown has been centered. Judges
elsewhere have imposed lengthy terms, including the 12-year
sentence in  New Jersey  on June 4 for attorney  Matthew Kluger ,
the longest ever in an insider case.  Longer sentences reflect “the breadth of the insider-
trading problem,” said  Richard Holwell , the judge who sentenced
Rajaratnam and is now a partner in the New York firm  Holwell
Shuster & Goldberg LLP . Such cases today involve “more
systemic” wrongdoing, compared to previous ones involving one
or two tips, he said.  “There can be an incremental effect” on sentencing “when
a particular area becomes a public concern,” Holwell said in a
phone interview.  For insider trading, Holwell said many of his former
colleagues on the bench believe they need to “send a message”
through tougher sentences.  Trials Risky  The records confirm what defense attorneys have been
telling clients in recent years: It’s risky to take a case to a
jury. All of the seven defendants who have gone to trial in
Manhattan since Jan. 1, 2011, were found guilty, including
Rajaratnam, Goffer and Gupta. The average sentence after trial
was 58 months, compared with 22 months during the same time for
18 who pleaded guilty.  Cooperating with the government has kept some of those
convicted out of jail. Since the start of 2011, judges have
sentenced 12 defendants who admitted their guilt and agreed to
provide evidence for prosecutors. Cooperators have secretly
recorded their friends and colleagues, interpreted documents and
worked in other ways with federal agents.  Eleven of the cooperators avoided prison altogether,
according to the data. One got six months.  “It’s important that cooperating witnesses do get lower
sentences,” said Christopher Garcia, former chief of the
 securities fraud  unit in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
Manhattan. “The hope of reduced sentences is a powerful tool
for prosecutors in persuading and encouraging people to make
cases against others.”  Kumar’s ‘Amends’  Anil Kumar , a former McKinsey & Co. director who testified
against both Rajaratnam and Gupta, was sentenced yesterday to
probation. U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin  cited Kumar’s
“extraordinary cooperation” and his effort to “make amends
for what he did.”  Judges in most insider cases imposed terms less than those
recommended by the Sentencing Commission’s guidelines, according
to court records.  Rajaratnam, facing from 19 years to 24 1/2 years under the
guidelines, got 11 years behind bars. Holwell explained at
sentencing that Rajaratnam was sick and had a history of doing
charitable works.  Sentencing Critic  In another case, James Fleishman, a Primary Global
executive convicted of leaking tips, got 30 months when the
guidelines called for a term of 87 to 108 months. U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff, who has been critical of the sentencing
guidelines, handed down the sentence.  James Felman, a lawyer in Tampa, Florida, who serves as the
 American Bar Association ’s liaison to the Sentencing Commission,
said many judges are willing to undercut the harsh terms urged
by the guidelines in white-collar cases. The U.S. Supreme Court
ruled in 2005 that the guidelines were no longer mandatory.  “All guideline sentences have been increasing,” Felman
said in a phone interview. Of the recommended white-collar
sentences, he said that “even the government is aware they’re
frequently too high.”  Still, a conviction for  insider trading  almost always means
prison time for non-cooperating defendants. Of 24 non-
cooperators who pleaded guilty or were convicted at a trial
during the period measured here, 20 were ordered imprisoned for
an average of 33 months. The four spared played minor roles in
the schemes, judges said.  Judges take different approaches to sentencing.  Rakoff, who sentenced Fleishman and seven others, routinely
imposed less than half the maximum time recommended by the
guidelines.  Goffer, Goldfarb  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who has sentenced 11
inside traders since the start of 2011, hews closer to the
recommendations.  He gave Goffer a 120-month term when the guidelines
suggested a minimum of 121 months. He ordered former lawyer
Jason Goldfarb, who pleaded guilty, to serve 36 months when the
guidelines suggested at least 37. Both were convicted of passing
tips stolen from the law firm Ropes & Gray LLP.  “The judge you draw in a financial-crime situation is
extremely important,” said Barry Slotnick, a defense lawyer at
Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC in New York, declining to comment
on any specific one. “You have to hope you get a judge who has
a sense of leniency or that you are acquitted by a jury.”  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to comment
on sentencing trends. Rakoff and Sullivan also declined to
comment.  Illegal Profit  Under the guidelines, no factor is more important in
calculating a suggested sentence than the amount of money
involved in white-collar schemes, said Felman. That’s consistent
with how New York judges have sentenced defendants.  In May, for example, former  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) 
accountant Stanley Ng was sentenced by Rakoff to probation after
his lawyer argued that he made no money by passing a few tips.  On the other hand, Craig Drimal, a trader who worked at
Galleon, was sentenced by Sullivan to 5 1/2 years after
admitting he traded on tips from Goffer. Drimal, whose sentence
was the third-longest in the past 18 months, earned $6.5 million
in illicit profits.  The next-longest sentences went to former FrontPoint
Partners LLC fund manager Joseph “Chip” Skowron, who got five
years for trading on tips from a drug company’s adviser;
Winifred Jiau, an ex-Primary Global consultant sentenced to four
years after being convicted at trial of leaking news; and
Goldfarb and Emanuel Goffer, Zvi’s brother, who got three-year
terms.  Difficult Calculation  Lawmakers and the Sentencing Commission, an independent
agency of the federal courts, have pushed criminal penalties
ever higher for white-collar offenses since the guidelines took
effect in 1987, Felman said. Insider trading under the law is a
form of securities fraud.  Fortunately for inside traders, it’s sometimes difficult to
calculate the amount of money involved in their schemes,
especially compared with accounting fraud cases where a company
stock drops precipitously, Felman said. He added that it may be
difficult in an insider case to calculate the number of victims,
another factor that influences the recommended sentence.  “Insider trading is a peculiar type of securities fraud
where the loss, or the harm, is a little less tangible,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  