-- Lira Weakens Second Day as Spain’s Debt Woes Hurt Risk Appetite
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-07-20T14:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/lira-weakens-second-day-as-spain-s-debt-woes-hurt-risk-appetite.html
The lira weakened for a second day
after the Valencia region in  Spain  said it will tap the
country’s financing facility, spurring concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis is worsening and hurting demand for riskier assets.  The Turkish currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 1.8092 per
dollar, paring its weekly gain to 0.1 percent. Yields on two-
year benchmark debt rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.77 percent after falling in the four previous days
to their lowest level since September.  Valencia may face default if it doesn’t receive more
financial aid from the central government, El Mundo reported
today, citing the president of the region, Alberto Fabra.  Turkey 
sends about 40 percent of its exports to Europe. The Turkish
central bank omitted a reference to “extra tightening” in a
statement it released yesterday after leaving  interest rates 
unchanged in its monetary policy meeting.  “Markets switched suddenly into risk off mode on the back
of the news that Valencia is seeking aid from the Spanish
government to repay its debt,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed
comments.  The central bank held its benchmark one-week rate at 5.75
percent and the overnight lending rate at 11.5 percent at its
policy meeting. It will lend a cumulative minimum of 3 billion
liras ($1.65 billion) in its one-week repo auction at its lowest
funding rate between today and Aug. 2, compared with 6 billion
liras in the previous two-week period, the Ankara-based bank
said today.  Liquidity  Governor Erdem Basci executes his monetary policy through a
rates corridor, adjusting borrowing costs between 5.75 percent
and 11.5 percent daily to control credit growth and the current-
account deficit while reining in inflation.  The proportion of lira reserves lenders keep with the
central bank in foreign exchange was increased by 5 percentage
points to 55 percent yesterday. The change, effective from Aug.
3, may add $2.9 billion to the bank’s reserves and brings an
additional 2.8 billion liras ($1.6 billion) to the market, a
statement on the bank’s website said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  