-- J&J Appeals $1.2 Billion Arkansas Risperdal Ruling
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-07-20T20:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/j-j-files-appeal-of-1-2-billion-arkansas-risperdal-ruling.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  appealed an
 Arkansas  judge’s decision to fine the drugmaker $1.2 billion
over what state officials said was a misleading marketing
campaign for the company’s antipsychotic drug Risperdal.  Lawyers for  J&J, the world’s biggest health-products
maker, asked the  Arkansas Supreme Court  today to throw out a
ruling by Judge  Tim Fox  that the company misled doctors and
patients about Risperdal’s risks and should pay fines for almost
240,000 violations of the state’s Medicaid laws, according to
court filings.  J&J and its Janssen unit are seeking to have the state’s
highest court consider laws that prohibit “imposition of
excessive fines,” the company’s attorneys said in the filing.  The penalty is the largest of the three handed down so far
against  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J in state cases
alleging the company hid Risperdal’s risks and tricked Medicaid
regulators into paying more than they should have for the
medicine.  “We anticipated that the defendants would appeal this
decision, but are confident that the verdict of an Arkansas jury
will be upheld,”  Aaron Sadler , a spokesman for Arkansas
Attorney General Dustin McDaniel, said in an e-mailed statement.  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. The drug
generated $3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of J&J’s
 revenue , according to company filings. Sales of the drug fell to
$527 million in 2010, according to earnings reports.  Risperdal Probe  Along with contending that J&J and Janssen defrauded the
Medicaid program by failing to properly outline the medicine’s
risks, Arkansas officials alleged J&J officials deceptively
marketed the drug as safer and better than competing medicines.  The state’s lawyers also argued that J&J marketed the drug
for “unapproved uses, including various symptoms in children
and the elderly” after being warned by federal authorities to
halt such sales.  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations that the company marketed the
drug for unapproved uses, J&J executives said in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filing last year.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is demanding that J&J pay $2.2
billion to resolve civil and criminal claims over Risperdal
marketing pressed by federal regulators and some state attorneys
general, people familiar with the settlement talks said in June.  Litigation History  J&J and Janssen face suits from at least seven other states
seeking reimbursement for Medicaid or other public funds paid
for Risperdal prescriptions.  In June 2010, a judge threw out  Pennsylvania ’s suit over
the Risperdal marketing campaign in the middle of a trial. An
appeals court is considering whether to reinstate the case.  Four months later, jurors in  Louisiana  ordered the
drugmaker to pay almost $258 million to state officials for
making misleading claims about the drug’s safety. J&J has
appealed.  In June 2011 a South Carolina judge ordered J&J to pay $327
million in penalties for deceptively marketing the medicine. The
company has appealed that ruling. J&J ended the most-recent
trial in  Texas  with a $158 million settlement in January.  The Arkansas case is State of Arkansas v. Ortho-McNeil-
Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc., CV07-15345, Pulaski County Circuit
Court ( Little Rock ) Arkansas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  