-- Jeremy Lin Excited to Rejoin Rockets After Exit From New York
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/jeremy-lin-excited-to-rejoin-rockets-after-exit-from-new-york.html
Jeremy Lin said he’s excited to be
back with the  Houston Rockets  even though he had expected to
return to  New York , where he emerged as a star on and off the
court for the Knicks in less than half a season.  Lin was introduced at a news conference in Houston
yesterday, two days after the Knicks decided not to match the
Rockets’ three-year, $25.1 million contract offer. Lin had been
waived by the Rockets on Dec. 24 last year before joining the
Knicks and going from bench-warmer to starter.  “I don’t see myself as a conquering king, but it’s been an
unbelievable ride,” Lin said yesterday. “Just a lot of things
I didn’t expect to happen in terms of the way last season went.
I still have to kind of remind myself this is all actually
happening sometimes.”  An undrafted Harvard University graduate, the 23-year-old
Lin is the first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in the
 National Basketball Association .  While in New York, he boosted Knicks’ television ratings as
well as merchandise and ticket sales. He now joins a franchise
whose experience with Chinese center  Yao Ming  may have them
better prepared than any other NBA team to reap a financial
windfall from  Asia .  Lin said yesterday that he’s already exchanged messages
with the 7-foot-6 Yao, who played in Houston from 2002 to 2011
and made six All-Star appearances before being forced to retire
from the NBA last year because of foot and ankle injuries.  Even so, Lin said he’s more focused right now on what the
Rockets are able to do on the court and said he’s excited about
having familiarity with the organization.  Knee Surgery  “All I’m trying to do right now is help this team and we
want to win,” Lin said. “We’re not focused on how many
articles are going to be written about us or how big the
spotlight. We want to win, we want to play together and we want
to have fun doing it.”  Lin, who had surgery in April to repair a torn meniscus in
his left knee, will take over as the point guard in Houston
after the Rockets traded Kyle Lowry to the  Toronto Raptors .  Lin said yesterday that, at the start of the NBA’s free
agency period, he expected the Knicks to re-sign him. He also
said that he preferred at the time to remain in New York, where
his unexpected rise spawned the catch-phrase Linsanity.  When the Rockets made him an offer, he said he was excited
about both opportunities.  Lin’s No. 17 jersey was among the NBA’s best sellers last
season and he’ll wear No. 7 with the Rockets. The team has links
on their website to pre-order replica jerseys for $55 and
authentic Lin jerseys for $231.  “We made an error when we let him go,” Rockets owner
Leslie Alexander said of Lin. “We rectified it now.”  Contract Structure  The Knicks’ decision to pass on Lin, a restricted free
agent, may have been based in part on the structure of the
Rockets’ offer. The contract gives Lin $14.8 million in the
third year and under the NBA’s new collective bargaining
agreement would have cost New York $25 million to $35 million
more in the final season because of the league’s luxury tax.  The Knicks signed 39-year-old point guard  Jason Kidd  and
re-acquired point guard  Raymond Felton  in a trade to offset the
loss of Lin, who averaged 14.6 points and 6.2 rebounds in 35
games for the Knicks last season. Lin has played in a total of
64 regular-season NBA games.  “He fits where we are with a young rebuilding team; a team
that is going to grow together,” Rockets coach Kevin McHale
said in an interview with NBA TV. “He is very realistic about
his game and all the things he has to work on. He understands
that he is a work in progress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  