-- JPMorgan Ordered to Identify Witness in Blavatnik Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-07-20T20:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/jpmorgan-ordered-to-identify-witness-in-blavatnik-lawsuit-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was ordered to
identify the person with the most knowledge of possible
regulatory probes of its J.P. Morgan Investment Management and
Chase units related to the labeling of residential real estate-
backed securities as part of a lawsuit by billionaire Len Blavatnik, according to a court filing.  Blavatnik, 55, sued New York-based JPMorgan, the biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, in 2009, claiming it put twice as much
money into risky mortgages as his investment guidelines allowed
while Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  was unloading such
securities from the bank’s books. Blavatnik says the bank lost
$98 million of his funds.  New York state Supreme Court Justice Melvin L. Schweitzer
yesterday ordered JPMorgan to identify the person or provide a
sworn affidavit that there is no such investigation after a
“thorough and appropriate inquiry” within 30 days.  Blavatnik’s lawyers had served JPMorgan with a notice to
name witnesses on a variety of topics, including one related to
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and regulatory probes of
the units, under an agreement to identify witnesses for the
purpose of taking depositions in the case, according to
Schweitzer’s order.  ‘Discovery Disputes’  “There have been a number of discovery disputes in this
case and we’re gratified that the court sees this our way,”
David Elsberg, a lawyer for Blavatnik at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart
& Sullivan in New York, said in a phone interview.  The case is scheduled to go to trial in December, according
to court records.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined
to comment on the ruling in a telephone interview.  JPMorgan objected to the request and refused to identify
the person, saying Blavatnik’s lawyers hadn’t shown that any
such investigation exists or is likely to exist and that it
would be “overly burdensome” to determine, and that any such
probe would be “irrelevant,” according to Schweitzer’s ruling.  “The court finds none of these arguments to be
persuasive,” Schweitzer wrote. “It is not up to” the
plaintiff “to first show the likelihood of an SEC investigation
before it can ask” JPMorgan “to identify any person most
knowledgeable about it,” according to the judge.  Industry Practice  JPMorgan had also said that any such probe would be
irrelevant because it has shown that the way it classified the
investments followed industry practice, an argument that
Schweitzer also rejected.  “‘Industry practice’ in worldwide banking is not always
necessarily synonymous with acceptable or sometimes even lawful
banking practice,” Schweitzer said. So even if J.P. Morgan
Investment Management’s “practice of classifying securities
collateralized by subprime mortgages as asset-backed securities
complied with industry practice, any SEC investigation relating
to that practice would be relevant,” he said.  The case is CMMF LLC v. J.P. Morgan Investment Management
Inc., 601924-09,  New York  State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  