-- Kleiner Loses 2nd Bid to Arbitrate Partner’s Bias Claims
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-07-21T04:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/kleiner-loses-2nd-bid-to-arbitrate-partner-s-bias-claims.html
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,
the U.S. venture capital firm that provided startup financing to
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Amazon.com Inc., lost its second bid to force
partner Ellen Pao to move her sex-discrimination claims to
arbitration rather than proceed with a state lawsuit.  California Judge Harold Kahn in San Francisco said in a
hearing yesterday that he didn’t agree with Kleiner’s position
that Pao’s claims had to be sent to arbitration because they are
connected to agreements for the limited liability companies that
manage Kleiner’s investment funds, which contain arbitration
clauses. No arbitration agreement existed between Pao and
Kleiner, he had ruled on July 10.  “The complaint says the defendant discriminated and
retaliated. The complaint doesn’t name any of the funds,” Kahn
said. “In my view, given that these parties are very
sophisticated, it is extremely odd to think that they would
agree to arbitrate their employment disputes in such a
tangential, circuitous” way.  Kleiner said it would appeal the judge’s decision
“believing it has strong arguments and precedent to move the
matter to arbitration.”  ‘Standard Agreements’  “Ms. Pao, like other partners, signed a variety of
standard agreements and it is these agreements with the managing
LLCs that govern her claims and require, among other things,
that disputes be resolved through arbitration,” Kleiner said in
an e-mailed statement.  On July 10, Kahn rejected the firm’s argument that it had
an agreement with Pao, an employee there since 2005, requiring
the case to be resolved out of court. He allowed Kleiner to
refile its request.  Pao sued the firm May 10 alleging Kleiner treated female
employees unfairly by promoting and compensating them less than
men. She said she was retaliated against after she complained
about sexual harassment.  Pao said in her complaint that in 2006 she “succumbed” to
the advances of a married Kleiner junior partner who had
pressured her to have a sexual relationship. When she ended the
relationship, the co-worker, who was later promoted to senior
partner, retaliated against her over the next five years, she
said in her lawsuit.  Board Positions  Male junior partners at Kleiner were allowed to add
multiple board of director positions and investment sponsorships
each year while female junior partners were limited to one, Pao
alleged in her complaint. Female employees were allocated
smaller shares of the firm’s profits from investment funds it
manages than shares provided to males, Pao claimed.  John Doerr , Kleiner’s lead partner, said the lawsuit is
“without merit,” based on the results of an independent
investigation that found the firm doesn’t discriminate on the
basis of gender. Kleiner took “great care to treat this
situation seriously, swiftly and with integrity,” he said in a
May 30 statement.  Kleiner’s attorneys argued in court filings that Pao must
arbitrate her claims even in the absence of an arbitration
agreement directly between her and the firm. Her claims are
“inextricably intertwined” with agreements for the limited
liability companies that manage investment funds that Pao claims
she is owed money from, lawyers for Kleiner said in court
filings. Those agreements contain arbitration clauses, they
said.  ‘Lucrative Contract’  The limited liability companies provide the benefits that
Pao is seeking, Lynne Hermle, Kleiner’s attorney, told Kahn
yesterday.  “The heart and soul of a discrimination and retaliation
claim is who made the decisions and why they made them,” Hermle
said. “How can equity allow a plaintiff to accept a lucrative
contract, agree in the contract who is providing the benefits,
agree who is not providing the benefits, agree to arbitration
and then only sue an entity that doesn’t provide those
benefits?”  Kleiner can’t be seen as a third-party beneficiary of the
arbitration clause in the funds, Kahn said.  Alan Exelrod, Pao’s attorney, said he was pleased with the
judge’s decision in an interview after the hearing.  The case is is Pao v. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers LLC,
CGC-12-520719, California Superior Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  