-- Kodak Loses Case Against Apple, RIM on Imaging Patent
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-07-20T21:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/kodak-loses-case-against-apple-rim-on-imaging-patent.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  lost its patent
case against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  over digital
image-preview technology, a U.S. trade agency said today in a
decision that could hurt the company’s efforts to get a high
price selling its patents.  Kodak said it will appeal.  The U.S. International Trade Commission upheld a judge’s
findings that neither Apple nor RIM violated Kodak’s rights in
the patent. The commission  said  it agreed with the judge that
the patent claim was invalid. Its reasons for the decision will
be released once both sides have a chance to redact confidential
information.  Kodak has been seeking a victory to force Apple and RIM to
pay licensing fees and bolster the value of the patent
portfolios Kodak intends to sell. Kodak said in a court filing
that Apple alone owes more than $1 billion in royalties. The
dispute has dragged on for about 30 months, almost twice as long
as a typical ITC case.  The patent’s validity “has been upheld in previous
litigation at the ITC, and was affirmed by the U.S. Patent and
Trade Office in the face of two separate challenges, so we are
confident that its validity will ultimately be upheld,” Chris Veronda, a spokesman for Kodak, said in a statement.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, said the company
had no comment.  The patent in the case is in one of two portfolios that
Kodak is selling, which may be its most valuable assets. One
group includes patents for digital-capture technology and the
other covers imaging systems and services.  Appeals Court  Kodak can challenge the decision at a federal appeals court
that specializes in U.S. patent law.  Kodak said last month that 20 parties had signed agreements
to view confidential information ahead of potential bids for its
two patent portfolios. The company plans to announce winning
auction bidders Aug. 13.  Kodak said it has generated more than $3 billion by
licensing the digital-imaging patents to users including Samsung
Electronics Co., LG Electronics Inc., Google Inc.’s Motorola
Mobility unit and Nokia Oyj.  Kodak, which sought  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in
January, filed the ITC case in January 2010. The dispute has
dragged on longer than the typical agency case because the
original judge retired shortly after the commission told him to
reconsider aspects of his findings, and proceedings were delayed
until a new judge was hired.  Research Agreement  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , has claimed it is
the true owner of the image-preview and other Kodak patents
because of a research agreement between the companies in the
1990s. That contention was rejected in the ITC case, and is
pending in a separate lawsuit.  Kodak Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez in March 2011
said a victory at the ITC could force a settlement that would
generate $1 billion in new revenue for the Rochester,  New York- 
based company. Since then, Kodak said in a bankruptcy filing,
potential damages have continued to rise.  Apple and Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM both deny infringing
the patent and challenged its validity. ITC Judge Thomas Pender
in May said the patent was invalid because it was an obvious
variation of earlier work by others related to image processing.  The judge said that, were the patent valid, Apple’s iPhone
3G and RIM’s BlackBerry phones would infringe it, while the
iPhone 3Gs and iPhone 4 would not. The commission said it agreed
with that finding.  Saving Energy  The patented feature, which Kodak claims is used in all
modern cameras, saves energy by previewing low-resolution
versions of a moving image while recording still images at a
high resolution. Pender said it would have been obvious in light
of earlier inventions related to image processing.  Kodak has another case against Apple at the ITC involving
different patents. That case, which also targets mobile phones
made by HTC Corp., is scheduled for trial in February.  Today’s case is: In the Matter of Certain Mobile Telephones
and Wireless Communication Devices Featuring Digital Cameras,
and Components Thereof, 337-703, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  