-- Kremlin Fund, Cartesian Buying $160 Million Stake in Bourse
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-20T10:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/kremlin-fund-teams-with-cartesian-to-invest-in-moscow-exchange.html
The  Russia  Direct Investment Fund, a
Kremlin-backed private equity fund, is teaming up with Cartesian
Capital Group LLC to buy a stake worth about $160 million in the
Moscow Exchange ahead of the bourse’s share sale next year.  RDIF bought a 1.45 percent holding from ZAO UniCredit Bank,
a unit of  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , according to RDIF Chief
Executive Officer  Kirill Dmitriev . New York-based Cartesian,
which was founded by former AIG Capital Partners Inc. President
Peter Yu, has acquired stakes of 1.9 percent and 0.6 percent
from UniCredit, Dmitriev said by phone yesterday.  The Kremlin established RDIF a year ago to help lure
foreign investment in an effort to wean the world’s largest
energy supplier off its dependence on commodity exports. The
deal is Cartesian’s first in a Russian company.  Revenue at the exchange will “dramatically increase” as
President  Vladimir Putin ’s government takes steps to develop the
country’s financial markets, Dmitriev said.  The planned IPO “is going to be more successful and the
operations of the Micex will be strengthened thanks to the
expertise that Cartesian brings to the table,” he said.  The Moscow bourse, led since 2010 by former banker Ruben Aganbegyan, was created when the Micex Stock Exchange merged
with the RTS Exchange in December, and offers stock, bond,
currency and futures trading. The Moscow Exchange will seek more
than $1 billion in its IPO next year “when a market window is
there,” Aganbegyan said in an April 17 interview in New York.  Goldman, BlackRock  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Templeton
Asset Management Ltd. signed an accord with RDIF on June 21 to
invest in Russian companies preparing for IPOs. While the deal
with Cartesian isn’t part of this partnership, “future deals
may come out” of it, Dmitriev said.  “The exchange and the regulators need to create rules that
make the local  capital markets  as attractive as the competing
foreign markets, such as  London ,” Yu, who manages about $2
billion in emerging-market assets as a managing partner at
Cartesian, said by phone today. “Institutional investors need
to continue to expand their equity allocations to participate in
the growth of the market. The more there are natural buyers, the
stronger the IPO market is going to be.”  Cartesian is investing “long-term” in the exchange, Yu
said. The private equity firm bought a franchise for Burger King
restaurants in  China  this year.  $160 Million  RDIF’s stake will increase to 2.7 percent after the
purchase, Dmitriev said. The fund acquired 1.25 percent in
January in a joint deal with the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, which obtained 6.29 percent of
the bourse.  The total 3.9 percent stake that RDIF and Cartesian are
buying is worth about $160 million, based on a 129 billion ruble
($4 billion) estimate for the value of the bourse by Tatyana Elizarova, an analyst at IFC Metropol.  Other shareholders include Russia’s central bank and OAO
Sberbank, the nation’s biggest lender, according to data on the
exchange’s website.  UniCredit, which sold the stakes in the bourse to RDIF and
Cartesian, is closing its securities unit in Russia and will
cease to carry out cash-equity business for central and eastern
European shares in  New York  and London, according to a statement
in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  