-- Nasdaq Increases Payout in Facebook IPO to $62 Million Cash
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-07-21T16:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/nasdaq-said-to-boost-payout-pool-in-facebook-ipo-switch-to-cash.html
Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc., the second-
biggest U.S. stock exchange owner, revamped its proposal to
compensate brokers that lost money in the public debut of
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , boosting the payout to $62 million cash.  The amendment, which follows criticism from  Wall Street 
market makers and exchanges about the original plan, increases
the compensation pool from $40 million and does away with a
proposal to credit most of the money through reduced trading
costs, according to a submission with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Member brokers who accommodated customers
for losses will get paid first, it said.  “It’s an attempt by Nasdaq to show that they recognize
that their clients are very unhappy,”  Larry Harris , a professor
of finance and business economics at the University of  Southern
California  in  Los Angeles  and a former chief economist at the
SEC, said in a phone interview. “Clearly, making it all-cash is
more palatable for regulators and for competitors.”  Delays and malfunctions on the Nasdaq Stock Market were the
first signs of trouble in the May 18 Facebook initial public
offering that burned investors, spurred losses on Wall Street
and prompted lawsuits against the company, its exchange and the
underwriters. At yesterday’s close of $28.76, the stock remains
down 24 percent from the price set by underwriters, although it
has recovered from its low of $25.87 in June.  ‘Deeply Regret’  “We deeply regret the problems encountered during the
initial public offering of Facebook,” Nasdaq OMX Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said in a press release
yesterday. “We failed to meet our own high standards based on
our long history of providing outstanding technology to our
members and exchange customers. We have learned from this
experience and we will continue to improve our trading
platforms.”  In May, Greifeld acknowledged “poor design” in software
put the opening auction that set the price for the first traded
shares into a loop that delayed its completion.  The exchange operator is submitting its updated payment
accommodation plan to the SEC in a filing dated July 23. The
public will be able to comment and the SEC must approve it
before implementation. Nasdaq OMX said yesterday it expects all
compensation will be provided within six months.  ‘Discernible Harm’  “This proposal reflects Nasdaq’s effort to identify the
categories of investors and members that Nasdaq’s system
difficulties caused objective, discernible harm, and the type
and scope of such harm, and to propose an objectively reasonable
and regulatorily balanced plan for accommodating exchange
members and their investor customers for such harm,” the
exchange wrote in the filing.  Nasdaq said it made this decision despite the “liability
protections” for claims of financial loss it possesses as a
regulated exchange. The cap on Nasdaq’s liability stemming from
technology errors and malfunctions it causes is $3 million,
according to the exchange’s rules.  Among securities firms expected to seek recompense is
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  The  Jersey City , New Jersey-based
broker and market-making firm reported second-quarter earnings
last week that fell 79 percent, including a $35.4 million loss
related to the Facebook IPO.  “We have been in reasonably consistent dialogue with
Nasdaq,” CEO Thomas Joyce said during a July 18 conference call
following the earnings report. “We’re going to be all eyes and
ears waiting to watch and read and hear about what they suggest
in their filing.”  Market Making  Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based investment firm run by  Ken Griffin , lost as much as $35 million in its market-making unit,
according to a person with knowledge of the firm.  Facebook was sold by underwriters at $38 on May 17. The
pricing of the first public transaction, a trade known as the
IPO cross, took a half hour longer than Nasdaq OMX planned the
next morning. About 30 minutes after that, the  market owner 
reported an issue confirming trades from the opening auction
with the brokerages that had placed orders.  Order updates and cancellations totaling 30 million shares
were submitted into the auction as a technical issue was being
repaired between 11:11 a.m. and 11:30 a.m.  New York  time,
Greifeld told reporters on May 20. About half may involve “some
level of dispute,” he said.  Trade Confirmations  Nasdaq OMX said in a May 21  notice  that the 30 million
shares didn’t participate in the IPO cross. An error prevented
execution reports for the shares that entered the auction, as
well as those that were ignored, from being sent immediately to
brokerages, the company said. Nasdaq said in its filing with the
SEC that it decided not to halt trading between 11:30 a.m and
1:50 p.m., when the confirmations were disseminated to the
exchange’s member firms despite the uncertainty faced by
investors and brokers who didn’t know the status of orders.  “Nasdaq believed that the system issues would be resolved
promptly,” the exchange told the SEC. “Moreover, after 11:30
a.m. there was an orderly, liquid and deep market in FB stock,
with active trading on all markets. Halting trading on a market-
wide basis in these circumstances would have been unprecedented
and, in Nasdaq’s view, unjustified.”  The exchange said that in its “regulatory judgment,” the
market conditions after the stock began changing hands “did not
warrant a halt of trading.” It also said that market
participants “would reasonably have had certain expectations
for the execution or non-execution of their orders.”  Different Prices  Some orders submitted before 11:30 a.m. received executions
at prices different from the $42 IPO cross, causing buyers to
pay more and sellers to receive less than they should have,
Nasdaq OMX said in a May 21  notice . A portion of those deemed
ineligible for the IPO auction were later re-entered into the
market by Nasdaq’s systems, the exchange said.  Nasdaq said its system errors may have benefited some
investors. Buy orders priced at $42 and above and submitted
between 11:11 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. weren’t completed in the cross
and may have purchased stock at a lower price at 1:50 p.m. when
they entered the market, the exchange wrote in its filing.  The payment program Nasdaq  announced  on June 6 said the
plan would cover three kinds of orders placed during the IPO
cross: sales priced at $42 or less that weren’t executed;
purchases priced at $42; and certain types of sell orders that
should have participated in the cross and were entered into the
market at 1:50 p.m. New York time on the day of the offering,
receiving less than $42.  Technical Errors  Orders eligible would only include those submitted before
11:30 a.m. that were disadvantaged by Nasdaq’s technical error
and those in which the member firm was uncertain of the outcome
of the trade request. Orders that don’t qualify for compensation
include “losses that are attributed to execution message delays
when in fact an outcome was already certain,”  Eric Noll , the
executive vice president for transaction services at Nasdaq OMX,
said in a webcast on June 6.  Nasdaq added a fourth category yesterday: certain orders to
buy shares above $42 that received executions in the cross and
that had attempted to cancel the requests before 1:50 p.m. The
claims in this category will be reduced by 30 percent in
calculating the trading loss, Nasdaq said.  Firms seeking compensation will have a week after the SEC
approves Nasdaq’s plan to submit their request, the exchange
said. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority will assess
the “eligibility and value” of members’ claims based on the
standards Nasdaq laid out.  Payment Stages  Payments will be made in two stages to give priority to
brokers who reimbursed customers for their losses. Nasdaq will
pay member firms for the amount they gave their customers to
compensate for direct trading losses as the exchange defines
them. If the total amount exceeds $62 million, the payments will
be prorated.  Payments to firms that suffered proprietary trading losses
will follow those distributed in the first tranche. The payouts
will be conditioned on the broker agreeing to release Nasdaq of
claims for losses related to the  Facebook IPO . Nasdaq said it
was requiring this “to avoid the disruption and expense of
unnecessary litigation,” despite its immunity. The company
cited the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act
that required a release by people who received compensation
related to the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.  “If the losses from the wholesalers are legitimate, then
they won’t be happy with this number,” former SEC chief
economist Harris said about Nasdaq’s proposed $62 million fund.
“Computing losses is often very contentious. It may end up
being litigated, in which case we may find out in five years
what the true losses were.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  