-- Navy SEAL Shot in Afghanistan Loses Chance to Bid on VA Work
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-20T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/navy-seal-shot-in-afghanistan-loses-chance-to-bid-on-va-work.html
Mark Lilly retired from the Navy
SEALs with a Purple Heart, a  Silver Star  and five Bronze Stars
after 23 years of service that included combat in Iraq and
Afghanistan.  Lilly, who said he oversaw development of military bases
overseas, decided to make construction his next career. His
company, Chesapeake, Virginia-based Syncon LLC, has attracted
both commercial and U.S. government work since its start in
2009.  It wasn’t enough to get Syncon certified as a veteran-owned
business after the Department of  Veterans Affairs  questioned
whether he had enough experience. His firm is one of thousands
of small businesses rejected by the VA since the agency stepped
up efforts last year to prevent fraud. Lilly, 47, said his case
shows the process may be hurting veterans even as the government
seeks to boost opportunities for returning troops.  “It’s really disheartening,” Lilly, who said he was shot
twice during the same incident while serving in Afghanistan,
said in a telephone interview. “As you go through military
retirement, the VA says they encourage you to be an entrepreneur
and that they’ll support you the entire time. Now I find out the
VA could very well be my demise.”  The lack of VA certification has cost Syncon the
opportunity to compete for as much as $5 million in contracts
since late March, Lilly said.  VA Rejections  He said he’d hoped to double Syncon’s staff to 10 employees
this year, and instead is working on a multiweek contract
providing security and project-management services for an  oil
company  in the  Middle East  to cover his company’s existing
overhead costs.  “I should be ensuring my projects are on schedule and on
budget,” Lilly said. “You can’t do that if you are in the
Middle East doing a consulting assignment.”  The agency’s rejection of veterans is drawing scrutiny from
lawmakers. The leaders of two House veterans subcommittees have
asked VA Secretary Eric Shinseki to fix the verification process
so decisions conform with “existing case law.”  The agency’s staff seems to “base decisions on a suspicion
that an applicant’s documentation does not qualify, rather than
clear evidence of disqualification,” Representatives  Bill Johnson , an  Ohio Republican , and Marlin Stutzman, an Indiana
Republican, said in a July 11 letter to Shinseki.  Representative Jeff Miller, chairman of the House Committee
on Veterans Affairs, said VA officials need to create a system
that balances fraud-policing with fair treatment of veterans.  Congress Scrutiny  When the department “erroneously denies” qualified
applicants, “it negatively affects our veterans who have worked
hard to start a business,” the Florida Republican said. His
committee has inquired about Lilly’s situation,  he said.  Almost two-thirds of the more than 7,200 companies seeking
status as being owned by veterans or disabled veterans have been
turned down by the VA under a new verification program,
according to March data from the agency. The department didn’t
provide more recent data.  In one case this year, a veteran owner was initially turned
down because he had been paid by the  Department of Health  and
Human Services for two weeks of emergency relief work in  Haiti .
The VA initially said the stint made Kevin Treiber ineligible
for the program that gives preference to veteran-owned small
businesses as they compete for some contracts. It reversed its
decision after Bloomberg reported on the case.  ‘Limited Experience’  Other veterans have been rejected because of agency
concerns about laws in  California  and eight other states where a
spouse might be entitled to half a veteran owner’s share in a
business.  The VA told Lilly last month he wasn’t eligible because his
minority partner, who isn’t a veteran, has more construction
experience. It noted that his partner’s resume said he was
responsible for Syncon’s daily operations, in violation of the
agency’s rules.  “You are attempting to use your limited experience in
construction gained while serving in the  military  to state that
you have enough experience to run the concern,” the Center for
Veterans Enterprise, the VA office that grants the
certification, wrote in a letter to Lilly.  The agency’s rejection was based on “statements in the
applicants’ submissions related to responsibility for day-to-day
management of the company, coupled with the vast disparity in
construction experience,” Josh Taylor, a VA spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Inspector General Report  Lilly said he manages the day-to-day operations and is
responsible for the company’s long-term strategy.  His partner, Scott Turner, said his expertise is in the
company’s residential and commercial business. While he handles
some oversight of daily operations, he reports to Lilly, Turner
said.  “He’s got the government construction experience, the
connections and he leads the company,” he said. The two have
known each other for 18 years, after meeting during martial-arts
training, Turner said.  The agency began its new verification process after
President  Barack Obama  signed a 2010 law requiring the VA to do
more to certify businesses receiving the preference are
legitimately run by veterans. The agency’s inspector general
estimated last July that as much as $500 million in contracts
were awarded annually to companies ineligible for status as
veteran-owned businesses.  Veteran Lawsuit  The report found several cases in which veterans owned and
controlled business “on paper” while non-veterans were running
the business. It encouraged the VA to seek additional
documentation such as resumes or conduct interviews to identify
who controls the company.  The crackdown is occurring even as the Obama administration
seeks to curb high jobless rates for returning troops. In June,
the  unemployment rate  was 9.5 percent for Iraq and  Afghanistan 
veterans, according to Labor Department data. That compared with
8.1 percent for non-veterans.  Lilly said he invited the VA to visit his work sites or
interview business associates if they doubted whether he was the
one managing and controlling the company. The department hasn’t
taken him up on his offer, he said.  The VA told Lilly that although his resume “shows some
experience in construction, it appears minimal in comparison”
to his partner, the agency said in its letter.  Lilly’s business relationship with the partner “indicates
such dependence that you cannot exercise independent business
judgment without great economic risk,” it said. Turner, his
partner, has more than 12 years of construction experience,
according to the  company’s website .  Three Rejections  It was the third time the office turned him down, Lilly
said. He had previously corrected other problems the department
spotted in his company’s operating agreements to the agency’s
satisfaction, according to the VA’s letter.  During his time in the military, Lilly said he supervised
the development of military bases in Afghanistan and provided
recommendations and guidance on construction projects. He
retired in January 2010 as a master chief in the SEALs.  Lilly’s company has won several federal contracts already,
including work redesigning and renovating Naval office
buildings. He has also won VA contracts that included a project
at a Fayetteville,  North Carolina , veterans hospital.  Lilly has asked the agency to reconsider, as have more than
1,000 businesses rejected during the past year,  Jo Schuda , an
agency spokeswoman, said in March.  Verification Process  The agency’s verification process may be too aggressive
considering the relatively small number of veterans found to be
fronting companies run by non-veterans, said Ramsey Sulayman,
the legislative associate for Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of
America, a New York-based advocacy group.  “You have to balance how much fraud was occurring and the
goals of the program,” he said in a telephone interview. “If
you’re going to make it hard for 50 percent or more of the
businesses out there to get certified for contracts, then you
might have to look at what’s a better process.”  The VA is the only U.S. agency that reviews whether
companies that seek special bidding preference are legitimately
owned, controlled and managed by veterans or disabled veterans.
Other federal agencies allow businesses to operate on an honor
system.  Jobless Rate  Congress passed legislation this month that makes it easier
for returning troops to use skills gained in the armed forces to
find work at home. It would require U.S. agencies to consider
military experience when issuing federal occupational licenses.  The VA could do a better job of working with veterans
during the application process, said Devon Hewitt, an attorney
with Protorae Law PLLC in Tysons Corner, Virginia.  “There’s no dialogue before you submit the application,
there’s no dialogue while it’s being reviewed,” she said in a
phone interview. “And then there’s a knee-jerk kick-out of the
program on the very first thing they see.”  Hewitt, who specializes in government contracting law, said
she has received eight calls from veterans in the past three
months seeking legal assistance after being rejected during the
verification process.  Veterans don’t have to possess any specific licenses or
experience if they can demonstrate their capability to run a
firm, she said.  There’s no “complete consensus” yet at the agency about
how an individual’s experience should factor into an ability to
run a company, said Marc Goldschmitt, a Reston, Virginia-based
consultant who has worked with veterans seeking help during the
certification process.  “Just to say someone has more experience doesn’t make them
a better decision-maker, a better leader or anything like
that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Kathleen Miller in
Washington at   Kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  