-- NEC Outlook Cut to Negative at Moody’s on Slow Recovery
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-07-20T07:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/nec-outlook-cut-to-negative-at-moody-s-on-slow-recovery.html
NEC Corp. (6701)  had its credit-rating
outlook cut to negative by Moody’s Investors Service, which
cited a delayed earnings recovery at the Japanese electronics
maker. The stock fell to the lowest in more than 37 years.  The outlook for NEC’s Baa2 long-term senior unsecured
ratings and issuer rating was lowered from stable, Moody’s said
in a statement today.  NEC, which is cutting 10,000 jobs, or about 8.6 percent of
its  workforce , posted a third annual  loss  in four years on
slumping demand for its smartphones and notebook computers.
 Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the unprofitable Japanese chipmaker
seeking financial aid, may be a risk for NEC as it may need to
provide support, Moody’s said. Tokyo-based NEC  owns  about 35
percent of Kawasaki, Japan-based Renesas.  “The outlook reflects the slower-than-anticipated pace of
recovery in NEC’s profitability and financial strength,”
Moody’s said in the statement. “In the near future, the
operational environment for NEC remains unfavorable.”  The company  gets  more than 80 percent of sales from  Japan ,
focusing on the carrier-network business and cloud computing.
NEC is also expanding abroad through acquisitions. In May, the
company, Japan’s biggest telecommunications equipment maker,
completed the purchase of the information-management business of
 Convergys Corp. (CVG)  for $449 million.  NEC fell 3.9 percent to 99 yen at the close in Tokyo
trading, the lowest level since at least September 1974,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Baa2 is the second-lowest of 10 investment-level grades in
Moody’s ratings scale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  