-- New Sleeping Pill Thwarts Brain’s Up-All-Night Neurons
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-20T20:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/new-sleeping-pill-thwarts-brain-s-up-all-night-neurons.html
The road to a sleeping pill that
offers the snooze-inducing benefits of Ambien and Lunesta, while
avoiding next-day grogginess and disorientation, has been paved
with failure, tripping up  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.  Now,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  may have found a solution.  The drugmaker is in final testing on an insomnia product,
named suvorexant, that works differently than the market
leaders. It blocks a tiny group of receptors that keep the body
alert, rather than boosting the brain’s complex sleep system.
The target is more precise, offering less room for side effects
to occur, the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based company said.  The strategy, which could also allow people to use the
treatments over longer periods, may help the pill generate $900
million annually if it becomes the first of its class approved
by the  Food and Drug Administration , according to  Tony Butler ,
an analyst with Barclays Plc in New York.  “It’s not whether you put the patient to sleep or not,
it’s how you feel the next day,” said  Rafael Pelayo , a
professor at Stanford School of Medicine’s Division of Sleep
Medicine, in a telephone interview.  About 70 million, or one-third of American adults, have
trouble falling or staying asleep, according to the American
Psychiatric Association. Pelayo predicts that sleep issues will
grow with the stress of modern life and the disruption from
ever-present personal electronic devices, such as Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, boosting the market for insomnia treatments.  “That’s why I think the pharma industry and investors look
at sleep as a good place to put their money,” Pelayo said.  Merck  shares  declined 1.2 percent to $43.41 at the close in
New York.  Recent Failures  History, though, isn’t on Merck’s side. London-based Glaxo
last year ended development of its leading sleep drug,
almorexant, after spending as much as 4 billion Swiss francs
($4.07 billion) to buy it from  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  The problem:
patients couldn’t tolerate its side effects.  Sanofi (SAN) ’s bid to replace its own Ambien, which faced generic
competition for the first time in 2006, ended when the Paris-
based drugmaker failed to get U.S. approval for the treatment,
called Ciltyri, in 2009.  Meanwhile, the two insomnia drugs that have been marketed
since Ambien and Lunesta have failed to take hold with
consumers.  Takeda’s (4502)  Rozerem, approved in the U.S. in 2005,
generated just $11.7 million in sales last year for the  Osaka ,
Japan-based drugmaker, while  Somaxon Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SOMX) ’s
Silenor had only $16.2 million in sales last year.  Disappointed Clinicians  The newer therapies failed because they’ve haven’t reduced
side effects, disappointing clinicians eager for new medicines,
said Stanford’s Pelayo.  “People said, ‘Here’s the next big thing,’ and they turned
out to be duds,” he said. Along with grogginess and driving
troubles, Ambien can have side effects including stomach upset,
diarrhea, nausea and headaches.  The failures have helped clear the field for Merck’s
suvorexant, part of a potential new class of drugs known as
orexin receptor antagonists.  The medicines may provide the same or better effectiveness
against insomnia with fewer side effects, said  Thomas Roth ,
director of the Sleep Disorders and Research Center at Henry
Ford Health System in  Detroit , by telephone.  “The therapy of insomnia has changed from trying to
augment the power of the sleep system to trying to inhibit the
wake system,” Roth said, explaining that orexins are a more
focused target than the older class of drugs, including Ambien
and Lunesta, barbiturates and benzodiazepines.  GABA Agonists  Those medicines called GABA agonists target billions of
neuron receptors, affecting a wide range of body activities to
achieve their goals. For instance, the therapies can be used as
muscle relaxants and anesthetics, along with treating anxiety
and convulsion, said Darryle Schoepp, Merck’s head of
neuroscience development.  Orexin receptors targeted by the Merck drug are far fewer,
with tens of thousands located in the brain’s hypothalamus. That
makes for a more focused drug, Schoepp  said .  In a study sponsored by Merck, patients on the company’s
suvorexant performed better at a driving test the next day,
staying in their lane more than patients on eszopiclone, the
generic name for Lunesta from Osaka, Japan-based  Dainippon
Sumitomo Pharma Co. (4506)   Merck’s drug is the only one of the new class in the final
of three stages of clinical trials usually required for
regulatory approval.  “There’s no second at this point,” said Roth, who worked
with Merck on the study and consults other drugmakers. The
company also has a back-up orexin molecule, MK-6096, which it is
also studying for migraines and depression.  Catching Up  Others are trying to catch up. Glaxo, for instance, is
developing its own orexin drug, GSK-649868, after failing with
almorexant. The U.K.’s largest drugmaker completed a 48-person
trial of the drug in May 2007, though it has yet to report data.
The company is “looking at the pharmacology of GSK-649868 to
determine the next best steps,” Melinda Stubbee, a spokeswoman
for the company, said in an e-mail.  Takeda is also sticking a toe into the orexigen pond,
according a scientific study describing the work.  Merck’s clinical trial has lasted a year, more than any
other sleep drug, which the company says may mean it’s possible
for patients to use the drug for longer than current therapies.
It has yet to do a head-to-head trial against Ambien and
Lunesta.  Pelayo predicts that Merck’s drug, if approved, will lead
to more effective combinations of orexin drugs with the old GABA
drugs.  “The 1.0 version of these anti-orexin drugs will have some
issues, and they’ll be fine-tuned down the road,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  