-- NFL Must Face Fraud Claims in 2011 Super Bowl Seating Lawsuit
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/nfl-must-face-fan-claims-in-2011-super-bowl-seating-lawsuit-1-.html
The  National Football League  must
defend fraud claims brought by fans whose seats had obstructed
views at the 2011 Super Bowl Game at Cowboys Stadium in
Arlington, Texas, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Lynn yesterday threw out all
claims against the  Dallas Cowboys  and owner  Jerry Jones , ruling
that a Super Bowl game ticket is “a contract between the NFL
and a ticket purchaser.”  Claims of fraudulent inducement against the NFL will go
forward under the judge’s ruling for fans who had seats with
obstructed views of the field, according to the ruling. If the
plaintiffs’ allegations are proven, the judge wrote, “they had
no way of knowing that their tickets had obstructed views until
they arrived at the stadium.”  There are about 4,000 fans who had obstructed views of the
NFL title game between the  Green Bay Packers  and Pittsburgh
Steelers, said Michael Avenatti of Eagan Avenatti LLP, lead
counsel for the ticketholders.  “The NFL hasn’t offered a settlement to a single fan who
had an obstructed view,” Avenatti said in an interview.  Breach of Contract  The judge previously ruled that breach of contract claims
can proceed against the NFL over the obstructed seats and other
seating troubles, Avenatti said. Those include about 475
ticketholders who had to watch the game on video screens. A
group of 2,821 fans who were given new seats or kept waiting
outside the stadium can also pursue their claims against the
NFL, he said.  Brian McCarthy , an NFL spokesman, said in a statement that
the league is pleased the judge dismissed most of the claims in
the lawsuit against the league and all claims against the
Cowboys.  Lynn threw out all claims brought on behalf of those fans
who were eligible for the NFL’s voluntary reimbursement offers
except for the breach of contract claim, he said.  “We continue to believe that the offers made to these
ticketholders meet or exceed what they could be entitled to
under the law,” McCarthy said. “In fact, the vast majority of
these fans accepted the NFL’s offers long ago.”  The case is Simms v. Jones, 3:11-cv-00248, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Texas  ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas federal court at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  