-- Nokia Debt Rating Cut to Junk at Fitch
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-07-20T12:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/nokia-debt-rating-cut-to-junk-at-fitch.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s debt, already at junk
status at the three biggest rating companies, was lowered
further by two steps at Fitch Ratings after the Finnish mobile-
phone maker’s second-quarter loss widened.  The long-term rating was cut to BB- from BB+ with a
negative outlook, Fitch said in a statement today. Nokia
yesterday reported an operating loss at its handset division
equivalent to 9.1 percent of revenue adjusted for some items and
forecast similar losses for the current period.  “If these operational losses are not reversed, the support
that the cash cushion gives the rating is going to be eroded
faster, which could lead to further downgrades,” Fitch said in
its statement. Fitch cut Nokia’s debt to junk in April.  The company has announced more than 20,000 job cuts and
shuttered production and research sites as it tries to offset a
continuing decline in revenue. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is betting on the Lumia smartphone running  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
software to halt gains by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets using
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  Nokia has debt of 5.2 billion euros ($6.3 billion). Its
financial position is strong and liquidity profile “robust,”
according to an e-mailed statement from the Espoo, Finland-based
company. Fitch’s rating is “unsolicited,” Nokia said. In
addition to  net cash  of 4.2 billion euros at the end of June,
Nokia said it has access to a 1.5 billion-euro revolving credit
facility without financial covenants until 2016.  IPhone Effect  Shares of Nokia have plunged more than 90 percent since
Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007. They  declined  4.4 percent
to 1.47 euros at 3:01 p.m. Helsinki time.  The cost of insuring Nokia bonds using credit-default swaps
has more than tripled this year, rising to a record of 1,240
basis points on July 18. Today, it declined 14 basis points, or
1.2 percent, to 1,179 basis points.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt. Credit swaps are used by
investors to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness.  The current cost level of the swaps implies a Caa1 rating,
seven steps below investment grade, according to the most recent
Moody’s Analytics data. Nokia’s debt has a Ba1  rating  at Moody’s
Investors Service and a BB+ grade at  Standard & Poor’s , both one
step below investment grade and with a negative outlook.  Credit Line  Nokia obtained the 1.5 billion-euro five-year revolving
credit last year, agreeing to pay an initial interest of 40
basis points more than the euro interbank offered rate on drawn
funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That credit line
remains undrawn. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Bank of America Corp .,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA) ,
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , and  Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi AS (TSKB) 
led the financing, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  