-- North Korea Reviewing ‘Nuclear Issue’ to Counter U.S.
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-07-21T04:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/north-korea-reviewing-nuclear-issue-to-counter-u-s-.html
North Korea  said it is reviewing the
“nuclear issue” to counter the U.S., days after Kim Jong Un
consolidated his power by taking the nation’s top military rank
and removing the army chief.  The U.S. is funding plots to bring down the regime in
Pyongyang, an unidentified Foreign Ministry spokesman said in a
statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency
yesterday. The dispatch didn’t elaborate on what was meant by
the nuclear review.  Kim may be preparing to follow in the footsteps of his
father, Kim Jong Il, who detonated nuclear devices in 2006 and
2009, according to South Korea’s Foreign  Ministry . The leader,
who took power after the death in December of the elder Kim,
presided over a botched long-range missile launch in April that
ended a U.S. aid deal and further isolated the nation.  “I can’t confirm whether or not the North Koreans may
undertake another underground nuclear test, but we are concerned
about any potential for provocative action taken by North
Korea,”  George Little , a spokesman for the U.S. Defense
Department, told reporters yesterday at the Pentagon.  The North Korean regime, which in May denied any plans to
test an atomic weapon, said yesterday it arrested a traitor who
was paid and directed by U.S. and South Korean intelligence
agencies to stir unrest by destroying national monuments, giving
the U.S. a pretext for military intervention.  Nuclear Talks  The statement shows that North Korea may change its mind
and conduct a third nuclear test, said a South Korean Foreign
Ministry official involved in nuclear talks, who asked not to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak to the media. He
said there was no substance to North Korea’s accusation and
urged it to return to six-nation talks aimed at ending its
nuclear weapons program.  North Korea accused South Korea and the U.S. of attempting
to demolish statues of its founding leader,  Kim Il Sung , in
North Korea near the Chinese border, citing testimony from North
Korean defector Jon Yong Chol.  The arrested man, Jon, was a North Korean who defected to
South Korea in 2010 and then returned illegally to destroy
statues celebrating the Kim family, KCNA said July 19.  South Korea’s Unification Ministry, which handles  Seoul ’s
relations with North Korea, confirmed Jon’s 2010 defection.
South Korea denies all the allegations of espionage, Kim Hyung
Suk, a spokesman for the ministry, said by telephone.  Uranium Enrichment  The six-nation forum involving  China ,  Japan ,  Russia , the
U.S., South Korea and North Korea began in 2003 and hasn’t
convened since 2008. The North Korean regime disclosed a uranium
enrichment plant in November 2010, providing it with a second
means in addition to plutonium to create nuclear weapons.  South Korea  raised some military alert levels this week
after Kim assumed the title of marshal and Ri Yong Ho was fired
as army chief.  The Workers’ Party cited illness as the reasons for Ri’s
replacement and named General Hyon Yong Chol vice marshal of the
North Korean army two days later, KCNA said.  The change was probably because of a power struggle as Kim
deployed military resources for infrastructure projects,
analysts, including  Cheong  Seong Chang at Sejong Institute in
Gyeonggi, said.  Military Rights  Kookmin Ilbo reported yesterday, citing unidentified South
Korean government officials, that the dismissal of Ri probably
is related to Kim Jong Un’s initiatives to strip his country’s
military of various lucrative rights related to its economy.  The North Korean military would have controlled 70 percent
of the country’s domestic output, enabling military authorities
to earn foreign currencies and accumulate assets, the Seoul-
based newspaper said.  North Korea repeated yesterday that Ri’s dismissal stemmed
from his illness, rather than scrambles for power within the
leadership. In a commentary, KCNA blamed international medias
for spreading false rumors, saying there is no change in its
stand to keep to the path of Songun, the path of independence,
pioneered and led by Kim Il Sung and  Kim Jong Il .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  