-- Novatek Wants to Expand in Europe, Asia Via Gas Trading Unit
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-07-20T15:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/novatek-wants-to-expand-in-europe-asia-via-gas-trading-unit-1-.html
OAO Novatek,  Russia ’s second-largest
natural gas producer, wants to expand overseas through its
trading unit even as larger rival OAO Gazprom retains a monopoly
on exports.  “Novatek Gas and Power was created to do trading
operations,” Leonid Mikhelson, Novatek’s chief executive
officer, said today at a groundbreaking ceremony for a port at
Sabetta, Russia. “There is nothing to ask Gazprom.”  The billionaire declined to confirm that Novatek had signed
a supply deal with Germany’s  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) 
last week. The Tarko-Sale based company doesn’t pose any threat
to Gazprom’s export monopoly, nor is anyone considering changing
the law, he said.  Gazprom and Novatek are negotiating a deal where the export
monopoly would ship as much as 6 billion cubic meters a year of
gas for Novatek for a fee, two people close to Gazprom who
declined to be identified said on July 13.  EnBW signed a contract with an unidentified foreign
supplier for gas supplies of 1.9 billion cubic meters a year for
10 years from October,  Germany ’s third-largest utility said in a
statement on July 12. Novatek will supply the gas, three people
with knowledge of the deal said at the time, declining to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak on the
matter.  Novatek is in talks with major European customers on sales
of liquefied natural gas, or LNG, Mikhelson said from the arctic
port site from which Novatek plans to use as shipping base for
the Yamal LNG project.  The company is also looking to purchase a Russian gas
trader by the end of the year to expand its market share in a
Russian region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  