-- Novartis Wins U.S. Approval for Afinitor in Breast Cancer
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-20T19:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/novartis-wins-u-s-approval-for-afinitor-in-breast-cancer.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  won U.S. approval to
market its cancer drug Afinitor for breast tumors, an
achievement that may add more than $1 billion in annual sales.  Afinitor was cleared for  breast cancer  patients whose
disease has spread after earlier treatment, and who lack the so-
called HER2 gene, the  Food and Drug Administration  said in a
statement today. The drug is already approved in the U.S. to
treat cancers of the kidney and pancreas and a type of non-
cancerous brain tumor. European regulators recommended approving
Afinitor for breast cancer last month.  The approval gives Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis a drug
for a type of breast cancer that strikes about 30,000 women in
the U.S. each year. Sales of the drug in that disease alone may
add “well above $1 billion” in sales,  David Epstein , head of
the company’s pharmaceutical division, said on a call with
analysts yesterday.  “Take-off should be relatively quick for the product,”
Epstein said on the call.  Sales of Afinitor climbed 66 percent to $318 million in the
first half, Novartis said in its earnings report.  In a trial among 724 women whose disease had progressed
after hormone therapy, Afinitor delayed the progression of
breast cancer by a median of 7.8 months when combined with
Pfizer Inc.’s Aromasin, compared with 3.2 months among patients
receiving Aromasin alone, according to data presented at a
cancer conference in May. The trial was stopped early because it
was working so well.  Twenty-five percent of those receiving the combination had
died after 18 months, compared with 32 percent of patients
receiving Aromasin alone, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  