-- NYSE Seeks Clearing Expansion, Cost Cuts, Deputy CEO Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-07-20T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/nyse-seeks-clearing-expansion-cost-cuts-deputy-ceo-says.html
NYSE Euronext, which spent a year
working on a failed merger with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , is seeking
to expand clearing services and reviewing ways to cut costs in
the deal’s aftermath, a senior executive said.  “It’s about moving on,” Dominique Cerutti, president and
deputy chief executive officer of NYSE, said in an interview
yesterday. “For growth, our main project is clearing. It’s
ambitious and we are on track. In terms of rationalizing, we are
revisiting the different initiatives and seeing if the
assumptions we started with are still valid.”  NYSE is looking at where it can trim expenses in its
European market operations, which have overlapping areas in
London, Paris and Amsterdam, though the focus is not on cutting
jobs, Cerutti said. NYSE will also save money by clearing its
own derivatives trades instead of paying LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.
The New York-based exchange won’t proceed with its U.K. market
for contracts for difference or its NYSE Blue carbon markets
venture, he said.  “We are focused on three areas,” said Cerutti, who joined
NYSE after more than 20 years at International Business Machines
Corp. “Boosting our growth through new services, deploying our
capital and cash in the most effective way and rationalizing our
business portfolio.”  NYSE executives in April pledged $250 million in annual
savings by the end of 2014 and said a $550 million stock buyback
will be completed this year. The company also announced
“Project 14,” a program aimed at generating more savings.  London Clearing  The exchange plans to spend $85 million moving clearing for
London derivatives trades to its own clearinghouse by next year
while retaining the services of LCH.Clearnet for cash-equities
transactions.  European regulators blocked  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  from merging with
 Deutsche Boerse  in February, frustrating plans to mitigate a
 slowdown  in  stock trading  and boost earnings and sales through
cooperation on derivatives. On April 30, NYSE said first-quarter
net income fell to $87 million from $155 million a year earlier.  “Volumes have been depressed,” Cerutti said today. “I
don’t know when they will return. The universal currency in the
financial markets is confidence. And this confidence has been
damaged.”  In June, NYSE lowered its forecast for its technology unit,
saying growth will probably be in the mid-to-high single digit
percent range. The exchange is now seeking to boost its business
from so-called managed services for technology, Cerutti said.  ‘Bigger Part’  “There was a severe spending reduction on technology in
the first part of the year,” he said. “Any recovery will
depend on the state of the  capital markets . There is a booming
business for managed services. We always had the plan but
accelerated it last year. It’s still a small part of our
revenue. We would not put a figure on it, but by 2015 we expect
it to be a bigger part.”  After the failure of the Deutsche Boerse deal, the exchange
joined an auction for the London Metal Exchange and lost out to
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  “Consolidation is not over,” Cerutti said. “There are
some valuable assets in the industry. As we evaluate the best
way for us to deploy our capital we will consider whether it’s
best to grow organically in some areas or to acquire, as was the
case in the first phase of the deal with LME.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  