-- Tobacco Bonds Rally With No Sign of 2042 Mortality: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/tobacco-bonds-rally-with-no-sign-of-2042-mortality-muni-credit.html
More than $15 billion of municipal
bonds backed by tobacco-company payments will default within 30
years, Moody’s Investors Service says. That’s not deterring
investors from reaping the best returns in the tax-free market.  Tobacco bonds rated below investment grade have earned 17.1
percent this year, according to Barclays Plc total-return
indexes. That compares with 4.8 percent for the rest of the $3.7
trillion muni market.  The securities depend on payments to the states under a
1998 health-care settlement between 46  attorneys general  and
major tobacco companies. Investors confronting the  lowest  yields
since the 1960s have poured $4.7 billion this year into high-
yield muni bond funds.  “A default doesn’t mean they’ll go to zero,” said Daniel Solender, who helps manage $17 billion of muni debt, including
about $500 million of tobacco bonds, at Lord Abbett & Co. in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “There is a demand for credit risk.”  Payments to states under the settlement back $101.2 billion
of bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Speculative-grade tobacco borrowings have rebounded from
2010. Credit-rating cuts and a municipal-market selloff spurred
by a flood of local bond sales and predictions of widespread
defaults led the tobacco segment to lose 22.1 percent that year,
according to Barclays. In 2011, high-yield tobacco returned 23
percent.  ‘Beaten-Up’  Tobacco bonds typically mature in 20 years or more, making
their prices more sensitive to changes in yields than shorter-
term issues. As a result, the securities got an outsized boost
as the  Federal Reserve ’s purchases of longer-term debt pushed
down  interest rates  and as investors fled to the safety of
Treasuries and munis.  “Tobacco was a beaten-up sector and there’s been some
decent news,” said Tom Weyl, director of municipal research at
Barclays in  New York . “In a rally of the entire marketplace,
many times you see the formerly worst-performing sector has the
most to come back.”  Payments to states by  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris
unit,  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  and  Lorillard Inc. (LO) , rose almost 2
percent this year to $6.15 billion,  according  to the  National
Association of Attorneys General . The payments are based on the
volume of U.S. cigarette shipments. Declines of 2.9 percent in
2011 were offset by an inflation adjustment and growth in market
share from companies participating in the settlement.  Smaller Drop  Cigarette-sale declines have moderated from 2009, when they
fell 9.2 percent, and 2010, when they declined 6.4 percent,
spurred by a 62-cents-a-pack federal tax increase in 2009,
according to Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, a Philadelphia-based
brokerage. About one in five Americans smoke, according to the
U.S. Centers of Disease Control and Prevention.  Tobacco bonds also got a boost two weeks ago when President
 Barack Obama  signed a highway bill that included a provision
taxing roll-your-own machine-made cigarettes at the same rates
as packaged ones.  An Ohio tobacco bond with a 5.875 percent coupon maturing
in 2047 traded July 18 at an average of 78 cents on the dollar
for a tax-exempt yield of 7.7 percent. On Jan. 4, the bonds
traded at 70.3 cents with an 8.5 percent yield.  Tobacco bondholders have a claim in perpetuity on revenue
from the 1998 settlement that was pledged to back bonds.  Cash Claim  If a bond reaches maturity and there isn’t enough cash to
pay principal, the debt extends and investors are entitled to
receive future settlement revenue, Dan Loughran, a portfolio
manager with OppenheimerFunds Inc., said at the State &
Municipal Finance Conference hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in June.  The scenario is “a far different risk than, say, a credit
risk where you have an unsecured bond that files for bankruptcy
and you’re looking at 10 cents on the dollar in recovery,” he
said at the conference in  Chicago .  Last week, Moody’s projected that almost three-quarters of
the $20.4 billion in tobacco bonds it grades will default if
cigarette consumption declines 3 percent to 4 percent annually.  Tobacco bonds that have a high ratio of outstanding debt to
annual payments from the companies, long maturities and low cash
reserves are vulnerable to lower smoking rates, Moody’s said.
Moody’s rates almost 80 percent of tobacco bonds B1, which is
four levels below investment grade, or lower.  More-recent tobacco issues have been structured to
withstand consumption declines of as much as 10 percent and
carry higher ratings. A bond maturing in 2037 issued by Suffolk
County, New York, in April traded on July 6 at a 4.7 percent
yield. The bond is rated BBB+ by  Standard & Poor’s , its third-
lowest investment-grade rating.  Can’t Smoke  Richard Larkin, director of credit analysis at Herbert J.
Sims, said consumption declines will be greater than 4 percent
as more cigarette tax increases and anti-smoking ordinances are
adopted.  “Even if you have ’em you can’t smoke ’em because it’s
basically being made illegal in every place,” Larkin, a smoker,
said at the Link conference. “The long-term trend for decline,
I don’t think it’s going to get better; it’s going to get
worse.”  Another cloud hanging over investors is a more than two-
year arbitration between the states and the  tobacco companies 
that participated in the settlement over whether the states have
sufficiently enforced the 1998 accord.  The companies are seeking refunds from states on the
grounds that the governments didn’t diligently enforce statutes
related to smaller producers that weren’t part of the
settlement.  More than 30 states and localities that issued bonds backed
by settlement payments are at risk of losing $1.1 billion if
arbitrators decide they didn’t adequately enforce the agreement,
said Larkin, who follows tobacco bonds for Sims & Co., which is
based in Iselin, New Jersey.  “Some states might take a real beating in terms of losing
future revenues under the settlement,” Larkin said. “I call it
cigarette roulette.”  Following are pending sales:  MARYLAND, with a top  credit rating , plans to sell about
$728 million of general obligations as soon as next week,
according to  Fitch Ratings . The state plans to offer $75 million
of tax-exempt bonds via negotiated sale on July 27 and July 30,
and $653 million via competitive sale Aug. 1, according to
Fitch. (Added July 20)  LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER plans to sell about
$413 million of revenue bonds as soon as next week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will refund debt and fund
capital improvements, according to an offering statement.
Moody’s rates the debt Aa2, the third-highest level. (Updated
July 20)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  