-- Obama, Romney Suspend Campaigning in Wake of Mass Shooting
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-20T21:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/obama-calls-for-reflection-after-senseless-colorado-massacre.html
President  Barack Obama  and
Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  suspended their political
campaigns in the aftermath of a mass shooting in Colorado that
both men called an act of evil.  “We may never understand what leads anybody to terrorize
their fellow human beings like this,” Obama said in Fort Myers,
Florida. “Such violence, such evil is senseless. It’s beyond
reason.”  Romney, in Bow,  New Hampshire , called the shooting a
“hateful act” and said, “Our hearts break for the victims and
their families.”  At least 12 people were killed and as many as 50 were
injured when a gunman opened fire during a midnight showing of
the new Batman movie, “The Dark Knight Rises,” at a theater
near Denver, federal and local authorities said. A suspect,  John
Holmes , 24, is in custody.  Obama was informed of the shooting at 5:26 a.m. by his
homeland security adviser,  John Brennan , and later had a
briefing from FBI Director  Robert Mueller , White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters traveling with the president
in Florida.  Promise of Support  Obama spoke with the police chief and the mayor of Aurora,
where the shooting occurred, and Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper. The president told the Aurora Police Chief Daniel
Oates that “he should expect the full support of the FBI and
other federal law enforcement agencies,” according to an
administration statement.  There is no indication the shooting was linked to a
terrorist group, Carney said. Obama was updated on the
investigation this afternoon at the White House.  Obama ordered U.S. flags flown at half-staff at federal
facilities, public buildings, military bases and U.S. offices
overseas until sunset on July 25.  Romney and Obama described their reactions in terms of
family.  “My daughters go to the movies,” the president said.
“What if Malia and Sasha had been at the theater?”  He said he and first lady  Michelle Obama  will “hug our
girls a little tighter tonight.”  Romney said the tragedy touched him “as a father and
grandfather, a husband, an American.”  Remembering Victims  Both men paid tribute to the victims and called for
reflection on the important things in life.  “If there’s anything to take away from this tragedy, it’s
a reminder that life is very fragile,” Obama said. “Our time
here is limited and it is precious.”  Romney said he and his wife, Ann, joined the Obamas in
offering “our deepest condolences for those whose lives were
shattered in a few moments of evil in Colorado.”  He said this is a “moment to grieve” and to “remember
how much we love one another, and how much we love and how much
we care for our great country.”  The president was in Florida as part of a two-day campaign
swing. He canceled later scheduled events and returned to
 Washington , campaign spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  told reporters. The
campaign is asking television stations in Colorado to suspend
its advertising, she said.  Romney was set to campaign in New Hampshire and also
canceled events. His campaign organization said it is pulling
advertising in Colorado.  Obama is scheduled to deliver a speech to the Veterans of
Foreign Wars convention July 23 in Reno,  Nevada , and make
campaign appearances over the following two days. The
administration hasn’t revealed whether he plans to go to Aurora.  “There are going to be other days for politics,” Obama
said today. “This, I think, is a day for prayer and
reflection.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Fort Myers  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  