-- Obama Outspends Romney 2-1 With $43 Million in Funds for Ads
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-07-21T04:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/obama-raises-45-9-million-in-june-to-33-million-for-romney-1-.html
Barack Obama has more money in his
campaign bank account than Republican challenger  Mitt Romney ,
and the president is using his funds early -- outspending the
former Massachusetts governor by about 2-to-1 last month.  Obama entered July with $97.5 million in the bank, and used
a part of it to run 35,347 television ads in the 14-day period
ending July 16, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG.
The Romney campaign, which began July with $22.5 million, aired
16,946 spots during that period. Since more than 97 percent of
those commercials were negative, that meant voters saw twice as
many campaign-funded ads attacking Romney rather than Obama.  Romney’s side has been able to take in more money than
Obama’s during the last two months as both men raise money
jointly with their political parties, which can take in larger
donations than the candidate committees alone. The difference is
that Obama can directly control his money, while Romney must
rely more on party leaders.  “It is always better to have money controlled by the
campaign, but the parties air spots that are consistent with the
candidates’ messages,” said  Tobe Berkovitz , a professor of
communication at Boston University. “Party-run spots rarely
cause problems for their candidates.”  Obama Spends  Obama continued to draw down his campaign account, spending
$58.1 million last month with $43 million for advertising,
including broadcast and online. Romney spent $27.5 million
during the month, less than half as much as Obama, with $11.1
million going for media.  “President Obama’s campaign will never have a more
substantial advertising advantage than it has had over the past
few weeks, yet there is no evidence to suggest that the ballot
has moved,” Romney’s pollster,  Neil Newhouse , said in a July 16
memo.  Obama raised $45.9 million last month and has now taken in
more than $307 million for his campaign. Romney brought in $33
million and has now raised more than $156 million.  Romney received $79,355 from employees of London-based
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , whose chairman, chief executive officer and chief
operating officer all resigned after the bank agreed to pay $456
million for manipulating the London interbank offered rate, or
Libor, a benchmark interest rate. The former CEO,  Robert Diamond ,
also dropped out as a co-host of a London fundraiser for Romney.
A Barclays lobbyist, Patrick Durkin, is a Romney fundraiser.  Bank Contributions  Barclays was followed in contributions by employees of
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
Employees of those three companies and those of Goldman Sachs
Group are the four biggest sources of contributions to Romney’s
presidential campaign, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington-based research group that tracks campaign
donations.  Employees of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , among the top
four givers to Obama’s campaign to date, were his two biggest
sources of donations last month, giving $41,124 and $38,086
respectively, according to a computer-assisted analysis of FEC
data. IBM Corp. employees contributed $36,059.  Obama also released an updated list of his top fundraisers,
adding 60 names to those who have raised more than $500,000 for
his campaign, including Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley .
Romney has refused to identify his top fundraisers except for
the registered lobbyists he is required to report in FEC filings.  Combined Totals  The combined bank balances of the Romney campaign committee,
the Republican National Committee and the joint fundraising
committee totaled $170 million at the end of June, compared with
$144 million for Obama’s side. While Obama’s campaign accounts
for 68 percent of the money his side has to spend, Romney
directly controls only 13 percent of his funds.  Romney’s money advantage increases when super-political
action committees are included. Restore Our Future, the pro-
Romney super-PAC, had $21.6 million in the bank at the end of
June. American Crossroads, which is also supporting Romney, had
a balance of $31.5 million.  Priorities USA Action, the super-PAC formed by former Obama
aides, reported $2.8 million cash on hand.  “As long as the super-PAC and the parties stick with a
message similar to the candidate they support, then Romney has
the money advantage,” said  David Primo , a political science
professor at the University of Rochester in New York. “The
danger for Romney is that one of the super-PACs supporting him
pursues an alternative and harmful strategy, causing the
additional funding to hurt, not help.”  Adelson Donations  Restore Our Future amassed $20.7 million in June, largely
through big checks from familiar Republican donors. Las Vegas
casino billionaire  Sheldon Adelson  and his wife gave $10 million.
The Adelson family had supported Newt Gingrich’s failed run for
the Republican nomination, with $21.5 million in contributions
to a super-PAC that backed the former U.S. House speaker’s
candidacy.  Houston home builder Bob Perry gave $2 million, bringing
his total donations to $6 million.  William Koch , the brother of
energy billionaires David and  Charles Koch , contributed $1
million through his Oxbow Carbon LLC. Through personal checks
and his companies, William Koch has donated $3 million in all.  Perry also gave $2 million to American Crossroads, co-
founded by two former aides to President  George W. Bush ,  Karl
Rove  and Ed Gillespie, the latter now an adviser to Romney. He
earlier gave $2.5 million to the super-PAC. American Crossroads
raised $5.8 million last month.  Priorities USA Action raised $6.2 million. Irwin Jacobs,
the former chairman of  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , contributed $2 million,
and actor Morgan Freeman donated $1 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 