-- Obama ‘Saddened’ by Colorado Movie Theater Shootings
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-20T13:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/obama-saddened-by-colorado-movie-theater-shootings.html
President  Barack Obama  said he and
first lady  Michelle Obama  were “shocked and saddened by the
horrific and tragic shooting” early this morning at a movie
theater in Aurora, Colorado.  At least 12 people were killed and 50 injured when a gunman
opened fire during a midnight showing of the new Batman movie,
“The Dark Knight Rises,” police said. A suspect is in custody,
police said.  The president is to speak on the tragedy at a campaign
event today in  Fort Myers , Florida, at 11:20 a.m., campaign
spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said. The president canceled a second
event planned in Winter Park, Florida, near Orlando, later today
and will return to Washington, his Chicago campaign headquarters
said in a statement.  “Federal and local law enforcement are still responding,
and my administration will do everything that we can to support
the people of Aurora in this extraordinarily difficult time,”
the president said in a statement issued by the White House.  Obama spent the night in Florida for campaign events and
was notified at 5:26 a.m. about the shooting, press secretary
 Jay Carney  said.  “As we do when confronted by moments of darkness and
challenge, we must now come together as one American family,”
Obama said in the statement. All of us must have the people of
Aurora in our thoughts and prayers as they confront the loss of
family, friends, and neighbors, and we must stand together with
them in the challenging hours and days to come.”  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said he and
his wife, Ann, “are deeply saddened by the news of the
senseless violence” in the Denver suburb.  “We are praying for the families and loved ones,” he said
in a statement from Boston. “We expect that the person
responsible for this terrible crime will be quickly brought to
justice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  