-- Obama Joins Romney in Gun-Control Silence After Shootings
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-21T16:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/obama-joins-romney-in-reticence-on-gun-control-after-shootings.html
President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  have spoken little about gun
control in their campaigns for the White House and showed no
sign of shifting course after one of the deadliest shootings in
recent U.S. history.  “It’s not one of the issues that either candidate has
shown much inclination to discuss,” Don Kettl, dean of the
school of public policy at the  University of Maryland , said.
“There are more downside risks than upside gains in talking
about it.”  At least 12 people were killed and 59 were injured when a
gunman in a gas mask opened fire early yesterday in a movie
theater in Aurora, Colorado, according to a federal official who
asked for anonymity. A suspect, James Holmes, 24, was taken into
custody after the 12:30 a.m. attack in the Denver suburb.  Speaking yesterday in  Fort Myers ,  Florida , Obama made no
mention of  gun control  as he called for a moment of silence for
the victims. The president canceled later campaign events,
returned to  Washington  and ordered U.S. flags flown at half-
staff at federal facilities. Romney, who as  Massachusetts 
governor in 2004 signed  legislation  banning assault-style
weapons, also sidestepped the gun issue in a speech in Bow, New
Hampshire, calling the killings a “hateful act.”  Arizona Shooting  Obama called on Americans to choose compassion over
conflict following a January 2011 shooting rampage in  Arizona 
that killed six, including a 9-year-old girl, and critically
wounded U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , who later
stepped down from her House seat. He didn’t push for any
additional gun measures in the wake of that shooting.  Democrats became cautious about pushing gun control
measures after  Al Gore ’s defeat in the 2000 presidential
election, which many in the party blamed in part on the issue.
The then-head of the  Democratic Party ,  Terry McAuliffe ,
encouraged candidates to avoid the gun issue because of its
“devastating impact on elections.”  Gun-control advocates have expressed disappointment in
Obama’s administration and said they hope he will be more
aggressive on the issue should he win re-election.  New York 
Mayor Michael Bloomberg yesterday called on Obama and Romney to
tell Americans “specifically what are they going to do about
guns?”  ‘Soothing Words’  “Soothing words are nice, but maybe it’s time that the two
people who want to be president of the United States stand up
and tell us what they are going to do about it, because this is
obviously a problem across the country,” Bloomberg said in an
interview on WOR Radio.  In an interview taped for broadcast tomorrow on  CBS News ’s
“Face the Nation,” Bloomberg said it’s time for Romney and
Obama “to be called, held accountable,” according to excerpts
released by the network.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  “The president believes that we need to take common-sense
measures that protect Second Amendment rights of Americans,
while ensuring that those who should not have guns under
existing law do not get them,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters aboard Air Force One yesterday. “There
has been progress in that regard in terms of improving the
volume and quality of information in background checks.”  Ads Halted  Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, said in a statement that
the campaign planned to pull all ads in Colorado, a battleground
state, “until further notice.”  Jen Psaki , a spokeswoman for
Obama’s re-election campaign, told reporters it temporarily
won’t run ads in Colorado that contrast the president with
Romney.  In an April speech, Romney said he didn’t want to see any
new gun laws.  “We need a president who will enforce current laws, not
create new ones that only serve to burden lawful gun owners,”
the presumptive Republican nominee said in an April 13 speech to
a National Rifle Association convention in  St. Louis .  “We need a president who will stand up for the rights of
hunters, sportsmen and those who seek to protect their homes and
their families,” he said. “President Obama has not; I will.”  Massachusetts Law  The legislation Romney signed into law in 2004 was passed
by Massachusetts lawmakers to ban assault-style semiautomatic
weapons as a federal prohibition was about to expire. Congress
hasn’t renewed that ban.  When he sought the Republican nomination before the 2008
election Romney defended that law, saying it also “provided for
a relaxation of licensing requirements for gun owners in
Massachusetts.” He told NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Dec. 16,
2007, that he favored laws to “keep weapons of unusual
lethality from being on the street.”  During that appearance, Romney said he also favored a
background check for prospective gun purchases “to make sure
that the crazies don’t buy guns.”  During his NRA speech this year,  Romney suggested
defeating Obama would help ensure the U.S.  Supreme Court  would
continue to protect gun rights under the Constitution’s Second
Amendment.  “In his first term, we’ve seen this president try to
browbeat the Supreme Court,” Romney said. “In a second term,
he would remake it. Our freedoms would be in the hands of an
Obama court, not just for four years, but for the next 40. And
we must not let that happen.”  Key Constituency  The NRA represents a key constituency for Republicans, who
are more likely to have guns in their homes than Democrats, 55
percent to 40 percent, according to a Gallup  poll  taken in
October. The survey showed 47 percent of American adults have a
 firearm  at home.  The NRA has approximately 4 million members, according to
Stephanie Samford, a spokeswoman. Many are located in such
election swing states as Florida and Ohio.  Kettl said the gun issue is “trickier” for Obama than
Romney because “he is more likely to have a hard time appealing
to working-class voters” who are more likely to own guns.  “He has to tiptoe that very fine line between expressing
outrage” and not “derailing the themes he wants to get
across,” Kettl said.  During his failed bid for the 2008 Republican presidential
nomination, Romney also discussed his hunting habits.  ‘Very Clear’  “I’m not a big-game hunter,” he said in 2007. “I’ve made
it very clear, I’ve always been a, if you will, a rodent and
rabbit hunter, all right? Small, small varmints, if you will.
And I began when I was, oh, 15 or so, and have hunted those
kinds of varmints since then -- more than two times. I also
hunted quail in Georgia, so I’ve -- it’s not really big-game
hunting, if you will, however. It’s not deer and large animals.
But I’ve hunted a number of times of various types of small
rodents.”  Saul said in April that Romney owns two shotguns.  Romney supported the so-called Brady Bill of 1993 that
required licensed gun dealers to perform criminal background
checks on buyers. He also backed a ban on certain assault
weapons in a 1994 federal anti-crime bill.  As Massachusetts governor from 2003-2007, he also signed
legislation that raised gun license fees from $25 to $100 to
help close a state budget deficit, while also extending license
durations to mitigate the increased cost, according to a Boston
Globe  report .  Romney, in his remarks yesterday, said “there will be
justice for those responsible” for the Colorado shootings.
“That’s another matter for another day. Today is a moment to
grieve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  