-- Oil Drops for First Time in Eight Days on European Debt
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-07-20T19:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/oil-drops-for-first-time-in-eight-days-on-european-debt-concern.html
Oil fell for the first time in eight
days on concern that European governments aren’t doing enough to
contain the worsening debt crisis, raising speculation that
demand will slip.  Prices dropped from a two-month high as  Spain ’s cost of
borrowing rose to a record after euro-area finance ministers
gave final approval to a bank bailout for the country. The
dollar strengthened to the most in two years against the euro
and U.S. equities slid for the first time in four days.  “The Europeans are trying to stem the crisis but the
question remains: Have they done enough?” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Both equities and the dollar are sending negative
signals right now. The rally was pretty overextended and people
are taking money off the table.”  Crude for August delivery fell $1.22, or 1.3 percent, to
settle at $91.44 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Oil closed at the highest level since May 16 yesterday, capping
a seven-day gain that’s the longest since Feb. 24. Prices are
down 7.5 percent this year. They rose 5 percent this week.  August futures expired at the close of floor trading. The
more-active September contract dropped $1.14, or 1.2 percent, to
$91.83 a barrel.  Brent oil for September settlement retreated 97 cents, or
0.9 percent, to end the session at $106.83 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  “Oil markets don’t move in a straight line,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP Paribas SA’s London-based head of commodity
markets strategy. “People have seen sharp increases in prices
and they are more liable to take profits.”  Spain Bailout  The euro-area finance ministers approved a bailout plan for
Spain of as much as 100 billion euros ($122 billion). Today’s
decision, made on a conference call, paves the way for a first
payment from Europe’s temporary rescue fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility.  Yields of Spain’s 10-year bonds increased to 7.28 percent.
The euro fell as much as 1.1 percent against the dollar to the
weakest level since June 2010. A weaker euro and stronger dollar
reduce oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 1 percent
and the S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities slid as much as 1.3
percent.  Spain Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said the recession
will extend into next year. Gross domestic product will fall 0.5
percent in 2013 instead of rising 0.2 percent as the government
predicted April 27, he said after the Cabinet met in  Madrid .  Britain had a bigger  budget deficit  than economists
forecast in June, adding to doubt that Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  can meet his full-year fiscal goals.  ‘A Reminder’  “Oil is down because the euro is weaker, there is concern
about Spain, and the British deficit widened,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts . “This is a reminder that oil demand
might be weak.”  Crude also slid as Chinese leaders pledged to clamp down on
property speculation. The country, the world’s second-biggest
oil consuming country after the U.S., won’t relax property
control policies and will instead seek to keep a “firm grip”
on the real estate market, the official Xinhua News Agency said.  The Energy Department lowered its 2012 forecast for global
oil demand on July 12 to 88.64 million barrels a day, up 0.8
percent from 2011 demand.  Fuel Demand  Gasoline consumption in the U.S. dropped in June for the
first time since March and was down 2.5 percent from a year
earlier as slower economic growth reduced demand, the  American
Petroleum Institute  said today.  Deliveries of gasoline fell to 8.82 million barrels a day
from 9.05 million in June 2011, the industry-funded group said.
Total petroleum consumption decreased 3 percent to 18.7 million
barrels a day.  Oil may drop next week in New York, a Bloomberg survey
showed. Fourteen of 32 analysts, or 44 percent, forecast crude
will decline through July 27. Twelve respondents, or 38 percent,
predicted that futures will rise and six said there will be
little change in prices.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 424,263
contracts as of 3:46 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 690,954
contracts yesterday, 24 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.4 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  