-- Oil Drops From Nine-Week High on Signs Demand May Weaken
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-20T12:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/oil-drops-from-nine-week-high-on-signs-demand-may-weaken.html
Oil fell from a nine-week high in
 New York , paring a second weekly advance, as worse-than-expected
economic data added to signs seasonal crude demand is weakening.  Futures slipped as much as 2.2 percent, snapping a seven-
day run of gains that was the longest since February. Oil may
fall next week on signs of slowing economic growth, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  European stocks  slipped and the euro
weakened on concern that an agreement on an aid package for
 Spain ’s banks won’t stem the region’s financial crisis. Existing
U.S. home sales  unexpectedly dropped  in June and manufacturing
in the Philadelphia region contracted a third month in July,
reports showed yesterday.  “After seven sessions of gains it’s only natural to have
some pre-weekend profit-taking,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an
analyst at VTB Capital in  London , who predicts Brent crude may
be capped at $108 a barrel. “It’s the demand side that’s
especially concerning, and sustained gains past $108 in London
may be hard to justify. Geopolitics will still support, with
matters getting out of hand in  Syria , and more hostile rhetoric
between the U.S. and  Iran .”  Crude for August delivery, which expires today, lost as
much as $2 to $90.66 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $90.78 at 1:36 p.m. London
time. It climbed 3.1 percent yesterday to $92.66, the highest
close since May 16. The more-actively traded September future
decreased $1.88 to $91.09. Front-month prices are 4.2 percent
higher this week and down 8.2 percent this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement was at $106.01 a
barrel, down $1.79, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark was at a premium to West Texas
Intermediate of $14.92, compared with $14.83 yesterday.  European Crisis  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 1 percent in London,
trimming a seventh weekly advance. The euro slipped 0.7 percent
to less than $1.22 after Reuters reported that Spain’s Valencia
region will seek government help to repay debt, citing a
statement. Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden told
reporters in Luxembourg today the euro-area finance ministers
agreed on the aid package for Spain’s banks.  Oil in New York may drop toward $80 a barrel as prices fail
to break through the top of a so-called Ichimoku cloud,
according to technical analysis by Barclays Plc. WTI futures may
be capped at $93.75, the upper boundary of the cloud which is
calculated by analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and
lows and is used to show where buy orders may be clustered.  Fourteen of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast
crude will drop through July 27. Twelve respondents, or 38
percent, predicted that futures will rise and six said there
will be little change in prices.  U.S. Data  U.S. home purchases slid 5.4 percent in June to a 4.37
million annual rate, an eight-month low, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed in  Washington . The
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index
was minus 12.9 in July after minus 16.6 the month before.
Readings of less than zero signal contraction.  “The negatives are the economy,”  Jonathan Barratt , the
chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-
markets newsletter in Sydney, said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve had seven days of gains, the market is long, the window
closes very quickly with this sentiment.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
responsible for about 40 percent of global supplies, will curb
exports by 0.9 percent to 23.78 million barrels a day in the
four weeks to Aug. 4, compared with 24 million a month earlier,
Oil Movements said yesterday in an e-mailed report. The data
exclude Angola and  Ecuador . Western sanctions on Iranian
shipments will also contribute to the drop, the researcher said.  Oil surged yesterday on concern that increased tension in
the  Middle East  will threaten crude supplies. Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  blamed Lebanon’s Iranian-backed
Hezbollah organization for a bus bombing in  Bulgaria  that killed
Israeli tourists and threatened a forceful response. In
Damascus, Syrian government forces battled rebels in retaliation
for a blast that killed three top anti-insurgency leaders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  