-- Oil Drops From Nine-Week High on Weaker-Demand Outlook
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-20T06:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/oil-drops-from-nine-week-high-on-weaker-demand-outlook.html
Oil fell from a nine-week high in
 New York , paring a second weekly advance, on speculation gains
may have been excessive amid worse-than-expected economic data
and signs seasonal crude demand is weakening.  Futures slipped as much as 0.8 percent, snapping a seven-
day run of gains that was the longest since February. Oil may
fall next week on signs of slowing economic growth, according to
a Bloomberg News survey. Existing U.S. home sales  unexpectedly
dropped  in June and manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
contracted a third month in July, reports showed yesterday. OPEC
will cut shipments this month as the seasonal demand for driving
fuel fades, according to Oil Movements, a tanker tracker.  “The negatives are the economy,”  Jonathan Barratt , the
chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-
markets newsletter in Sydney, said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve had seven days of gains, the market is long, the window
closes very quickly with this sentiment.”  Crude for August delivery, which expires today, slid as
much as 76 cents to $91.90 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $91.95 at 2:24 p.m.
Singapore time. It climbed 3.1 percent yesterday to $92.66, the
highest close since May 16. The more-actively traded September
future decreased 73 cents to $92.24. Front-month prices are 5.6
percent higher this week and down 7 percent this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement was at $107.34 a
barrel, down 46 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a premium to
West Texas Intermediate of $15.10, from $14.83 yesterday.  Ichimoku Cloud  Oil in New York may drop toward $80 a barrel as prices fail
to break through the top of a so-called Ichimoku cloud,
according to technical analysis by Barclays Plc. WTI futures may
be capped at $93.75, the upper boundary of the cloud which is
calculated by analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and
lows and is used to show where buy orders may be clustered.  Fourteen of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast
crude will drop through July 27. Twelve respondents, or 38
percent, predicted that futures will rise and six said there
will be little change in prices.  U.S. home purchases slid 5.4 percent in June to a 4.37
million annual rate, an eight-month low, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed in  Washington . The
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index
was minus 12.9 in July after minus 16.6 the month before.
Readings of less than zero signal contraction.  OPEC Shipments  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
responsible for about 40 percent of global supplies, will curb
exports by 0.9 percent to 23.78 million barrels a day in the
four weeks to Aug. 4, compared with 24 million a month earlier,
Oil Movements said yesterday in an e-mailed report. The data
exclude Angola and  Ecuador . Western sanctions on Iranian
shipments will also contribute to the drop, the researcher said.  Oil surged yesterday on concern increased tension in the
 Middle East  will threaten crude supplies. Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  blamed Lebanon’s Iranian-backed Hezbollah
organization for a bus bombing in  Bulgaria  that killed Israeli
tourists and threatened a forceful response. In Damascus, Syrian
government forces battled rebels in retaliation for a blast that
killed three top anti-insurgency leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  