-- Money-Market Funds, Peregrine, Volcker Rule: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-20T12:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/money-market-funds-peregrine-volcker-rule-compliance.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
said money-market fund investors should be prohibited from
withdrawing all their assets at once as a way to make the
$2.5 trillion industry “safer and more fair.”  Money funds should set aside a portion of every investor’s
balance as a “minimum balance at risk” that could only be
withdrawn with a 30-day notice, the New York Fed’s staff said
yesterday in a  report . The provision would reduce systemic risk
and protect small investors who don’t pull out of a troubled
fund quickly, according to the report.  The idea, opposed by the funds industry, is already part of
a proposal before the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
that would force money funds to float their share value or build
capital cushions and impose withdrawal restrictions, a person
familiar with the plan said last month. The agency hasn’t made
the proposal public and hasn’t scheduled a meeting for
commissioners to vote on it.  Regulators have worked on money fund proposals since the
September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund triggered an industry run, helping to freeze global credit
markets.  Compliance Action  Peregrine Trustee to Have Claims-Payout Estimate in 14 Days  Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s bankruptcy trustee will
tell some former clients within 14 days about how much they have
to put on deposit so they can redeem specific property claims
against the defunct futures brokerage.  Robert Fishman, a lawyer for Ira Bodenstein, the trustee,
yesterday told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Carol Doyle in Chicago that
the preliminary estimate -- a percentage of the properties’
value -- was needed as a guide for processing 11 potential
claims, primarily from owners of warehouse receipts for precious
metals held by the collapsed Cedar Falls, Iowa-based firm.  “We’ll be pretty conservative,” Fishman told reporters
after the hearing, in which Doyle gave the trustee permission to
notify the clients about their property.  Clients will have 14 days from when they are notified to
say whether they want to reclaim that property, mostly warehouse
receipts for precious metals. Because claimants in the same
class must be treated equally, each one seeking the return of
property must deposit a percentage of its cash value, to be held
for ultimate pro rata distribution to claims class members.  The percentage estimate will apply for now only to members
of this group, Fishman said.  Peregrine filed for liquidation under Chapter 7 of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code  on July 10, one day after the National Futures
Association, an industry self-regulator, said the firm’s bank
accounts were short more than $200 million.  Russell Wasendorf Sr., Peregrine’s founder and chief
executive officer, has been charged with making false statements
to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. He’s in
federal custody pending a bail hearing set for July 27 in  Cedar
Rapids , Iowa.  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-00131, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids). The
regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Ex-Progress CEO Says Duke Tried to Exit Merger Amid Tensions  Bill Johnson , the man who was chief executive officer of
 Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  for eight hours after its $17.8 billion
takeover of Progress Energy Inc., said he battled Duke to
preserve the deal after federal officials raised objections to
the merger.  Tensions flared between top executives over the cost of
complying with anti-competition demands of the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission , Johnson testified to the North Carolina
Utility Commission in a hearing yesterday. Duke CEO  James Rogers 
“explored every avenue to get out of the merger,” he said.  “They had buyer’s remorse,” Johnson told Commission
Chairman Edward Finley. “They wanted the merger, then they
didn’t want it, then they couldn’t get out of it, then they
didn’t want to be stuck with me as the person who dragged them
to it.”  The expense of easing the federal agency’s competition
concerns was estimated to be about $110 million, according to a
March 26 statement by the two companies. That narrowed Duke’s
already “thin” benefit from the takeover, Johnson said
yesterday.  The former Progress CEO testified as the state expands its
investigation into the last-minute executive change. Johnson,
58, was replaced by the CEO of Duke who was slated to become
executive chairman after the merger closed.  Duke directors signed an employment agreement with Johnson
June 27, then after the transaction closed, voted to request his
resignation, according to filings.  The state utility commission hearing is providing Johnson
the chance to refute statements by Rogers, who told the agency
on July 10 that Duke’s board lost confidence in the incoming CEO
because of his “autocratic style” and his handling of
Progress’s nuclear fleet.  “None of these concerns were expressed to me,” Johnson
said. “I am not autocratic.” During his meetings with Rogers,
“we never talked about autocratic style, culture, Progress
financials, any of those.”  Shareholders have sued Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Duke’s directors for allegedly misleading them and damaging the
company’s reputation.  For more, click here.  Anil Kumar Gets Two Years’ Probation in Insider-Trading Case  Former McKinsey & Co. partner Anil Kumar was sentenced to
two years’ probation for  insider-trading  crimes in light of what
prosecutors called his “extraordinary” cooperation in the
trials of Raj Rajaratnam and  Rajat Gupta .  U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin  in Manhattan yesterday
declined to send Kumar to prison, noting that he was a key
witness in what the government has called the biggest insider-
trading cases in U.S. history. Chin also ordered Kumar, 53, to
pay a $25,000 fine and forfeit $2.26 million.  “I am persuaded that this was aberrational conduct and
that Mr. Kumar has led a law-abiding and productive life,” Chin
said. “I am persuaded he cooperated not to get a lighter
sentence but to make amends for what he did.”  Kumar testified at the trials of Rajaratnam, the co-founder
of hedge-fund company Galleon Group LLC, and Gupta, the former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director who once led McKinsey. Both
men were convicted of  securities fraud  and other crimes.  Kumar, who worked at McKinsey from 1986 to November 2009,
pleaded guilty in January 2010 to one count each of conspiracy
and securities fraud. At Rajaratnam’s trial last year, he said
he passed inside information about client matters, including
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ’s deal to sell chips to Hewlett-
Packard Co. and AMD’s acquisition of ATI Technologies Inc.  The case is U.S. v. Kumar, 10-cr-00013, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Feeding Frenzy Seen If Wall Street Sues Itself Over Libor  Wall Street , grappling with mounting regulatory probes and
investor claims over alleged interest-rate manipulation, may
face yet another formidable foe: Itself.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are among
financial firms that may bring lawsuits against their biggest
rivals as regulators on three continents examine whether other
banks manipulated the London interbank offered rate, known as
Libor, said Bradley Hintz, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. Even if Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley forgo claims on
their own behalf, they oversee money-market funds that may be
required to pursue restitution for injured clients, he said.  Because Libor is based on submissions from only some of the
world’s largest banks, the probes threaten to pit firms
uninvolved in setting the rate against any implicated in its
manipulation, Hintz said. Libor serves as a benchmark for at
least $360 trillion in securities.  Libor and similar rates are derived by surveying a group of
banks daily. Participating firms are asked how much it would
cost them to borrow from one another for 15 different periods in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published.  Regulators are looking at whether banks made submissions
that understated funding costs during the credit crisis or if
traders at the firms influenced Libor to boost profits.  For more, click here.  SEC Agrees on Real-Time System for U.S. Stock Order, Trade Data  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission took a step
toward improving its oversight of equity and options markets,
contracting for a system that collects quote and trade data that
is sold mainly to private users.  Regulators will be able to tap into real-time feeds of
orders, quotes and transactions that are generated by exchange
companies such as  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and were,
until now, used primarily by banks and automated trading firms.
Tradeworx Inc., a high-frequency firm and technology vendor in
Red Bank, New Jersey, will deliver a platform this year that can
compile the data under an SEC contract.  The initiative to enhance access to trading-related data is
separate from a much broader market oversight project known as
the consolidated audit trail that SEC commissioners voted to
mandate last week. That plan, years away from implementation,
will let regulators monitor an order’s “life cycle,” including
information circulated before it gets to an exchange or another
venue, or is canceled. That project, which will capture
information the morning after it occurs, will also identify the
firms making trading decisions.  The fee for the market-data system is $2.5 million for the
first year, Manoj Narang, CEO of Tradeworx, said in an e-mail.  The new market-data project, for use by as many as 100
people at the agency, will allow the SEC to monitor trading and
hunt for abusive activity. The SEC may generate hundreds of
daily queries about trading activity, the regulator told vendors
in response to questions last year.  Securities Technology Monitor, a trade publication, first
reported the SEC’s selection of Tradeworx for the platform.  SEC Sues STEC CEO for Insider Trading That Reaped $134 Million  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued the chief
executive officer of  STEC Inc. (STEC)  over claims he reaped
$134 million by selling the company’s stock after learning
confidential information about a drop in demand for one of the
company’s most-profitable products.  Manouchehr Moshayedi, who co-founded the Santa Ana,
California-based technology company with his two brothers in
1990, sold 4.5 million STEC shares in an August 2009 secondary
offering after learning that a major customer would scale back
purchases of the ZeusIOPS flash memory product, the SEC said in
a lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court in Santa Ana.  STEC’s share price increased more than 800 percent from
January to August 2009 as the company reported higher revenue,
sales and margins for its products, particularly ZeusIOPS, the
SEC said. The gain was helped by a July 2009 announcement that
EMC Corp., STEC’s largest customer, had agreed to buy $120
million worth of ZeusIOPS in the third and fourth quarters,
according to the complaint.  Before the secondary offering, Moshayedi learned that EMC’s
actual demand was lower -- only about $34 million for the third
quarter -- and wouldn’t be sufficient to ensure that STEC met
its revenue guidance or analysts’ estimates, the SEC said.  According to the SEC, Moshayedi then entered into a secret
side deal with EMC. Moshayedi persuaded EMC to take $55 million
of ZeusIOPS product in the third quarter in exchange for an
undisclosed additional $2 million price discount on the product
in the fourth quarter.  When Moshayedi disclosed in November 2009 what he had known
before the August secondary offering, the stock price plummeted
more than 38 percent, the SEC said.  A phone call to William Baker, Moshayedi’s attorney, wasn’t
immediately returned.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Moshayedi, 12-cv-01179, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  Compliance Policy  JPMorgan Among Six Banks Moving Toward Volcker Rule, Curry Says  Six of the largest U.S. banks have already taken steps to
shut down their proprietary trading operations in anticipation
of a ban known as the Volcker rule, U.S. Comptroller of the
Currency  Thomas Curry  said.  In a letter to U.S. Representative  Carolyn Maloney , Curry
identified the six banks as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of
America Corp .,  Citibank NA , Morgan Stanley,  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. (PNC)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Curry said it was too soon to determine whether the banks
were already in compliance with the rule, which is still being
revised by five U.S. regulators. Curry’s letter, dated July 18,
was in response to a question from Maloney, a New York Democrat,
at a June 19 congressional hearing.  The measures taken by the lenders show that “many large
banks have recognized the validity of the Volcker rule and the
risk in trading for their own gain at the same time they are
working for their customers’ benefit,” Maloney said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “I applaud these institutions who
are not waiting for the final rules but who recognize that Dodd-
Frank is the law of the land.”  Japan Ruling Party Seeks to Criminalize Stock Information Leaks  Japan’s ruling party is seeking changes to insider-trading
rules that would allow criminal charges and fines for brokerages
and bankers who leak stock offering information, according to a
draft document obtained by Bloomberg News.  The  Democratic Party  of Japan’s 15-member working group,
led by former Morgan Stanley managing director  Tsutomu Okubo ,
will submit a final version to the party by July 31, officials
at the lawmaker’s office said July 18, while declining to
comment further. The DPJ will then submit a proposal to the
country’s  Financial Services Agency .  Japan’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission has
uncovered five insider-trading cases since March related to
equity offerings in 2010. The watchdog has recommended fines for
traders who made short sales based on leaked information in
those cases, while underwriters who gave them tips have received
no penalties, based on existing rules.  Other DPJ proposals include allowing lead underwriters to
market equity offerings under strict confidentiality agreements
before share sales are announced, according to the document. The
working group is also proposing that  pension funds  pledge not to
invest in  hedge funds  that have breached insider rules.  The SESC is continuing to inspect  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,
Japan’s biggest brokerage, after finding that its employees gave
tips to traders on share sales it managed. As part of its
efforts to crack down on insider trading, the regulator this
month asked Nomura, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and 10 other
brokerages to review how they handle confidential information.  Nomura said on June 29 that it cut top executives’ pay,
forced two managers to step down and suspended some operations
following an internal probe into leaks ahead of 2010 equity
offerings by  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Inpex Corp. (1605)  and Tokyo
Electric Power Co.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  