-- Montebourg Said to Want Peugeot’s Varin to Stay, Seeks New Plan
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-20T16:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/montebourg-said-to-want-peugeot-s-varin-to-stay-seeks-new-plan.html
French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  wants  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  Chief Executive Officer
Philippe Varin to remain at the helm of the carmaker and to
rework a plan for its revival.  Montebourg told Varin of his demands when they met for two
hours yesterday in Paris to discuss  Europe ’s second-biggest
automaker’s plan to shut a factory in Aulnay,  France , and cut
8,000 jobs on top of 6,000 reductions announced last year, a
government official said, declining to be identified according
to internal rules.  The minister had said before his talks with Varin that he
was skeptical of family-controlled Peugeot’s business strategy,
including a model-development alliance with Detroit-based
 General Motors Co. (GM)  that resulted this year in the sale of a 7
percent stake in the Paris-based carmaker to the U.S company.  Concern that President  Francois Hollande ’s government would
obstruct efforts by Peugeot to close the factory and cut jobs
even though the state owns no stake in the carmaker resulted in
its shares tumbling to a 23-year-low this week. The government
is scheduled on July 25 to unveil plans to support the country’s
automobile industry and stem job losses after France’s jobless
claims rose to a more than 12-year high.  The government’s proposals may include support for hybrid
cars and an incentive program to boost auto sales, the official
and union representatives said.  Peugeot  shares rose  for a third day today, gaining 0.02
percent to 6.57 euros. The shares have fallen more than 8
percent since the company’s July 12 announcement on job cuts.  Meeting Peugeot  Montebourg was scheduled to meet today with Thierry Peugeot, chairman of the company’s supervisory board, to discuss
plans for the Aulnay site. The meeting was postponed to July 26,
a day after he is scheduled to unveil the automobile sector
plan, the official said.  Varin is scheduled to address lawmakers’ questions about
the company’s plan before a parliamentary committee on July 26.  Peugeot’s first-half deliveries slumped 13 percent compared
with a 10 percent increase at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s namesake brand in
the period. VW is Europe’s largest automaker. Varin said on July
12 that Peugeot’s factories were running at 76 percent of
capacity in Europe and that it has been burning about 200
million euros ($245 million) in operating cash flow a month in
the past year.  The French company will stop production at its 39-year-old
factory in Aulnay, on the outskirts of Paris, in 2014 and focus
the building of small cars at a nearby plant in Poissy, it said.
Peugeot will also curb production at a plant in Rennes to slash
operational costs. The last French auto factory to close was a
Renault plant in 1992.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net  