-- Top 2% Not Job Creators or Millionaires in Tax Debate
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-20T16:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/top-2-not-job-creators-or-millionaires-in-tax-debate.html
President  Barack Obama  describes
them as “millionaires and billionaires” who can afford to pay
higher taxes. Republicans call them “job creators” who need to
keep their money so they can hire more workers.  As the Democratic president and his Republican opponents
debate whether to extend the George W. Bush-era tax cuts for the
top 2 percent of U.S. taxpayers -- individuals earning more than
$200,000 a year and married couples making more than $250,000 --
their poll-tested phrases obscure the truth about who would be
affected.  They are two-earner professional couples living on the East
and West Coasts, doctors, lawyers, engineers and Wall Street
executives. Few are billionaires or earn more than $1 million a
year, and most are not employers.  “The 2 percent, they’re people who are successful in their
professions, but they’re not the absolute rock stars,” said
 Leonard Burman , an economist at  Syracuse University  in New York.
“There’s a big difference between the 99th percentile and the
99.9th.”  Fewer than 1 percent of the  U.S. population  have annual
income of more than $1 million. In the top two tax brackets,
slightly more than one-third -- 35.5 percent -- were employers
receiving business income, according to 2007 figures from the
Treasury Department.  The U.S. Senate plans to vote next week on an Obama-backed
plan to extend expiring income tax cuts for everyone except
these top 2 percent of earners. The Republican-led House will
vote the following week to extend the cuts for all income
levels.  Fortunate Few  Obama, including himself in this group of high earners,
says they are a fortunate few who can pay more to help reduce
the  U.S. budget deficit .  “What we’re saying is for those folks, we can afford to
pay a little bit more in taxes by going back to the rates that
were paid under  Bill Clinton ,” Obama said in Ohio July 16.  Republicans maintain that the 2 percenters include business
owners who would lose the incentive to add jobs if they had to
pay higher marginal tax rates.  “Those who will be punished in the president’s proposal
are A, small business owners, and B, those who are most likely
to contribute to economic growth,” Representative  Kevin Brady ,
a Texas Republican and member of the House Ways and Means
Committee, said in an interview on C-SPAN’s “Newsmakers” July
15. “We might be able to find one economist who thinks it’s
good for the economy trying to raise those taxes, but we would
wear out a car trying to find a second.”  Obama’s Plan  Under Obama’s plan, the current 33 percent and 35 percent
top individual brackets would be replaced with brackets at 36
percent and 39.6 percent. No one with a gross annual income of
less than $200,000 and no married couple making less than
$250,000, in 2009 dollars, would pay more in 2013 than they’re
paying today.  Obama’s proposal would set the taxable income thresholds at
$247,450 for married couples and $203,950 for individuals. In
many cases, taxpayers with adjusted gross incomes far exceeding
those thresholds or the $200,000 and $250,000 ceilings would be
able to use deductions and other tax breaks to avoid the higher
rates. Separately, as part of the 2010 health care law, a 3.8
percent tax on top taxpayers’ “unearned income,” including
 capital gains  and dividends, takes effect in 2013.  95 Percent  The administration’s proposal would raise income taxes for
1.3 percent of households by an average of $35,757 in 2013,
according to the  Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan research group
in  Washington . More than 95 percent of households in the top 1
percent of income -- those making more than $596,998 a year --
would pay more.  In terms of revenue for the Treasury, the Democrats would
raise about $68 billion more from a one-year extension than
Republicans would, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee
on Taxation. Over 10 years, the parties are about $966 billion
apart.  The debate over the top two tax rates is part of a broader
fight in Congress over how to avert the $607 billion fiscal
cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to
take effect in 2013. Democrats say higher taxes for top earners
must be part of any alternative. Republicans say the current
rates should remain for all, shifting the burden of  deficit
reduction  to the spending side of the budget.  Occupational Breakdown  Jon Bakija, an economist at  Williams College  in
 Massachusetts , has used  tax-return data  from 2005 to compile
occupational breakdowns for the top 0.1 percent, the top 1
percent and the top 5 percent of taxpayers.  “As you go up higher in the income scale, you get a larger
share of executives and finance people,” he said.  Engineers, architects and information-technology workers
make up 9.6 percent of the top 5 percent of taxpayers and 4.2
percent of the top 1 percent of taxpayers, Bakija said. The top
5 percent includes managers, financial professionals, lawyers
and medical professionals, though all in lower concentrations
than in the top 1 percent.  U.S. households in the top 5 percent are more likely to
have two spouses working than those in the top 1 percent. Of
that top 5 percent, 23 percent have spouses who don’t work
outside the home, compared with 31.6 percent of the highest 1
percent and 39.3 percent of the top 0.1 percent.  Two-Earner Couples  “What you have is a growth in two-earner couples at one
end of the income scale,” said Scott Hodge, president of the
 Tax Foundation  in Washington, which favors a simpler  tax code 
with fewer targeted breaks. “You have this huge cohort of
people reaching their peak earnings potential.”  Geographically, the taxpayers in the 2 percent group are
concentrated in high-income states along the coasts. In
 Connecticut , 3.6 percent of households would pay higher taxes
under Obama’s plan, more than triple the 1.1 percent in Ohio and
the 1 percent in Idaho, according to  Citizens for Tax Justice , a
Washington group that favors raising taxes for top earners.  After Connecticut, the greatest concentrations of
households that would be subject to higher rates are in  New
Jersey , Massachusetts and New York, at 3.2 percent, 2.8 percent
and 2.6 percent, respectively. The  District of Columbia  tops all
of them at 4 percent. Mississippi and West Virginia occupy the
bottom of the list, with fewer than 1 percent of households in
their states facing the proposed tax increase.  S Corporations  Much of the debate in Washington over income tax cuts
centers on whether the higher taxes would affect small
businesses. Companies structured as S corporations, partnerships
or sole proprietorships don’t have to pay the corporate tax of
up to 35 percent. Instead, business owners report profits on
their individual tax returns, and those are known as pass-
through or flow-through businesses.  Each side has its own favorite statistics on the subject,
which are accurate and incomplete.  Obama and congressional Democrats like to mention that 97
percent of small businesses wouldn’t be affected by tax
increases, because they’re not in the top two tax brackets.  That’s true and misleading, Republicans counter. They note
that 53 percent of business income reported on individual income
tax returns is earned by taxpayers who would be affected by
Obama’s proposal.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  at campaign
events emphasizes the theme that Obama’s plan would hurt
business owners.  Dreams ‘Crushed’  “Dreams are being crushed when taxes go up, and up, and up
on job creators, and business creators, when regulations become
overwhelming and burdensome, when the people in governments
sometimes treat you like you’re the enemy instead of the
friend,” he said on July 10 in Grand Junction, Colorado.  Not all of the businesses that pay taxes through their
owners’ individual returns are small. The partners in global law
and accounting firms, oil pipeline companies and  hedge funds  all
have their business profits flow through to their personal tax
returns. Even the small businesses don’t necessarily have
employees.  A 2011 Treasury Department  analysis  attempted to separate
large pass-through businesses from smaller ones and to
differentiate businesses with workers from those with none.  The study found that, depending on the definition of small
business, between 29 percent and 32 percent of small business
income is subject to the top two tax rates. Of the taxpayers
subject to the top two tax rates, 25 percent are small
businesses and employers.  Marginal Rates  Beyond the debate over who would be affected, lawmakers
also disagree as to how households and businesses would respond
to higher marginal tax rates. Democrats point to economic growth
during the 1990s with higher tax rates, while Republicans say a
reduction in after-tax rates of return would lead to slower
growth.  The economic evidence is mixed, Bakija said.  “There would be some reduction of incomes of top earners
if we raise their tax rates, but it’s probably going to be
modest,” he said. “Anybody who claims to have really
convincing evidence that this is going to hurt  job creation ,
there just isn’t such convincing evidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  