-- More Live in Diverse U.S. Suburbs Than White Ones
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/more-live-in-diverse-u-s-suburbs-than-white-ones.html
For the first time, more Americans
are living in racially and ethnically diverse suburbs than in
predominantly white ones, according to a  study  released today.  Those mixed communities also are growing faster than their
mostly white counterparts in the 50 largest U.S. metropolitan
areas, said a report by the University of Minnesota Law School’s
 Institute on Metropolitan Opportunity . The study, which defined
diverse communities as those with 20 percent to 60 percent
minority groups, noted a decline in racial bias amid an influx
of Asians and Hispanics, the nation’s two fastest-growing racial
and ethnic groups.  Twenty-eight percent of people in major metro areas live in
mostly white suburbs and exurbs, a decrease from the 35 percent
of Americans who lived in such places in 2000, the report found.
The population in diverse locations rose to 31 percent from 26
percent.  “There are just fewer white suburbs now,” Thomas Luce,
the institute’s research director, said in a telephone
interview.  The growth of integrated suburbs suggests a decline in bias
and the partial success of fair-housing laws, the report said.
Still, whites continue to move away from integrated suburbs and
many of the communities become mostly minority, defined as
places with more than 60 percent non-white residents, which tend
to struggle more economically.  “The fragile demographic stability in these newly
integrated suburbs, as well as the rise of poor virtually non-
white suburbs, presents serious challenges for local, state and
federal governments,” the report said.  Tipping Point  While the  Census  Bureau projects that white, non-Hispanic
residents will drop from a clear majority to a plurality by 2042
in the U.S., the sustained growth in diverse suburbs isn’t
assured. Communities that had at least 23 percent of minorities
in 1980 were more likely to be mostly minority by 2005, the
study said.  The study’s authors reported that minority suburbs of major
metro areas included 20.1 million Americans, about 12 percent of
the metro area population and an 82 percent increase from the
2000 population living in those communities.  The number of racially diverse suburbs in  Chicago  climbed
to 123 in 2010, a 52 percent increase from 2000. In  New York ,
the number of diverse suburbs grew to 210, a 49 percent increase
during the decade. The number rose to 68 in  Dallas , a 42 percent
jump. The 50 largest metro areas contain 60 percent of the  U.S.
population .  Growing Diversity  The Minnesota study found that 52.7 million Americans lived
in 1,376 diverse suburbs, according to  2010 Census  data. About
47.2 million lived in predominantly white suburbs. The study
described the number of people in diverse communities as
“substantial increases” from 2000, when 42 million people
lived in 1,006 such suburbs, while 54 million were residents of
mostly white suburbs.  Population growth  was much higher in diverse suburbs during
the decade, Myron Orfield, the institute’s director and co-
author of the study, said in a telephone interview. The study
found diverse suburbs grew 15 percent in that period, faster
than any other type of community except predominantly white
exurbs. The study defined exurbs as places where less than 10
percent of land was urbanized; they generally began the decade
with a small population base.  The study also found that job growth was among the highest
in diverse suburbs from 2003 to 2008. The number of jobs in
those communities grew by 9 percent, three times the rate of
predominantly white suburbs and surpassed only by the 14 percent
growth registered in exurban communities.  “Many suburban job centers -- the most important source of
job growth in modern American metropolitan areas -- are located
in diverse suburbs because those diverse suburbs are often
located near core areas and along interstate highways,” the
report said.  Editors: Flynn McRoberts,  Mark McQuillan   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Bass  in New York at 
fbass1@bloomberg.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in Chicago at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark McQuillan in  Washington  at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net . 