-- Tottenham Prepares Bid for Lloris, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-07-20T08:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/tottenham-prepares-bid-for-lloris-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Spurs a Hugo Fan  Tottenham’s new coach Andre Villas-Boas will try to sign
French national team captain  Hugo Lloris  from Lyon,  the Daily
Mirror said.   Villas-Boas attempted to get the goalkeeper when he was
coach of Chelsea and is trying to negotiate down the price with
Lyon, which is asking for 16 million pounds ($25 million), the
newspaper said.  Not to United  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  won’t sell captain  Robin van Persie  to Manchester United, which makes Manchester City the
frontrunner for the striker,  the Sun said .  Juventus, which had been linked to the Dutch player, has
decided to focus on Fiorentina’s Stevan Jovetic instead, leaving
the Manchester teams the most probable to move for  Van Persie ,
the newspaper said. Arsenal is asking for about 30 million
pounds, a sum that City would be able to fund, the Sun said.  Swansea Shopping  New Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  may return to former
club Swansea to sign midfielder  Joe Allen ,  the Daily Star said .  Swansea values the Wales national team player at about 16
million pounds, and Rodgers wants to bring him north, the
newspaper said. Liverpool may fund the spending by selling
striker Andy Carroll, the newspaper said.  Money Matters  Emmanuel Adebayor is balking at changing his loan at
Tottenham to a full contract because the north London club is
asking him to take a 3 million-pound annual salary cut,  the Sun
said.   The striker is threatening to see out his contract at
Manchester City because of the wage dispute, the newspaper said.
Spurs agreed to pay 6 million pounds for the player, but haven’t
been able to negotiate his wages, the Sun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  