-- Tour de France May Broadcast Race Chat as Wiggins ‘Nails’ Rival
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-20T00:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/tour-de-france-may-broadcast-race-chat-as-wiggins-nails-rival.html
As Tour de France leader Bradley Wiggins raced up the final mountain yesterday to leave behind
closest rival Vincenzo Nibali, his chat with a teammate might
have improved the television broadcast.  “We said, ‘He’s nailed, he’s finished,” Wiggins said of
his conversation yesterday with Team Sky teammate Chris Froome.
Tour de France executives want to air internal team discussions
to appeal to television viewers and boost ratings.  Wiggins has a 2-minute, 5-second lead over Froome in the
overall classification. Froome hasn’t challenged the advantage
of his fellow Briton during the race and twice slowed down for
Wiggins to catch up yesterday.  Nibali, an Italian with the Liquigas team, is in third
place 2:41 behind Wiggins, who’s seeking to become the first
British winner of the race. Today’s 138-mile (222-kilometer)
flat stage between Blagnac and Brive-La-Gaillarde will be
followed by a time trial tomorrow and the final ceremonial ride
to Paris on July 22.  The executives of Amaury Sport Organisation, which runs the
Tour, are also in talks with teams about fitting cameras on
bikes, said  Jonathan Vaughters , the manager of the Garmin-Sharp
squad and the head of the teams’ association.  “There’s a possibility of increasing the audience and
increasing the value of TV rights,” Vaughters said by telephone
yesterday.  The Tour was the  12th-most popular  televised sporting event
in 2009, drawing 44 million viewers for a single mountain stage,
according to Initiative, a London-based media-buying agency.  Modern Push  There’s a push to modernize coverage that’s distributed to
other networks by public broadcaster France Television, ASO
Managing Director Yann Le Moenner said.  Formula One auto racing, which had the third-most popular
event in the Initiative research with 115 million viewers, is
among sports that broadcasts edited conversations between team
directors and drivers.  “We need to work better, in a more effective way, to bring
the sport to the future,” Le Moenner said in a recent interview
in Paris. “Whether that be live data, the sound of the peloton,
or cameras on bikes.”  Le Moenner didn’t disclose whether the race’s audience is
increasing or falling.  The discussions between ASO and teams could lead to more
cooperation in cycling, which has a history of infighting,
Vaughters said.  “My hope is that we can start small and build on that,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  