-- Investors Whipsawed by Price Swings in IBM, Coca-Cola
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-07-20T21:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/hourly-price-swings-whipsaw-investors-in-ibm-coke-mcdonald-s.html
Investors in three of the biggest
 Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  stocks were whipsawed by price
swings that repeated every hour yesterday, fueling speculation
the moves were a consequence of computerized trading.  Shares of  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  swung between successive lows and highs
in intervals that began near the top and bottom of each hour,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. While only IBM finished more
than 1 percent higher, the intraday patterns weren’t accompanied
by any breaking news in the three companies where $3.42 billion
worth of shares changed hands.  Regulators have increased scrutiny of computerized
strategies that rose to prominence in the U.S. after more than a
decade of market structure reform. The Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission blamed a
broker’s algorithm for setting into motion the events that
caused the May 2010 market crash that briefly erased $862
billion from U.S. equities in less than 20 minutes.  “Somebody probably has software that’s running an
algorithm that’s either selling in 30-minute intervals or
buying,” Bruce W. Weber, dean of the Alfred  Lerner College  of
Business and Economics at the  University of Delaware , said in a
telephone interview. “For the market value of Coke to be going
up and down in this way, oscillating every hour, is a pretty
disconcerting observation. This is not going to raise investors’
confidence in the mechanics of our market.”  Value Traded  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
on the trading, as did  Kent Landers , a spokesman for Coca-Cola.
Vineeta Durani of IBM didn’t return a call and e-mail requesting
comment. McDonald’s didn’t immediately make a representative
available for comment.  “We’re not aware of any issues,” said  Rich Adamonis , a
spokesman for the New York Stock Exchange, where the companies
are listed. “Nor were there any circuit breakers or other halts
applied to those stocks. We didn’t receive any complaints in our
market. Everything was fine.”  IBM fell 1.5 percent to $192.45 today, while McDonald’s
slipped 1.3 percent to $91.58. Coca-Cola lost 0.7 percent to
$77.03.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which also had hourly price swings
yesterday, dropped 1.6 percent to $604.30 today.  Market Programs  Algorithms are trading strategies that break larger buy or
sell orders into smaller  pieces  over a specified period of time
such as an hour or day. Traders at fund managers or brokers use
them to mute price impact and mask activity as they try to scoop
up visible and hidden orders spread across exchanges and
alternative venues such as dark pools.  A volume-weighted average price, or VWAP, strategy seeks to
buy or sell stock over a certain period, weighted for the number
of shares traded at different levels. A time-weighted average
price algorithm tries to buy or sell over set intervals of time.
More aggressive and tailored algorithms exist to fine-tune
trading based on market conditions such as volume, volatility or
the price movements of indexes.  Together, the three  Dow stocks  represented 14 percent of
the value of trading in the index yesterday. IBM, which reported
results July 18, made up 8.1 percent, with $2.03 billion
changing hands, more than every stock in the index except Pfizer
Inc., the data show. Yesterday had the highest value traded for
the three stocks since March 16, when $3.52 billion changed
hands, and it is almost twice the 2012 average of $1.96 billion.  Apple traded $9.56 billion of shares yesterday, the most
since July 11, data show. The stock  rose  about 0.5 percent six
times at the start of the hour and lost part of the gains by the
end, the data show.  Scratching Heads  “Every fundamentally oriented trader/investor is
scratching their head,” Nicholas Colas, the New York-based
chief market strategist at ConvergEx Group, said in an e-mail.
“These are high-dollar stocks, and major weightings, relatively
speaking, in indexes such as the Dow and  S&P 500 .”  About 10.4 million shares of IBM changed hands yesterday,
twice the daily average of the past 12 months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. About 9.03 million shares of Coke changed hands,
25 percent more than the three-month average. The total number
of shares traded in McDonald’s yesterday was 7.43 million, 13
percent more than the three-month average. The number of Apple
shares traded jumped 72 percent yesterday from July 18. About
15.6 million shares of Apple changed hands or 7.3 percent below
the average in the past three months.  ‘Significantly Higher’  “Volume was significantly higher in most of those names
yesterday, which combined with the exaggerated price moves would
indicate that there were large orders placed in the algo,” said
 Mark Turner , head of U.S. sales trading at New York-based
Instinet Inc., which accounts for almost 5 percent of daily U.S.
equities volume, said in an e-mail.  Coca-Cola’s  intraday  low was $76.50 at 9:58 a.m. The stock
rose to $77.25 at 10:28, fell 0.7 percent to $76.71 at 11 a.m.,
rose 0.9 percent to $77.40 at 11:29 a.m., and fell 0.8 percent
to $76.79 at 11:59 a.m. It hit successive highs at 12:29 p.m.,
1:22 p.m. and 2:29 p.m., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s conceivable there was an algo involved but most
don’t run on the half hour,” said Bernard Donefer, a professor
at  Baruch College  who wrote the April 2010 article “Algos Gone
Wild” for the Journal of Trading. “They run every couple of
minutes, or seconds or even faster. That doesn’t make any sense.
It doesn’t seem like something you would see with a normal
algo.”  IBM Shares  IBM, whose earnings topped analyst estimates, closed up 3.8
percent at $195.34, the biggest gain in the Dow. During the day,
the stock climbed 0.77 percent or more to an intraday high six
times, each time losing almost all of its gain in an hour. The
shares reached highs of $196.59 at 12:28 p.m., $196.44 at 1:27
p.m. and $196.49 at 2:29 p.m., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It looks like some bad trading,” David Mechner, chief
executive officer of Pragma Securities LLC, a New York-based
firm that provides algorithmic trading tools and analytical
services, said in a phone interview about the activities across
the four companies. “There’s probably some kind of systematic
trading in one interval that stops or reverses in the next. The
unknown is what was driving that.”  A series of aggressive half-hour orders is a more likely
explanation than a large buyer and seller alternately pushing
the prices up and down, Mechner said. Gaming activity isn’t
likely since that usually occurs at much shorter time frames and
involves less financial risk, he said.  ‘Get Punished’  “Companies that make mistakes like that get punished by
losing money,” Mechner said. “It’s not a threat in terms of
systematic risk to the market. It was very odd to see swings
that represent so much value that were so regular, but I think
the market worked fine.”  The swings may have resulted from hedging long equity
options since the contracts were due to expire today and the
largest deals were at levels close to the stock price,
increasing the risk their owners faced, according to Marko Kolanovic, global head of derivatives and quantitative strategy
at JPMorgan & Chase Co. If the price of the stock underlying the
option rises, the owner would need to sell shares to manage
risk, or buy to manage the option position if shares decline.  Repeating Patterns  The four stocks with repeating price patterns yesterday had
the biggest net long options positions among S&P 500 Index
companies, according to JPMorgan’s calculations, Kolanovic said
in a note to clients today. The amount traded in the stocks was
also consistent with what traders would have had to buy or sell,
indicating that the patterns could be “almost entirely
explained” by their need to hedge, he wrote.  “We believe that the price pattern of KO, IBM, MCD and
AAPL yesterday was caused by hedging of options by a computer
algorithm,” Kolanovic said in the note that referred to the
companies by their ticker symbols. “It was likely an experiment
in automatically hedging large option positions with a time-
weighted algorithm that has gone wrong for the hedger.”  Audit Trail  The SEC voted last week to require exchanges and the
 Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  to build a single system
to monitor and analyze trading activity on U.S. equity and
options markets. The rule mandates a so-called consolidated
audit trail to expedite surveillance across 13 equity exchanges,
10 options markets and more than 200 broker-dealers that execute
stock trades away from public venues.  The effort is part of the agency’s response to the May 6,
2010, stock rout that temporarily sent the Dow down almost 1,000
points. The so-called flash crash was triggered by a mutual fund
firm’s algorithmic trade that sparked the rapid selling of
financial futures because it took into account volume but not
price or time, according to a report released by the SEC and
CFTC in October 2010.  “It’s probably disconcerting to people who want to feel
stocks are always priced efficiently,” Mechner said about
yesterday’s price moves. “But it’s well known that trading
activity can push prices out of equilibrium and when aggressive
trading stops, prices revert.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  