-- Palo Alto Surges in Public Debut; Fender Withdraws IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-07-20T20:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/palo-alto-kayak-raise-more-than-planned-in-u-s-ipos.html
Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  and  Kayak
Software Corp. (KYAK)  jumped in their trading debuts after raising more
than planned in initial public offerings, bolstering the revival
in technology IPOs.  Palo Alto  climbed 27 percent to $53.13 as of 4 p.m. in New
York, while Kayak rose 28 percent to $33.18. Palo Alto sold 6.2
million shares at $42 each yesterday, generating more than $260
million, while Kayak sold 3.5 million shares at $26 each to
raise $91 million. Both priced their sales above the proposed
ranges.  The sales indicate the recovery in U.S. technology IPOs is
building on momentum from the June offering of software maker
ServiceNow Inc., which handed a 37 percent gain to new investors
on its first day. While pricing above the range shows investors’
appetite for risk has grown, the stocks may have trouble
maintaining the valuations, which were higher than peers’, said
Thornburg Investment Management Inc.’s  Tim Cunningham .  “People are open to taking on the risks of IPOs -- what’s
going to be more important is how these stocks trade,” said
Cunningham, who helps oversee $79 billion at the firm in  Santa
Fe ,  New Mexico . “It seems like overall the quality of the deals
and companies is pretty good, and I think that helps.”  Other IPOs met with less enthusiasm.  Fender Musical
Instruments Corp. (FNDR) , the largest guitar seller in the U.S.,
canceled its offering last night, saying economic conditions
prevented it from obtaining an “appropriate valuation.” The
Scottsdale, Arizona-based maker of the Stratocaster had planned
to raise as much as $160.7 million in its offering.  More to Come  Still, at least eight more U.S. IPOs are set for next week,
from companies including eatery operators Chuy’s Holdings Inc.
and Del Frisco’s Restaurant Group Inc.  Palo Alto earlier sought about twice the price of peers
relative to historical sales in its IPO. The  Santa Clara ,
California-based company and existing shareholders had offered
6.2 million shares for $38 to $40 after raising the  price range 
from $34 to $37 earlier this week.  Similar-sized  peers , such as Juniper Networks Inc. and
Check Point Software Technologies Ltd., traded at an average of
about 6.4 times last year’s sales based on yesterday’s closing
price, Bloomberg data show, while larger competitor Cisco
Systems Inc. traded at a multiple of 2, and  Intel Corp . traded
at 2.4 times. Palo Alto is listing on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol PANW.  Kayak first filed to go public in November 2010 and had
sought as much as $87.5 million, offering shares for $22 to $25
each. Kayak is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol KYAK.  Kayak’s Offering  The IPO price valued Kayak at $1 billion, or 4.1 times
sales of $245 million in the 12 months through March 31,
Bloomberg data show. That’s 43 percent higher than the median
multiple of 2.9 times for peers such as Expedia Inc.,
TripAdvisor Inc. and Travelzoo Inc., the data show.  The travel-site operator had delayed its IPO after Facebook
fell as much as 32 percent in the month following its public
debt, people familiar with the matter said in May. The U.S.
market stalled for more than a month after  Facebook’s (FB)  offering,
the biggest in history for a technology or Internet company.  Morgan Stanley led the offering for Kayak, as well as those
for Palo Alto, ServiceNow and Facebook. The New York-based bank
came under fire after Facebook’s debut as the stock languished,
with some shareholders filing lawsuits claiming the company and
its underwriters overpriced the IPO.  ‘Better Tone’  “This recent IPO success can set a better tone for Morgan
Stanley,” said  Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.6 billion as
chief investment officer at Philadelphia Trust Co. “To make
everyone happy on day one is a good starting point. They were
priced relatively well.”  Technology companies weren’t the only successes.  Five Below
Inc. (FIVE)  advanced 56 percent in its debut after pricing its IPO at
the top end of an increased range.  The Philadelphia-based retailer and its existing holders
sold about 9.62 million shares for $17 apiece, according to a
statement yesterday. Later that day the company’s underwriters
exercised the overallotment option, allowing them to buy more
stock. The retailer rose 2.9 percent to $27.27 in New York.  “It’s healthy to see some risk appetite returning,” said
Kevin Bannon, chief investment officer at Highmount Capital LLC
in  New York , which manages $2 billion. “People might finally
have gotten beyond some of their macro concerns, realizing
they’re not about to go away, and are trying to find some
interesting ideas again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  