-- Payrolls Climb in 29 U.S. States, Led by California
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-07-20T15:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/payrolls-rose-in-29-u-s-states-in-june-led-by-california.html
Payrolls increased in 29 states in
June, while 21 lost jobs, indicating limited progress in the
U.S. labor market.  The  unemployment rate  rose in 27 states, fell in 11 and the
 District of Columbia , and was unchanged in 12. California led
the nation with a 38,300 gain in employment, followed by Ohio
with an increase of 18,400 jobs, the Labor Department reported
today in Washington.  Companies last month added the fewest workers in almost a
year, concluding the worst quarter for corporate hiring since
the first three months of 2010, according to July 6 figures.
Employment in the three-year economic expansion has been slow to
recover in some states that are contending with weaker housing
markets or industries.  “We see a lack of diversity in some of the economies,”
 Michael Brown , an economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
Charlotte, North Carolina, said before the report. “That puts
them at risk for cyclical swings. Not only do you have economic
fundamentals at work, you have demographics at work.”  Alabama and  New Jersey  showed the biggest increases in
unemployment. The rate in Alabama climbed to 7.8 percent in June
from 7.4 percent the prior month. New Jersey’s unemployment rate
jumped to 9.6 percent in June, the highest in almost two years,
from 9.2 percent as more people entered the  labor force  looking
for work.  Nevada Joblessness  Nevada continued to have the nation’s highest unemployment
rate, at 11.6 percent. Rhode Island was second, with a rate of
10.9 percent, followed by California at 10.7 percent.  North Dakota had the lowest unemployment in the nation, at
2.9 percent, followed by Nebraska at 3.8 percent.  States showing the largest decreases in employment were
Wisconsin, Tennessee and Maryland.  Stocks fell, halting a three-day rally for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is
worsening. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.7 percent to 1,367.59 at 11:26
a.m. in New York.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Private Employment  Employers nationwide added 80,000 jobs last month, after
77,000 in May, Labor Department data showed on July 6. Private
payrolls climbed 84,000 in June, the weakest in 10 months.  The U.S. unemployment rate, which held at 8.2 percent in
June, has been 8 percent or higher since February 2009.  New York’s jobless rate rose to 8.9 percent from 8.6
percent in May. In New York City, unemployment climbed to 10
percent, matching a post-recession peak reached in the six
months through February 2010, from 9.7 percent, a report showed
July 19.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is among some financial firms reducing
headcount as revenue from  investment banking  and trading falls.
The bank said yesterday that it will eliminate more than 700
jobs by the end of the year, bringing 2012 reductions to 4,000.  Presidential Race  The labor market become a centerpiece of this year’s
presidential campaign, with President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  sparring over who can best
revitalize the recovery. Since World War II,  Ronald Reagan  was
the only president re-elected with a jobless rate higher than 6
percent.  Of the eight battleground states that stand to determine
the election’s outcome -- Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Nevada, Ohio,
Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin -- five had unemployment
rates lower than the overall U.S. and two had higher
joblessness, while one was the same as the national rate.  Unemployment is an “enormous” problem and its costs “are
very, very high,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
lawmakers this week.  “Given that growth is projected to be not much above the
rate needed to absorb new entrants to the labor force, the
reduction in the unemployment rate seems likely to be
frustratingly slow,” Bernanke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  