-- Pelosi, Frank, Thune, Leahy Fete McGovern at 90 in D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-07-20T14:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/pelosi-frank-thune-leahy-fete-mcgovern-at-90-in-d-c-.html
George McGovern sat near a cake
inspired by the Capitol dome and marking his 90th birthday. For
the party last night at the Newseum, the former senator bore up
well under a shower of tributes.  Senator  Tom Harkin , Iowa Democrat, extended a glass of
wine. “Too bad you’re a Methodist,” he quipped about
McGovern’s aversion to alcohol.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , Vermont Democrat, called McGovern
“one of my heroes.”  Senator  John Thune , McGovern’s fellow South Dakotan and one
of the few Republicans in the room, allowed that his father was
a McGovern supporter.  Many recalled the impact McGovern had on them as young
idealists.  Victoria Kennedy, the widow of Senator  Edward Kennedy , said
she cast her first vote for McGovern.  Representative  Rosa DeLauro , Connecticut Democrat, recalled
working the phones in a dirt-floor campaign office and said the
experience was “one of the thrills of my life.”  Representative Jim McGovern (no relation) and
Representative  Barney Frank , both Massachusetts Democrats,
brought along campaign posters from 1972, the year McGovern ran
for president.  The progressive McGovern “had no business representing
South Dakota,” joked Frank about the state’s reputation for
provinciality.  Lapel Pin  Michael Mershon, a congressional press secretary, wore an
original 1972 McGovern-Shriver lapel pin. Also present was Mark Shriver, the son of the late Sargent Shriver, McGovern’s running
mate in 1972.  “Thank you for being born,” said Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, California Democrat.  A buffet of tomato and mozzarella salad, mashed potatoes
and roast beef was available, and small slices of pizza were
passed before waiters served the birthday cake.  The party was hosted by the World Food Program USA, a
nonprofit fighting hunger worldwide. Hunter Biden, son of Vice
President  Joe Biden , was present last night and is a board
member.  Jack Quinn, the co-founder of Quinn Gillespie & Associates
LLC, and Representative McGovern were among the event’s
sponsors.  Child hunger has become McGovern’s signature issue. He,
along with former Majority Leader  Bob Dole , who turns 89 later
this month, started the McGovern-Dole  International Food for
Education and Child Nutrition Program , which has provided meals
for millions of children all over the world. Both won the World
Food Prize in 2008.  Photos of McGovern interacting with children through the
years appeared on large screens.  Responding to his well-wishers, McGovern informed the crowd
that he passed his recent physical with flying colors.  “Let’s do this again in another 10 years,” he said.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include:  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 