-- Pemex Forecasts Production Recovery to Snap Slump
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-07-20T21:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/pemex-forecasts-production-recovery-to-snap-slump.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
fourth-largest oil producer, said it expects to turn around
declining output in the first half to post its first annual
increase in eight years.  Pemex, as the state-owned company is known, is set to meet
its annual target of averaging more than last year’s 2.55
million barrels a day and have “significantly larger numbers”
by the end of 2012, Chief Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said today in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters. The first-half average was 2.54 million barrels.  Mexico  is seeking to reverse seven years of crude output
declines, including the lowest daily average since 1990 last
year, after output from its Cantarell field, the world’s third-
largest deposit when it was discovered in 1976, slid more than
75 percent since 2006. Pemex missed its goal of increasing
output for the past two years.  The state oil producer has “several wells coming online in
the second half,” Suarez Coppel said. Pemex has faced a
shortage of shallow-water drilling rigs, known as jack-ups,
delaying the output increase. “We couldn’t get the 21 rigs we
wanted,” he said.  Suarez Coppel maintained the company’s medium-term
forecasts. At current investment levels, Pemex will reach daily
production of 3 million barrels by about 2017, he said in a
separate interview today with Bloomberg Television.  Refinery Investments  Mexico is betting on deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  deposits to
increase production by a third in the next dozen years. Pemex’s
output peaked in 2004 at 3.4 million barrels a day.  The company’s international plans are focused on finding
partners for deepwater projects in the U.S. coast of the Gulf of
Mexico and for shale in the U.S., Suarez Coppel, 53, said.
Mexican regulatory delays prevented one possible deal for
deepwater exploration in the U.S., he said, without elaborating.  Pemex is increasing refinery investments by 24 percent this
year to replace aging equipment and improve efficiencies after
it processed 27 percent less crude than its capacity last year
and output slid 1.5 percent to 1.2 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day.  The Mexican oil producer estimates it has 27 billion
barrels of untapped crude in the deepwater Gulf, and is relying
on limited in-house experience to search for it. It hasn’t found
any commercially viable crude in 20 attempts.  U.S. Plans  Plans to acquire a refinery in the U.S. are not “frankly
on top of our list” of international priorities, he said.  The Mexico City-based company has looked into several U.S.
refineries such as  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Texas City “but if people feel we
have to pay a premium for those, no way,” Suarez Coppel said.  Yields on Pemex’s $2.96 billion of notes due in 2021 are
trading at a record-low 3.22 percent, down from 4.22 percent at
the end of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Pemex is “pretty much set” in terms of financing
needs for this year, the company may bring forward some bond
sales planned for 2013 depending on market conditions, he said.  “We’re always opportunistic,” Suarez Coppel said.  Pemex may also look at selling for the first time so-called
citizen bonds, hybrid securities created by a 2008 oil reform
that could play the role of preferred stock, he said.  The securities could be offered “as preferred shares,
without corporate rights so you don’t have to change the
constitution, and a very long maturity and senior in terms of
dividends,” Suarez Coppel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in  New York  at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  