-- Penn State Urged to Shut Football Before NCAA Sandusky Penalties
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-07-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/penn-state-urged-to-shut-football-before-ncaa-sandusky-penalties.html
Pennsylvania State University  is
being urged by legal experts and educators to shut its football
program after an investigation found officials covered up a
child sex-abuse scandal involving a former assistant coach.  National Collegiate Athletic Association President  Mark Emmert  said this week that he hadn’t ruled out any punishment
for the football program, including the so-called death penalty,
a temporary ban from competition.  The  State College , Pennsylvania-based school should levy
the punishment upon itself or the NCAA should enforce its most
stringent discipline, said  Geoffrey Rapp , a sports law professor
at the University of Toledo in  Ohio .  “The only punishment that really fits this crime is the
death penalty,” Rapp said in a telephone interview. “This
ultimately is a failure at the highest level, and the death
penalty really addresses the institutional culture that’s at
fault in this case.”  A football shutdown would cost the school and surrounding
community more than $70 million, according to an economic study.  Louis Freeh , a one-time director of the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, released a 267-page report last week saying ex-
football coach  Joe Paterno , former university president  Graham Spanier , 64, and other Penn State officials failed in their
duties to protect children from abuse by Jerry Sandusky, an
assistant coach for 31 years.  University officials didn’t report allegations of sexual
abuse against Sandusky, or take the steps necessary to ensure
that it didn’t happen in the future, according to the
investigation. Sandusky, 68, was convicted last month on 45
criminal counts tied to the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year
period.  Sports Power  The Freeh report highlights the disproportionate amount of
power awarded athletic programs, according to Jason Lanter, a
professor of psychology at  Pennsylvania 's Kutztown University, 
located northwest of Philadelphia, and former president of the 
 Drake Group , a group that defends academic integrity from the 
sports industry.  “The larger cultural-systemic issue that the Freeh report
highlights is deference for athletics, in this case football in
State College,” Lanter, 39, said in a telephone interview.
“I’d like to see  Penn State  put the hammer down and say, ‘We
understand it’s going to do damage to the NCAA, to the Big Ten,
to Penn State, but we need to throw football on the back burner
for a year or two to figure stuff out.’”  Freeh said there was “an excessive focus” on sports at
Penn State, with the athletic department perceived as “‘an
island’ where staff members lived by their own rules.”  ‘Fundamental Culture’  Penn State Board Chairwoman Karen Peetz said yesterday that
a special  task force  is “evaluating the fundamental culture”
of the school. In an e-mail to alumni, she stressed the
importance of rebuilding transparency and accountability.  NCAA spokesman Bob Williams didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on Peetz’s statement.  Peetz also announced yesterday that she had accepted the
resignation of Steve Garban from the board. Garban had served on
the board for 14 years, including a stint as chairman in 2010-11
that included the period when the Sandusky scandal first became
public.  Paterno, who was fired in November after charges were filed
against Sandusky, won a Division I-record 409 games over 46
years as the Nittany Lions’ coach. He died of  lung cancer  in
January at the age of 85.  Emmert told the  Public Broadcasting Service  this week that
he is awaiting the school’s response to Freeh’s report.  “I have never seen anything as egregious as this in terms
of just overall conduct and behavior inside a university and
hope to never see it again,” Emmert said in an interview on
PBS’s “Tavis Smiley” program.  Penn State intends to respond to the NCAA’s request for
information over the next several days, according to Rodney Erickson, Spanier’s successor as president. University spokesman
David La Torre said in an e-mail that the school had no further
comment on possible NCAA action.  Lessen Penalty  Penn State could lessen possible punishment from the NCAA
by announcing self-imposed sanctions, Rapp said. He said that
despite Freeh’s conclusion that administrators tried to cover up
the allegations, the school could demonstrate remorse and
dedication to uncovering the truth.  “A school being forthright and contrite makes the NCAA
less likely to impose its most Draconian sanction,” said Rapp,
36.  The Indianapolis-based NCAA, the governing body of college
athletics, has imposed the death penalty five times, and only
once at football’s top level.  Southern Methodist University ’s football program was shut
down in 1987 after it was revealed that 13 players received a
total of $61,000 from a slush fund provided by a booster. The
Dallas-based school was unable to field a team the following 
season and had one winning record in the 20 years after it
returned in 1989.  Appalling Behavior  “The faculty were very much involved in this governance
restructuring and most of the persons I knew welcomed a breather
from the football culture,” SMU law professor  Peter Winship ,
president of the Faculty Senate in 1987-88, wrote in an e-mail.
“While appalled at the behavior of Paterno and the Penn State
administration, I do not think that there is a sufficient nexus
between Sandusky’s abuses and the football program to deserve
the death penalty.”  The Penn State scandal presents a unique case to the NCAA
because it dates back decades and didn’t necessarily give the
football team a competitive advantage, Lanter said.  “This is not your standard infraction case, it’s a larger
loss of morals, morals that have been degraded by the spectre of
money,” Lanter said. “It comes down to a very simple decision
that Paterno, Spanier and the other executives did face, and
that’s morals versus money. Which is more important to them, and
they chose the money route in terms of trying to placate the
situation and try and cover it up.”  The calls for a shutdown aren’t universal.  David Ridpath, a sports administration professor at  Ohio
University  in Athens, said the NCAA doesn’t have grounds for
action based on Freeh’s report.  Criminal Case  “The bylaws as written do not address criminal matters
even if there is pervasive involvement by the football staff,”
Ridpath wrote in an e-mail. “This is a matter for the criminal
justice system and higher education accrediting bodies.”  Ellen Staurowsky , a sports management professor at  Drexel
University  in Philadelphia, agreed. She said in a telephone
interview that the NCAA may not be the appropriate organization
to issue punishment, given its financial interest in the case.
In 2010-11, according to  its website , 81 percent of the NCAA’s
$845.9 million revenue came from television and marketing-rights
fees.  “The NCAA has attempted to straddle two worlds, on one
hand this highly commercial, entertainment-driven culture, along
with the educational culture,” she said. “Part of the
criticisms that have rightly arisen about the NCAA is an
inability to reconcile value systems that exist in those two
different domains.”  Further Investigation  Even if the NCAA decides it can’t impose strict punishment
based on the Freeh report, it could uncover violations of its
rules by investigating the Penn State athletic program,
according to Rapp and Warren Zola, a sports law professor and
assistant dean of graduate programs at the Carroll School of
Management at  Boston College  in  Massachusetts .  “Virtually any school that goes through a complete audit
seems to be exposed somehow,” Zola said in a telephone
interview.  Football games draw 100,000 fans to Beaver Stadium on a
half-dozen Saturdays each year, with the crowds spending money
on food, drinks and souvenirs.  The Nittany Lions football program brings about $70.2
million in direct business to the state, of which $50 million
benefited Centre County, where Penn State is located, according
to an economic study commissioned by the school for the 2008-09
academic year.  Athletic Surplus  In the fiscal year ending in 2011, the athletic department
generated $116.1 million in operating revenue and posted a $14.8
million operating profit. The surplus helped pay for maintenance
and building projects within the department.  If football’s revenue and expenses were eliminated from the
budget, the university would have posted a loss of $29.1 million
on $57.2 million of revenue, according to the school’s records.
Penn State, with a undergraduate student population of about
37,000, would have to make up the difference or cut programs to
pare its expenses.  “The alumni are the people with disposable income,” Ian
Aquilino, 21, a senior actuarial science major, said in a
telephone interview. “I think their trips would be less
frequent.”  -- With assistance from Jeanna Smialek in  New York  and Rob
Gloster in  San Francisco . Editors: Larry Siddons, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  