-- Pentagon Says ‘No Witch Hunt’ to Track Information Leaks
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-07-20T18:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/pentagon-says-no-witch-hunt-to-track-information-leaks.html
The U.S. Defense Department said
today a plan to track leaks of classified information isn’t
intended to eavesdrop on reporters or persecute media
organizations gathering news.  The Pentagon announced a series of measures yesterday to
monitor unauthorized disclosures of classified government
information including “mandating use of a department-wide
incident report system to track” such occurrences.  Pentagon officials in charge of public affairs intend to
beef up the tracking of published news reports and alert the
department’s top intelligence official when they spot suspected
classified information,  George Little , the Pentagon’s spokesman,
told reporters today. Then the office of the undersecretary of
defense for intelligence will determine if the leak must be
investigated, Little said.  “When it comes to monitoring, we mean monitoring
ourselves,” Little said. Asked if the department intends to
track down those who leak information and punish them, Little
said “I’m not going to label this a witch hunt at all.”  The Pentagon and the White House are facing increased
congressional scrutiny after news reports and books revealed how
the U.S. and  Israel  created the Stuxnet computer virus that
damaged  Iran ’s nuclear centrifuges, and that President  Barack Obama  personally approved targets for drone attacks.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff General Martin Dempsey testified yesterday at a
closed-door hearing and assured lawmakers they are taking steps
to limit the potential for leaks, according to House Armed
Services Committee Chairman Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, who
briefed reporters after the hearing.  White House  McKeon, a California Republican said he’s convinced the
leaks didn’t come from the Pentagon. Some Republican lawmakers
have said White House officials leaked information that would
burnish President Barack Obama’s national-security credentials
ahead of the Nov. 6 election.  Obama has denied that White House officials leaked
classified information, calling the notion that they would do so
“offensive.”  Attorney General Eric Holder has named two U.S. attorneys
to investigate the leaks. Director of National Intelligence
James Clapper said last month that the intelligence community’s
inspector general will lead an independent investigation of
certain unauthorized disclosures if the  Justice Department 
decides not to prosecute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  