-- Peregrine Receiver Can Hire Pilot, Restaurant Manager
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-21T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/peregrine-receiver-can-hire-pilot-restaurant-manager.html
The receiver for Peregrine Financial
Group Inc. has the authority to hire Russell Wasendorf Sr.’s
head pilot and restaurant manager to help find and secure assets
controlled by the bankrupt future brokerage’s former chief
executive officer, a judge said.  Temporary equity receiver Michael Eidelman was appointed on
request of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which
is probing more than $200 million of missing customer money. He
has more power than the trustee liquidating the brokerage in
 bankruptcy court , because he has “exclusive jurisdiction” to
take possession of all funds, properties and assets owned or
controlled by Wasendorf, as well as customers’ assets, U.S.
District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer said in an order.  Peregrine’s July 10 bankruptcy, cutting off customers’
access to their accounts, came less than a year after the
failure of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , whose clients are still
missing $1.6 billion. Wasendorf may have funded his personal
investments with Peregrine brokerage money, Eidelman said in a
court filing.  “It is possible assets owned by the Wasendorf entities may
have been procured with funds embezzled from PFG,” he said.  Robert Thompson , head pilot of Wasendorf Air LLC; Cindy
Zubak, manager of Wasendorf’s restaurant My Verona LLC; and
Heather McCallum, chief financial officer of Wasendorf &
Associates Inc., would be paid hourly rates, equal to their
current salaries divided by 2,000, if Eidelman needs their
services, according to the order filed July 17 in federal court
in Chicago.  Private Investigators  Eidelman is free to hire private investigators, locksmiths
and lawyers, spending whatever estate money is “necessary or
advisable” to preserve, hold or manage the former CEO’s assets,
including a publishing and a construction company, an aircraft
and real estate. Eidelman will take possession of those assets,
as well as two condominiums in downtown  Chicago , at 195 North
Harbor Drive and 1440 North Lake Shore Drive.  Wasendorf entities on the receiver’s mailing list include
Wasendorf Construction LLC, SFO Magazine, Traders Press Inc.,
Village Gate Communications Inc. and Wasendorf & Sons Co.,
according to filings.  Eidelman must notify the bankruptcy trustee, Ira Bodenstein, if he receives customer assets or trading positions,
the judge said. Should he agree with the trustee on what to do
with those positions, “then the receiver shall be free to
implement such disposition;” otherwise he can ask the judge for
permission to do it his way, the judge said.  Eidelman also has power to push any Wasendorf entity into
bankruptcy, and will be armed with “all keys, computer
passwords, entry codes, PIN numbers and combinations to locks
necessary to gain or to secure access” to assets or documents
of the Wasendorf companies, including the brokerage and its
accounts, Pallmeyer said.  CFTC Suit  The judge barred anyone else from trying to establish or
enforce any claims against or on behalf of Wasendorf and his
companies, or the receiver and assets he assembled. No civil
lawsuit can be started or litigated, and no debts can be
accelerated by lenders.  The CFTC, which sued Wasendorf and Peregrine, is exempt
along with other regulators, as is the  Justice Department , which
also is probing Wasendorf and the firm. Traders can terminate
swap agreements, so long as they don’t try to get any money that
may be due.  Top hourly rates for professionals at the receiver’s firm,
Vedder Price PC, are between $490 and $750.  Wasendorf was arrested July 13 after a suicide attempt and
a signed confession that he had defrauded customers for 20
years. As his fraud advanced, he opened an Italian restaurant
after moving the brokerage’s headquarters to  Cedar Falls ,  Iowa ,
from Chicago in 2009.  Italy Trip  He took a group of restaurant employees to  Italy  for a
week, staying at luxury hotels and visiting local wineries,
built a “green” building adjacent to the Beaver Hills Country
Club, and donated money to local hospitals to care for children
with rare diseases.  He sat on the board, chaired by billionaire Lee Bass, of
the unrelated Peregrine Fund wild bird conservation organization
and the president committees of the  University of Iowa  and the
 University of Northern Iowa , according to his and other
websites. He gave Northern Iowa’s athletics department $2
million.  “I had no access to additional capital and I was forced
into a difficult decision,” he wrote in his confession, using a
computer at home, according to prosecutors. “Should I go out of
business or cheat? I guess my ego was too big to admit
failure.”  Bankruptcy Filing  The bankruptcy petition lists more than $500 million in
assets and more than $100 million in liabilities. The brokerage
estimates it has more than 10,000 creditors, according to the
filing. Peregrine had 241 employees, of which 56 were retained
to help liquidate.  Financial statements based on a forged bank statement
showing Peregrine’s customer accounts at  U.S. Bank  with a
balance of $221.8 million as of Dec. 31 was sent to regulators
including the CFTC, according to the affidavit. The account
actually held only $6.3 million, according to the FBI.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Iowa ( Cedar Rapids ).
The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-27488,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).
The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  