-- Peugeot Holds Minister Meeting With Renault on Car Plans
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-07-20T11:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/peugeot-holds-minister-meeting-with-renault-on-car-plans.html
French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  is meeting French carmaking leaders to discuss
emergency measures for the industry as  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s
moves to shut a plant clash with state efforts to preserve jobs.  Peugeot Executive Vice President Frederic Saint-Geours, who
is in charge of brands, and  Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Operating Officer
 Carlos Tavares  are among managers from the companies taking part
in the meeting, the manufacturers said.  A prolonged contraction in  Europe ’s car market prompted
Peugeot, the region’s second-biggest automaker, to lay out plans
July 12 to shut its factory in the Paris suburb of Aulnay in two
years and slash 14,000 jobs. French President  Francois Hollande 
has called the move “unacceptable” and plans on July 25 to
outline a program for the helping the car industry.  “There’s been a complete lack of confidence and dialog”
between Peugeot and French politicians, Daniel Goldberg, the
Socialist Party parliamentarian who represents Aulnay, said in
an interview yesterday in Paris. “We, the elected officials,
and the unions, want to be responsible, and we understand
economic reality, but we’ve completely lost confidence.”  Peugeot  fell  as much as 1.7 percent to 6.46 euros and was
trading down 1.3 percent at 1:10 p.m. in Paris. Renault gained
0.3 percent to 34.63 euros.  Ghosn’s View  Renault Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in April
that governments in Europe need to allow carmakers to reorganize
and reduce their workforces to prevent the industry from
weakening. The company, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-
Billancourt, estimated July 11 that Europe’s car market may not
recover to the levels of its 2007 peak until 2018. The French
state owns 15 percent of Renault.  The program that Hollande will lay out July 25 may “first
target small suppliers, because they are those that suffer the
most from their exposure to French manufacturers,” said Xavier Caroen, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets with a hold
recommendation on both Peugeot and Renault. “Renault has no
interest in asking for aid from the state, as it should maintain
its operational margins this year.”  Montebourg is scheduled to meet separately today with
Thierry Peugeot, chairman of the supervisory board at Paris-
based Peugeot, to discuss the plans for the Aulnay site. The
minister met CEO Philippe Varin late yesterday, two days after
convening with the carmaker’s main union representatives.  European Decline  First-half car sales in Europe dropped 14 percent from a
year earlier at Peugeot and 17 percent at Renault, the region’s
auto-industry trade group, ACEA, said July 12. The two carmakers
lost about 1.5 percentage points of market share in their home
country in the period, while the share of German competitor
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  rose to 13.5 percent from 11.9 percent a year
earlier, according to the French automakers association, CCFA.  Varin said on July 12 that Peugeot’s factories were running
at 76 percent of capacity in Europe and that it has been burning
about 200 million euros ($245 million) in operating cash flow a
month in the past year.  Montebourg said before his talks with Varin that he’s
skeptical about family-controlled Peugeot’s business plans,
including a model-development alliance with Detroit-based
 General Motors Co. (GM)  that resulted in the sale of a stake to the
U.S company.  “We have a true problem with their strategy for Peugeot,
the alliance with General Motors, the behavior of the
shareholder,” Montebourg said on  France  Inter radio station
yesterday.  ‘Dangerous Situation’  Thierry Peugeot said in an interview published by Le Figaro
newspaper today that government criticism of the company’s
planned job cuts has put the  group  in “a dangerous situation.”
Asked about the possibility of a takeover bid for the company,
the chairman said that “anything is possible. that’s why we
need to take action.”  Goldberg, the parliamentarian for Aulnay, said the French
state has sought to support the factory since its creation in
1973, providing cheap land, infrastructure and tax breaks, in
addition to loans provided by  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government
following the recession of 2008 and 2009.  Peugeot executives refused at a meeting with Montebourg on
June 18, the day after France’s legislative elections, to answer
questions about plans for the Aulnay site, said Goldberg, who
was part of a delegation attending those talks.  A spokesman for Peugeot, Pierre-Olivier Salmon, declined to
comment on Goldberg’s remarks.  Failure by Peugeot to regain the trust of elected officials
means the company risks losing financial support for job cuts
and retraining, and may even face challenges in terms of  land
use  from the local government.  “We’ve already lost one year in which the company refused
to discuss matters,” Goldberg said. If the company doesn’t
restore politicians’ confidence, “then we won’t be cooperative.
We’ll be very demanding and put in place an opposition that is
very strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  