-- Pfizer, Samsung, Microsoft, WIPO: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-20T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/pfizer-samsung-microsoft-wipo-intellectual-property.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  won a ruling that blocks
generic versions of its drug  Lyrica  until 2018.  U.S. District Judge Gregory M. Sleet ruled yesterday that
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and other generic-drug
makers infringed some claims of patents covering Lyrica. He
issued an order barring the generics manufacturers from making
and selling products that infringe until after the patents’
expiration.  He also ordered the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  from
approving the generic forms of the drug until the patents’
expiration.  The suit was filed in federal court in Wilmington,
 Delaware , in April 2009, with Pfizer alleging that patents
6,197,819 and 6,001,876 were infringed.  One of the patents was issued to  Northwestern University ,
which licensed it exclusively to Pfizer’s Warner-Lambert unit.
The university is a co-plaintiff in the case.  Lyrica is used to control seizures and to treat nerve pain,
including fibromyalgia.  The case is Pfizer v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 09-
cv-00307, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Samsung Asks to Restrict Apple References to Steve Jobs at Trial  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  asked a federal judge to restrict
references by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s lawyers to the company’s late founder
Steve Jobs at a  jury trial  scheduled for July 30 over mobile-
device patents.  Harold McElhinny, a lawyer for Apple, told U.S. District
Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California , yesterday that he plans
to show jurors two slides of Jobs during opening statements in
the case. The slides include one when Jobs announced the release
of the iPhone in 2007 -- an “announcement that went around the
world,” the lawyer said.  “I don’t want to see an opening statement where jurors see
15 images of Steve Jobs,” Charles K. Verhoeven, a Samsung
attorney, told Koh.  “Whether Mr. Jobs made a presentation is not relevant to
their case” and excessive use of his image is “prejudicial to
the jury,” Verhoeven said. “It shouldn’t be a popularity
contest.”  The dispute over the use Apple plans to make of its iconic
founder came at the conclusion of arguments and rulings over
pretrial issues. In the lawsuit, Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung and Cupertino, California-based Apple, the world’s two
biggest makers of high-end phones, have accused each other of
copying designs and technology for mobile devices. The companies
are fighting patent battles on four continents to retain their
dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone market.  “I’m not doing a complete prohibition of  Steve Jobs , but
it needs to be relevant,” Koh said, adding that she wants to
see the images Apple intends to display before she issues a
final ruling.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-
cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Twinings Sued Over ‘Bedtime Blend’ by Oregon Tea Company  An  Oregon  tea company founded by members of a Sikh sect
sued  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) ’s Twinings North America unit
for trademark infringement.  The defendant is one of the U.K.’s oldest continually
operating businesses, having been active in the tea trade since
1706, according to the company website.  East West Tea Co. of Springfield, Oregon, is suing
Twinings, claiming its “Bedtime” trademark is infringed. East
West was previously known as Golden Temple of Oregon LLC.  A Sikh leader, Yogi Bhajan, served his students a spiced
tea blend that became known as “Yogi Tea,” and the students
formed a company to sell and market the tea. He licensed his
name and likeness to the company, and, after his death in 2004,
that license was disputed by his widow. The tea label no longer
bears his likeness.  Golden Temple of Oregon changed its name to East West Tea
Co. in March, as part of bankruptcy proceedings, according to
the SikhDharmaWorldwide website.  In the trademark-infringement suit, East West said it’s
harmed by Twinings’s sale of a “Bedtime Blend” tea. The Oregon
company claims the public is confused by the name similarity,
and is likely to assume falsely that an affiliation exists
between the two companies.  East West asked the federal court in Eugene, Oregon, to bar
Twinings’s use of “Bedtime” and “Bedtime Blend,” and for a
recall and destruction of all products and promotional material
bearing the allegedly infringing marks.  Additionally, East West seeks money damages, Twinings’s
profits derived from the alleged infringement, and awards of
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Twinings didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is East West Tea Co. LLC v. R. Twining & Co Ltd.,
12-cv-01298, U.S. District Court, District of Oregon (Eugene).  Party Pieces Website Offerings Run Afoul of Olympics Trademarks  The family of Prince William’s wife  Catherine Middleton  was
asked to make some changes on its  Party Pieces  website to avoid
running into trademark problems related to the London Olympics,
the U.K.’s Telegraph newspaper  reported .  The  London Organizing Committee of the Olympic Games  asked
the Middletons to make “minor changes” in some of the copy
that mentioned “Games,” according to the newspaper.  The company sells a wide range of party-related products
and was offering a ring toss game in the Olympic colors, the
Telegraph reported.  LOCOG, which is charged with protecting intellectual-
property rights related to the Olympics, has been looking at ad
copy throughout the U.K. for such protected words as “gold,”
“Games,” “2012,” “summer” and “London,” according to the
newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Microsoft, RIAA, Comcast’s NBCUniversal Lead Takedown Requests  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  filed the most requests with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to
take down links to infringing content in the past month,
according to a  Google website .  The requests, made under the Digital Millennium Copyright
Act, topped 475,000 for the Redmond, Washington-based software
company. The  Recording Industry Association of America , a music-
industry trade and advocacy group, came in second, with 427,000
takedown requests.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal unit came in
third, with 218,000.  Google lists all the websites for which takedown requests
have made. TorrentFreak.com, an anti-copyright website, said
that in the process of making this information available, the
search engine company has, in effect, built  the biggest database 
in the world of links to pirated media.  CCC Sets Up Special License for University-Affiliated Hospitals  Copyright Clearance Center Inc., the Massachusetts-based
nonprofit that provides content licensing for businesses and
schools, set up a special copyright license for university-
affiliated hospitals.  The license, which is available to any hospital with a
medical school, enables content-sharing from journals, books,
blogs, newspapers and e-books. It covers the sharing of content
among employees, faculty, researchers and students.  The special license was developed because university-
affiliated hospitals have “unique needs” that involve both
academic and corporate users and users in a shared environment,
the center said in a  statement .  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Talk  WIPO Responds to U.S. Concerns About IT for Iraq, North Korea  The World  Intellectual Property  Organization, a United
Nations agency, is taking another look at its technical
assistance programs because of concerns raised about equipment
provided to nations that are subject to UN sanctions.  In the future, any WIPO activity in a country subject to UN
sanctions will be referred to the agency’s legal counsel for
guidance and clearance, WIPO said in a  statement  yesterday.  The provision of what WIPO calls “standard IT equipment”
to intellectual-property offices in North Korea and  Iran  that
has already occurred under the organization’s business-
modernization program is being referred to the appropriate UN
sanctions committee, WIPO said in its statement.  WIPO promotes the use and classification of intellectual
property and is mandated by its 185 member nations to provide
materials to help  developing countries  modernize their patent
offices.  The U.S. was pressuring WIPO to allow an external probe of
shipments it made to Iran and North Korea because the computer
technology could have been used for military applications.  On July 17, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Howard Berman, members
of the U.S. House Committee on  Foreign Affairs , sent a letter to
WIPO Director General Francis Gurry asking for “unfettered
access to all documents and witnesses relating to these
transfers to Iran and North Korea.”  The committee has also asked the U.S. government to freeze
all WIPO contributions, according to a separate July 12 letter
from Ros-Lehtinen to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  The U.S. plans to use “all elements of American power” to
prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, Clinton told
reporters in Jerusalem. Iran has been the subject of four rounds
of UN sanctions, including the  supply or sale of equipment and
technology , aimed at curbing the development of such weapons.
The WIPO shipments may violate UN and U.S. sanctions, said Ros-
Lehtinen and Berman.  Iran and North Korea were beneficiaries of “standard
information-technology equipment” after meeting WIPO’s needs-
assessment and validation procedures, Edward Kwakwa, legal
counsel at the Geneva-based organization, said July 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 