-- Publicis CEO Sees More Advertising Market Consolidation
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-07-20T07:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/publicis-ceo-sees-more-advertising-market-consolidation.html
Publicis Chief Executive Officer
 Maurice Levy , whose company has made more than a dozen
acquisitions this year, predicts more consolidation in the
advertising industry even if some prices, like those for
London’s  Aegis Plc (AGS)  and the U.S.’s AKQA, are too high.  Levy said Publicis looked at buying both Aegis, which was
acquired by Dentsu Inc. last week for 3.16 billion pounds ($5
billion) and AKQA, which  WPP Plc (WPP)  agreed to buy late last month
for $540 million.  “On both companies, we decided to pass, considering that
we have no strategic issues with those two assets,” Levy said
in an interview last night. “We also considered the price paid
was too high.”  Publicis, the Paris-based owner of advertising agencies
including  Leo Burnett  and  Saatchi & Saatchi , will continue to
expand by buying digital assets and companies in fast-growing
markets. First-half  profit  at the world’s third-largest
advertising company rose 19 percent, though organic growth,
which strips out effects from acquisitions and mergers, rose 2.8
percent, as clients cut spending amid the  European debt crisis 
and it lost a $3 billion annual advertising contract with
 General Motors. (GM)   Levy, who earlier this year warned that growth would slow
in the second quarter, said Publicis expects “a rebound that
will give us growth that is expected to be higher than in the
first quarter.”  Health care has been the worst performing segment for the
advertising business, he said, as many of the big pharmaceutical
companies faced restructuring.  New Business  Net income for first half was 275 million euros ($337
million), while  revenue  rose 14 percent to 3.08 billion euros.
The company won $1.8 billion of net new business in the first
half from clients including Kraft Foods, Subway and Nickelodeon.
Publicis is targeting 75 percent of revenue to come from digital
companies and fast-growing markets in the medium term.  Publicis  fell  1.3 percent to 37.95 euros at 9:06 a.m. Paris
time. It had advanced 8.2 percent this year through yesterday.  The most notable of Publicis’s acquisitions this year was
the U.K.’s Bartle Bogle Hegarty, the ad agency behind the
 Johnnie Walker  “Keep Walking” campaign and Levi Strauss &
Co.’s “Flat Eric.”  Levy said last week’s agreement by Japan’s  Dentsu (4324)  to
acquire Aegis was a smart move.  “They paid a very full price
but it makes strategic sense,” he said. “I’m not sure there’s
a lot of synergies but Dentsu was looking for many years at the
possibility of becoming a global player.” The move places
Dentsu and Aegis among the largest advertising companies in the
world such as WPP, Publicis and  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)   Succession  Levy, who has discussed stepping down from his role at
Publicis in recent years, declined to say when he might leave
though he will assist the nominating committee in choosing a
successor as well as recommend his replacement.  Levy came under criticism from French politicians earlier
this year after shareholders at Publicis voted to approve 16.2
million euros in deferred compensation.  “The shareholders voted in favor of my compensation and
despite the fact French politicians criticized it, at the AGM,
they clearly supported me and no one voiced against my
compensation,” Levy said. He added that he advocates the
wealthy, including himself, paying heavier taxes.  Shareholders at WPP voted against the renumeration package
of CEO  Martin Sorrell  last month, which included a 56 percent
increase. Sorrell’s pay package, including long-term incentives,
was worth 11.6 million pounds last year, making him the second-
highest paid company head in Britain’s FTSE 100.  Slowing Growth  The global advertising industry is predicted to grow 4.3
percent this year, down from an earlier forecast for 4.8
percent, researcher ZenithOptimedia said in June. Marketing
spending slowed in April and May amid fears that Greece would
leave the European Union, it said.  WPP advertising researcher GroupM today cut its forecast
for worldwide ad growth in 2012 to 5.1 percent from 6.3 percent,
citing a decline in ad investment of 8.8 percent in Greece,
Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and Spain. Ad spending in the U.S. is
predicted to grow 3.6 percent, from a 4 percent forecast late
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  