-- Trafigura Said to Hire Seven Banks to Arrange $900 Million Loan
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-07-20T09:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/trafigura-said-to-hire-seven-banks-to-arrange-900-million-loan.html
Trafigura Beheer BV hired seven
banks to help arrange a $900 million loan, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  The loan will be split into a one- and a three-year
facility, with the amount in each tranche yet to be determined,
the people said, asking not to be identified because the details
are private. Meetings to market the loan will be held in Taipei
on July 24 and  Singapore  on July 26 and lenders have until Aug.
31 to respond, the people said.  Victoria Dix, head of media relations at Trafigura, wasn’t
immediately able to comment on the financing. Yu Poh Leng, the
general manager of Ruder Finn  Asia , Trafigura’s Singapore-based
public relations firm, confirmed a loan is being marketed to
banks, declining to give further details.  The lenders hired are Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd., Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., National
Australia Bank Ltd., Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., Standard
Chartered Plc, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., and Westpac
Banking Corp., the two people said today.  Trafigura, which trades oil, minerals and metals, signed a
 yuan  loan in May and boosted a 364-day revolving credit facility
by 83 percent to $1.1 billion in March with lenders including
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  It also borrowed from banks in Asia in August and in
October 2010, when it signed $1.075 billion of one and three-
year term and revolving-credit facilities that have since been
refinanced, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Commodities Trading  The company said in May it plans to relocate its Group
Chief Financial Officer Pierre Lorinet to Singapore and make
Trafigura Pte Ltd., its Singapore unit, the main booking entity
for the group’s trading.  Other commodity traders are frequent seekers of Asian bank
debt. Steel trader Stemcor Holdings Ltd., which increased a loan
to $205 million with banks in the region in October, will come
to market seeking to refinance funds in the next few weeks, as
will oil trader Arcadia Petroleum Ltd., another person familiar
with the matter said today.  Switzerland ’s Duferco SA will also approach banks in Asia
for a loan this quarter, that person said. Duferco has a $420
million loan signed in November 2011 that matures in May 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trafigura is offering to pay a so-called top level all-in
rate of 190 basis points over the London interbank offered rate
for the one-year loan and 250 basis points for the three-year
facility to banks pledging $30 million or more to either
tranche, the two people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  