-- Refinancing Seen Peaking Without More Capacity: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-07-20T15:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/refinancing-seen-peaking-without-more-capacity-mortgages.html
Mortgage-bond investors are betting
the U.S.  refinancing boom  has little growth left, even with
rates at record lows and President  Barack Obama ’s administration
taking steps to widen access.  Government-backed mortgage securities reached a record
108.6 cents on the dollar yesterday. Anyone bidding more than
face value risks taking a loss if too many of the underlying
mortgages get paid off early, so the willingness of buyers to
pay those prices shows they expect restrained refinancings.  Efforts by Obama and  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to help homeowners get cheaper loans and spur the
economy have been slowed by lack of staff at lenders and less
competition. Refinancings will rise 4.1 percent this year to
$894 billion, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  projected last
month, compared with 2003’s record of $2.5 trillion, when former
Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  spurred lending to end a recession.  “The only way for things to really change is if lenders
add a significant amount of capacity back into the system, and I
don’t see that happening over the short term,” said  Scott Buchta , the Chicago-based head of mortgage strategy at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP. “The fear of higher rates has kept the
rate of expansion in check.”  Refinancing is also being curtailed as  the gap widens 
between bond yields and new-loan rates, which keeps the cost
higher and limits the number of borrowers for whom a new
mortgage makes sense.  Failed Lenders  Hundreds of home lenders failed from 2006 through 2008 as
 real estate slumped . Some of the survivors, including Bank of
America Corp. and MetLife Inc., have reduced their presence or
exited entirely in the past year. Market leader  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , which produced one of every three mortgages in the first
quarter, added staff to deal with a flood of demand.  A weekly Mortgage Bankers Association index of applications
has hovered near a three-year high in the past month, while
remaining 47 percent below the 2003 record. Prices averaged
108.6 cents on the dollar yesterday for the $5.4 trillion of
mortgage bonds guaranteed by taxpayer-supported Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae, up from 107.59 at the
start of the year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
 index data .  The previous peak of 108.56 came in August 2011, just
before the Obama administration began to encourage more
refinancing among government-backed loans made during the boom.
That was aimed at homeowners previously prevented from getting
new loans because the value of their houses had dropped too far
to qualify under traditional terms.  Recent Vintages  Some of this year’s gains for mortgage bonds reflect more
recently issued debt.  Fannie Mae ’s 4.5 percent securities
contain mortgages with average rates of 4.95 percent and ages of
about 3 years, which means they were issued after credit
standards were tightened and the steepest part of the housing
crash was over.  Home prices  are down an average 34 percent since July 2006,
according to the S&P/Case-Shiller 20-cities  index . Since 2009,
the index is down just 8.8 percent. The average rate on a
typical 30-year mortgage fell to 3.53 percent this week, down
from 3.95 percent at the end of 2011, Freddie Mac data show.  With bond prices exceeding 108 cents, an investor would
lose 8 percent if all the underlying loans theoretically were
refinanced tomorrow. The average prepayment speed on fixed-rate
agency mortgage securities rose last month to a pace that would
retire 23 percent of the debt in a year, up from 20 percent in
January, Bank of America data show.  ‘Borrower Fatigue’  In July 2003, prepayment speed peaked at 58 percent, when
about 80 percent of mortgages were carrying rates at least 0.5
percentage point higher than those available on new loans -- the
same as in today’s market.  Today’s more subdued pace partly reflects “borrower
fatigue” after years of new record lows on  mortgage rates 
sparked repeated refinancings, according to Satish Mansukhani, a
strategist for Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  Some homeowners are waiting for rates to fall even more as
the Federal Reserve signals it may buy additional mortgage
bonds, Mansukhani said.  “There will be an increase in prepayments, but it’s still
a fraction of what it could have been,” Mansukhani said in an
e-mail.  Another hurdle is tighter credit standards from banks,
which have been presented with demands to buy back more than $80
billion of existing loans because of underwriting errors.
Lenders are contractually required to repurchase loans if they
were based on faulty appraisals, false data about borrowers or
paperwork mistakes.  Bernanke on Buybacks  Bernanke mentioned the buyback issue in testimony to
Congress this week after outlining the central bank’s options to
stoke the economy, including additional mortgage-bond buying.
Bank of America, which has scaled back home lending after more
than $40 billion of costs tied to faulty mortgages and
foreclosures, said outstanding buyback claims surged by more
than $6 billion last quarter to $22.7 billion.  “With that hanging over their heads, they’re really,
really defensive,” said Terry Wakefield, a mortgage industry
consultant in Mequon,  Wisconsin , who helped start a home lending
unit for a Prudential Financial Inc. predecessor. “Lenders just
keep asking for more and more and more documentation, not
because they think it has any value but because they think it
will help them if there’s a buyback demand.”  For homeowners, that’s made the process of getting a loan
more onerous, dissuading some from trying to replace their debt,
and strained the industry’s limited capacity to process the
paperwork, he said. It’s also getting more expensive.
Origination and title fees on a $200,000 loan averaged $4,070
last year, up from $3,118 in 2008, Bankrate.com  surveys  show.  Exit Strategy  The role of third-party mortgage brokers, who once
“aggressively sought to refinance their clients as soon as
rates fell,” has also diminished, Buchta said.  Brokered loans accounted for 9.4 percent of industry
originations in the first quarter, down from 31 percent in 2005,
after withdrawals by lenders including New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest by assets in the U.S., and No. 2-ranked
Bank of America, according to  newsletter  Inside Mortgage
Finance. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo said this month it
would also leave the business.  Flat or falling home prices have diminished the incentive
to refinance, too. The share of  Freddie Mac  refinancings in
which borrowers take cash out fell to 3.1 percent in the first
quarter, from 31.1 percent in mid-2006, according to the McLean,
Virginia-based company.  In some cases, the lower prices disqualify homeowners who
owe more than their properties are worth, even after U.S.
efforts to expand eligibility for refinancing programs.  Application Imbalance  “We have far more applications than can qualify, because
so many people are underwater,” said Brian Simon, chief
executive officer at Caliber Funding LLC, a lender backed by
private-equity firm  Lone Star Funds .  The Obama administration’s effort to expand eligibility
focuses on loans already backed by the government. Some
homeowners who hold more than 30 percent of mortgages still
can’t qualify because their loans lack that status, Simon said.
Others face challenges because the banks to whom Caliber sells
its mortgages often won’t accept loans made under Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac’s expanded Home Affordable Refinance Program that
they don’t already service, in part because they’d take on debt
that’s more prone to  defaulting  and becoming costly to manage.  The number of HARP refinancings this year totaled 297,103
through May, up from 400,024 in all of 2011, according to a
 report  by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency . The  Federal
Housing Administration  last month adjusted its rules on
insurance premiums to help similar borrowers.  Yield Gap  Lenders can also manage their capacity by not lowering the
rates offered to consumers as fast as declines in bond yields,
reducing demand while boosting margins. The  gap  between the cost
of 30-year loans and yields on Fannie Mae mortgage securities
into which they get packaged has widened to about 1.3 percentage
points, from an average of about 0.7 percentage point last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The difference, known as the primary-secondary spread,
helps determines lenders’ profit margins and can vary based on
competition. Wells Fargo, which added the equivalent of about
2,000 mortgage workers last quarter, recorded gains of about
2.25 percent on loans it sold, up from 1.9 percent in 2011’s
fourth quarter, according to comments by Chief Financial Officer
Timothy J. Sloan in  conference calls  in April and this month.
Programs such as HARP may support demand for a longer period
during this refinancing cycle, Sloan said on July 13.  Citigroup Margins  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach   called 
the margins “still well above the historical levels” on a
conference call this week. In 2007, Countrywide Financial Corp.,
the then-market leader and later bought by Bank of America,
reported a margin on prime loans of 0.80 percent.  Michael Bauer, a San Francisco Fed economist, signaled in a
May paper the central bank was aware that its purchases of
mortgage-backed securities might have a limited impact when it
came to helping homeowners. Bauer  highlighted  the “weaker link
between MBS yields” and actual loan rates, and said the
disconnect “may persist for some time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  