-- Reliance Profit Declines on Refining Margin, Lower Gas Output
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-07-20T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/reliance-profit-slumps-as-gas-output-falls-refining-declines.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , operator
of the world’s biggest oil refining complex, reported profit
slumped for the third straight quarter on declining natural gas
output in  India  and reduced earnings from fuel sales.  Net income  fell 21 percent to 44.7 billion rupees ($809
million) in the three months ended June 30, according to a stock
exchange filing yesterday. The  median estimate  of 28 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg was 43.7 billion rupees. Net sales rose 13
percent to 918.8 billion rupees.  Declining earnings have cost Mumbai-based Reliance its
position as India’s biggest company by market value. Lower
demand for fuels following the  European debt crisis  and global
economic slowdown and reduced output at Reliance’s largest
natural gas deposit threaten billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani ’s target of doubling operating profit within five years.  “Operations are still weak and the outlook for gas output
and refining continue to be difficult,” said Juergen Maier, a
 fund manager  in Vienna at Raiffeisen Capital Management, which
manages about $1.1 billion in emerging-market assets, including
Indian stocks. “Globally economies are slowing down, which
makes it difficult to improve the margin for refining.”  Reliance  shares  fell 0.7 percent to 722.65 rupees at the
close yesterday in Mumbai, giving the company a market value of
about $43 billion, the third-highest among India’s listed
companies. The stock has gained 4.3 percent this year, lagging
behind the 11 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Refining Margin  Daiwa Securities Co. and Antique Stock Broking Ltd. reduced
the stock to hold last month. Reliance has eight sell  ratings  by
analysts, 18 holds and 26 buys, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The number of buy recommendations has dropped to 50
percent of the total, the lowest since December 2010.  Europe’s debt crisis and a slowdown in  China’s economy  have
cut fuel demand, narrowing refining margins for companies
including Reliance and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  China,
the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, has cut local fuel
prices three times since May, reducing profit for refiners
including PetroChina Co.  Reliance made a profit of $7.6 on every barrel of crude it
processed into fuels in the quarter, compared with $10.3 a
barrel a year earlier, the company said in a statement.  Profit from  turning Dubai crude  into fuels in  Singapore , a
regional benchmark, averaged $3.37 a barrel in the quarter,
compared with $5.16 a barrel a year earlier and $4.61 in the
preceding quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
refining margin turned to a loss of 19 cents on June 29, the
lowest since Nov. 15, 2010.  Low-Grade Crude  Reliance’s two adjacent refining plants at Jamnagar in the
western state of Gujarat can turn a combined 1.24 million
barrels of crude into fuels daily. The facilities are capable of
turning cheap, low-grade crude into high-value fuels. A
narrowing difference between lighter  crude oil , which is
typically expensive, and heavier varieties that are cheaper,
hurts Reliance’s earnings.  The  average difference  between light Brent crude oil and
heavier Dubai oil was $2.53 a barrel in the quarter ended June
30, compared with $6.06 a year earlier, according to PVM Oil
Associates Ltd., a London-based crude and refined-products
broker. The spread fell to $1.37 a barrel on June 12, the lowest
since March 15.  Spending Plan  Reliance is spending $8 billion to boost petrochemical
capacity and $4 billion on a plant to make a combustible gas to
power its refineries, according to an April 20 presentation on
its website. The gas plant will widen its refining margin by as
much as 40 percent in three years by cutting the use of more
expensive imported gas, Ambani  told shareholders  June 7.  Reliance had cash and equivalents of 707.32 billion rupees
as of June 30, the company said in the statement. Debt stood at
732.13 billion rupees.  Reliance is also struggling to raise output from its  gas
field , off the east coast in the  Bay of Bengal .  Niko Resources
Ltd. (NKO) , which owns a 10 percent stake in the KG-D6 block, cut the
estimate for its share of proved and probable gas reserves to
193 billion cubic feet as of March 31, according to a June 20
statement, which didn’t provide year-earlier figures.  Reliance had 104 billion cubic meters, or 3.7 trillion
cubic feet, of proved gas reserves at all its assets as of March
31, according to its  annual report . The explorer reduced its
estimate of reserves by 6.7 percent, or 12.4 billion cubic
meters, according to the report.  Gas output from KG-D6 fell 33.1 percent to 104.4 billion
cubic feet in the quarter because of technical difficulties in
the reservoir, Reliance said.  Reliance plans to invest 1 trillion rupees in the company’s
Indian assets, including petrochemicals and telecommunications,
in the next five years to double operating profit, Ambani told
shareholders on June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  