-- Remote-Control Plane Bomb Plotter Pleads Guilty in Boston
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-07-20T18:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/remote-control-plane-bomb-plotter-pleads-guilty-in-boston.html
A  Massachusetts  man admitted to
plotting to bomb the U.S. Capitol and Pentagon using remote-
controlled aircraft.  Rezwan Ferdaus, 26, pleaded guilty today in federal court
in  Boston  to attempting to damage a federal building with an
explosive and attempting to provide material support to
terrorists. Ferdaus had pleaded not guilty to six charges in
October. Four of those charges were dropped.  “Yes, I do,” Ferdaus replied when U.S. District Judge
Richard Stearns asked him if he accepted responsibility for his
actions.  Ferdaus, who holds a bachelor’s degree in physics from
 Northeastern University , designed and built detonation devices
for plastic explosives using mobile phones, according to his
indictment. He supplied 12 phones modified to act as switches
for the explosives to undercover  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
agents he thought worked for al-Qaeda, according to court
papers.  He allegedly told the agents he planned to fly two aircraft
into the Pentagon, the headquarters of the U.S. Defense
Department in Arlington,  Virginia , and one into the Capitol in
 Washington .  Ferdaus agreed to a recommended sentence of 17 years in
prison plus 10 years’ supervised release.  ‘Overwhelming Basis’  Stearns accepted the plea, saying there was “sufficient
and overwhelming basis to warrant a jury finding him guilty
beyond a reasonable doubt.” The judge set sentencing for
Nov. 1. Ferdaus faced life in prison if convicted at trial.  His lawyers had argued previously that the FBI continued
the sting even though Ferdaus showed signs of mental illness and
tried to end communications with the agents.  “Undercover agents told him more than 25 times he didn’t
have to go through with his plan to attack the Pentagon and the
U.S. Capitol,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephanie Siegmann said
at the hearing. “In response, the defendant repeatedly
reaffirmed his commitment to his plan and his hope to cause
psychological harm to the  United States .”  Ferdaus told the judge he has been treated for “mild”
depression and anxiety and is taking anti-anxiety medication.  A resident of Ashland, Massachusetts, Ferdaus used the
alias Dave Winfield, the name of a former New York Yankees
baseball player, when he bought the remote-controlled aircraft,
according to the indictment. Agents arrested him in September
after they delivered weapons to him and he locked them up in a
storage facility in Framingham, Massachusetts.  Federal marshals leading him out of the courtroom today
directed him away from his mother, who tried to hug him. She
then collapsed on a bench and wept.  The case is U.S. v. Ferdaus, 11-10331, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@mac.com ;
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  