-- Resolution Cancels Its Plan to Return Capital: London Mover
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-07-20T16:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/resolution-cancels-its-plan-to-return-capital-shares-decline.html
Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , the insurance
buyout firm founded by  Clive Cowdery , fell in London trading
after scrapping plans to return 250 million pounds ($392
million) to shareholders.  The decision was driven by economic and regulatory
uncertainty and followed “careful consideration” of the
capital requirements of Friends Life, its life insurance unit,
Resolution said today in a statement.  Founded in 2008 to buy, merge and eventually sell U.K. life
insurers, Resolution spent 250 million pounds buying back shares
in the second half of 2011 and had planned to return the same
amount to investors in the first half of this year following
regulatory approval.  “We had assumed some limited prospect of cash return late
in 2012 or in 2013,” Oliver Steel, a London-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG with a buy rating on the stock, wrote in a note
to clients today. “The statement also suggests that there is no
prospect of cash return ever.”  Alex Child-Villiers, a spokesman for Resolution, declined
to comment on Steel’s note.  Resolution  fell  5.4 percent to 215.5 pence in London
trading, valuing the firm at about 3 billion pounds.  The stock is down almost 44 percent since it began trading
in 2008 and has lost 14.3 percent this year, as turmoil in the
euro region and low  interest rates  hurt investment returns and
increase the volatility of insurers’ capital reserves.  “I understand that shareholders will be very disappointed
that the board has concluded not to return a second 250 million
pounds of capital,” Chairman Mike Biggs said in the statement.
“It would be inappropriate to do so against the backdrop of
heightened investment, economic and regulatory uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net . 