-- Rosneft Takes Stake in Itera to Step Up Pressure on Gazprom
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-07-20T09:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/rosneft-takes-stake-in-itera-to-step-up-pressure-on-gazprom-1-.html
OAO Rosneft acquired a stake in
natural-gas producer and trader OOO Itera in a move that may
help it compete with OAO Gazprom, the nation’s largest producer
of the fuel.  Russia ’s biggest oil producer took a 6 percent stake in
Itera, according to a  statement  today. Spokesmen for Itera and
Rosneft declined to provide further details when contacted.  The government each year raises regulated gas rates as part
of a drive to allow domestic prices to reach parity with
exports, minus the cost of transit. The increases have been part
of Russia’s attempt to join the  World Trade Organization .
Gazprom holds a monopoly on Russian exports.  “The independents and oil companies want to get into the
gas business very badly, using every trick in the book to
monetize their assets and entice customers away from Gazprom,”
 Troika Dialog  wrote in a July 17 note.  Rosneft’s decision to team up with Itera gives it a ready
Russian customer base for output from new gas projects,
according to Troika. The total effect of Russian gas producers
pushing ahead with projects may result in 100 billion cubic
meters of additional gas by 2020, sapping Gazprom’s own output
aims, Troika wrote.  Rosneft will rely on increased gas output to deliver on
plans to raise output 48 percent to 3.7 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in 2020 from 2010. The state-run company plans
to quadruple gas production to 45 billion to 55 billion cubic
meters by 2020, according to a company presentation earlier this
year. Those figures include associated gas, or the gas produced
alongside oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  