-- Russia’s Volga and Urals Areas Seen Affected by Heat and Dryness
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-07-20T13:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/russia-s-volga-and-urals-areas-seen-affected-by-heat-and-dryness.html
Most of  Russia ’s Volga area, the
southern part of the Urals area and Western Siberia’s southwest
were affected by heat and dryness in the past 10 days,
potentially harming crops, the national weather center said.  Rainstorms in eastern parts of the Volga Federal District
may improve the condition of late spring crops including barley
and wheat after the dry weather, Anna Strashnaya, head of
agrometeorological forecasts at the Federal Hydrometeorological
Center, said by phone from Moscow today. The rains hampered
harvesting of other local crops, she said.  The Volga Federal District accounted for 23 percent of
Russia’s national grain crop last year, reaping 21.2 million
metric tons, according to government statistics. The Siberian
and Urals federal districts accounted respectively for 16
percent and 7.8 percent of the harvest, gathering 14.6 million
and 7.3 million tons of cereals.  Rains stalled reaping in the Stavropol and North Caucasus
republics and the southern Krasnodar region, the main
cultivation areas for grain for export, from the end of June
until July 12, Strashnaya said. Weather turned favorable
starting July 13 and farmers resumed grain harvesting. Rainy
weather aided sugar beets, potatoes and sunflowers in those
areas, she said.  The regions lie in the Southern and North Caucasus federal
districts, which together accounted for 35 percent of last
year’s national grain crop with a 32.6 million-ton harvest, the
statistics showed.  The  Agriculture Ministry  expects this year’s grain crop to
fall to 80 million to 85 million tons because of a drought in
the south and the Volga and Siberian regions. Last year’s
harvest amounted to 94.2 million tons.  Wheat for September delivery was unchanged at $9.35 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 5:35 p.m. Moscow time.
Prices are up 43 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  