-- Russian Silicon Valley Plans First IPO as Venture Capital Booms
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-20T12:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/russian-silicon-valley-plans-first-ipo-as-venture-capital-booms.html
The Kremlin’s innovation incubator
plans to hold the first in a series of share sales by technology
companies this year, buoyed by record venture capital investment
in the country.  The first tenant of the Skolkovo Foundation technology park
to go public will be VIST Mining, a software developer for
metals companies that expects to raise $50 million selling stock
in the next few months, Skolkovo Vice President Conor Lenihan
said in an interview yesterday.  “This is a great blueprint for what Skolkovo can do,”
said Lenihan, 49, a former science, technology & innovation
minister of Ireland. It’s “within the pipeline of 500 startups,
even though the park doesn’t officially open till next year.”  Viktor Vekselberg , Skolkovo’s billionaire president, hired
Lenihan last year to help lure international companies to the
400-hectare (1,000-acre) campus in the Moscow suburb of the same
name, southwest of the Russian capital. Former President  Dmitry Medvedev  started the project in 2010 as Russia’s attempt to
duplicate the success of Silicon Valley, where companies such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have flourished. Skolkovo advisers
include Google Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt ,  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO)  CEO  John Chambers ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  CEO  Peter Loescher , former
Intel Corp. CEO  Craig Barrett  and three Nobel Prize winners.  Venture Capital  The emergence of Skolkovo is coinciding with a boom in
venture capital investment in Russia-based companies, which
jumped fourfold to a record $276 million this year to July 20,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That includes the $75 million that  Accel Partners , an early
backer of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , said in May it would invest with
partners including Baring Vostok Capital Partners into Avito.ru,
a classified ads site that attracts 40 percent of Russian
Internet users every month. VTB Capital, the securities unit of
the country’s second-biggest lender, has invested $18 million in
Internet startups so far this year, according to the company.  Since forming Skolkovo, the government has allocated about
$4.2 billion for the project and amended about 200 laws to
encourage high-tech investment, according to the company’s
 website . The campus, designed by France’s AREP and scheduled for
completion next year, will be able to accommodate 31,000
scientists, researchers, students and entrepreneurs. Vekselberg
has said the final cost may reach $10 billion.  Brain Drain  Lenihan said he was recruited personally by Vekselberg, whom
he met through a mutual acquaintance in Rome after an exhibit of
the billionaire’s Faberge egg collection in the Vatican. He said
he was intrigued with the idea of helping create the kind of
jobs that would let Russia retain some of its most talented
people. Scientists and engineers left Russia en masse after the
Soviet Union collapsed and President  Vladimir Putin  has made
reversing the so-called brain drain a priority.  Vekselberg, whose assets include stakes in oil producer
TNK-BP and aluminum maker United Co. Rusal, stepped down as
Rusal’s chairman in March and now spends “about 70 percent” of
his time on Skolkovo, Lenihan said.  “Viktor appreciates what happened in the 1990s was
catastrophic, when you had this massive outflow of really
talented scientists who are now contributing hugely to
successful companies in Silicon Valley,” Lenihan said. “Cisco
alone employs 700 Russian scientists and technologists there,
which goes to show the talent pool we are tapping into.”  Microsoft, Siemens  Vekselberg has already used tax breaks and other incentives
to lure commitments from global companies such as  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , Siemens, Cisco and Nokia Oyj.  “The Russian technology space hasn’t lived up to
everybody’s fondest hopes but it has developed dramatically,”
said Esther Dyson, a venture capitalist active in Russia for
more than a decade and a board member of  Yandex NV (YNDX) , operator of
the country’s most-used search engine.  “It’s now very easy to
start a company, but it’s much harder to build one to scale.”  Yandex raised $1.3 billion in a  New York  IPO in January
2011, two months after its biggest domestic competitor, Facebook
shareholder Mail.ru Group Ltd., raised $912 million in a London
IPO. Both Yandex and Mail.ru have held talks with Skolkovo
without committing to work on the campus, Lenihan said.  “We are not trying to shoe-horn them in,” Lenihan said.
“Yandex and Mail.ru are already a success and already accessing
Russian talent and their success predates Skolkovo. Likewise, we
are not pressuring Intel to move their Intel Lab from  St.
Petersburg  to Skolkovo.”  Intel, Microsoft  Intel, the world’s largest semiconductor maker, last month
agreed to build an R&D center in Skolkovo to work on smart-car
technologies based on Glonass, Russia’s version of the U.S.
Global Positioning System satellite network for navigation.
Microsoft in May said it would hire more than 100 researchers to
work on cloud-computing architecture at Skolkovo.  Still, luring the big U.S. venture capital funds has proven
harder, mainly because of the pace of development and the
perceived lack of protection for intellectual property, Lenihan
said. Skolkovo plans to overcome some of that reluctance by
having its own legally-binding intellectual property court,
customs and tax services, he said.  “In Ireland, we have had difficulty getting U.S.  venture
capital  funds to travel across the Atlantic,” said Lenihan,
whose brother was Ireland’s finance minister when he was
innovation minister. “Finance departments typically look for
immediate commercialization but it takes 10 years to get all the
pieces in place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  