-- S&P 500 Has First Back-to-Back Weekly Gain Since June
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-07-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/s-p-500-has-first-back-to-back-weekly-gain-since-june.html
U.S. stocks rose for the week,
giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its first back-to-back
gain since June, as results from  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  to Baker Hughes Inc. beat forecasts and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s prepared to add stimulus.  The benchmark index snapped a three-day rally on the final
day amid concern Europe’s crisis is intensifying. Baker Hughes
surged 16 percent to lead energy shares to the biggest weekly
gain among  10 S&P 500 groups . Technology stocks rose 1.9 percent
as IBM climbed 3.5 percent and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  jumped 12 percent amid
better-than-expected earnings. Financial companies had the
biggest retreat after  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
sank more than 9 percent amid disappointing results.  The S&P 500 added 0.4 percent to 1,362.66 during the week,
extending its gain for the year to 8.4 percent. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  climbed 45.48 points, or 0.4 percent, to
12,822.57, the biggest weekly gain since June 29.  “There is this euphoria that maybe things are starting to
turn around,” Linda Bakhshian, a money manager with Federated
Investors in Pittsburgh, said in an interview. Her firm oversees
$363.6 billion. “Expectations were pulled back. Companies are
beating and the market is happy again because things are not
that bad.”  Optimism about corporate earnings and monetary stimulus has
sent the  S&P 500  up 6.6 percent from a low on June 1.  Profits (SPX) 
have exceeded analyst forecasts at about 73 percent of the 118
S&P 500 companies that have reported quarterly results so far,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Apple Inc., Exxon Mobil
Corp. and about 170 other S&P 500 companies are scheduled to
announce earnings in the coming week.  Earnings Projections  Analysts ratcheted down their projections for second-
quarter profits at the start of earnings season, forecasting a
decrease of 2.1 percent, compared with an increase of 4.4
percent at the beginning of this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. By the end of the week, their outlook improved
and they now estimate a 1.6 percent decline.  Stocks rose early in the week after Bernanke told senators
that the central bank is prepared to act to boost growth if the
labor market doesn’t improve. Disappointing data added to
evidence the world’s largest economy is slowing, with reports
showing that retail sales unexpectedly slid, manufacturing in
the Philadelphia region contracted for a third month, claims for
unemployment benefits rose and an index of leading economic
indicators declined more than forecast.  ‘Boost Growth’  “The assumption is that the Fed is going to continue to
try to do what it can to boost growth, or at least continue
conditions that could give it a chance,” Dean Gulis, who
oversees about $3.5 billion as a  fund manager  at Loomis Sayles &
Co. in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, said in a telephone
interview.  Europe’s debt crisis and concern about a global economic
slowdown continued to loom over the markets. The S&P 500 fell 1
percent from a two-month high on the final session of the week
after Spain said the recession will extend into next year and
the region of Valencia prepared to seek a rescue from the
central government. Xinhua News Agency said China will seek to
keep a “firm grip” on the real estate market to prevent a
rebound in housing prices, intensifying concern an economic
slowdown could reduce demand for raw materials.  An S&P 500 index of energy shares advanced 2.6 percent for
the week.  Baker Hughes (BHI)  jumped 16 percent to $45.59. The third-
largest oilfield-services company reported per-share profit that
beat analysts’ estimates by 30 percent, the most since at least
2001, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  IBM Climbs  Technology companies added 1.9 percent for the second-
biggest increase among the 10 groups in the S&P 500. IBM climbed
3.5 percent to $192.45. The world’s biggest computer-services
provider boosted its full-year earnings forecast after second-
quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates, helped by a decade-long
shift to higher-margin software sales.  EBay advanced 12 percent to $44.85 for the biggest gain
since September. The world’s largest Internet marketplace
reported sales and profit that topped analysts’ estimates as
more U.S. consumers shopped for new items on the site.  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK)  surged 16 percent, the most since April 2010,
to $38.70. The maker of flash memory for mobile devices exceeded
analysts’ per-share earnings estimate by 14 percent, the most in
a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  climbed 6 percent to $610.82. The owner of the
world’s most popular search engine said second-quarter revenue
surged 35 percent, helped by its acquisition of Motorola
Mobility Holdings and as more users clicked on advertisements.  Intel, AMD  Intel Corp . added 1.1 percent to $25.52. The world’s
largest semiconductor maker reported second-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates while scaling back its annual sales
forecast.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , a rival of Intel, tumbled
14 percent to $4.22 after predicting a revenue decline amid
market-share losses and diminished demand for personal
computers.  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  surge 13 percent to $34.60 for the biggest
rally since 2000. The largest U.S. drugstore chain renewed a
contract to provide  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  customers with
prescriptions, ending a dispute that contributed to an 11
percent decline in the retailer’s quarterly profit.  Financial shares fell 2.4 percent as a group, the most in
seven weeks. Wall Street’s five biggest banks reported the worst
start to a year since 2008, with combined first-half revenue
falling 4.5 percent to $161 billion, the lowest since $135
billion four years ago. The firms blamed the decline on low
 interest rates  and a drop in trading and deal-making.  Headcount Cuts  Bank of America sank 9.6 percent to $7.07 for the biggest
loss since November. The lender said demands for buybacks from
mortgage-bond investors and insurers surged more than $6 billion
in the second quarter to $22.7 billion. Record claims for
refunds on faulty mortgages cast doubt on whether improvements
in the lender’s real estate operations will last, according to
 Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets.  Morgan Stanley reported a 50 percent drop in earnings on
the biggest decline in trading revenue among Wall Street firms
and said it will cut headcount by 4,000 this year. The stock
slumped 9 percent to $12.78 for the week.  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  plunged 19 percent, the most
since its 2006 initial public offering, to $316.98 after second-
quarter sales trailed analysts’ estimates. Slower U.S. consumer
spending hurt the chain’s sales with smaller gains as the year
proceeded, Chief Financial Officer Jack Hartung said on an
analyst call. Extreme weather may boost food costs later this
year and next, Hartung said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  