-- Sanofi-Regeneron Cholesterol Drug Enters Late-Stage Trial
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-20T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/sanofi-regeneron-cholesterol-drug-enters-late-stage-trial.html
Sanofi (SAN)  and  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (REGN)  said they are enrolling patients in more than 10 late-stage
clinical trials for a potentially first-in-class cholesterol-
lowering drug targeting an enzyme called PCSK9.  The studies, dubbed Odyssey, will involve more than 22,000
patients, including 18,000 in a trial measuring cardiovascular
outcomes such as heart attacks and strokes, Paris-based Sanofi
and Tarrytown, New York-based Regeneron said today in a joint
statement. The companies may apply for approval before the study
is completed, based on how well the drug lowers LDL, so-called
bad cholesterol, in other trials, said Regeneron’s Bill Sasiela.  The compound, known as SAR236553 or REGN727, is the
furthest along in a class targeting PCSK9, involved in the
increase of LDL. These therapies, also being developed by  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY)  and  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) , target millions of patients who don’t benefit enough
from cholesterol-lowering statins, such as Pfizer’s Lipitor.  “We’re very excited about this investigational
treatment,” Jay Edelberg, head of Sanofi’s newly-created PCSK9
development and launch division, said in a telephone interview.
“This is an opportunity to provide benefit to a broad number of
patients, to reduce their LDL levels and their cardiovascular
risk. This is our mission, this is why we’re here.”  In earlier studies, Sanofi and Regeneron’s experimental
drug was shown to lower LDL by as much as 72 percent on top of
Lipitor.  New Products  Sanofi is seeking to bring new drugs to the market as
generic competition erodes revenue from best-selling products
such as the Plavix blood-thinner. One in every six adult
Americans suffer from high levels of the fat-like substance
 cholesterol , which builds up in the arteries and leads to  heart
disease , the leading cause of death in the U.S., according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  The trials will be conducted on people with elevated
cardiovascular risk, or suffering from an inherited condition
known as familial hypercholesterolemia, as well as in patients
unable to tolerate statin therapy, the companies said.  Four of the trials have begun and others “will start quite
imminently,” Edelberg said. If approved, Sanofi and Regeneron
plan to begin selling the medicine in the fourth quarter of 2015
and make it available worldwide in 2016, he said. Patients will
be able to inject the drug themselves through a single shot
every two weeks.  Different Approach  Current treatments led by Pfizer’s statin Lipitor work
differently. They are pills taken daily that work by blocking an
enzyme the body needs to produce cholesterol in the liver.
Almost one-third of statin users don’t get enough of a benefit,
James McKenney, chief executive officer of National Clinical
Research and lead investigator of an earlier trial of Sanofi and
Regeneron’s drug, said in March when the data were reported.  “Statins were clearly revolutionary and probably the best
class of drugs for a major disease since penicillin,” Henry
Ginsberg, a professor at  Columbia University Medical Center  in
New York and head of the Odyssey steering committee, said in a
telephone interview. “This could be a revolution for people
with very high levels of LDL cholesterol.”  Lipitor, which lost U.S. patent protection in November,
generated $9.6 billion in worldwide sales in 2011.  As many as 3 million people in the U.S. may initially be
eligible for the Sanofi-Regeneron therapy, should it be
approved, said Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst with Deutsche Bank,
in a May 29 research note. She estimates the drug may generate
$3 billion to $6 billion in peak U.S. sales.  “A lot of patients out there, despite the available
therapies, are not at goal,” said George Yancopoulos,
Regeneron’s chief scientific officer, in a telephone interview.
“It’s important to get these therapies to patients as soon as
possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gales at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  