-- Cheap Chinese Stocks Mean Gains for HSBC, Losses to Baring
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-07-20T06:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/hsbc-says-it-s-not-rational-to-bet-on-further-china-stock-drop.html
Chinese stocks  are cheap and the
economy is poised to recover, making it a “dangerous” strategy
on the part of some investors to bet on further declines in
equities, said Herald Van Der Linde, head of  Asia  Pacific equity
strategy at  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   “At this point in time, with low valuation and massive
shorts in the market, it is not rational to bet that  China  will
further fall from here,” he said in an interview from HSBC’s
Singapore office yesterday. “It’s a dangerous strategy, not a
rational one to do.”  Chinese equities have fallen for a third year on concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis and property restrictions are curbing
growth in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  has plunged 19
percent from this year’s peak on Feb. 29, dragging down
estimated price earnings to 7.7 times, compared with the five-
year average of 14.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The index gained 0.3 percent to 9,544.83 at 12 p.m. in  Hong
Kong . The Shanghai Composite Index has lost 11 percent since the
year’s high set on March 2.  While Chinese stocks are cheap, investors may want to avoid
equities in the short term amid concerns the economic slowdown
may be deepening, Wilfred Sit, chief investment officer for Asia
at Baring Asset Management, said in a Bloomberg television
interview in Hong Kong today. China’s growth slowed in the
second quarter to the weakest pace since the 2009 global
financial crisis, putting pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to
boost stimulus to secure a second-half economic rebound.  ‘Macro Shock’  “If there’s some macro shock, it could still come down 10
to 20 percent,” Sit said. “For anyone who can ignore the
shorter-term volatility and focus on the longer-term investment,
the market actually looks cheap at this point.”  HSBC’s Van Der Linde said on April 11 that Asian share
gains would be curbed by slowing earnings. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index has slipped 5.1 percent since then after gaining 11
percent in the first three months of the year. The  strategist
said he favors Chinese telecom companies, rail shares as well as
some cement and retail stocks, declining to name any. The
government may reduce lenders’ reserve-ratio requirements four
more times this year, Van Der Linde said.  The central bank has lowered lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios three times since November and cut  interest rates  on July
5 for the second time in a month to prevent the slowdown from
deepening.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  