-- Schleck’s Positive Drug Test Is Confirmed by Second Analysis
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-07-20T16:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/schleck-s-positive-drug-test-is-confirmed-by-second-analysis.html
A backup drug test on Tour de France
rider  Frank Schleck  confirmed a positive finding for a banned
diuretic, cycling’s ruling body said in a release.  Luxembourg’s Schleck quit the Tour three days ago in the
second drug scandal to hit the race in a week.  Schleck, third in the event last year, was found to have
Xipamide in a urine sample, said the International Cycling
Union, known as the UCI. The result was confirmed by analysis of
the B sample, the UCI added today in an e-mailed statement. The
diuretic can be used as a masking agent for performance-
enhancing drugs.  “The analysis of the sample B of Frank Schleck’s urine
carried out today has confirmed the result of the adverse
analytical finding,” the UCI said. “In accordance with the
anti-doping rules, the UCI will request the Luxembourg
Federation to open a disciplinary procedure against the rider.”  Schleck has denied taking any banned substance, saying he
could have been the victim of poisoning. He repeated his denial
of wrongdoing after the latest test,  Agence France-Presse 
reported.  “The result of the counter-test was positive but for me
nothing changes, I just know that I did nothing wrong,” he was
cited as saying by AFP. “I will therefore continue my search to
find out how the substance could have entered my body.”  Even though UCI rules don’t mandate an automatic suspension
for the drug in Schleck’s sample, the rider and his RadioShack-
Nissan-Trek team agreed that he should withdraw from the Tour.  Another rider, Remy di Gregorio, was suspended by the
Cofidis team on July 10 as it investigates whether the French
cyclist tried to take performance-enhancing drugs. He also
denied wrongdoing.  Latest Setback  Schleck’s positive test is the latest setback for the
RadioShack squad. Manager  Johan Bruyneel  is sitting out the race
after being accused of overseeing doping on the U.S. Postal
Service team that was led by  Lance Armstrong . Bruyneel denies
the charge by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency and has asked for his
case to be heard by an arbitration panel.  The Tour ends July 22 in Paris, with Bradley Wiggins
leading by 2 minutes, 5 seconds and poised to become the first
British winner of the event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  