-- Schlumberger Second-Quarter Profit Rises on Global Oil
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-07-20T20:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/schlumberger-profit-rises-as-global-drilling-increases-correct-.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider, said second-quarter profit
rose as customers increased their quest for crude outside the
U.S. and Canada onshore market.  Net income increased to $1.4 billion, or $1.03 a share,
from $1.1 billion, or 81 cents, a year earlier, Houston-and
Paris-based Schlumberger said in a statement today. Excluding a
$21 million after-tax charge related to merger costs, the
company beat by 5 cents the average of 29 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 16 percent to $10.4 billion.  Schlumberger discontinued its distribution with the sale of
its Wilson unit and its stake in  CE Franklin Ltd. (CFT) , and earlier
quarters have been restated, the company said.  The number of active oil rigs globally climbed 6.6 percent
to an average of 3,372 during the quarter. Oil drilling
increased even as prices fell 8.8 percent to average $93.35 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in the second
quarter, down from $102.34 a year earlier.  “It was a very good quarter given an environment of
uncertainty and lower oil and natural-gas prices,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , said today
in an e-mail. The company’s “real strength” came from
international activity, he said.  International Growth  International activity is expected to climb about 10
percent this year from 2011, Chief Executive Officer Paal Kibsgaard told analysts and investors today on a conference
call.  Schlumberger got 67 percent of its sales  beyond  North
America in the second quarter, more than its three biggest
competitors.  The region that includes Europe, Africa and  Russia  reported
sales of $2.97 billion.  “Sounds like Russia and the  North Sea  are coming back
pretty nicely,”  John Lawrence , an analyst at Tudor Pickering
Holt & Co., who rates the shares a buy and owns none, said today
in a telephone interview. “I think they’re well-positioned
there. It’s a fairly good market.”  Europe, Africa and Russia had an operating profit margin of
20 percent. Lawrence said he was expecting 18 percent for the
quarter.  “ North America  held up better than expected, although
margins were down, thus continuing the recent industry trend,”
Youngberg said.  Fracking Falls  Operating profit margin in North America fell to 21
percent, from 23 percent in the first quarter, according to the
statement.  Schlumberger helps companies drill for oil and gas,
including using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to free the
fuel from shale formations.  Falling prices for fracking work spread to more liquids
basins in North America in the second quarter, Kibsgaard told
analysts and investors today on a conference call. Operating
profit margins for fracking will continue to fall in the third
quarter due to lower prices and more expensive materials, he
said.  Prices that Schlumberger is bidding for fracking jobs are
down about 20 percent from the peak, Kibsgaard said.  The shares rose 1 percent to $69.33 at the close in  New
York . Schlumberger has climbed 1.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  