-- Sean Quinn’s Son, Nephew Face Jail for Irish Court Contempt
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-07-20T15:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/sean-quinn-s-son-nephew-to-be-jailed-for-irish-court-contempt.html
The son and nephew of Ireland’s
former richest man,  Sean Quinn  senior, will be jailed for three
months after failing to disclose assets in line with a court
order, a judge said today.  Sean Quinn junior and Peter Quinn were given the sentences
by Judge Elizabeth Dunne in Dublin today. The threat of punitive
sanction was left over Sean Quinn senior by the judge, who found
the three men in contempt of court last month, until it was
possible to see what steps he takes to deal with the matter.  Judge Dunne rejected a suggestion from Quinn’s lawyers that
jailing Quinn junior was a “medieval” approach to forcing his
father to co-operate. “This is a practical way of trying to
encourage the situation in relation to compliance with the
orders,” she said.  Quinn, his son and nephew continued to place assets outside
the reach of nationalized Irish Bank Resolution Corp. formerly
Anglo Irish Bank Corp., after the court ordered them to stop
last year, Judge Dunne said on June 29. At that point, Dunne put
aside “punitive” sanctions as she made an order for asset
disclosure.  Paul Gallagher, a lawyer for Irish Bank Resolution Corp.
said in court today that the company isn’t happy with the level
of disclosure from the Quinns since Judge Dunne made the order.
The former cement-to-insurance Quinn senior was declared
bankrupt in January, two months after a court ruled he owed the
bank 2.16 billion euros ($2.6 billion). Quinn was worth about $6
billion in 2008, Forbes magazine said.  Quinn junior and Peter Quinn can apply to exit jail if they
can show they have or are willing to purge their contempt, Judge
Dunne said. She directed police today to bring Peter Quinn
before the court after his lawyer said his client was unable to
attend because of illness.  Sean Quinn senior declined to comment to reporters today.
Lawyers for the Quinns are appealing the June 29 contempt
finding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  