-- SEC in Pact for Real-Time System on Order, Trade Data
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-07-20T15:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/sec-in-pact-for-real-time-system-on-order-trade-data.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission took a step toward improving its oversight of equity
and options markets, contracting for a system that collects
quote and trade data sold mainly to private users.  Regulators will be able to tap into real-time feeds of
orders, quotes and transactions that are generated by exchange
companies such as  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and were,
until now, used primarily by banks and automated trading firms.
Tradeworx Inc., a high-frequency firm and technology vendor in
 Red Bank ,  New Jersey , is delivering a platform to compile the
data under an SEC contract.  “Historically we have not had the most robust systems to
do the analysis one would want to do with data,” Gregg Berman,
senior adviser to the director of the SEC’s division of trading
and markets, said in a phone interview. “In one fell swoop we
have become one of the most advanced institutions in terms of
our technical and analytical capabilities.”  The initiative is separate from a broader market oversight
project known as the consolidated audit trail that SEC
commissioners voted to mandate last week. That plan, years away
from implementation, will let regulators monitor an order’s
“life cycle,” including information circulated before it gets
to an exchange or another venue, or is canceled. The project,
which will capture information the morning after it occurs, will
also identify the firms making trading decisions.  Money, Time  “The consolidated audit trail is going to take a huge
amount of money and much longer to implement,”  Reena Aggarwal ,
director of the Georgetown Center for Financial Markets and
Policy at  Georgetown University ’s McDonough School of Business
in  Washington , said by phone. “This will give the commission a
huge capability in terms of monitoring the markets in real time.
That has been severely lacking in this age of speed.”  The fee for the market-data system is $2.5 million for the
first year, Manoj Narang, the chief executive officer of
Tradeworx, said in an e-mail.  The SEC will have access to the quote and transaction data
used by algorithmic traders, high-frequency firms, electronic
market makers and other professionals who buy and sell rapidly
across venues, Berman said. It will be able to run analyses on
the information to search for potentially harmful or suspicious
activity and trading patterns that can help it gain a better
understanding of how rules affect the marketplace, he said.  Securities Technology Monitor, a trade publication, first
reported the SEC’s selection of Tradeworx for the platform.  Monitoring Tool  “It sounds like a front-line tool to get some visibility
into what’s happening across the market,” James Overdahl, a
vice president at NERA Economic Consulting and a former chief
economist at the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
said in a phone interview. “Part of this could be a vetting
process for looking at tips about allegedly abusive trading
practices to see if there’s any substance to the allegations.”  It made sense for the SEC to rely on individual venues to
monitor trading when the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq
Stock Market dominated buying and selling in their stocks,
Overdahl said. Now, with more than 50 equity venues available to
investors and traders, it’s harder for regulators to assess
activity dispersed across them, he said.  Price Swings  The SEC’s new tools, when implemented later this year, may
help regulators understand activity such as the price swings in
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  that repeated every hour yesterday. Shares in the
companies, three of the biggest in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU) , swung below successive lows and highs in intervals that
began near the top and bottom of each hour, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. While only IBM finished more than 1 percent
higher, the intraday patterns weren’t accompanied by any
breaking news in the three companies, where $3.42 billion worth
of shares changed hands.  The data tools may be used by as many as 100 people at the
agency, the SEC said in its  initial specifications report . The
commission may generate hundreds of daily queries about trading
activity, it told vendors in response to questions last year. It
asked companies submitting bids to ensure that data feeds from
the  futures markets  could be integrated into the system.  Market Depth  Under the program, real-time trade and so-called depth-of-
book data will be collected from all 13 U.S. stock exchanges and
the  Options Price Reporting Authority , according to the SEC’s
specifications. Depth-of-book data refers to quotes and orders
at prices inferior to the best levels on each market and
includes the number of shares or contracts available at those
prices. Public quote and trade data will also be captured.  The SEC said last year it wanted the ability to analyze
data at intervals such as 1 thousandth of a second, 1 second or
1 minute. The SEC’s division of trading and markets and the
division of risk, strategy and financial innovation will use the
system, the agency said.  The data captured will be used to focus on the impact of
high-frequency trading, the consequences of high rates of order
cancellations, connections between activity in exchange-traded
products and individual stocks, and the effects of SEC or
exchange rules on the marketplace, Berman said. A team of
employees from different SEC divisions will monitor and analyze
the markets using the market-data tool, he said.  Audit Trail  The bigger consolidated audit trail project requires U.S.
securities exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversees 4,400 brokers, to establish a system
to reconstruct market crises and expedite surveillance across 13
equity exchanges, 10 options markets and more than 200 broker-
dealers that execute stock trades away from public venues. The
effort, like the newer market-data plan, is part of the agency’s
response to the May 6, 2010, stock rout that temporarily erased
$862 billion in U.S. equity value.  The SEC initially said the audit trail would amass real-
time data about orders generated. It dropped the requirement
earlier this year after brokers and exchanges complained the
cost outweighed the benefits. SEC Commissioners Elisse Walter
and  Luis Aguilar , who opposed the measure in a 3-2 vote on July
11, said it didn’t go far enough.  “Not striving” for a real-time reporting regime “seems
to ensure that the industry remains one step or one day ahead of
the regulators,” Walter said at the July 11 meeting.  Regulators and analysts at the SEC will use the new market-
data system in conjunction with the consolidated audit trail,
Berman said. The audit trail will include customer data for
trades and orders that aren’t currently available in existing
information feeds, he said.  “To the extent we need to do real-time analysis, we’ll do
real-time analysis,” Berman said. “Once the consolidated audit
trail is in place, we can follow the life cycle of the event
that we think might have been an issue. For some types of
analyses, we need the consolidated audit trail as a first
stage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 