-- Shipbuilders Lead Tripling in Korea Bond Sales This Week
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-07-20T06:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/shipbuilders-lead-tripling-in-korea-bond-sales-this-week.html
Sales of won-denominated bonds more
than tripled this week as South Korean shipbuilders took
advantage of record-low yields to raise funds amid slumping new
orders and overseas deliveries.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540)  and Daewoo Shipbuilding &
Marine Engineering Co., which own two of the world’s three
biggest shipyards, led issuance to 1.77 trillion won ($1.55
billion) from 560 billion won last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Benchmark three-year corporate bond
yields declined to 3.48 percent on July 18, the lowest since at
least 1993, according to the  Korea  Financial Investment
Association.  “With a gloomy outlook for the shipbuilding industry,
companies are dipping into the  bond market  to raise cash,” Lee Soo Jung, a credit analyst with SK Securities, said by telephone
from Seoul on June 18. “At the same time, the market is
conducive to borrowers with yields plummeting.”  Hyundai Heavy sold a record 700 billion won of securities
as shipbuilders, which account for about 10 percent of total
exports from  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy, seek to boost
capital through debt sales.  South Korea ’s central bank last week
cut its outlook for 2012 growth, citing a protracted crisis in
 Europe  for reducing the estimate to 3 percent from 3.5 percent.  Sales Planned  Borrowers are planning at least 720 billion won of sales
next week, with Doosan Infracore Co., and Korea South-East Power
Corp. poised to price notes, according to preliminary data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on AA- rated three-year securities dropped four
basis points this week, investment association prices show.
Comparable U.S. corporate debt pays 2.16 percent, down nine
basis points this week, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.25 percent bonds due June 2015
rose 1 basis point to 2.9 percent as of 3:25 p.m. in  Seoul ,
Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. Yields declined 5 basis points
on the week, the third weekly decline. The won weakened 0.18
percent to 1,141.20 per dollar, after five days of gains,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Export-Import Bank of Korea, the nation’s largest seller of
foreign-currency debt, offered a record A$500 million ($520
million) of Kangaroo bonds by a South Korean issuer on July 18.
The notes were priced to yield 275.25 basis points more than
benchmark Australian  government bonds , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Overseas Shipments  The bank also sold 1.75 billion  yuan  ($275 million) of
yuan-denominated notes in  Hong Kong  the same day, priced to
yield 3.25 percent, the data show.  South Korean companies may post their first annual drop in
overseas shipments in 19 years, the Ministry of  Knowledge
Economy  said this month. Shipbuilding orders fell 50 percent in
the first five months from the same period a year earlier,
according to data from Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest
shipbroker.  Cash and near-cash items for Hyundai Heavy, the world’s
biggest shipbuilder, are down about 17 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, while total liabilities increased
more than 28 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company sold a 705 billion won stake in Hyundai Motor Co.
this week after one of its units dropped a plan to sell shares.  Seeking Cash  “Shipbuilders need cash now because they collect their
bills after deliveries are made,” Kim Ki Myung, a credit
analyst with Seoul-based Korea Investment & Securities Co., said
by telephone on July 18.  Hyundai Heavy , based in the south-eastern coastal city of
Ulsan, sold 300 billion won of three-year bonds to yield 3.41
percent, and 400 billion won of five-year securities priced the
yield 3.52 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai Oilbank Co., a unit of Hyundai Heavy, shelved an
initial public offering plan last month, citing worsening
economic conditions. South Korea’s fourth-largest refiner
planned to raise as much as 2 trillion won from the IPO,
MoneyToday reported on April 13, citing unidentified sale
arrangers.  Daewoo Shipbuilding’s 200 billion won of three-year notes
were priced to yield 3.58 percent and 300 billion won of five-
year debt were sold to yield 3.8 percent, the data show.  Doosan Infracore is leading issuance slated for next week
with sales of three- and five-year notes to raise 300 billion
won, according to preliminary data compiled by Bloomberg.
Korea’s largest construction-equipment maker is also considering
selling U.S. dollar-denominated perpetual hybrid bonds, it said
in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News last
month. Korea South-East Power Co. is also planning a sale of 200
billion won of notes, the data show.  “Issuance will keep coming, as firms want to preemptively
raise funds and avoid future uncertainty,” Kim at Korea
Investment & Securities said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  