-- Sinopec Crude-Oil Production Rises on Higher Overseas Output
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-07-20T11:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/sinopec-crude-oil-production-rises-on-higher-overseas-output-1-.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
 Asia ’s biggest refiner, boosted first-half crude-oil output by
4.3 percent after overseas production surged.  Output was 163.09 million barrels in the six months ended
June 30, according to a  document  posted on parent China
Petrochemical Corp.’s website today. Overseas production jumped
82 percent to 11.13 million barrels from a year earlier as its
Angola oilfields returned to running at full capacity after
maintenance last year.  Sinopec, as the company is known, is boosting oil
production to counter losses in its refining business. It posted
a 35 percent drop in first-quarter profit as margins at its
processing units narrowed.  “The growth is well within expectations and in line with
the company’s goal of about 4 percent annual production
growth,” said Shi Yan, a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian
Ltd. “The money-losing trend of its refining business won’t
change unless the government changes its policy to cap retail
fuel prices.”  China, the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, reduced
fuel prices for the third time since May on July 12, eroding
margins at its biggest two state-owned refiners, including
Sinopec and PetroChina Co.  Sinopec shares gained 1.9 percent to HK$7.06 at the close
of trading in Hong Kong, before the document was posted. The
benchmark  Hang Seng  index rose 0.4 percent.  Refining Losses  Sinopec’s refining losses will widen in the second quarter
because of price cuts and high-priced inventories, UOB’s Shi
said.  “Sinopec has at least two months of stockpiles of high-
priced inventory to deplete in the second quarter before it can
process the lower-priced crude-oil imports,” Shi said.
“Cheaper crude imports will help its refining margin in the
second half, but second quarter should see the worst refining
losses of the year.”  Sinopec processed 109.76 million metric tons of crude oil
in the first half, up 1.1 percent from a year earlier, according
to the document. Its gasoline output rose 7.9 percent to 19.61
million tons.  Natural-gas output gained 14 percent to 289.93 billion
cubic feet, according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  