-- Skadden, Jones Day, Wachtell, Latham: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-20T11:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/skadden-jones-day-wachtell-latham-business-of-law.html
Sharis A. Pozen, who headed the U.S.
 Justice Department ’s successful effort to block AT&T Inc.’s
proposed $39 billion purchase of  T-Mobile USA , is joining
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP’s global antitrust and
competition practice in  Washington .  “With their global client base and their outstanding
reputation in corporate law and antitrust, this is a terrific
opportunity for me at this stage of my career,” Pozen said in
an interview. She will start at Skadden on Sept. 4.  Pozen joined the Justice Department as chief of staff and
counsel in 2009 and was appointed assistant acting attorney
general in August 2011. Before that, she worked at Hogan &
Hartson LLP, now Hogan Lovells LLP.  Her experience working with Skadden lawyers during her
tenure at the Justice Department and while in private practice,
influenced her decision to join the firm, Pozen said.  “Sharis’s ability to help companies in a vast array of
industries navigate complex antitrust enforcement policies and
programs -- including merger reviews, criminal and civil
enforcement and competition advocacy -- will provide
extraordinary value to our clients,” Steven C. Sunshine, North
American group leader of Skadden’s antitrust and competition
practice, said in a statement.  Pozen announced her resignation in January, a month after
AT&T dropped its bid for T-Mobile. She left the Justice
Department at the end of April. Under Pozen, the department’s
Antitrust Division also successfully pressured  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  to
abandon its acquisition of the maker of TaxAct tax-preparation
software.  Skadden has about 1,800 attorneys in 23 offices worldwide.  Deals  Georgia Gulf to Buy PPG Unit for $1.9 Billion  Georgia Gulf Corp. (GGC)  agreed to acquire  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG) ’s
commodity-chemicals unit for $1.9 billion in cash and shares to
gain factories that make raw materials used in the company’s
plastic pipe and siding.  PPG, based in Pittsburgh, will spin off its chemicals unit
and merge it with Atlanta-based Georgia Gulf, according to a
joint statement yesterday. PPG shareholders will own 50.5
percent of the new Georgia Gulf, the companies said.  Jones Day is advising Georgia Gulf. Atlanta private equity
partner John Zamer led the firm’s team.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz served as PPG’s legal
adviser.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team was led by corporate partner
Steven A. Rosenblum. Additional attorneys included antitrust
partner Ilene K. Gotts, executive compensation and benefits
partner Adam J. Shapiro, restructuring and finance partner Eric
M. Rosof and tax partner Jodi J. Schwartz.  Georgia Gulf, already the biggest North American maker of
vinyl building products, will have $5 billion in sales as it
becomes the second-biggest producer of vinyl chloride and the
third-largest maker of chlorine and caustic soda on the
continent. PPG, the world’s second-biggest coatings maker, is
exiting commodities to focus on paints for homes and autos.  “The deal makes sense for both parties,”  Hassan Ahmed , a
New York-based analyst at Alembic Global Advisors, said in a
telephone interview. “PPG wins by shedding their commodity
business and getting the valuation bump associated with a pure-
play specialty-chemical company. Georgia Gulf wins because this
increases their integration into chlorine.”  For more, click here.  Highstar Capital Agrees to Buy Veolia Unit for $1.9 Billion  Highstar Capital, a U.S. infrastructure fund, agreed to buy
 Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) ’s U.S. waste-management business for
about $1.9 billion.  Jones Day  advised Paris-based Veolia. Winston & Strawn LLP
advised Star Atlantic Waste Holdings II LP, the Highstar Capital
portfolio company that announced the agreement.  The Jones Day deal team was led by Chicago mergers and
acquisitions partner Libby Kitslaar.  Winston & Strawn’s primary partners on the deal included
team leader Jonathan Birenbaum, mergers and acquisitions; Roger
Lucas, tax; Bill Brewer, finance; and May Wall, environmental.
Additional partners included John Kalyvas, finance; Loran Thompson and Linda Hoseman, employee benefits; and Loran
Higgins, real estate.  Highstar, the infrastructure-focused private equity firm
once affiliated with  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , beat
bids from buyout firm Madison Dearborn Partners LLC and
Brazilian conglomerate Estre Ambiental SA, people familiar with
the matter said before the announcement.  Veolia, the world’s biggest water company, is shedding the
unit as it tries to cut debt by 20 percent to 12 billion euros
($14.7 billion) by the end of next year. Chief Executive Officer
Antoine Frerot said last month he wants to focus on
“promising” countries and will pursue asset sales in the U.S.
and U.K.  For more, click here.  BC Partners to Buy Cable Operator Suddenlink From Goldman Sachs  BC Partners  Ltd. and Canada’s second-biggest pension fund
agreed to buy U.S. cable operator Suddenlink Communications for
$1.99 billion from investors including  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.  BC Partners is making the purchase together with Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board and a management team led by
Suddenlink Chief Executive Officer Jerry Kent, according to a
statement from Cequel Communications Holdings LLC, which does
business as Suddenlink. Including debt, the deal has an
enterprise value of $6.6 billion, Cequel said.  For BC Partners and CPPIB, Latham & Watkins LLP and
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz LLP acted as legal advisers.
CPPIB was also separately advised by Torys LLP. For existing
equity holders, Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP
acted as legal adviser.  Paul Hastings LLP and Seyfarth Shaw LLP acted as legal
advisers to Suddenlink.  The Latham deal team was led by  New York  partners Raymond
Lin and Taurie Zeitzer and Washington partner Matthew Brill.  Wachtell’s team was led by corporate partner  Steven A. Cohen . Restructuring and finance partner Joshua A. Feltman also
worked on the deal.  Torys represented the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
with a team that included Toronto partners Matthew Cockburn,
corporate/securities; Guy Berman, corporate/securities; and John
Cameron, legal research.  The Fried Frank team was led by corporate partners Robert Schwenkel, Steven Steinman and F. William Reindel.  Mergers and acquisitions partners Barry Brooks and Luke Lovine, leveraged finance partner Jeffrey Pellegrino and bank
finance partner Rick Denhup led the Paul Hastings team.  The Seyfarth team was led by New York corporate partners
Andrew Lucano and Stan Bloch.  Acquisitions by private-equity companies total
$61 billion worldwide so far this year, compared with
$144 billion for all of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The BC Partners group is buying Suddenlink from sellers
including Goldman Sachs, Quadrangle Group LLC and Oaktree
Capital Group LLC, according to the statement.  “Suddenlink is one of the most attractive cable companies
in the U.S. today, with a world-class infrastructure,” BC
Partners Co-Chairman and Managing Partner Raymond Svider said in
the statement. Svider also is chairman of Luxembourg-based
Intelsat SA.  For more, click here.  Firm News  MoFo New York Partner Nashelsky Elected Firm Chairman  Morrison & Foerster LLP  said Larren M. Nashelsky was
elected chair of the firm. He succeeds Keith Wetmore, whose
fourth three-year term in the position ends in October. Wetmore
will continue with the firm as chair emeritus, the firm said in
a statement.  Nashelsky, 45, is the co-chair of the firm’s bankruptcy and
restructuring practice and a member of the firm’s executive
committee. He previously served as a firmwide managing partner.  Nashelsky joined MoFo as a partner in 1999 from Weil
Gotshal & Manges LLP. As co-chair of the firm’s bankruptcy and
restructuring group, with New York partner Gary Lee, Nashelsky
has led the practice through a period of rapid growth.  The group is lead bankruptcy counsel in the Chapter 11 of
Residential Capital LLC and and was lead counsel to  Louis Freeh ,
Chapter 11 trustee for MF Global Holdings Ltd., the firm said.  “I am incredibly fortunate to assume my new role at a time
when Morrison & Foerster is strong in all respects, thanks to
the exemplary leadership and extraordinary contributions of
Keith Wetmore, our executive leadership team, and many others,”
Nashelsky said in a statement.  Morrison & Foerster has 1,000 lawyers in 15 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  