-- Slovenia Postpones Vote on Fiscal Limit, Bank Aid Fund
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-07-20T14:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/slovenia-postpones-vote-on-fiscal-limit-bank-aid-fund.html
Slovenia postponed a vote on
approving the limit on fiscal spending and on the creation of a
sovereign fund that is meant to take bad loans from banks.  Lawmakers, who were to vote on the measures today, will
decide at the end of August on putting the spending limit into
the constitution and on creating the fund that will assume non-
performing credits from lenders, including Nova Ljubljanska
Banka d.d., Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  said in an e-mailed
statement late yesterday.  “This is the last delay that Slovenia can afford in
solving these key problems,” Jansa said. “If these measures
are adopted, the damage will be repaired and the delay will pay
off. If not, the price will be double of what it would have been
today.”  Slovenia is seeking to allay investors’ concern over its
debt, which has more than doubled since the former Yugoslav
nation adopted the euro in 2007. Banks, which rely on funding
from the  European Central Bank  for liquidity, will probably need
to be propped up by an international assistance program by
year’s end, economists from  London  to Warsaw have said.  The Slovenian Sovereign Holding will be created by merging
agencies that are managing state assets valued at more than 10
billion euros ($12.3 billion). Bad loans, which surged to about
6 billion euros, would be transferred to the fund to clean up
banks’ balance sheets so that they would be able to finance the
 economy , which is teetering on the brink of its second recession
in three years.  Slovenia’s banking industry posted a combined net loss of
69.3 million euros at the end of May compared with 48.6 million
euro profit a year earlier, the central bank said today in
response to Bloomberg questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  