-- SolarReserve Plans Multiple Bids for Saudi’s First Solar Tender
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-07-20T14:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/solarreserve-plans-multiple-bids-for-saudi-s-first-solar-tender.html
SolarReserve LLC, a U.S. maker of
technology that uses sunlight for power, plans multiple bids for
 Saudi Arabia ’s first renewable-energy tender as the country
plans to generate a third of its electricity from solar by 2032.  SolarReserve has formed a joint venture in Saudi Arabia and
is working on preliminary proposals for the tender, Chief
Executive Officer  Kevin Smith  said by phone. Its technology uses
thousands of mirrors to concentrate sunlight onto a central
point to generate heat, which is then used to produce power. The
energy can be stored in molten salt until electricity is needed.  “We have put together proposals and project structures for
the government and we expect to participate actively in the
tenders,” Smith said. “We will submit between one and three
bids in different project structures and in different parts of
the country.”  Saudi Arabia plans to start its first tender targeting
2,000 megawatts of solar energy in early 2013. It plans a second
tender in 2014 aiming for 2,500 megawatts. The country in May
said it’s looking for investors to build a $109 billion solar
industry by 2032. Companies including Canadian Solar Inc., and
Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG have also expressed an interest in
the region.  The size of the projects the technology maker would enter
depends on the structure of the tender, Smith said. “There has
been talk of a multi-thousand megawatt tender and we potentially
would look at larger projects in the 250-megawatt to 500-
megawatt size range,” he said.  The economics in Saudi Arabia are “pretty
straightforward,” said Smith, as solar thermal power is more
cost-effective than burning oil, assuming the alternate price
the country can make for oil is $100 a barrel.  Joint Ventures  SolarReserve is building its first 110-megawatt commercial
project in Nevada that will cost $990 million. The facility,
that will provide enough power for 75,000 homes, is being funded
through a loan guarantee from the U.S. Department of Energy and
equity from the company,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and the Cobra unit
of  Spain ’s ACS-Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA. It
should start working by the end of 2013 and  NV Energy Inc. (NVE)  will
purchase the power under a 25-year contract.  The company is also developing a project in  California  and
one in Spain and is active in South Africa,  Chile ,  China  and
 Australia , said the CEO. It has a joint venture in South Africa
with local companies and is in the “later stages” of finding a
partner in China with a decision expected later this year, he
said.  “Our joint venture partners could be financial,
engineering or construction related,” Smith said. “When we go
into various countries we’re typically looking at somebody that
has an understanding of the infrastructure in the country and so
typically that’s financial, engineering or construction or
utility-related entities.”  The solar company is in discussions with potential
investors and banks for its projects in California and those in
 South Africa , Saudi Arabia and Spain, Smith said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  