-- SouFun Drops as Profits Spur ADR Slump: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-20T21:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/soufun-drops-as-falling-profits-spur-adr-slump-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell in  New York ,
sending the benchmark index to a third weekly decline, after
profit at government-owned companies dropped in the first half
of the year.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. lost 0.6 percent to 86.11 yesterday
in New York for a 1.9 percent retreat this week. State-owned
 China Eastern  Airlines Corp. and  China Southern (ZNH)  Airlines Co.
tumbled at least 2.5 percent.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  sank on a
report the nation won’t relax property control policies.  New
Oriental Education & Technology Group (EDU)  Inc. rallied, trimming a
weekly loss to 42 percent.  Net income for  China ’s 117 central government-run companies
fell 16 percent in the first half from a year earlier, the
nation’s state assets supervision agency  said  yesterday on its
website. The results add to pressure on policy makers in the
world’s second-largest economy to boost stimulus in order to
stem a slowdown. Gross domestic product expanded 7.6 percent
last quarter, the slowest pace in three years.  “Recent declines in China stocks mainly reflected
investors’ concern that economic conditions may be much worse
than expectations,” Qinwei Wang, an analyst at Capital
Economics Ltd., said in a telephone interview yesterday from
London. “First-half corporate earnings and economic growth were
worse than our estimates.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 1.3 percent to $33.26
yesterday, cutting its gain for the week to 2.1 percent. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 1 percent to 1,362.66, amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening. The gauge climbed 0.4
percent in its second weekly advance.  China Eastern  American depositary receipts of Shanghai-based China
Eastern, the nation’s second largest carrier, fell 3.1 percent
to $17.08, the steepest decline in two weeks. The ADRs traded
1.5 percent below its Hong Kong stock, the widest  discount  in
eight days.  China Southern, the nation’s biggest carrier based in
 Guangzhou , slid 2.5 percent to $24.60, the most since June 28.
The ADRs also traded at the biggest discount to its Hong Kong
shares since July 6.  Falling Profit  The nation’s three biggest carriers including  Air China
Ltd. (601111)  have all said in regulatory filings this month first-half
profit may fall more than 50 percent because of slowing demand
and rising jet fuel costs.  SouFun, which runs China’s biggest real estate information
website, tumbled 5.6 percent yesterday to $13.42.  China will keep a “firm grip” on the real estate market
to prevent a rebound in housing prices, the Xinhua News Agency
said July 19. Cities that have loosened controls must “set
straight” government policies, the government-owned Xinhua
reported, citing a notice from the Ministry of Land and
Resources and the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural
Development.  New Oriental’s ADRs jumped 15 percent to $12.91, extending
a two-day gain to 36 percent. The rebound followed a 35 percent
slump on July 18 as  Muddy Waters  questioned the ownership of
some of New Oriental’s schools and the consolidation of their
financial statements with the parent company.  The Beijing-based educational services provider said it
formed a special committee comprised of three independent
directors to conduct a review of the allegations in a statement
yesterday, aiming “to provide the highest level of transparency
to its shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  