-- Spain Postpones Recovery as Valencia Seeks Bailout
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-07-20T15:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/spain-cuts-growth-forecasts-as-valencia-prepares-to-seek-bailout.html
Spain said its recession will extend
into next year as the region of Valencia prepared to seek a
rescue from the central government and European finance
ministers approved the bailout of Spanish banks.  Gross domestic product will fall 0.5 percent in 2013
instead of rising 0.2 percent as the government predicted April
27, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said after the Cabinet met
today in  Madrid . The government will spend 9.1 billion euros
($11 billion) more paying interest than in 2012, he said.  As the government set out the spending limit for next
year’s budget amid a surge in borrowing costs, Valencia said it
would tap an emergency-loan fund created last week. Regions face
about 15 billion euros of debt redemptions in the second half,
with Catalonia and Valencia the most indebted states.  “Like other regions, Valencia is suffering the
consequences of liquidity restrictions in markets as a result of
the economic crisis,” the regional administration said on its
website.  Spain created the 18 billion-euro bailout mechanism to help
cash-strapped regions even as its own access to financial
markets narrows. The yield on  Spain ’s 10-year benchmark bond
rose close to a euro era record today, at 7.284 percent,
widening the gap with similar German maturities to a record of
613 basis points.  Compliance  “I don’t want to send too soothing a message, everyone has
to comply,” Montoro said even as he denied Valencia has called
for an intervention. Montoro said the central government is
reviewing regions’ budget plans after announcing last week that
several aren’t on track to meet this year’s deficit target.  The slump came as euro-area finance chiefs signed off on a
package of at least 100 billion euros to prevent the collapse of
the country’s financial system.  “Spain will be expected to maintain its commitments to
correct its excessive deficit in a sustainable manner by 2014
and to adopt the structural reforms set out,” European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in a
statement.  The  economy  returned to recession last year and
unemployment is surging after the collapse of the real-estate
boom. The economic outlook is worsening as the government
implements 110 billion euros of measures over three years to cut
budgets, raise taxes, shrink public wages and charge more for
education and health care.  Austerity Protests  Tens of thousands of Spaniards protested across the country
late yesterday against the last austerity round, a 65 billion-
euro package announced this week, the fourth since December.
They called for a referendum on the measures they described as
an attack on public workers, pensioners and the unemployed.  Unemployment will be 24.6 percent in 2012 instead of 24.3
percent, the government’s forecasts showed today, and 24.3
percent in 2013 instead of 24.2 percent. It revised the forecast
for this year’s contraction to 1.5 percent from 1.7 percent.
Exports will continue to drive the economy, rising 6 percent
next year, as domestic demand continues to contract.  The spending limit for 2013 will be 126.8 billion euros,
9.2 percent higher than a year earlier, Montoro said. Stripping
out the interest costs and contributions to the welfare system,
the spending ceiling will fall 6.6 percent from 2012, he said.  The government also announced a plan to balance state-owned
train operator RENFE’s budget by the end of the term, that
involves separating rail services from infrastructure and
selling stakes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  