-- Sri Lanka to Receive $415 Million IMF Loan
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-07-20T19:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/sri-lanka-to-receive-415-million-imf-loan.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
board of directors agreed to disburse about $415 million to  Sri
Lanka , the final tranche of a $2.6 billion loan.  The Washington-based IMF also recommended new financial
support for the South Asian island as global demand slows, it
said in an e-mailed statement.  “It will be important to continue macroeconomic
stabilization and structural reforms efforts, in particular
maintaining exchange rate flexibility while building
international reserves, given the uncertain global outlook,”
IMF Deputy Managing Director Naoyuki Shinohara said. “A
successor arrangement with the Fund would provide valuable
support to the authorities in these endeavors.”  Sri Lanka has let its rupee weaken to a record, raised
 interest rates  and boosted energy prices to narrow its trade
deficit and protect foreign-exchange reserves. President Mahinda Rajapaksa is raising cash to build roads, ports and power plants
to help boost  growth  after the $59 billion economy expanded in
the first quarter at the slowest pace in two years.  “The government’s policy package to contain the trade
deficit is working, which together with continued strong
remittances and tourist related inflows is helping to turn
around the balance of payments position,”  Prakriti Sofat , a
regional economist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore , said before the
IMF announcement. “Although external vulnerability remains
high, we believe continued IMF involvement will support investor
confidence.”  Shinohara said that the current monetary policy is
appropriate and recommended that monetary conditions “remain
firm” in the near term. Authorities’ foreign exchange market
intervention should be “limited to smoothing excessive
volatility,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  