-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Brazil (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-20T15:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-brazil-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Brazil:  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation with Brazil  On July 9, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Brazil.  Background  The past decade has seen a remarkable social transformation in Brazil,
underpinned by macroeconomic stability and rising living standards.
A strong policy framework (fiscal responsibility, inflation targeting
and a flexible exchange rate), and improved income distribution and
social outcomes have been important accomplishments. Together with terms
of trade gains and economic and financial inclusion, this has supported
sizable gains in private consumption and some increase in investment.
Financial stability has been underpinned by a strong banking system and
framework for regulation and supervision.  More recently, Brazil’s economy has slowed and growth surprised on the
downside last year. A policy tightening cycle was appropriately launched
during 2010-11 to cool overheating pressures and bring inflation gradually
back to target. Macroprudential measures were also introduced to reduce
stability risks in specific sectors. Growth stalled in 2011 Q3 and slowed
to 2.7 percent in 2011, in part reflecting the impact of external shocks.  Monetary policy  has since been eased substantially though its effect on
the real economy has taken hold more gradually than in previous cycles,
while the primary surplus target for 2012 has been kept unchanged at 3.1
percent of GDP. The economy expanded only slowly in early 2012, reflecting
weak investment and business confidence and slowing trade volumes.  Industrial output remains sluggish. However, consumption has been
recovering since late 2011 on the back of improving confidence and
buoyant labor market conditions, including the large minimum wage increase.  Inflation is falling but medium term expectations have risen above the
target mid-point. After peaking at over 7 percent in September 2011,
annual headline inflation has dropped to 5 percent in May. This decline
reflects to some extent the unwinding of transitory supply factors and
the effect of the normal periodic updating of the index weights.
The lagged impact of moderating growth and the negative output gap has
also exerted some downward pressure.  Credit has grown very rapidly in  Brazil  over the last years with a
substantial increase in the credit-to-GDP ratio. A significant portion
of this likely reflects financial deepening. With the gains on income
and inclusion post-2003, new borrowers have obtained access to finance.
Legal reforms have substantially strengthened creditor rights.
Moreover, the overall level of financial development remains low by
international standards, a factor that lowers stability risks.
More recently, credit growth has moderated in line with the economy,
reducing the risks of overheating in some sectors, while the large
buffers in the system limit stability risks.  Capital flows have slowed in recent months. Portfolio flows remain very
modest, in part due to the traction the authorities have achieved with
various capital flow management measures, but also due to increased risk
aversion in global financial markets. However, foreign direct investment
inflows (FDI) are still buoyant and continue to largely fund the current
account. As capital flows have moderated, the exchange rate has depreciated
significantly against the  U.S. dollar , although it remains above the
average levels of 2004-08 in real effective terms.  Executive Board Assessment  Executive Directors commended the authorities’ commitment to a strong
policy framework, which has delivered a decade of macroeconomic
stability and rising living standards. Appropriately calibrating policy
to changing economic conditions and increasing saving and investment
will be important challenges for the period ahead.  Directors welcomed the recent reorientation of the policy mix toward
generating fiscal savings and providing monetary countercyclical
support. They encouraged the authorities to meet their deficit target
for the year to secure a declining path for the debt ratio and further
boost the credibility of their fiscal plans. Directors considered that
monetary policy has been appropriately eased, but noted that the
authorities should stand ready to unwind the monetary stimulus if their
inflation target appears at risk.  Directors agreed that  exchange rate  flexibility and liquidity provision
provide first lines of defense against adverse external shocks. They also
noted that capital flow management measures (CFMs) have been a useful
addition to the policy toolkit in a turbulent financial environment.
A few Directors cautioned, however, that CFMs, while helpful in the short
run, do not fully address important underlying drivers of capital inflows,
could affect domestic liquidity, and may adversely impact other capital
flow recipients.  Directors considered that further efforts are needed to rebalance demand
from consumption to investment and net exports. They took note of the
staff’s assessment that the real effective exchange rate remains on the
strong side despite a significant depreciation from peak levels a year
ago. Directors welcomed recent steps to strengthen saving and
competitiveness, including pension and tax reforms, but saw the need
for further reforms to raise productivity. Public investment financed
by fiscal saving and further  capital market  deepening will also be
important.  Directors welcomed the findings of the FSAP Update that the financial
sector is well regulated and supervised and that the banking system is
well-placed to cope with shocks. Nonetheless, they considered that rapid
consumer credit growth, rising real estate prices, and continued credit
expansion by public banks call for continued vigilance and careful
prudential oversight. Directors commended the authorities’ plans to
bring forward the implementation of elements of Basel III, continue
to make active use of macroprudential policy tools, and further boost
the soundness of the financial sector.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 