-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Paraguay (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-20T17:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-paraguay-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to  Paraguay :  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation  with Paraguay  On June 22, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Paraguay.  Background  GDP growth slowed down markedly in 2011 and turned negative in 2012Q1.
After a strong rebound in 2010, growth decelerated to 3.8 percent in 2011,
reflecting both monetary tightening to contain inflationary pressures and
country-specific supply shocks (cement shortages and an outbreak of
foot-and-mouth disease followed by a beef export ban). A severe drought
hit the country in late 2011-early 2012 causing large losses in the
agricultural sector, especially for key export products (e.g., soybeans).  Inflation has declined below the central bank target, but  core inflation 
has remained relatively high. After peaking in early 2011 (over 10
percent y/y), inflation began easing in the second half of 2011, reaching
5 percent (the central bank’s target) at year-end, and falling further to
3¼ percent in April 2012. This decline reflects mainly lower food inflation
due to reductions in meat prices following the export ban, although tighter
monetary conditions and a substantial appreciation of the guaraní also
played a role in 2011. Despite a negative output gap, core inflation
remained above the mid-point of the official target range, reflecting
still strong domestic demand growth and one-off factors. On the back of
monetary tightening, credit growth moderated to 19 percent in April 2012
(43 percent at end-2010). Growth of credit in U.S. dollars decelerated
faster, though from a higher base, reflecting problems in the primary
sector and reduced FX earnings. Against this background, domestic demand
growth moderated and financial sector risks diminished.  The BCP began cutting  interest rates  in late 2011. It reduced the policy
rate by 200 bps between November 2011 and February on the grounds of
softening of inflation and risks from an uncertain global economic outlook,
and by an additional 25 bps in May (to 6¼ percent), citing weakening
domestic demand growth. The real policy rate, at around 1¼ percent, remains
below its neutral level, which seems broadly consistent with the current
negative output gap.  The current account deficit improved and international reserves continued
to grow in 2011. The external current account deficit declined to
1¼ percent of GDP in 2011 (from 3½ percent of GDP in 2010) owing to
better terms of trade, a stronger services account, and higher worker
remittances. Strong capital inflows allowed the BCP to increase net
international reserves by 1½ percent of GDP in 2011 (to 24 percent of
GDP). Aiming at limiting excessive exchange rate volatility, the BCP
continued to intervene on both sides of the market during 2011 and 2012.  Fiscal policy was slightly expansionary in 2011. The overall fiscal
surplus declined by ½ percentage points to 1 percent of GDP, driven
by a large increase in primary spending (especially  capital expenditures ).
This implied a fiscal impulse (measured by the change in the structural
primary balance) of ¾ percent of non-agricultural GDP. Revenue growth
decelerated but remained strong, supported by continued improvements in
tax administration. Public debt continued on a declining trend, with
general government debt falling below 14 percent of GDP, one of the
lowest in the region.  The banking sector has remained sound. Profitability is high and capital
adequacy ratios remain strong. NPLs are low (2 percent in March), but have
risen over the last year. More stringent provisioning measures and higher
 capital requirements  became effective in January 2012, helping strengthen
financial institutions’ buffers, while a program to bolster the prudential
and regulatory framework of the cooperative sector is being implemented.
Congress recently approved legislation to shift public sector deposits
from commercial banks to a state-owned bank, which would pose a risk to
financial stability. The initiative is on hold as the BCP has filed a suit
with the  Supreme Court  challenging the legislation on constitutional grounds.  Real GDP is projected to decrease by 1½ percent in 2012. The strong
contraction in the agricultural sector will be partially offset by a
close-to-potential expansion in the non-agricultural sector. The latter,
in turn will grow on the back of a strong fiscal impulse (3¼ percent of
non-agricultural GDP), easy monetary conditions, and strong confidence.
Lower agricultural exports will drive a widening of the external current
account (to over 3 percent of GDP). Strong expenditure growth and a
contracting GDP will result in an overall fiscal deficit of 2½ percent
of GDP.  Executive Board Assessment  Directors noted that the Paraguayan economy is projected to contract this
year as a result of a severe drought. However, a rapid turnaround in
activity and strong growth next year are expected, on account of robust
domestic demand, strong confidence, and normalization of weather conditions.  Directors agreed that the current mix of macroeconomic policies is
appropriately supportive of economic activity and consistent with the
inflation target in 2012. Noting that the nonagricultural sector is
operating at close to capacity, Directors stressed the importance of
not relaxing macroeconomic policies further. In light of the strong
recovery expected for 2013, they also recommended that the authorities
stand ready to tighten monetary policy if warranted, allow the  exchange
rate  to adjust flexibly, and start withdrawing fiscal stimulus next year.  Directors commended the authorities for their fiscal prudence over the
years. They supported plans to mobilize  tax revenue  for infrastructure
and social spending. The priorities are to expedite the implementation
of the personal income tax and limit exemptions, and further strengthen
agricultural taxation and tax administration. Directors also saw scope
for broadening the financial sector’s tax base and increasing its low VAT
rate. Directors stressed the need to improve the allocation of scarce
budgetary resources. Noting that the large increase in public sector
wages will crowd out needed public investment, they called on the
authorities to contain current expenditure growth.  Directors welcomed steps toward adopting an inflation targeting regime.
They encouraged further efforts to enhance liquidity management and to
strengthen the monetary framework and operations, including through the
recapitalization of the central bank, and improved communication and
coordination between the central bank and the Ministry of Finance.  Directors commended the authorities for the progress in implementing the
2010 FSAP recommendations and upgrading the AML/CFT framework. They
emphasized the importance of addressing information gaps to improve
financial sector monitoring, and recommended making greater use of
macroprudential tools. Further steps would also be needed to improve
banking legislation, set up a highlevel committee of regulators, and
strengthen regulation and supervision for cooperatives. Directors
expressed concern about legislation to abruptly shift to a stateowned
bank sizeable public sector deposits kept at commercial banks. They noted
that the measure has been put on hold and called on the authorities to
consider appropriate alternatives to avoid adverse effects on the funding
and liquidity of commercial banks.  Directors called for efforts to raise Paraguay’s growth potential and
 living standards . They encouraged the authorities to formulate a longterm
strategy for improving infrastructure, human capital, and overall economic
efficiency. Directors welcomed ongoing efforts to enhance the monitoring
and performance of stateowned enterprises.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 