-- Steve Jobs Interviews Sought by Plaintiffs in E-Book Suit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-07-20T22:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/steve-jobs-interviews-sought-by-plaintiffs-in-e-book-suit.html
Plaintiffs suing  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over
e-book price-fixing claims are seeking recordings and notes of
interviews of  Steve Jobs , the company’s late co-founder, from
his biographer.  Walter Isaacson, author of “Steve Jobs,” published last
year, has been subpoenaed to turn over recordings of interviews
with Jobs, who died Oct. 5, Isaacson’s lawyers told U.S.
District Judge Denise Cote in a letter dated July 18 and filed
today. The lawyers seeking the interviews claim they need the
material to help prove their case.  “Mr. Isaacson conducted numerous interviews during the
time Mr. Jobs was involved in negotiating Apple’s entry into the
e-book market,” Steve Berman, a lawyer for a class of consumers
suing the computer-maker, wrote in a letter to Cote dated July
16 and made public today. “Mr. Jobs discussed Apple’s e-book
strategy and negotiations with Mr. Isaacson.”  The class action is one of a group of suits targeting
alleged antitrust violations in the e-book market, which are
consolidated before Cote in Manhattan federal court. The U.S.
joined 15 states and Puerto Rico in claiming Apple,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
Simon & Schuster,  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group,
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins, Macmillan and Penguin colluded to
fix prices of e-books.  “The plaintiff may renew its application when it can show
that it meets the test for disclosure of non-confidential
material,” Cote said in a one-sentence, handwritten order
today.  A voice-mail message seeking comment from a spokesperson at
Cupertino, California-based Apple wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is U.S. v. Apple, 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 