-- Stiglitz-Hubbard Clash on Inequality Echoes Obama-Romney
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/stiglitz-hubbard-clash-on-inequality-echoes-obama-romney.html
Columbia University professors
 Joseph Stiglitz  and  Glenn Hubbard  agree that income inequality
is a concern. They disagree over what’s behind it and how best
to tackle it, in a dispute that has spilled beyond the halls of
academia and onto the presidential campaign trail.  Nobel Laureate Stiglitz, 69, says the rich have rigged the
system so they earn more than they contribute to the economy. He
wants to increase taxes on the wealthy and argues that
Republican  Mitt Romney ’s plan to cut  government spending  would
“significantly” raise the odds of a recession next year.  Hubbard, 53, a Romney adviser, dismisses such criticism as
unfounded and says a smaller government would be good for the
economy. He opposes boosting upper-income tax rates, saying this
would punish entrepreneurs, and instead backs improved training
and education for people who are less well off.  The debate echoes the battle being waged between President
 Barack Obama  and former Massachusetts Governor Romney as they
try to curry favor with voters ahead of the Nov. 6 election.
Obama urged Congress on July 9 to pass a one-year extension of
Bush-era tax cuts for families making less than $250,000 a year,
while letting rates rise for higher earners.  “It’s time to let the tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans, folks like myself, to expire,” he said at the White
House.  Romney rejected that approach the following day.  “The very idea of raising taxes on small business and job
creators at the very time we need more jobs is the sort of thing
only an extreme liberal can come up with,” he said at a town
hall-style event at Central High School in  Grand Junction ,
 Colorado .  Poll Results  Obama and Romney are tied at 46 percent each in the Gallup
Organization’s tracking poll of registered voters for July 12 to
18. The margin of error is three percentage points.  “Rarely have the choices been this stark, and the polls so
close,” Hubbard, chairman of the  Council of Economic Advisers 
under former President  George W. Bush  and now dean of  Columbia
Business School  in  New York , said in an interview.  Stiglitz agrees. There are “some very big differences”
between the two candidates on economic policy, he told Bloomberg
News editors and reporters last month.  Income inequality declined during the 18-month recession, a
July 10 report by the  Congressional Budget Office  showed.
Wealthy Americans were hurt by the  bear market  as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of stocks fell  almost 40 percent , while the
poor benefited from increased government transfers, including
Medicaid health payments.  Top-Income Households  In 2009, the top 1 percent of households captured 13.4
percent of total pretax income, down from 18.7 percent in 2007
before the start of the recession in December. That share still
was higher than 8.9 percent in 1979, according to  the CBO .  While the Budget Office suggested in its report that the
gap has widened since the recovery started in July 2009, it
doesn’t have detailed data for 2010 and 2011 to support this
conclusion.  The report is a follow-up to an October 2011  study  by the
CBO that showed the gap between high- and lower-income
households widening from 1979 to 2007.  “I’m quite concerned about what people popularly call
 income inequality ,” specifically “the inability of wages for
low to moderately skilled workers to keep rising with overall
growth,” Hubbard said.  Stiglitz shares that concern and has said he finds the
level of inequality in the U.S. “shocking.”  Part Ways  Where the two Columbia professors part ways is how much of
the disparity is the fault of the rich, what role income
differences play in encouraging hard work and enterprise, and
how to position fiscal policy to best encourage growth.  In his newly-published book, “The Price of Inequality: How
Today’s Divided Society Endangers Our Future,” Stiglitz pins a
lot of the blame on wealthy Americans seeking to enrich
themselves without contributing to the health of the economy.
Among the culprits he singles out: Wall Street executives.  “The crisis of 2008 suggested persuasively that the
bankers who walked off with a lot of huge bonuses had a negative
effect on their companies and on our economy,” said Stiglitz,
who headed the Council of Economic Advisers under former
president  Bill Clinton . That’s been “one of the things that has
been the source of such discontent in our country.”  Disproportionate Share  Chief executive officers in general have managed to garner
a disproportionate share of company profits because of
deficiencies in corporate governance, according to Stiglitz.
Meanwhile, workers have seen their bargaining positions erode as
the influence of unions waned and immigration increased.  Stiglitz proposes a number of steps to curb what he calls
“the excesses at the top.” These include improving corporate
governance, ending “government giveaways” to companies and
changing the bankruptcy laws to give home owners, college
students and other debtors more rights.  He backs higher taxes on the wealthy, saying Obama’s
proposal to allow their rates to return to pre-2001 levels,
before Bush became president, is just a first step. Under the
president’s plan, the top rate for households making $250,000 or
more a year will rise to 39.6 percent from 35 percent.  Stiglitz also has proposed measures to help people who are
less well-off, including increased spending on  food stamps  for
the poor, stepped-up public investment and improved access to
education.  ‘Crony Capitalism’  Hubbard doesn’t dispute that what he calls “crony
capitalism” has played a role in widening income inequality,
particularly in highly regulated industries such as financial
services. He just doesn’t think it is as important as Stiglitz
does. “Most people who are well-to-do are well-to-do because of
entrepreneurship, hard work and all of those positive things.”  He says he worries higher taxes on the wealthy will hurt
the economy by discouraging risk-taking and innovation and
doesn’t see how raising rates will lead to more opportunity and
higher pay for people in lower-income brackets.  “I hope that in the election campaign, there will be a lot
of attention placed on training programs, education programs and
things that will help improve skills and not on an agenda of
envy-based tax proposals,” Hubbard said.  Romney has talked about consolidating what he says are 47
federal-employment and job-training programs and providing block
grants to states to manage plans of their own. He also backs the
establishment of personal re-employment accounts designed to
help provide on-the-job training for people who are out of work.  Scaling Back  On the  tax front , the Republican presidential candidate
would permanently extend all the Bush-era tax cuts, then reduce
rates an additional 20 percent. He also would end or scale back
some tax breaks in Obama’s 2009 stimulus program, including one
for college students.  Stiglitz charges that Romney’s plan would make the  tax code 
less progressive. A separate analysis by the nonpartisan  Tax
Policy Center  in  Washington  found that some lower-income
individuals might face tax increases under the Romney plan.
Romney himself has promised that high-income households will pay
the same share of taxes they do now.  Romney also pledges to cut federal spending to less than 20
percent of gross domestic product by the end of his first term
if he is elected president. Such spending totaled  24.1 percent 
of GDP in 2011. In that vein, the former private-equity company
executive backs the thrust of the Congressional Republicans’
budget plan, which would reduce the deficit to $797 billion in
the year starting Oct. 1 from an estimated $1.2 trillion this
fiscal year.  Jobs Deficit  “The Romney plan is going to slow down the economy, worsen
the jobs deficit and significantly increase the likelihood of a
recession,” Stiglitz said.  Hubbard takes issue with that judgment, saying work he’s
done with Harvard University professor and Romney adviser
 Gregory Mankiw  suggests that gradual reductions in government
spending will help, not hurt, economic growth. Such a plan would
assuage fears that taxes will need to be raised in the future
and offer more clarity about the path for budget policy,
encouraging companies to spend and invest more now, he said.  “A fiscal consolidation does not have to be
contractionary,” in spite of what Stiglitz said, Hubbard added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  