-- Sulzer’s Cardo Purchase Weighs on Profit From Booming Pump Sales
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-07-20T07:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/sulzer-s-cardo-purchase-weighs-on-profit-from-booming-pump-sales.html
Sulzer AG (SUN) , a Swiss pump maker, said
charges related to its acquisition of Cardo Flow Solutions and
the introduction of new products weighed on profitability in the
first half even as sales rose 9.2 percent.  Sulzer reported first-half earnings before interest and
taxes of 193.4 million Swiss francs ($197.4 million), missing
the 203.1 million-franc average of seven analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of 1.92 billion Swiss francs beat
the estimate of 1.89 billion francs, driven by growth in oil and
gas industry orders in  North America  and  Russia .  Acquisition charges and weaker margins at wastewater pump-
maker Cardo, which Sulzer acquired last year, crimped profit at
the pumps division, which supplies half of the company’s
revenue, CEO Klaus Stahlmann said. Ebit in the division fell
1.6 percent from a year earlier, while a sales gain of 32
percent was adjusted down to 8.9 percent for acquisition and
currency effects, Sulzer said today in a statement.  “Cardo has a little bit less service business that what we
originally had in the total pump division,” Stahlmann said in
an interview. “Strategy-wise we want to concentrate and focus
on developing the service business.”  Sulzer declined 0.7 percent to 120 francs as of 9:07 a.m.
in Swiss trading, paring the stock’s gain this year to
20 percent.  Sales at Cardo, acquired from Assa Abloy AB for 852 million
francs, are “heavily loaded toward the second half of the
year,” as most of its utility customers buy then, the CEO said.  “I don’t have a worry if I look at the business itself
over the whole year that it will be a profitable business,” he
said. The integration of the purchase with Sulzer’s operations
is done, he said.  Sulzer reiterated its forecast for order intake and sales
to increase by a high single-digit percentage for the full year,
with double-digit profit growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  