-- Sumptuous Armada Glitters in ‘Henry’ at Stratford: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-07-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/sumptuous-armada-glitters-in-henry-at-stratford-review.html
For sheer, grin-inducing pleasure,
it’s hard to top the tongue-twisting vocal marathon that is “I
Am the Very Model of a Modern Major-General.”  “I know our mythic history, King Arthur’s and Sir
Caradoc’s/I answer hard acrostics, I’ve a pretty taste for
paradox,” Major-General Stanley sings in that show-stopper from
“The Pirates of Penzance.”  The  Stratford Shakespeare Festival ’s fabulous-looking
production of the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta interpolates a
note of poignancy into the number with some homegrown history.  Swinging around a chalkboard at the end of the number, C.
 David Johnson ’s Stanley reveals a pictogram of Stratford’s
family tree, beginning with the founder, Sir Tyrone Guthrie and
coming up to the present artistic leadership of  Des McAnuff .  Having made Stratford and its four theaters his home for
the last five years, McAnuff turns the reins over to his
talented lieutenant, Antoni Cimolino.  McAnuff’s powerful staging of “Henry V” is on Stratford’s
mainstage, the Festival Theatre.  Robert Brill’s brooding set consists almost entirely of
dark wood beams with an immense drawbridge at center. McAnuff
uses it to astonishing effect, conjuring the British fleet by
having the company parade through the bridge into the audience
with an armada of sails, making the pageant at once sumptuous
and intimate.  A Hanging  He closes the first half of this play about war, power,
character and a manipulative young king with the jarring image
of Bardolph (Randy Hughson) swinging from the gallows.  Having already discarded Sir John Falstaff, Henry further
declares the end of his youth by sentencing to death his former
chum.  There’s a regal sense to all of this (Paul Tazewell’s
costumes are magnificent, as is Michael Walton’s spectral
lighting), along with a thoughtful mournfulness.  McAnuff uses body bags and the Canadian flag to draw
parallels between the play’s period and today, though he does so
without pushing too hard.  Aaron Krohn could be more charismatic as a young Henry who
rouses his weary troops to victory at Agincourt. As his new
French Queen-to-be, Bethany Jillard is delicately funny.  ‘Cymbeline’  Cimolino shows his own deft hand with a captivating and
lucid staging of “Cymbeline,” a romance about love and
forgiveness jammed with enough intrigue, coincidence and plot
convolutions to make your head spin.  The title role, one of several Shakespeare monarchs
ultimately thwarted by a loving but willful daughter, is played
by Geraint Wyn Davies, a treasure of this company.  Equally fine is the daughter, Innogen, of Cara Ricketts,
whose determination and fidelity are beautifully balanced.  Cimolino has a light touch in letting the plot -- in which
Innogen pines for her exiled husband while her mean stepmother
plots a different course for her -- unfold with grace and humor.
There are character roles galore for such Stratford veterans as
John Vickery and Peter Hutt.  In fact, the Stratford bench is awesome. “Pirates of
Penzance” is exuberantly staged by Ethan McSweeny, a newcomer
to Gilbert and Sullivan, though you’d never know it. And Amy
Wallis is spectacular as Mabel, the major-general’s daughter who
falls in love with Sean Arbuckle’s goofy Pirate King and tosses
off high notes with alacrity.  Anna Louizos  But the real star of the production is Anna Louizos’s set,
a wonder of wooden planks, winches, gears and ropes that evoke
the Victorian era and remind us of the power of stage magic even
when we see how it all works.  Less convincing is Gary Griffin’s “42nd Street”
production, though not for want of trying. It looks great and
features fine tap dancing and that great Harry Warren/Al Dubin
score (“We’re in the Money”). But the conceit -- as if it’s
being done in a nightclub -- only highlights how under-populated
it all seems. A new musical, “Wanderlust,” based on the
Rudyard Kipling-like poetry of Robert Service, is a total
misfire.  The season is suffused with the theater’s history.
“Hirsch” -- a solo show co-written (with director Paul
Thompson) and beautifully performed by Alon Nashman -- pays
moving tribute to John Hirsch, one of Stratford’s more
complicated artistic directors.  The weekend I visited, the town gathered to pay tribute to
John Neville, the great actor-manager who succeeded Hirsch and
brought considerable luster to Guthrie’s theater.  And in a few weeks McAnuff closes out his reign with “A
Word or Two,” featuring  Christopher Plummer , that very model of
a modern major star.  The Stratford Shakespeare Festival season runs through
October. Information: +1-800-567-1600;
 http://www.stratfordfestival.ca .  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on movies and  Lewis
Lapham  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 