-- SunTrust Falls as Lender Decides Not to Seek Dividend Increase
-- B y   L a u r a   J .   K e l l e r
-- 2012-07-20T21:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/suntrust-falls-as-lender-decides-not-to-seek-dividend-increase.html
SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , the eighth-
largest U.S. lender by deposits, fell in New York trading after
saying it doesn’t plan to boost dividends this year.  SunTrust didn’t include a request for increasing its
dividend when it resubmitted its capital plan to the  Federal
Reserve  last month, Chief Executive Officer William Rogers said
today. The Atlanta-based bank will “evaluate capital deployment
alternatives for next year” when it submits its 2013 plan in
the fourth quarter, he said.  “This is the best course of action for the short-term, but
it’s not indicative of our long-term plans to return capital
prudently to shareholders,” Rogers said on a conference call
following the release of second-quarter earnings.  Analysts including  Mike Turner  of Compass Point Research &
Trading LLC said they had expected SunTrust to be more
aggressive in returning capital to shareholders after the lender
failed the Fed’s stress test in March. Lana Chan, a BMO Capital
Markets analyst who has a market perform rating on SunTrust,
wrote in a note today, “We believe this will be a negative for
the stock.”  SunTrust fell 3 percent to $23.52 in New York trading,
compared with a 1.9 percent drop in the 24-company KBW Bank
Index. The firm’s shares have gained 33 percent this year.  Second-quarter profit rose 35 percent to $275 million, or
50 cents a share, from $178 million, or 33 cents, a year
earlier, the firm said today in a statement. That beat by 6
cents the average estimate of 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mortgage Putbacks  Credit quality improved in the quarter as SunTrust reduced
its allowance for loan losses to $2.3 billion from $2.74 billion
a year earlier, Chief Financial Officer Aleem Gillani said on
the call. Non-performing assets, net charge-offs and loan
delinquencies each declined for at least the fourth-straight
quarter, according to a slide presentation on the firm’s
website.  The bank set aside $434 million in the second quarter to
buy back soured mortgages, up 13 percent from the previous
three-month period, according to the statement. The reserves are
to cover so-call putback requests from government-sponsored
entities.  New demands from GSEs for mortgage repurchases rose 9.2
percent to $489 million from $448 million in the first quarter,
the firm said. Gillani said he expects GSE buyback demands to
decline in the second half.  “We feel like last year was our peak,” Gillani said. “It
looks to us demands will decline over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura J. Keller in  New York  at 
 lkeller12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  