-- Swedish Krona Rises to 11-Year High Versus Euro on Safety Bid
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-07-20T14:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/swedish-krona-rises-to-11-year-high-versus-euro-on-safety-bid.html
The Swedish krona rose to the
strongest since October 2000 against the euro as signs the
 European debt crisis  is worsening increased demand for assets
outside the single-currency region.  The krona rose for a fourth day versus the 17-nation euro
amid speculation the Riksbank will refrain from halting gains in
the currency of the largest Nordic economy. Central bank
Governor Stefan Ingves said the krona may strengthen “given the
economic developments in Sweden,” according to minutes of the
July policy meeting released this week.  “The minutes were perhaps a little less dovish than some
had expected but to my mind it isn’t a Sweden story,” said
Christian Lawrence, a currency strategist at Rabobank
International in  London . The krona is benefiting from
“diversification and recycling out of the euro. Although  Sweden 
is a small open economy that exports a lot to the euro zone and
is by no means immune to the crisis, it is in good fiscal
shape.”  Sweden’s currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 8.4488 per
euro at 3:18 p.m. London time after rising to 8.4412, the
strongest since Oct. 24, 2000. The currency rose 1.9 percent
this week, the most since the period ended Dec. 2. The krona
fell 0.4 percent to 6.9494 per dollar.  Spain  said today the recession will extend into next year
as the region of Valencia prepared to seek a rescue from the
central government and European finance ministers approved the
bailout of Spanish banks.  Growth Forecast  Sweden’s Riksbank kept its key  interest rate  at 1.5 percent
on July 4, after lowering the benchmark twice since December.
The central bank raised its economic growth for Sweden this year
to 0.6 percent from 0.4 percent, at the same meeting.  The krona has appreciated 1.1 percent in the past week, the
second best performer after the Australian dollar of the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The euro slumped 1.1 percent, and the dollar
fell 0.3 percent.  All of the 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News predict
the krona will weaken against the euro by year-end. The
estimates range from 8.50 per euro to 9.30, with a median
forecast at 8.80.  “It’s been the standout flow,” said  Chris Walker , a
currency strategist at UBS AG in London. “We’re a bit cautious
because positioning is very high. Even though the market has
moved a long way, it’s probably consolidating around these
levels now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  