-- Syria Rebels Fight for Border Posts as Aleppo Shelled
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-21T19:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/syria-rebels-fight-for-border-posts-un-recalls-observers.html
Syrian rebels fought for control of
the country’s border crossings as clashes spread to the city of
Aleppo, the latest sign of an escalating conflict that is
driving thousands to escape to neighboring countries.  Aleppo intelligence chief Major General Mohamed Muflih
defected to Turkey, Al Jazeera television reported, citing
unidentified people. Syrian security forces killed 131 people
today including 28 in Damascus, the Local Coordination
Committee, an opposition group, said in an e-mailed statement.  Syrian rebels seized the al-Yarubiya crossing to  Iraq ,
Sumaria News reported, citing an unidentified Iraqi official.
Iraq closed the Rabeia crossing to  Syria  after rebels captured
the Syrian section,  Al Arabiya  television said.  Farhan Iftekhan, the mayor of al-Qaim city in western Iraq
where Syrian rebels seized the Bukmal crossing, said in a
telephone interview, “The Bukmal crossing is still under the
Syrian rebels’ control for the third day. Clashes and fights
between rebels and state forces break out usually every night
but state forces have failed to retake it so far.”  “Iraqi troops have boosted their presence there and we
have closed the crossing with concrete walls” to stop anyone
from entering Iraq, Iftekhan said.  Surge of Refugees  Lebanon and Iraq struggled to cope with the surge of
refugees fleeing the violence. After a failed attempt at the
United Nations to sanction President Bashar al-Assad’s
government, the  Security Council  voted yesterday to remove in 30
days unarmed monitors who have been confined for weeks to their
Damascus hotel rooms because of the danger.  Dr. Nabil Zughaib, head of the Syrian missile program, was
killed with two members of his family in Damascus today by
Syrian rebels, Iranian state-run al-Alam television reported.  Zughaib was killed with his wife and son while driving in
the Christian neighborhood of Bab Toma, and his other son was
hospitalized in critical condition, al-Alam said.  Syrian rebels seized the town of Rwehina, about 1,400
meters from Israeli troops in the  Golan Heights , Al Arabiya
reported, citing activists. The Free Syrian Army rebels seized
government forces’ weapons in Rwehina, the television station
said. The Israelis captured the Golan Heights from Syria in the
1967 Mideast war.  Israel  this week limited all military leaves
to guard against growing instability in Syria.  Border Crossings  As chaos engulfed the nation, Assad’s opposition battled to
take three border crossings with neighboring  Turkey  and one with
Iraq. The government is resorting to more brutal tactics, with
state television reporting “purging” in rebel hideouts.  More than 30,000 Syrians fled to Lebanon via the Masnaa
border within 48 hours, with cars backed up for a kilometer (0.6
mile) and Lebanese security officials waiving the usual
paperwork requirements, the Beirut-based Daily Star reported.  About 125,000 Syrians have left the country since the 18-
month conflict began, and as many as 500,000 people still in
Syria have been displaced from their homes, the U.S. State
Department said July 19.  Even with UN-led peace efforts in tatters, Western nations
said Assad’s days were numbered. Those numbers are getting
“smaller and smaller,”  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the
UN, said yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  praised the determination of people
in the  Middle East  and North Africa to achieve democracy and
their universal rights in a statement celebrating the start of
Ramadan yesterday. “The  United States  continues to stand with
those who seek the chance to decide their own destiny, to live
free from fear and violence, and to practice their faith
freely,” Obama said in the statement.  State Funerals  The Assad government held state funerals yesterday in
Damascus for top security officials killed in a bomb attack this
week as it seeks to reassert itself in a city that until
recently had been spared the worst of the violence.  Among the four victims of the July 18 blast, Assad’s
brother-in-law, Assef Shawkat, Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah
and the vice president’s military adviser, Hasan Turkmani, were
the most senior officials to die since the uprising began.  Syrian troops are moving chemical weapons across the
country in preparation for their use, Reuters reported today,
citing General Mustafa Sheikh, who defected to Turkey. The
weapons are being moved from storage, possibly in retaliation
for the July 18 attack, the general told Reuters in an
interview, citing rebel intelligence obtained in recent days.  Seeking Refuge  Two generals and two colonels in the Syrian military were
among 160 Syrians who crossed the border into Turkey seeking
refuge, the state-run Anatolia news agency reported today.  The Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights , an opposition
group, said in an e-mail today that 190 civilians were killed in
the country yesterday, including 63 in Damascus and 19 in Deraa.
At least 43 Syrian soldiers were killed, it said. Troops shelled
Aleppo, where “dozens of missiles fell in the city, and many
houses were destroyed and flattened,” the  Local-Coordination
Committees , another opposition group, said. Five explosions were
heard in Aleppo early today, the LCC said.  The civil war is splitting the country along increasingly
sectarian lines, with a Sunni Muslim-led opposition confronting
a government whose top officials are drawn from the Alawite
sect, affiliated to Shiite Islam.  Russia , which on July 19 used its veto for a third time to
protect Syria from UN sanctions, said its envoy in Paris had
been misunderstood when he told French radio that Assad would be
willing to go if it was arranged in a “civilized manner.”  “Only the Syrian people can decide the fate of Syria,
including that of its leadership,” the Russian Foreign Ministry
said in a statement.  Hopes for a peaceful outcome to the crisis have evaporated,
said Aram Nerguizian, a visiting fellow at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington .  “What was possible nine months ago, became difficult six
months ago and intractable three months ago,” he said. “Now
we’re heading straight toward chaos.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  