-- U.K.’s Widening Deficit Casts Doubt on Fiscal Goals
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-07-20T11:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/u-k-budget-deficit-widens-casting-doubt-on-fiscal-targets.html
Britain had a bigger  budget deficit 
than economists forecast in June, casting fresh doubt on whether
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  can meet his full-
year fiscal goals.  The shortfall, which excludes government support for banks,
was 14.4 billion pounds ($23 billion) compared with 13.9 billion
pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said
in  London  today. The median forecast of 20 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a deficit of 13.4 billion pounds.  With the U.K. struggling to climb out of a recession,
speculation is growing that Osborne will miss his target of
cutting the deficit to 120 billion pounds in the fiscal year
that began April 1. The  International Monetary Fund  said
yesterday the government should be ready to introduce temporary
tax cuts and increase spending if growth fails to materialize.  “It is clear that the recession is leading to a worsening
of the U.K.’s underlying fiscal position,” said  James Knightley , an economist at ING Bank in London. It “raises more
question marks over the effectiveness of the government’s
austerity measures.”  The pound stayed lower against the dollar after the report
and was trading at $1.5700 as of noon in London, down 0.2
percent on the day. The 10-year  gilt yield  was down 2 basis
points at 1.507 percent.  The Treasury played down the figures, saying it was too
early in the fiscal year to draw conclusions. “This is volatile
data and is prone to revision,” it said in a statement in
London.  Royal Mail Boost  In the first three months, the deficit was 42.9 billion
pounds, up from 38.4 billion pounds in the year-earlier period.
The figures exclude a one-time boost in April from the 28
billion-pound transfer of Royal Mail Group Ltd. pension assets
to the public sector.  The increase in borrowing in June was driven by a
deterioration in the financial position of publicly controlled
corporations and locals authorities, the statistics show.  Central government receipts rose 3.6 percent and spending
declined 0.8 percent. Still, revenue in the fiscal year to date
was just 2.5 percent higher than a year earlier, below the
 Office for Budget Responsibility ’s forecast of about 4 percent
for the year as a whole.  Prime Minister  David Cameron , who has staked his reputation
on eliminating the structural deficit by 2017, acknowledged in a
newspaper interview yesterday that austerity may continue until
2020 as the euro-region crisis depresses the economy.  ‘Damaging Blow’  The opposition  Labour Party  says the speed at which the
government is trying to reduce borrowing is making things worse.
U.K.  gross domestic product  probably fell for a third straight
quarter between April and June, according to the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research.  Today’s report is “another damaging blow to David Cameron
and George Osborne’s failed economic plan,” Rachel Reeves, a
Labour Treasury spokeswoman,” said in a statement. “By choking
off the recovery and pushing the economy into recession the
chancellor has ended up borrowing more, as we repeatedly
warned.”  A cash measure showed the public finances in deficit by 3
billion pounds in June. A deficit of 8.5 billion pounds was
forecast. Net debt climbed to 1.04 trillion pounds, or 66.1
percent of GDP, the highest since records began in March 1993.  Net borrowing in the fiscal year that ended in March was
1.9 billion pounds lower than previously estimated at 125.7
billion pounds, or 8.2 percent of GDP. The revision was largely
due to new estimates of  capital spending  by local authorities,
the statistics office said.  Dwindling Profits  Elsewhere, profit declines for hundreds of Chinese
companies in the first half may increase pressure on the
government to reduce corporate taxes as part of efforts to stem
the economy’s slowdown.  Net income declined from a year earlier for more than half
of 760 listed companies to report results, worse than in the
first six months of 2009, Societe Generale SA said yesterday.
Credit Agricole CIB sees tax cuts as a likely policy tool.
them, not against them,” he said.  Import prices in  Australia  rose 2.4 percent in the second
quarter from the prior period, while export prices gained 1
percent, both faster than forecast.  Taiwan ’s export orders fell
for a fourth straight month in June.  In  Europe , German producer prices fell 0.4 percent in June
from May, double the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. It was the second consecutive drop following four
increases.  Mexico ’s central bank is forecast to leave its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 4.5 percent, where it’s been since
2009. Canada will report a 1.7 percent increase in the  consumer
price index  from a year earlier, according to analysts.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  