-- U.K. Proposes New Renewable Tariffs for Small Wind, Hydro Plans
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-20T13:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/u-k-proposes-new-renewable-tariffs-for-small-wind-hydro-plans.html
The U.K. energy department proposed
new incentive rates that cut support for small-scale wind
projects while making little change to small hydroelectric
projects.  The changes in so-called feed-in tariffs coming into effect
on Dec. 1 also cover micro combined heat and power plants and
small-scale anaerobic digesters, the Department for Energy and
Climate Change said today in an e-mailed  statement . Rates on all
technologies were largely in step with levels proposed by the
government in a consultation that started in February.  “I want to provide long term certainty for those choosing
to invest in all forms of small-scale green electricity
generation, not just solar, and our changes to feed-in tariffs
will do just that,” Energy and Climate Change Minister  Greg Barker  said.  The announcement brings more predictability to U.K.
subsidies for small-scale renewable power after a series of cuts
to curtail a surge in solar power that ministers said threatened
to swamp the program’s budget. Three days ago, the department
delayed a decision on assistance for larger-scale wind, wave,
tidal and solar projects after a clash with the Treasury over
the scale of cuts to onshore wind subsidies.  Guaranteed Rates  The tariffs for all technologies in today’s plan will also
be guaranteed to give greater confidence to investors in
projects which take longer to develop, Barker said.  The tariffs announced today follow new solar rates that
were announced in May and take effect on Aug. 1.  In today’s announcement, the department introduced a new
 banding  for hydropower projects from 100 to 500 kilowatts to
ensure rates don’t drop off suddenly from the smallest-scale
projects to larger ones.  Aside from the new hydro banding, the new rates are little-
changed from those proposed in the consultation, which largely
preserved existing subsidies for hydro and anaerobic digestion,
raised rates for micro combined heat and power, and slashed
levels for small  wind turbines  by as much as 41 percent. That
cut was criticized by the RenewableUK lobby group.  ‘Disappointed’  “We are deeply disappointed that the government has chosen
to put the brakes on a sector which had the potential to employ
up to 9,000 people by 2020,” Indre Vaizgelaite, the lobby
group’s manager for small wind project development said in an e-
mailed statement. “There is now a real risk that these jobs
will go overseas.”  The new rates will now take effect from December, rather
than the previous proposal for an October start date. The
department also said it won’t apply requirements for the
buildings to which solar panels are attached to be energy-
efficient to schools and other community buildings.  The department said it will introduce a so-called
degression mechanism for wind, hydro and anaerobic digestion in
April 2014 that will automatically trigger rate cuts when
deployment of the technologies reaches certain thresholds. New
tariffs will be published two months before the reductions are
made, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  