-- U.K. Second-Quarter GDP Seen Declining 0.2% as Recession Deepens
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/u-k-second-quarter-gdp-seen-declining-0-2-as-recession-deepens.html
The U.K. economy probably contracted
for a third consecutive quarter in the three months through June
as a double-dip recession deepened, economists said.  Gross domestic product fell 0.2 percent, according to the
median estimate of 36 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey . It
shrank 0.3 percent in the first quarter and 0.4 percent in the
last three months of 2011. The  Office for National Statistics 
will publish the data on July 25.  The  Bank of England  expanded its emergency  bond-purchase
program  this month and introduced measures to boost lending. The
 International Monetary Fund  said this week that the recovery has
“stalled” and the government may need to consider easing its
budget squeeze if central bank efforts fail to help the economy
gather momentum.  “Tight fiscal policy and still significant problems for
consumers” will “limit U.K. economic activity,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “Ongoing
euro-zone sovereign debt problems and weakened economic activity
are expected to continue to weigh down on U.K. recovery
prospects.”  From a year earlier, the economy probably shrank 0.3
percent in the second quarter, according to a separate Bloomberg
survey. Activity in the quarter was probably affected by the
extra public holiday for the queen’s Jubilee in June.  Bank of England policy makers expanded stimulus by 50
billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds on July 5. In
the minutes of the meeting, they said they may review the merits
of cutting their  benchmark interest rate , currently at a record-
low 0.5 percent.  BNP Paribas SA forecast yesterday that the central bank
will lower the key rate by 25 basis points in November and
increase its bond program by another 50 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  