-- U.K. Stocks Fall From 11-Week High as Banks Drop on Spain
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-07-20T16:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/u-k-stocks-fall-trimming-seventh-straight-weekly-gain.html
U.K. stocks  declined, pulling the
FTSE 100 Index down from an 11-week high and erasing its weekly
advance, amid concern  Spain ’s debt crisis is worsening.  Barclays (BARC)  Plc,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  tumbled at least 3 percent as Spain cut its growth
forecast and as the region of Valencia sought a bailout.
 Resolution Ltd. (RSL)  lost 5.4 percent as the insurance buyout firm
canceled plans to return capital to shareholders. Vodafone Group
Plc slid 1.7 percent after  Europe ’s biggest mobile-phone company
posted service revenue that trailed analyst estimates.  The FTSE 100 lost 62.42, or 1.1 percent, to 5,651.77 at the
close of trading in London, sending the gauge down 0.3 percent
this week. The broader FTSE All-Share Index and Ireland’s ISEQ
Index each fell 1 percent today.  “Financial markets have had a turbulent day as the euro-
zone debt drama returned to the fore, knocking appetite for
risk,” said Ishaq Siddiqi, a market strategist at ETX Capital.
“Peripheral bond yields are back on the rise, with Spain’s 10-
year passing the 7 percent mark, a level regarded as
unsustainable by markets.”  All but 17 companies fell on the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  today, led by
financial and basic-materials companies. Spanish bonds plunged,
pushing the extra yield investors demand to hold the nation’s
10-year securities instead of similar-maturity German bunds to a
euro-era record.  Spanish Recession  Spain forecast its recession will extend into next year as
the region of Valencia said it would tap an emergency-loan fund
created last week. Regions in Spain face about 15 billion euros
of debt redemptions in the second half, with Catalonia and
Valencia the most indebted states.  Barclays slid 3 percent to 159.25 pence, RBS dropped 3.6
percent to 204.7 pence and HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, declined
3 percent to 533.2 pence.  Resolution tumbled 5.4 percent to 215.5 pence after the
insurance buyout firm canceled plans to return 250 million
pounds ($392 million) to shareholders, citing economic and
regulatory uncertainty. The shares had climbed 12 percent over
the previous eight days.  Vodafone lost 1.7 percent to 180 pence after reporting a
0.6 percent increase in service revenue, excluding currency
swings and acquisitions for the first quarter. That trailed
analysts’ average estimates for 0.8 percent growth, according to
a Bloomberg survey. Total sales fell 7.7 percent as consumers
and companies in Spain and  Italy  cut spending.  LSE Drops  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  fell 1.6 percent to 1,007
pence. The shares reversed a gain of as much as 2.6 percent
after  Singapore Exchange (SGX)  Ltd. said it has not engaged in any
merger talks with the U.K. bourse.  The Telegraph reported yesterday that Magnus Bocker, the
chief executive officer of  Singapore Exchange , had a series of
informal conversations with LSE CEO Xavier Rolet in recent
weeks, without saying where it got the information. LSE declined
to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Segro Plc (SGRO)  fell 3 percent to 230.1 pence after Bank of
America Corp. downgraded the U.K.’s largest publicly traded
owner of industrial properties to neutral from buy, citing a
risk that the company may have to sell more non-core assets as
values decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  