-- U.S. Treasury Says More Data Needed on Finance System
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-07-20T19:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/u-s-treasury-says-more-data-needed-on-finance-system.html
Regulators face “significant gaps”
in understanding the financial system, and the lack of adequate
data threatens stability, the U.S.  Treasury Department’s 
research arm said.  The  Office of Financial Research , in its inaugural report
to Congress released by the Treasury today, said the gaps remain
in analytical work by  regulators  because “none of them
individually has authority to look across the entire financial
system.”  The office, created by the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul
law, helps the Financial Stability Oversight Council in trying
to prevent another crisis. The council, which includes Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , analyzes potential threats to U.S. financial
stability, including the  European debt crisis .  “Gaps in analysis, data, and data standards represent
threats to financial stability, and helping to fill those gaps”
is part of the research office’s mandate, according to the
report.  Manipulation of the London interbank offered rate
“resulting from an opaque and closed process that allows a
small number of firms to have significant influence -- poses
significant risks to market integrity and investor trust, and
will require continuing regulatory focus,” the OFR said.  Barclays Fine    Barclays (BARC)  Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest bank, was fined a
record 290 million pounds ($450 million) last month for
attempting to rig Libor and the euro interbank offered rate to
manage its reputation during the financial crisis and boost
earnings before it. At least 12 banks, including  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , are being investigated for possibly manipulating Libor.  The research office also said better data are needed for
regulators to adequately analyze the repurchase-agreement
market.  “Understanding the repo market requires collection of
transactions-level data about the repo market -- information
that is presently unavailable to regulators,” the office said.  The research unit said it is working with U.S. regulators
to get transaction, position and pricing information on credit-
default swaps contracts.  Data Gaps  “Even with these data in place, important data gaps will
remain, including information about collateral and netting
arrangements between CDS counterparties,” the OFR said. “As
these markets are global, the OFR will need to acquire data
relating to foreign transactions as well, particularly for
affiliates of U.S. financial institutions.”  The collapse of insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
financial-products unit in 2008 was an impetus for the creation
of Dodd-Frank and FSOC. Collateral payments to banks that had
bought protection from AIG through credit-default swaps led to a
$182 billion taxpayer-funded bailout that gave the government a
majority stake in the insurer.  The OFR also said it is “particularly interested in the
forces that promote the migration of activity into unregulated
or lightly regulated markets, the so-called shadow-banking
system.”  In looking at failures of financial firms, the office said
the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  “is an important
reminder that greater transparency and effective counterparty
risk management are essential principles to counter the risk of
contagion,” the OFR said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  