-- Muddy Waters’ Block Says New Oriental Forced to Give More Detail
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-20T02:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/muddy-waters-block-says-new-oriental-forced-to-give-more-detail.html
Carson Block , the short seller who
sparked a 74 percent drop in Sino-Forest Corp. shares before it
filed for  bankruptcy protection , said his latest allegations
against  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  will
force the company to disclose more details about its business.  “I think there are a lot more revelations that are going
to come forward,” Block, founder of Muddy Waters LLC, said in
an interview with Bloomberg TV from San Francisco.  Muddy Waters in July 18 report questioned the ownership of
some of New Oriental’s schools and the consolidation of their
 financial statements  with the parent company. New Oriental
responded yesterday by saying it owned 664 schools and learning
centers at the end of May as previously disclosed and that 21
third-party operated “cooperation facilities” and their
students were never counted as the company’s.  New Oriental’s stock surged 18 percent in  New York  trading
after its response. The American depositary receipts had fallen
35 percent the day before on the  Muddy Waters  report and
declined 34 percent on July 17 when the Beijing-based company
said it was being investigated by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  “They are trying to downplay it as much as possible,”
Block said of New Oriental’s response. He also accused the
company of “understating” its activities with third-party
operated locations.  Sisi Zhao, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for New Oriental,
didn’t immediately answer calls to her office seeking comment.  Chinese Shares  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 2.3 percent to 86.65 yesterday,
snapping a three-day slump. The iShares FTSE China 25 Index
Fund, the biggest Chinese exchange-traded fund in the U.S.,
advanced 2.2 percent to a two-week high of $33.71.  Block, who founded a self-storage company in Shanghai after
moving there in 2005 with a law degree, started Muddy Waters in
2010. He became the face of the short-selling wave against
Chinese companies after his research led regulators to suspend
trading in four of his first five targets, including Sino-
Forest.  Other companies he’s target haven’t suffered the same fate.
Shares of  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a Shanghai-based
chipmaker, have increased 25 percent since Muddy Waters
recommended shorting the stock in June 2011.  “Nobody bats a thousand,” Block said today.  Muddy Waters is also studying and taking smaller short
positions against non-Chinese companies, Block said today,
without identifing them. Short-selling involves the sale of
borrowed stock to profit from a subsequent decline.  Asked how much he had personally earned by shorting stocks,
Block said, “we don’t talk about it publicly or privately.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  