-- UniQure’s Glybera Wins EU Backing as First Gene Therapy
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-07-20T19:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/uniqure-s-glybera-wins-eu-backing-as-first-gene-therapy.html
Europe  is on the cusp of approving
the first gene therapy to be sold on the market in a western
nation, a product from UniQure BV designed to treat a rare
disease that disrupts fat production in the body.  The drug, called Glybera, won the backing of an advisory
panel to the European Commission on its fourth attempt, the
group said in a  statement  today. The Commission, which makes the
final decision, usually follows the committee’s recommendation.  The move comes after 20 years of experimentation into a
technology that in the past has been haunted by highly-
publicized failures, including the death of 16-year-old Jessie
Gelsinger in the U.S. in 1999. More recently, success in trials
by Amsterdam-based UniQure and the U.S.-based companies  Sangamo
BioSciences Inc. (SGMO)  and  Neurologix Inc. (NRGXQ)  are reviving the field.  “This is good news for the field, definitely,” said  Savio
Woo , a professor of genetics and genomic sciences at the Mount
Sinai School of Medicine in  New York . The technology “has been
really making a lot of progress, and a positive approval was
more or less expected to come sometime.”  UniQure began preparations a few weeks ago for meetings
with the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to seek approval for
Glybera, said Jorn Aldag, UniQure’s chief executive officer.  The treatment targets lipoprotein lipase deficiency, or
LPLD, a rare fat-processing disorder that spurs severe or
multiple pancreatitis attacks in about one or two people among
every million in the population. The therapy is administered
only once to be effective.  Annual Sales  Glybera may have peak annual sales between 50 million euros
($61.1 million) and 300 million euros, depending on how it’s
priced, Aldag said in an interview.  “It’s phenomenal because it’s the first gene therapy the
EMA has approved,” he said.  While two gene therapy products are sold in  China , none are
approved in Europe or the U.S., according to Mount Sinai’s Woo.  Gene therapy is “not a cure-all for all diseases,” Woo
said in a telephone interview. “But it certainly has its
utility in the treatment of many debilitating diseases that will
complement existing treatments.”  Glybera was developed by  Amsterdam Molecular Therapeutics. (AMT) 
The company sold itself to UniQure this year after European
authorities initially rejected the drug.  Genes contain instructions for cells to make proteins that
carry out chemical reactions in the body, help the immune system
fight infections and form the basis of skin, muscle and bone.
When a gene is defective and can’t make the correct protein,
disease can occur.  The idea of gene therapy is to treat disease by replacing
malfunctioning genes with healthy ones.  Early Failures  Use of gene therapy has been controversial, and not always
successful. Gelsinger died of a massive immune response within
hours of being treated for a liver disease at the  University of
Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia in 1999. That failure was followed
in 2007 by the death of a woman who received a modified gene in
an arthritis trial.  Sangamo BioSciences Inc., based in Richmond,  California , is
in the second of three phases of testing required on a gene
therapy to tackle HIV, while Neurologix Inc., of  Fort Lee ,  New
Jersey , is studying use of the treatment against Parkinson’s
Disease.  Bluebird Bio, a closely held company in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , is developing therapies for blood conditions
including beta thalassemia and sickle cell disease after
clinical trials reported positive results. Bluebird is backed by
Sanofi’s Genzyme Corp., also in Cambridge, and by venture
capital firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  