-- United Technologies, AgustaWestland Await U.K. Helicopter Deal
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-20T16:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/united-technologies-agustawestland-await-u-k-helicopter-deal.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  may learn as early as next week whether they
are on a shortlist to be part of a contract to deliver search-
and-rescue operations across the U.K.  The U.K. is set to name the operators that are in the final
round for a 10-year service contract with a value of as much as
3.1 billion pounds ($5 billion), according to information
provided by the Department for Transport, which is running the
competition for the Maritime and Coastguard Agency. Eurocopter,
the subsidiary of Toulouse-based  European Aeronautic, Defence
and Space Co. (EAD) , joins  United Technologies ’s Sikorsky and
Finmeccanica’s AgustaWestland in vying for orders.  At a time of shrinking  government spending  in the U.K., the
search-and-rescue program represents one of the few large
government contracts helicopter makers can compete for. The deal
could lead to an order of 20 to 25 rotorcraft.  “Competitive dialog with bidders will take place over the
summer,” the ministry said in a written response to questions.
As many as three operating companies will be selected for those
talks with a contract signature planned in March, the
government’s program schedule says.  The search-and-rescue program is the U.K. government’s
second attempt to provide the  emergency service .  Contract Canceled  In 2010, it named a winning team in the 6 billion-pound
SAR-H program, which included CHC Helicopters as the operator
using Sikorsky’s S-92 helicopter. On the eve of contract
signature in February 2011, the program was canceled over
contracting irregularities.  More than a half-dozen helicopter operators participated in
a government-run presentation on the competition when it began
late last year. Proposals put forward by service providers, as
well as talks with the government in the coming months, will
determine how many and what type of helicopters will be bought.  “The helicopter we have been discussing is the AW189,”
Graham Cole, chairman of AgustaWestland’s U.K. business, said in
a phone interview. “We are predicting sales well in excess of
200 search-and-rescue helicopters in the U.K. and for export.”  The AW189, which first flew in December, is an 8 metric-ton
twin engine helicopter AgustaWestland is building in  Italy . The
search-and-rescue model will be developed and produced in Yeovil
for the U.K. and for export, Cole said. Yeovil, in the south of
England, is the helicopter maker’s main production facility in
the U.K.  Eurocopter has been promoting to operators the EC225 and
EC175, a company spokesman said in written answers to questions.
The EC225 is a civil version of the military EC725 troop
transport used in  Afghanistan .  Industrial Benefits  Like AgustaWestland, Eurocopter is promising industrial
benefits to the U.K. with its offering. The company would
establish a search-and-rescue “center of excellence” to
support the local program and exports. It also promises a
dedicated maintenance center for the 7-metric-ton EC175
rotorcraft, the company says.  Sikorsky has been promoting the S-92 with operators,
company spokesman Paul Jackson said in an e-mail. He would
discuss details of the proposal.  The government is under schedule pressure to see the
program through because the U.K. Ministry of Defence plans to
remove from service AgustaWestland Sea King helicopters
currently used in search-and-rescue roles. The Sea Kings are
scheduled to be phased out in 2016.  The winning bidder is expected to start the service
provision in April 2015, with all elements to be in place before
July 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  