-- UPS Faces Extended EU Antitrust Review Over Bid for TNT
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-07-20T16:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/ups-faces-extended-eu-antitrust-investigation-over-tnt-bid-1-.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s biggest package-delivery company, faces an in-depth
European Union antitrust review over its bid for  TNT Express NV. (TNTE)   The deal may reduce the number of so-called integrated
express delivery services from four to three across  Europe , the
European Commission  said  in an e-mailed statement. It extended
the deadline to rule on the deal until Nov. 28.  “The proposed acquisition could in particular reduce
competition for the provision of the fastest express delivery
services, to the detriment of direct customers and ultimately of
European consumers,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement.  UPS is seeking to expand in Europe with the biggest deal in
its 105-year history. It will vault to equal footing there with
 Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, the market-share leader. The tie-up with
money-losing TNT will immediately add to earnings on an adjusted
basis once the deal is done, the company said in March.  Atlanta-based UPS said earlier this month it expects the
acquisition to close in the fourth quarter because EU regulators
needed more time to examine the impact of the deal. It plans to
extend its 5.16 billion euros ($6.3 billion) cash offer for TNT
beyond Aug. 31.  “We have to wait and see what’s going to happen,” said
Anton van der Lande, a Brussels-based UPS spokesman. “We retain
dialogue with the commission and remain confident that we will
receive clearance.”  Regulators said there are potential competition concerns
for small parcel delivery services, in particular international
express services, in several European countries where the
companies would have very high combined market shares.  Fastest Options  Delivery services compete on market segments for a promised
delivery timeframe, they said, and integrators such as DHL and
FedEx Corp. would be the only main rival to the combined company
for most express services, especially the fastest options.  “During the next two weeks, UPS and TNT Express will
continue to have a dialogue with the commission,” said Ernst Moeksis, a Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based TNT spokesman.  He said both companies “remain confident that we will
receive clearance for the proposed acquisition within the fourth
quarter.”  Non-Europeans  UPS will have to sell at least 51 percent of TNT’s air
freight business, under EU rules which stipulate that European
airlines can’t be majority-owned by non-Europeans. Spokesmen for
Cargolux Airlines International SA, Europe’s biggest air
freight-only carrier, and AP Moeller-Maersk’s Star Air, which
provides services for UPS in Europe, have both ruled out a bid
for the unit.  Ken Allen, the head of Deutsche Post’s DHL Express unit,
said in an interview that his division has no interest in
acquiring units divested by UPS.  TNT’s acquisition will likely increase prices for express
deliveries in Europe, as the number of competitors in the field
falls, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  