-- Venezuela May Pare Dollar-Bond Sales After Currency Changes
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-07-20T19:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/venezuela-eases-currency-rules-to-allow-some-dollar-accounts-1-.html
New rules governing Venezuela’s
state-owned companies will boost the supply of dollars in the
central bank’s  currency market  and may reduce bond sales abroad
by the government, BancTrust & Co. and Barclays Plc said.  Under  central bank  rules published today, state-run
exporters such as oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  can use
5 percent of their dollar holdings to buy bonds abroad that can
then be sold for bolivars in the Sitme market at a preferential
rate. Sitme sales are performed at an  exchange rate  of 5.3 per
dollar, weaker than the official rate of 4.3.  Such transactions will boost the supply of dollars in the
Sitme market, which is used by companies that can’t win approval
to buy foreign currency at the official rate, and reduce the
need for Venezuela’s government to issue bonds for sale in the
market, said Hernan Yellati, the head of research and strategy
at BancTrust & Co. in Miami.  “This could allow the government to continue to finance
itself in bolivars and avoid issuing dollar bonds,” Yellati
said.  President  Hugo Chavez  has maintained  capital controls  since
2003 when he pegged the bolivar to the dollar following a two-
month national strike that nearly halted oil production and
plunged the country into recession. The government, which along
with the state oil company sold a record $17 billion of dollar
bonds last year, hasn’t sold dollar-denominated securities since
October.  Sitme Operations  PDVSA, as the state oil company is known, sold $3 billion
of bonds due in 2035 in a private placement with the central
bank in May.  Sitme was created in June 2010 after Chavez dismantled an
unregulated currency market operated by brokerages following the
weakening of the free-floating exchange rate to a record, which
the government said was stoking  inflation . The central bank
oversees Sitme operations which involve the selling of
government and PDVSA bonds to banks that trade the securities on
behalf of clients.  Venezuelans, who can’t access the official rate or Sitme,
turn to the black market where a dollar fetches about 9.3
bolivars.  The yield on  Venezuela ’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds due
in 2027 rose 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 11.73
percent at 2:24 p.m. in Caracas, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bond’s price fell 1.7 cent to 82.57 cents on the
dollar.  Yield Spread  The extra yield that investors demand to own Venezuelan
bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  widened 22 basis points to 1,104,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Today’s resolution formalizes the role of different state
entities in the supply of dollars, Barclays analysts Alejandro Arreaza and Alejandro Grisanti said today in a note to clients.  This should “help reduce the pressure from excess supply
of Venezuelan bonds that has characterized the market in recent
years,” the analysts said.  The percent that state companies can use of their export
revenue may increase to more than 5 percent if the government
sees that it is being effective in supplying the market,
BancTrust’s Yellati said.  Venezuela also eased currency rules to some companies and
individuals to hold dollar accounts in local banks, according to
the resolution published in the Official Gazette.  Foreign companies contracted to work with the state on
development projects and individuals and Venezuelan companies
that obtain dollars through “legal means” including the
selling of bonds, will be permitted to hold accounts locally for
the first time since the controls were installed 9 years ago.  The exchanging of those dollar accounts into bolivars will
be done at the official rate of 4.3, the resolution said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  