-- Viacom Is Said to Get Over $600 Million a Year From DirecTV
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e ,   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-20T20:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/viacom-directv-reach-new-program-fee-agreement-ending-blackout.html
Viacom (VIAB)  Inc. will get more than $600
million a year from  DirecTV (DTV)  in programming fees under their new
seven-year agreement, up at least 20 percent from the previous
terms, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Viacom, owner of the  MTV , Comedy Central and Nickelodeon
networks, announced a new agreement with DirecTV this morning,
ending a 10-day blackout on the satellite-TV service. The person
familiar with the payments asked not to be named because the
information isn’t public. Before the accord was reached, DirecTV
said that Viacom was demanding a 30 percent increase, amounting
to more than $1 billion in additional costs over the contract.  “They’re both winners here,” said Amy Yong, an analyst at
Macquarie Capital USA Inc. in  New York . “DirecTV got a deal
that was less that Viacom wanted, so on the margin, that’s a win
for DirecTV. But it’s also a win for Viacom because they get
more money.”  The deal restores “ Jersey Shore ,” “Dora the Explorer”
and other shows to DirecTV’s 20 million U.S. viewers, with all
of Viacom’s 17 standard-definition and nine high-definition
networks returning to DirecTV. The agreement doesn’t require
DirecTV to carry the movie channel Epix -- a source of
contention during negotiations. DirecTV had said Viacom was
insisting the satellite provider pay more than $500 million for
Epix, which Viacom denied.  Streaming Rights  DirecTV also secured out-of-home live-streaming rights for
all 17 of Viacom’s channels as part of the deal, said Derek Chang, DirecTV’s executive vice president of content strategy
and development. That means customers will be able to watch live
Viacom programming on their phones, tablets and computers.  It’s the first time Viacom has given a pay-TV provider live
rights to their programming, Chang said. There’s no time frame
yet for when the service will be available, he said.  Carl Folta, a spokesman for New York-based Viacom, declined
to comment on the financial terms of the deal, as did Chang.  Shares of Viacom, controlled by  Sumner Redstone , fell 0.5
percent to $46.41 at the close in New York. The Class B stock
has gained 2.2 percent this year. DirecTV, up 13 percent this
year, fell 1.3 percent to $48.33.  On a per-subscriber basis, Viacom will receive about $2.55
from DirecTV, estimates Brett Harriss, an analyst with Gabelli &
Co. in Rye, New York. That’s about 13 percent higher than under
the previous agreement, he said. Still, it’s less than the $2.75
Viacom receives on average per subscriber from all pay-TV
companies, Harriss said.  “It’s nice, but it’s not anything near what Viacom
wanted,” Harriss said.  ‘Great Visibility’  Even so, Viacom managed to get a price increase and the
deal removes a source of uncertainty for investors, said Alexia Quadrani, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  “They’ve got most of their affiliate agreements locked up,
so they’ve got great visibility on their revenue stream,” she
said.  The parties had been negotiating for several months and
extended their seven-year agreement past the original June 30
expiration while talks continued. Viacom’s channels went dark
for DirecTV subscribers just before midnight on July 10. The
satellite provider cited shrinking Viacom ratings during the
dispute. Viacom has said its programs amount to 20 percent of
DirecTV’s audience.  ‘Decisive Push’  The two sides came together yesterday and made a “decisive
push to hammer out a deal,” Viacom Chief Executive Officer
 Philippe Dauman  said today in a memo to employees that was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Even the strongest partnerships occasionally hit rough
patches, and we are thankful that we could overcome the
challenges of the past week and renew our partnership with
DirecTV through an equitable agreement,” he said in the memo.  DirecTV sees the agreement as watershed moment for pay-TV
companies. The resolution “reverses a trend of programmers
squeezing pay-TV providers for more money by forcing a
blackout,” Chang said. “Bullying TV providers and their
customers with blackouts won’t get them a better deal.”  Pay-TV providers and media companies have increasingly
sparred in recent years as rising content costs drive customer
bills higher. In a continuing dispute, about 14 million  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  customers lost access to  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) 
channels since last month.  Content Costs  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  released a statement earlier this
week supporting DirecTV and Dish in fighting increases in
programming costs. The expenses rise between 7 percent and 10
percent each year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries. Viacom’s longest blackout prior to this dispute was
with Dish in 2004, lasting just 46 hours, according to  Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York.  “It’s a marker for the industry,” said  Todd Lowenstein , a
Los Angeles-based fund manager at HighMark Capital Management
Inc., whose HighMark Value Fund owns about 100,000 shares of
DirecTV. “Other content providers and operators will stand up
and take notice.”  DirecTV’s content agreements are “life-or-death”
situations for the company because satellite-TV providers can’t
fall back on revenue from broadband  Internet service , unlike
cable companies, Lowenstein said.  Viacom said its fees account for less than 5 percent of the
satellite service’s programming expenses, and that DirecTV
enjoyed below-market rates “for a very long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  