-- Vodafone Sales Miss Estimates as Spain Spending Declines
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-20T16:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/vodafone-service-sales-trail-estimates-as-clients-slash-spending.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  reported first-
quarter service revenue that missed analysts’ estimates as
customers in  Spain  and  Italy  cut spending and growth in  India 
slowed.  Service revenue, excluding currency swings and
 acquisitions , gained 0.6 percent in the three months ended June
30, the world’s second-biggest mobile-phone company said today.
Analysts had predicted growth of 0.8 percent, according to the
average of estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The stock dropped
1.7 percent in London.  Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  faces increasing
competition from discounters and slower growth amid a protracted
slowdown in European markets that is prompting consumers to
scale back spending and businesses to cut contracts. Total sales
of Newbury, England-based Vodafone fell 7.7 percent to 10.77
billion pounds ($16.9 billion), missing the 10.91 billion-pound
analyst estimate.  “Things are going to get worse before they get better,
probably we have to get into 2013,” said Guy Peddy, a London-
based analyst with Macquarie Securities. “Operationally,
they’re doing the right things; they’re just in a challenging
environment. It’s hard to fight the environment.”  Merging Networks  To blunt the impact of the slowdown in Europe, its biggest
market by revenue, Vodafone is merging phone networks with
rivals. The company last week agreed to share its wireless
infrastructure with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  in Ireland to free
cash for expanding into new technologies, such as fourth-
generation high-speed mobile  data networks . Vodafone has a
similar agreement with  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 unit in the U.K.  First-quarter service sales, which include voice, data,
messaging and broadband services, dropped 7.7 percent in Italy
and 10 percent in Spain.  “The slow-down in Italy is most concerning, as this is a
high margin market,” said Emmet Kelly, an analyst with Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. “The outlook is clearly now more
challenging for Vodafone.”  Vodafone dropped 3.05 pence to 180 pence in London. The
shares have risen 0.6 percent this year, compared with a 8.7
percent decline of the 34-company Bloomberg  Europe 
Telecommunications Index.  ‘Tough’ Outlook  “Looking out, it’s difficult to be hugely optimistic about
the near term changes in things,” Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford said on a conference call. “Clearly consumers and
businesses remain nervous in many territories. Our sense is we
should prepare the business for a few more quarters that are
going to be reasonably tough.”  Analysts are cutting European profit forecasts at the
fastest rate since 2009 as the region heads for a recession and
growth in China slows for a sixth quarter. While maintaining its
forecast on July 16 for a 0.3 percent contraction of the euro-
area economy in 2012, the IMF revised down the growth outlook
for 2013 to 0.7 percent from 0.9 percent.  Some of Vodafone’s fastest growing markets, which have
cushioned the blow from the European slowdown, are showing signs
of strain as well, Vodafone said today. India, while clocking
service sales growth of 16.2 percent, slowed from the 21.1
percent growth recorded the quarter before.  Germany , one of the best performers in Europe, grew 4.2
percent. Vodafone this week won a 4-year deal with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
to provide mobile services to 90,000 employees of the German
carmaker. Service sales grew 18.7 percent in  Turkey  and 8.2
percent at Vodafone’s U.S. venture Verizon Wireless.  Dividend Decision  Vodafone, which is no longer the world’s biggest mobile-
phone company after  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  boosted sales last year,
is increasingly relying on the U.S. to make up for shrinking
sales in crisis-stricken European economies.  The company is also waiting for news about a potential
dividend from Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. mobile-phone
operator, which is 55 percent controlled by  Verizon
Communications (VZ)  Inc. The partnership last year paid Vodafone a
$4.5 billion dividend.  Verizon Communications yesterday reported a 19 percent gain
in profit as the shift to smartphones, which let users surf the
Web and watch videos, has helped boost the size of subscribers’
phone bills. CFO Fran Shammo said that the dividend issue is not
on the agenda for  Verizon Wireless ’s board meeting next week,
though a decision isn’t required until year-end.  Investor Discontent  The need for Vodafone to negotiate a payment each year from
Verizon Wireless has been fanning discontent among  investors .
Shareholder payouts are crucial for European operators, the
 third-worst  performer of 19 industry groups in the Europe Stoxx
600 Index this year, to attract investors as they use stable
cash flows from phone contracts to pay higher-than-average
dividends.  Vodafone generated free cash flow of 943 million pounds in
its first quarter, 25 percent less than a year ago. Net debt
stood at 22.7 billion pounds at the end of June.  Vodafone today confirmed its forecast. Vodafone said in May
that service sales growth in the 12 months through March 2013
will be “slightly” below the company’s growth target of 1
percent to 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  