-- Vodacom Chairman Says DR Congo Unit Offers Great Opportunity
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-07-20T14:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/vodacom-chairman-says-dr-congo-unit-offers-great-opportunity-1-.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the largest
provider of mobile-phone services to South Africans, wants to
retain 51 percent ownership of its unit in Democratic Republic
of Congo, Chairman Peter Moyo said.  “Our intention is not to sell,” Moyo said at the
operator’s annual shareholders meeting in Johannesburg today.
“The Congo is a great opportunity for us.”  Vodacom, 65 percent-owned by  Vodafone Group Ltd. (VOD) , hopes a
court case with a Congolese consultant will be heard in South
Africa, before its shares in Congo are confiscated and
auctioned, Moyo said.  The commercial court in Kinshasa, the Central African
nation’s capital, in January ordered that Vodacom’s shares in
the Congolese operation be confiscated and auctioned to pay Moto
Mabanga’s Nameco Energy (Pty) Ltd. $21 million to settle a
consulting dispute. The auction was later postponed by the
president of the  Supreme Court  “pending the outcome of certain
legal proceedings.” Vodacom had appealed the judgment.  The legal dispute was withdrawn from a South African  High
Court  where Mabanga originally sued the Johannesburg-based
company for $40.8 million, he said by phone today. “I took the
matter back to the Congo because they were selling their shares
there.”  Mabanga said his lawyer in Johannesburg, Stuart McCafferty
of law firm Webber Wentzel, withdrew the case at the South
Gauteng High Court when it was taken to Kinshasa last year.
McCafferty wasn’t available for comment by phone. His assistant
confirmed that McCafferty represented Mabanga.  Vodacom, which has already paid Mabanga a $2.8 million
service fee, maintains that was a final settlement of its
obligations to Mabanga.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 sikonathim@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  