-- Wal-Mart Pushes Web Sales Tax as Washington Clout Grows: Retail
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-07-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/wal-mart-pushes-web-sales-tax-as-washington-clout-grows-retail.html
In its struggle against surging
online retailers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
has unleashed a weapon long shunned by  Sam Walton : lobbying.  On July 24, the U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary
Committee will hold a hearing on a bill to let states collect
sales tax from out-of-state merchants that sell to their
residents. If it is passed, online retailers, which now mostly
don’t collect sales tax, will lose a price advantage that has
helped them take business from brick-and-mortar stores.  Wal-Mart, which has been boosting political contributions
and staffing up its  Washington  office, is one of the prime
movers behind the bill, said Congressman Steve Womack, an
 Arkansas  Republican who authored the proposed legislation.  “This is Wal-Mart’s top issue, if not one of their top
issues,” Womack said in a phone interview. “ Wal-Mart (WMT)  is
important to me because they are headquartered in my district.”  It’s easy to see why Wal-Mart is determined to force online
merchants to charge sales tax. Last year, Seattle-based Amazon’s
sales grew 41 percent to $48.1 billion. Bentonville, Arkansas-
based Wal-Mart increased U.S. sales at its namesake stores 1.5
percent to $264.2 billion. Five years ago, only about a quarter
of Wal-Mart customers shopped at Amazon, according to Kantar
Retail, a London-based research firm. Now half say they do,
Kantar says.  To improve its Web sales operations, Wal-Mart has been
acquiring social-media companies and technology firms in Silicon
Valley. Wal-Mart generates less than 2 percent of its revenue
online, according to a Kantar estimate.  Washington Activities  In the meantime, Wal-Mart has been stepping up its
Washington activities. The chain spent $7.8 million on lobbying
efforts in 2011, the most in its history, according to
OpenSecrets.org, a website founded by the Center for Responsive
Politics, a watchdog group in Washington.  Before the mid-2000s, Wal-Mart had a limited presence in
the nation’s capital. The Washington office now has 15 people
because the company “wants to be involved in issues that are
important to our customers and our associates,” Brooke Buchanan, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  Founder Walton preferred to steer clear of politics and
focus on opening stores, according to Rogan Kersh, a political
science professor at  Wake Forest University  in Winston-Salem,
 North Carolina , who studies corporate lobbying. As recently as
2005, Wal-Mart spent less than $2 million on lobbying efforts,
according to OpenSecrets.  Keeps Expanding  “Wal-Mart had this attitude that they didn’t need to worry
about Washington and politics,” Kersh said in a phone
interview. “They started lobbying on tax issues some years ago.
Once you start down the path, it’s not something you retrench
on. It just keeps expanding.”  Womack, whose district includes Bentonville, said he talks
regularly with Wal-Mart Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke , Chief
Finance Officer  Charles Holley  and members of the Walton family.
Sam Walton’s son, Rob Walton, is chairman of the board.  In 2011 and 2012, Womack was Wal-Mart’s largest recipient
of political contributions, receiving $30,950. The retailer gave
presumed Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  $21,500;
President  Barack Obama  got $20,119, according to OpenSecrets.
Representative Jackie Speier, a California Democrat who signed
onto the original bill, received $7,500 over the past two years
from Wal-Mart, according to OpenSecrets.  No Apologies  Womack makes no apologies for sponsoring a bill that would
help Wal-Mart. “If something affects Wal-Mart, it affects me
and it affects jobs in my district,” he said.  The online tax bill took shape after a conversation with
top Wal-Mart executives in January of 2011, Womack said. He
asked what issues were important to them. The response: sealing
up the loophole that allows online retailers to sell goods
without a  sales tax .  Beyond Wal-Mart, Womack said he also wants to provide
succor to small, independent retailers in northwest Arkansas.
One jewelry shop in Fayetteville, Arkansas, complained to him
that with the state’s 9 percent sales tax, a buyer can visit a
site like bluenile.com and buy a $10,000 piece of jewelry tax-
free and save nearly $1,000.  “Right now, an online seller has an unfair advantage,”
Womack said. “How many small-business obituaries do we have to
read before we do something.”  Complicated Process  In fact, online sales are supposed to be taxed -- it’s
overly complicated for all but the most conscientious shoppers
to pay up. When someone buys from Amazon or another website,
they are quoted the sales tax. Consumers are then supposed to
contact their individual state and pay it. Womack said he bought
coffee from Amazon for $72. To pay the $6.54 in sales tax, he
had to download a form, fill it out and write a check to the
Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration.  If the bill is passed, every state will have to provide
online retailers with software that calculates and helps collect
the sales tax from buyers. With 47 members of Congress signed on
and many states clamoring for a crack at the estimated $23
billion in  tax revenue  that is missing on tax-free online sales,
the momentum is on Wal-Mart’s side.  A similar bill in the Senate has strong Democratic support
and is starting to get some traction among Republicans. Several
Republican leaders, including New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels , and Texas Governor
 Rick Perry  have signed on to the concept, according to a report
from Bloomberg BNA, a division of Bloomberg that tracks tax
developments. In the same report, Senator  Lamar Alexander , a
Tennessee Republican, said he hopes the House measure passes
this year and said the Senate bill is moving through the
legislative process.  About Fairness  Wal-Mart management sees Womack’s tax bill as being about
fairness, Daniel Morales, a company spokesman, said in a phone
interview. Womack said Amazon supports his bill because it may
help set up one standardized way to collect and pay sales tax.  Paul Misener , Amazon’s vice president of global public
policy, told the House Judiciary Committee at a hearing in
November that the company supports the sales tax if it is
approved by the federal government.  While online retailers will probably lose some hard-core
bargain hunters if the bill passes, their sales will keep
growing, said Bryan Gildenberg, a Kantar analyst.  “Any retailers will tell you that that buyer is their
least profitable,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  