-- Wall Street Seeks Patience After Worst 1st Half Since ’08
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-07-20T17:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/wall-street-seeks-patience-after-worst-1st-half-since-08.html
Wall Street’s five biggest banks
reported the worst start to a year since 2008. They’re still
asking investors to be patient.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  had combined
first-half revenue of $161 billion, down 4.5 percent from 2011
and the lowest since $135 billion four years ago. The firms
blamed the decline on low  interest rates  and a drop in trading
and deal-making driven by concerns about European government
finances and slowing growth in the U.S. and China.  Most of the banks have failed since 2009 to earn a return
that exceeds their cost of capital, said  Roy Smith , a finance
professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business and
a former Goldman Sachs partner. The impact of new  capital
requirements  and legislation such as the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act is
having a more profound effect on profitability than managements
seem willing to acknowledge, he said.  “I’ve been wondering how long this has to go on before
people started to take it seriously,” Smith said in a telephone
interview. “This is a long time for this to continue, and it’s
just getting worse.”  Since 2005, the banks have posted lower revenue in the
second half of the year than in the first, company reports show,
signaling even worse to come.  Blankfein Dilemma  While Goldman Sachs said it will seek $500 million in
expense cuts focused on personnel costs this year after
reporting an 11 percent drop in second-quarter profit, the firm,
like its competitors, has resisted calls for more radical
changes to its business model.  The day after the bank reported its lowest first-half
revenue in seven years, Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein explained the dilemma he faces as he asks shareholders
to wait for the rebound he’s expecting.  “There are certain things that are cycles and that it’s
not very good for us to overreact to,” Blankfein, 57, said at a
July 18 Economic Club of Washington lunch. Even so, “cycles can
be severe and they can last a long time and if you get killed in
the bad part of a cycle because you don’t manage your business
closely enough, when the cycle turns you’re still dead.”  While  Bank of America ’s second-quarter profit of $2.46
billion showed an improvement over a record $8.83 billion loss
in the same period last year, shareholders were spooked by a
jump in mortgage-bond repurchase demands that cast doubt on
whether the bank’s recovery will last. The lender, the second-
biggest in the U.S. by assets, plans to trim $3 billion in
annual expenses from  investment banking , trading and wealth-
management units.  More Cuts  “We continue to have work to do, as you can see in the
numbers,”  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, CEO of the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank, said of his company’s earnings on a July 18
conference call with analysts and investors. “But we’ve put
ourselves in a position to be successful.”  Morgan Stanley, which reported a 50 percent drop in second-
quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates, said it will
eliminate 700 more jobs by the end of 2012, bringing the total
for the year to 4,000.  “It’s tough to make money in this environment, and so I
think there’s going to be a further round” of cuts, Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in New York, said
in an interview yesterday.  ‘Halting Recovery’  In their 2009 book “This Time is Different: Eight
Centuries of Financial Folly,” economists  Carmen Reinhart  and
 Kenneth Rogoff  showed that financial crises cause deep economic
slumps in developed and emerging-market economies. So it’s not a
surprise that would affect banks’ profits.  “The U.S. continues to follow the slow and halting
recovery that is characteristic of the aftermath of deep
financial crises, and recent weakness in bank profit statements
in part reflects this reality,” Rogoff, a professor at  Harvard
University , said in an e-mailed response to questions. New
regulations “no doubt also play a role, with financial
institutions facing significant transitional costs and
considerable uncertainty.”  Morgan Stanley and Citigroup  shares  have dropped 15 percent
and 1.4 percent respectively this year, while JPMorgan and
Goldman Sachs are both up less than 5 percent. All four of those
banks are headquartered in New York. Bank of America is up 28
percent following declines in both 2010 and 2011. JPMorgan,
which reported record profit in 2011, is the only one of the
five that isn’t trading at a discount to its tangible book
value, an estimate of how much shareholders would receive if the
bank was liquidated.  ‘Rip Cord’  Investors and analysts are showing signs of impatience with
management teams. Pershing Square Capital Management LP, the
hedge fund founded by  Bill Ackman , sold its entire Citigroup
stake, according to a July 16 letter Ackman sent to investors.
The bank, the third-biggest in the U.S. by assets, was Pershing
Square’s fifth-largest U.S. equities holding with a value of
$955 million on March 31.  “After one bad night’s sleep thinking about Citi, I pulled
the rip cord,” Ackman wrote. “While I still believe that Citi
is a very cheap, well-managed, high-quality banking franchise
that is likely to increase in value over time, there are much
easier ways for Pershing Square to make money.”  David B. Sochol, a former financial-stock analyst for Legg
Mason Wood Walker Inc. who now helps manage money at Levin
Capital Strategies LP in New York, referred to himself as a
“long-suffering shareholder” before quizzing JPMorgan CEO
 Jamie Dimon  on a July 13 conference call about whether that
bank’s $5.8 billion trading loss might be a sign that the New
York-based lender had become too big to manage.  ‘Competitive Environment’  “We don’t feel great that we haven’t done a great job for
shareholders recently, that we completely acknowledge,” Dimon,
56, responded. “But we’re going to keep on building the
company, and one day the stock will reflect it.”  Four days later, one of Dimon’s own fund managers --
JPMorgan Asset Management’s Steven Wharton -- asked Goldman
Sachs Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar if his firm was
failing to recognize change in the business by continuing to set
aside 44 percent of revenue for compensation.  “We’ll see what it ends up being this year,” Viniar said.
“We could cut comp very dramatically in one year and it would
help our returns, but we live in a competitive environment.”  Changing Models  While banks such as Citigroup and Bank of America will
recognize eventually that they have to alter their models and
break up or shrink dramatically, according to NYU’s Smith, he
said he expects to see changes first at London-based  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and Switzerland’s  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Barclays, which acquired the U.S. assets of failed
investment bank  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. in 2008, had a
share price yesterday that was just 42 percent of tangible book
value. The chairman, CEO and chief operating officer all
resigned after the bank agreed to pay 290 million pounds ($456
million) for manipulating the London interbank offered rate, a
benchmark interest rate known as Libor.  A new management team may be more willing to sell the
investment bank, in effect recreating Lehman Brothers, just as
American Express Co. spun off Lehman as a separate company in
1994 a decade after acquiring it.  “There’s a good chance that might happen at Barclays,”
Smith said. “If it does, and that does make the stock price
increase, that might send a message to others.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 