-- Warner Bros. Said to Pull Some TV Ads for ‘Dark Knight’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-21T08:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/warner-bros-said-to-pull-some-tv-ads-for-dark-knight-.html
Warner Bros. is canceling some
 television advertising  for “The  Dark Knight  Rises” following
the shooting yesterday that killed at least 12 people in Aurora,
Colorado, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Two versions of the commercials for the picture were pulled
entirely, said one of the people, who sought anonymity because
the decision isn’t public.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s film studio also cut back on promotional
events, responding to the tragedy during opening weekend of one
of the year’s biggest pictures. Some ads have elements that may
remind audiences of the shooting. The movie’s villain, Bane, for
example, has his face covered by a mask in ads, similar to the
gas mask worn by the shooter.  “There may be some link -- it’s cautious, it’s appropriate
for  Warner Bros . to act in this way,” said Yong Liu, associate
professor of marketing at the University of  Arizona  in Tucson.
He said he expects ticket sales to be affected. “Not only
sales, but emotions of audiences that watch the movie. That’s a
big tragedy. It will have some influence.”  Television ads show a masked Bane declaring his plan to
“liberate” Gotham City and explosions that destroy a football
stadium. Bane is also seen confronting Batman on the streets of
Gotham.  Warner Bros. spent an estimated $250 million on the
production, according to researcher Internet Movie Database.  The picture, which opened yesterday, marks the third and
final Batman pairing of actor  Christian Bale  with director
 Christopher Nolan . Los Angeles Times critic Kenneth Turan, in a
favorable review, called it “the bleakest, most despairing
superhero film ever made.”  Cinemas Drop  Shares of major theater chains fell.  Cinemark Holdings
Inc. (CNK) , the Plano, Texas-based owner of the theater in Aurora,
dropped 4.6 percent to $23.15 yesterday in New York, the most
since August 2011. It has risen 25 percent this year.  Regal
Entertainment Group (RGC) , the largest U.S. theater operator, fell 4.4
percent to $13.35 and  Carmike Cinemas Inc. (CKEC)  lost 2.3 percent to
$14.48.  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , operator of large-screen cinemas, fell 1.6
percent to $24.02.  Regal, based in Knoxville, Tennessee, said it would adjust
security as necessary, including curbs on costumes. Carmike,
based in Columbus, Georgia, said it already employs uniformed
and plainclothes police officers for security.  Sales Forecasts  AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. (AMC) , the second-largest chain,
said it is reinforcing security, without providing details. The
Kansas City, Missouri-based exhibitor also said it is banning
costumes, masks or fake weapons inside its buildings.  The shooting hadn’t affected sales as of yesterday morning,
according to Terrell Mayton, a Carmike spokesman.  “We’re selling tickets right now,” Mayton said in an
interview. “People want to see this movie and they want to go
to their theater.”  Arclight Cinemas, a closely held theater chain in  Los
Angeles , offered refunds to patrons who bought tickets in
advance and will take up a collection for the victims at
screenings, according to the company.  Before the shooting, forecasters had estimated that “The
Dark Knight Rises” would collect as much as $198 million at the
box office its opening weekend.  The picture took in $30.6 million in midnight showings in
the U.S., according to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The total
marked the second-biggest midnight tally behind the final
“Harry Potter” movie, which generated $43.5 million.  “A lot of parents will re-evaluate whether they send their
children to a theater,” said  Eric Wold , an analyst with B.
Riley & Co. in San Francisco. “Not just this movie, any
movie.”  Studio’s Plans  The studio halted plans for the red-carpet premiere in
France. Interviews with Nolan and stars Bale and  Anne Hathaway 
were called off, according to a statement from New York-based
Time Warner. Warner Bros. also scrapped plans for events in
Tokyo and Mexico City, the Los Angeles Times reported.  Warner Bros. doesn’t plan to pull “Dark Knight” from any
of the 4,404 screens currently showing Batman, said Jessica
Zacholl, a spokeswoman. The studio did take down previews for
the September film “Gangster Squad,” featuring  Sean Penn  and
 Ryan Gosling , which included a scene showing characters firing
guns in a movie theater.  The trailer didn’t run before the Batman screening where
the shooting occurred, Zacholl said.  Attendance Impact  Warner Bros. said late yesterday it won’t release ticket-
sales figures for the movie as usual over the weekend, citing
sensitivity to the victims.  “Out of respect for the victims and their families,  Warner
Bros. Pictures  will not be reporting box office numbers for ‘The
Dark Knight Rises’ throughout the weekend,” Warner Bros. said.
“Box office numbers will be released on Monday.”  The studio isn’t reducing its sales estimate, according to
a person familiar with the company’s plans who asked not to be
named because the matter is sensitive. Most weekend screenings
in major metropolitan areas have been sold out through pre-
orders, the person said.  New York City Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said the
department would deploy officers to showings of the film in the
five boroughs as a precaution against copycats and to ensure
public safety. The Los Angeles Police Department was also
increasing patrols around theaters and other venues, according
to Detective Gus Villanueva.  The shooting may slow attendance over the weekend, though
strong advance sales may mitigate that somewhat,  Jeff Bock ,
senior analyst with the research firm Exhibitor Relations Co.,
said in an e-mail.  “Since this is an unprecedented event, I’m not sure anyone
really knows how much this will affect box-office grosses this
weekend,” Bock said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  