-- Xerox Falls After Forecast Cut on Printer Demand Slump
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-07-20T20:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/xerox-cuts-forecast-as-europe-slump-hurts-technology-demand-1-.html
Xerox Corp. (XRX) , the provider of
printers and business services, declined after cutting its full-
year profit forecast as the economic slump in  Europe  crimped
demand for technology.  Excluding some items, profit will be $1.07 to $1.12 a share
this year, Norwalk, Connecticut-based Xerox said today in a
statement. That compared with a previous forecast of as much as
$1.18. Analysts had estimated $1.11.  The economic slowdown, especially in Europe, led to a 4
percent second-quarter decline in Xerox’s sales of printers,
supplies and other technology, when adjusting for currency
changes. The company’s services business, helped by its 2010
acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services Inc., fared better,
rising 7 percent in constant currency.  “They’re exposed to Europe, and Europe is weak,” said
 Shannon Cross , an analyst with Cross Research in Livingston,  New
Jersey , who has a buy rating on the stock. “If they didn’t have
the services business, their numbers would look substantially
worse.”  Xerox shares decreased 6.8 percent to $6.70 at the close in
 New York , reaching the lowest since July 2009. The stock has
declined 16 percent this year.  Slowing Down  The weakness in European demand accelerated in the second
quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Ursula Burns  said on a call
with investors and analysts. Two-thirds of Xerox’s drop in
equipment sales was due to Europe, she said.  “We are definitely seeing a weak Europe,” she said.
“That’s the reason why we’ve adjusted our guidance downwards.”  Second-quarter  net income  attributable to Xerox dropped 3
percent to $309 million, or 22 cents a share, from $319 million,
or 22 cents, a year earlier. Excluding some costs, earnings were
26 cents a share, matching analysts’ estimates.  Revenue climbed 1 percent in constant currency to $5.5
billion. Analysts had estimated $5.6 billion.  Printer maker  Lexmark International Inc. (LXK)  also cited
weakness in Europe -- along with unfavorable exchange rates --
when cutting its second-quarter sales and profit forecast last
week.  Under Burns, who took over in 2010, Xerox is remaking
itself into a services company that helps businesses outsource
their operations. Though still famous for its copiers, Xerox is
expanding in markets such as the management of electronic
payments for governments and the processing of claims for
insurers.  The company also reiterated plans today to buy back as much
as $1.1 billion in stock this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  