-- Hypo Alpe Says Liquidation Most Expensive for Austria
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-07-20T11:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/hypo-alpe-says-liquidation-most-expensive-for-austria.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the nationalized Austrian lender loaded with bad debt, said
it will continue to sell and wind down assets gradually because
this will keep the burden for taxpayers as low as possible.  Risks for taxpayers may materialize if the bank is
liquidated immediately, Hypo Alpe Chief Executive Officer
Gottwald Kranebitter said late yesterday, when asked about a
report in Format magazine that the bank would need more than 5
billion euros ($6.1 billion) if it was dissolved.  Kranebitter, speaking to reporters in Vienna, said he
rejects this strategy and that Hypo Alpe only calculated the
costs of liquidation and of accelerated asset sales on request
of the European Commission’s probe into state aid the lender
received. He declined to comment on specific numbers.  “I always said, and I still say today, that liquidation is
the most expensive scenario for the taxpayer,” Kranebitter
said. “The European Union, as in every state aid probe,
requires us to calculate a liquidation scenario,” he said.
“Our scenario is a going-concern scenario in which we have a
banking part that we’re giving back to the market, and a wind-
down part which we are reducing bit by bit.”  Hypo Alpe is one of three banks which  Austria  rescued from
looming collapse since 2009 after shareholders walked away. The
risks of further capital injections into those and other banks
was one of the main reasons the Alpine republic lost its triple-
A rating at  Standard & Poor’s  and was slapped with a negative
outlook at Moody’s earlier this year.  Capital Needs  Kranebitter declined to say precisely how much less his
plan for the bank would cost taxpayers. Hypo Alpe has received
1.35 billion euros in state capital and a 200 million-euro
guarantee so far, and the government wrote off 700 million euros
of that in last year’s budget. About 17.5 billion euros of its
funding is also guaranteed by Austria and the Province of
Carinthia, Hypo Alpe’s former owner.  The Austrian central bank has demanded the bank, a third of
whose loan book is delinquent, increase its capital buffers by
1.5 billion euros by the end of the year. Kranebitter said the
central bank will recalculate the requirement over the summer
and may reconsider the deadline.  “If the result is an additional capital need, it will be
our job to meet it so that it is as gentle on taxpayers as
possible,” Kranebitter said, adding that the bank’s efforts to
reduce assets were partly offset by the worsening economy in the
region.  Hypo Alpe has hired advisers to sell its biggest unit,
which is the third-biggest lender in the former  Yugoslavia  after
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Nova Ljubljanska Banka dd, as well as its
Austrian and its Italian banks. Its “wind-down” branch has
risky or non-performing assets of about 10 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  