-- Myriad Defends Patent Claims on Genetic Material in Court Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   K a y l a   B r u u n
-- 2012-07-20T16:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/myriad-defends-patent-claims-on-genetic-material-in-court-case.html
Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) , owner of
patents related to genes linked to hereditary cancer risks, is
trying to claim legal ownership of a product of nature, the
 American Civil Liberties Union  told a U.S. appeals court today.  “We need to be sure that natural things and all natural
laws are available to all mankind,” Chris Hansen, an  ACLU 
lawyer representing research groups including the Association
for Molecular Pathology and the American College of Medical
Genetics, said today in  Washington . The Myriad claims “cover
every conceivable form of DNA.”  The central legal issue in arguments before the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit is whether isolated DNA --
genetic coding that has been removed from the body and separated
from other material -- is a product of nature and thus
ineligible for patent protection. Myriad owns patents for a test
that can determine the hereditary risk of breast and ovarian
cancers.  “The patent claims reflect not naturally occurring, but
human-made compositions that were the product of human
ingenuity,” Myriad lawyer Greg Castanias of  Jones Day  told the
court. “This is not the patenting of a natural product or
something so close to a natural product that it can’t be
patented.”  The Federal Circuit, which specializes in  patent law , last
year said isolated DNA can be entitled to patent protection. It
was ordered by the Supreme Court to reconsider that ruling in
light of a decision by the high court in March, in a separate
case, that limited the ability to obtain patents on certain
diagnostic tests.  Isolated DNA  In its decision last year, the Federal Circuit ruled 2-1 in
favor of  Salt Lake City , Utah-based Myriad’s isolated DNA
claims. The arguments today were before the same three-judge
panel.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration argued that there
should be limits on the types of genetic material that can be
covered by patents. Justice Department lawyer Melissa Patterson
said that changes to isolate the specific gene were
insignificant. She likened it to extracting coal from the
ground.  “Some of these claims preclude access to a product of
nature,” she said. “Can the public still use and exploit that
in new and different ways?”  In a typical case before the Federal Circuit, the U.S.
Patent and  Trademark Office  will present the government’s
arguments. Patterson declined to say whether the patent office
agreed with the administration’s position.  Financial Stakes  Circuit Judge Kimberly Moore, who last year sided with
Myriad, questioned the effect of ruling that isolated DNA can’t
receive legal protection. The biotechnology industry has been
getting patents on genes for decades and has come to rely on
that, she said.  “There’s a lot of money at stake,” Moore said. “If it
was so obvious it wasn’t patentable, why wasn’t it brought up
before in the past 30 years?”  The circuit judges tried to determine where the line is
drawn between a product of nature and something made by man --
whether isolated DNA is akin to a baseball bat carved from a
tree, or simply a chopped-up tree trunk. Circuit Judge William Bryson, who sided against Myriad last year, said the company’s
position is that isolated DNA is like Michelangelo’s statue of
 David , “a piece of marble with the unnecessary parts chipped
away.”  Natural Laws  In the Supreme Court’s March 20 decision, Justice  Stephen Breyer  wrote for a unanimous court in warning against “tying up
the use of the underlying natural laws.”  That high court case involved a challenge by units of the
 Mayo Clinic  of patents owned by  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Prometheus unit for
methods to determine the dosage of medicines for certain stomach
diseases. Such tests merely cover natural phenomena and aren’t
inventions, the court ruled.  The Myriad dispute has split the medical community. Some
scientists argue they have been stymied in their quest for new
medicines and treatments because they fear coming up against
demands for royalties or letters demanding they stop using
patented inventions.  Companies like  Genomic Health Inc. (GHDX)  and  Alnylam
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY)  argue they can’t attract investment dollars
if they can’t protect their research from competitors.  Gene databases and technology to analyze them can be the
key to new medical discoveries and more efficient ways of
providing treatment. Annual U.S. spending on medical DNA testing
will rise to $25 billion in the next decade from $5 billion in
2010, according to  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest for-
profit health insurer in the nation.  Patent Challenges  The genetics groups, backed by the ACLU and the Public
Patent Foundation, initially sued to challenge aspects of seven
Myriad patents, and won at the trial court. The Federal Circuit
agreed that some claims made by Myriad on comparing a patient’s
DNA with known mutations didn’t warrant legal protection. Those
claims weren’t involved in today’s arguments.  The case currently before the court involves aspects of
three patents. Myriad has said it owns two dozen patents related
to its BRACAnalysis genetic cancer tests.  Myriad reported $363 million in revenue in the first nine
months of the year. Myriad’s BRACAnalysis test accounted for 81
percent of total revenue in its fiscal third quarter ended March
31, according to a company statement from May.  The Myriad case is one of two that the  Supreme Court  has
ordered the Federal Circuit to review following the Mayo
decision. The second, involving a suit against online video-game
company WildTangent Inc., would look at whether limits should be
placed on some types of business methods. The appeals court
hasn’t scheduled arguments in that case.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad,
10-1406, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Association for Molecular
Pathology v. U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, 09cv4515, U.S.
District Court for the District of  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Kayla Bruun in Washington at 
 kbruun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  