-- Zambia to Introduce Law to Keep Mining Export Income
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-07-20T08:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-20/zambia-to-introduce-law-to-keep-mining-export-income.html
Zambia,  Africa ’s biggest copper
producer, plans to introduce a rule requiring foreign companies
to keep earnings from exports in local banks for 30 days, Deputy
Finance Minister Miles Sampa said.  The government will announce the law “in the next few
weeks,” Sampa said in a telephone interview today from Lusaka,
the nation’s capital. It will help track the amount of tax it 
should receive from exporters, he said.  The southern African nation’s government estimates only 15
percent of export sales return to the country. The planned
statutory instrument will require companies to deposit all
export sales in a local bank. Companies including  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) ,  Canada ’s  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  First Quantum
Ltd. (FM)  operate mines in the country.  Mining companies, which sell most of their products in
dollars, won’t have to convert the income into kwacha, unless
they need to make local payments, Sampa said. “It’s not an
exchange control of any sort,” he said.  The currency has appreciated 7 percent against the dollar
since the government on May 18 introduced legislation banning
local transactions in foreign currency, forcing companies to
accumulate kwacha. It strengthened 0.3 percent to 4,875 a dollar
by 10:20 a.m. in Lusaka.  The currency’s current trading level is acceptable for both
exporters and importers, as “anywhere between 4,000 and 5,000
is a good equilibrium,” Sampa said.  The government plans to re-base its currency, lopping off
three zeros, by the end of the year, he said. The Bank of Zambia
had previously planned to introduce the new currency in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  