-- Macau Legend Climbs on Debut After IPO Size Halved
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 2013-07-05T09:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/macau-legend-climbs-on-debut-after-ipo-size-halved.html
Macau Legend Development Ltd. (1680) , the
casino firm backed by former Macau lawmaker David Chow, climbed
2.1 percent on the first day of trading, after the company
halved its share sale size to raise HK$2.19 billion ($282
million) amid turbulent market conditions.  The casino operator closed at HK$2.4. The benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  gained 1.9 percent.  Macau Legend in June said it would offer 934.8 million
shares in the IPO, lower than the 2.05 billion it had earlier
planned to sell. It priced at HK$2.35 apiece, near the low end
of a range of HK$2.30 to HK$2.98 per share.  “I think the company did a good job in terms of pricing it
at a more attractive level,” Michael Ting, an analyst at CIMB
Securities, said via phone today. “Whether this price level can
sustain is probably too early to tell right now.”  Largest Hub  Macau Legend, which operates casino venues under  SJM
Holdings Ltd. (880) , cut the size of its IPO after Asian markets
dropped amid concerns that a cash crunch in  China  could slow
economic growth there.  Hong Kong ’s benchmark  Hang Seng index  has
lost about 7 percent in June.  Key assets of the company include the Landmark Macau hotel,
the  Pharaoh’s Palace  casino and the Macau Fisherman’s Wharf
complex. Macau Legend doesn’t have a casino license of its own.  Mainland Chinese tourists have helped turn Macau into the
world’s largest gambling hub, with $38 billion in casino revenue
last year, more than six times the  Las Vegas Strip .  “Based on our conversation with gaming operators, people
still remain quite optimistic about future growth of gaming
revenue in Macau,” Ting said.  Dynam Japan Holdings Co. Ltd., (6889)  a pachinko halls operator in
Japan, has subscribed to $35 million worth of shares in the IPO
as a cornerstone investor.  SJM is one of six operators in Macau that have government
permission to run their own casinos. It operates some casinos in
partnership with companies that don’t have their own license.
Chow served as a legislator in Macau from 2005 to 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  