-- Malaysia Bonds Rebound This Week on Higher Yields; Ringgit Falls
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-07-05T02:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/malaysia-bonds-rebound-this-week-on-higher-yields-ringgit-falls.html
--  Malaysia ’s five-year government
bonds were headed for the first weekly advance in a month after
the highest yields in three years spurred demand for the
securities. The ringgit weakened.  The five-year  yield  reached 3.71 percent on June 26, the
most since June 2010, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  signaled an end to Treasury purchases that have fueled
demand for emerging-market assets. Malaysia’s sovereign debt
weathered the Fed-induced sell-off better than notes elsewhere
in  Southeast Asia  as it offers the highest real returns in the
region, Eastspring Investments said last week.  “The yield levels are attractive because they have risen
quite a bit in the past couple of weeks,” said Nik Mukharriz
Muhammad, fixed-income analyst at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd in
Kuala Lumpur. “Some of the local and foreign investors decided
that it’s a bit more attractive for them.”  The yield on the 3.26 percent notes due March 2018 fell 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, this week to 3.36
percent as of 10:46 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest decline since the five
days ended May 10. The rate was little changed today.  Malaysia’s five-year notes offer a real yield of 1.56
percent after accounting for inflation, compared with 1.16
percent for  Thailand ’s securities and 0.79 percent for
Indonesian bonds. Malaysian bonds gained 0.2 percent in the last
four days, a performance second only to  China  among 10 Asian
debt markets tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  Trade Data  The Southeast Asian nation’s exports probably fell 3
percent in May from a year earlier, which would be the fourth
monthly decline in a row, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey before a government report
today.  The ringgit weakened 0.7 percent this week to 3.1835 per
dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The currency was
little changed today. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, fell 10
basis points this week and seven basis points today to 8.77
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 