-- Malaysia Imposes Controls to Rein in ‘Excessive’ Household Debt
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-07-05T11:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/malaysia-imposes-controls-to-rein-in-excessive-household-debt.html
Malaysia ’s  central bank  imposed a
maximum tenure for mortgages and personal loans today, joining
neighbor  Singapore  in implementing measures to limit risks
stemming from rising household debt.  Household indebtedness levels have been increasing at a
“strong” pace and averaged 12 percent per annum in the past
five years,  Bank Negara  Malaysia said in a statement today.
Banks and other credit providers can now provide mortgage
financing of not more than 35 years from a previous tenure of as
long as 45 years, it said.  “There has been a growing trend in the offering of
financial products that are not in the long-term interest of
consumers,” Bank Negara said. “Such practices encourage
excessive debt accumulation by households and increase the
vulnerability of this sector.”  The latest move adds to controls implemented since 2010
that included limiting the loan-to-value ratio for people taking
out third mortgages, as the regulator sought to pre-empt
speculative activities in the  property market . Singapore’s
central bank last month unveiled a new framework that required
lenders to take a borrower’s total debt into consideration when
granting property loans.  Bank Negara put a cap on the tenure for personal loans at
10 years and banned the offering of pre-approved personal
financing products, according to the statement. All measures are
effective immediately.  “The key credit providers are required to observe prudent
debt service ratios in their credit assessment to ensure
households have sufficient financial buffers to protect them
against rising costs and unexpected adverse events,” Bank
Negara said.  The Thai central bank said in February it will closely
monitor risks stemming from high credit growth, particularly in
consumer financing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  