-- Manager Says Museum Cashiers Trained to Mislead Visitors
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/manager-says-museum-cashiers-trained-to-mislead-visitors.html
Cashiers at the  Metropolitan Museum 
of Art were paid in part based on how much they collected at the
door and management discouraged them from disclosing that the
price of admission can be as little as one cent, a former
employee said in a sworn affidavit.  The statement was filed in late June to support a lawsuit
challenging the museum’s “recommended” admission, which is now
$25 for adults.  Since 1970, anyone visiting can “pay what you wish, but
you must pay something,” the Met said in papers filed in  New
York  State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  In their complaint, New Yorkers Theodore Grunewald and
Patricia Nicholson said the Met deceives the public and violates
an 1893 state law requiring the museum be open without charge
five days a week in exchange for free use of city land.  Gerald Lee Jones said he worked at the museum from 2007 to
2011, mostly supervising cashiers. They were instructed to never
volunteer that visitors may pay less than the “recommended”
fee, he said.  Original Lease  “Cashiers are not only trained to avoid disclosing the
truth about the museum’s admission prices; their compensation
and their continued employment may largely depend on them not
revealing it,” Jones said in court papers.  Harold Holzer , the Met senior vice president for public
affairs, described Jones as “one of many floor managers” and
said Jones’ description of his job is “glib spin on his
experience here.”  The museum tracks what cashiers collect because auditors
require it, Holzer said in an interview.  “It has nothing to do with performance evaluation or
salary,” Holzer said. “We at the museum contest in the
strongest terms the allegations in the Gerald Jones affidavit.
The Met will offer its responses in due course.”  In 1970,  New York City  first waived the free-admissions
provision of its original lease with the museum, the Met said.
Officials repeatedly approved increases in the suggested fee.  But the city never formally amended the lease that required
the museum be free to the public five days a week, the Met
acknowledged in court papers.  Michael Hiller, a lawyer for Grunewald and Nicholson, said
in court papers that instead of “serving the masses” who pay
for the Met through taxes, it’s become “an elite attraction for
tourists and wealthy benefactors.”  In the year ending in June 2012, admissions brought in
$37.8 million, about 16 percent of the Met’s revenue, including
contributions and endowment income, according to its annual
report.  The Met began “pay-what-you-wish” in 1970, in response to
rising operating costs and a declining proportion of funding
from the city government, it said in an April motion to dismiss
the suit.  Initially it was a six-month experiment. August Heckscher,
administrator for the parks department at the time, insisted in
a 1970 letter to the Met that the “amount of the admission fee
is left entirely to the individual’s discretion and that advice
to that effect be conspicuously posted,”  In his affidavit, Jones said that tourists in particular
were confused by the recommended fee and most paid in full.  The case is Grunewald and Nicholson v. the  Metropolitan
Museum of Art , 158002/2012, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 