-- Argentina Applies Law That Jails Hoarders as Bread Surges
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-05T17:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/argentina-applies-law-that-jails-hoarders-as-bread-prices-double.html
Argentina plans to apply a law that
forces holders of wheat and flour suitable for bread making to
sell stock on the domestic market in a bid to contain inflation.  Interior Commerce Secretary Guillermo Moreno announced the
measure in the  official gazette  today. The 1974 law allows
authorities to freeze prices and obliges companies to maintain
supply. Those in breach are subject to fines and imprisonment.  “If the law on supply is applied, the one who should go to
jail is Moreno himself,” former Economy Minister Martin Lousteau said in an interview with Radio Mitre today. “He’s to
blame for the lack of wheat in Argentina.”  Argentine wheat production has decreased since 2006, when
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s predecessor and late
husband Nestor Kirchner set export quotas. Lousteau was
appointed by Fernandez in December 2007 and resigned four months
later amid disputes over a bill that sought to increase export
duties, a move that led to a four-month farmer protest and
failed to move through Congress.  The rising cost of wheat locally has pushed up the price of
bread to 20 pesos per kilo ($3.70), double year-ago levels,
according to Abeceb.com research company.  Andres Alcaraz, spokesman for the grains and oilseeds
exporters associations CIARA-CEC, declined to comment on the
amount of wheat held by exporters in a telephone interview from
Buenos Aires. The Buenos Aires Grains Exchange yesterday
maintained its forecast for wheat area at 3.9 million hectares.  Domestic Consumption  Argentina, the largest wheat producer in South America, has
a domestic consumption of 6 million tons. The harvest in the
2012-2013 season was 9.8 million tons.  Wheat futures for September delivery fell 0.6 percent to
$6.61 a bushel at 12:37 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Moreno closed stores owned by Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
 Carrefour SA (CA)  and  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD)  for a few hours yesterday after the
government found shortages of some goods. Grocers agreed last
month to freeze prices of 500 goods and ensure supply as part of
the government’s efforts to stem  inflation .  While the national statistics agency said prices rose 10.3
percent in May from a year earlier, private economists estimated
prices rose 23.4 percent in the same period.  Last week, the consumer protection agency recommended
Argentines combat price increases by baking bread at home,
posting recipes on its website under the title, “hot bread,
flour at frozen prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  