-- Armed Indians Hurt Hydro Spending by Utilities: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-07-05T15:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/armed-indians-hurt-hydro-spending-by-utilities-corporate-brazil.html
Armed invasions by indigenous groups
and cost surges of as much as 53 percent are making it harder
for the government to lure private investments to hydropower
projects in the Amazon, a cornerstone of President Dilma
Rousseff’s plan to ensure energy supplies.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  and Odebrecht SA, two of the biggest private
developers of plants in the region, will stay on the sidelines
as  Brazil  seeks bidders next month for the 400-megawatt Sinop
dam.  France ’s GDF Suez is focusing on its 16 billion-real ($7.2
billion) Jirau plant and doesn’t plan to submit an offer, said
Business Director Gil Maranhao. Odebrecht also isn’t interested,
its press office said.  Developers of hydropower plants are struggling to control
costs amid construction delays and tensions with tribal groups
being pushed off their lands. State-run Eletrobras and its units
may have to take a controlling interest in the Sinop venture and
may be forced to take increasingly larger ownership of bigger
projects as it becomes harder to attract private investment,
said  Adriano Pires , head of the Brazilian Center for
Infrastructure.  “Hydro plants are infrastructure projects that worry
investors a lot,” Pires said in a telephone interview from Rio
de Janeiro. “The government is taking a bigger stake.”  Eletrobras shares slid 0.6 percent to 8.73 reais at 12:50
p.m. in Sao Paulo.  Kidnappings  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA, as the state utility is
formally known, said last month that three biologists were
kidnapped while preparing environmental studies for the Jatoba
dam on the Tapajos River. The project is part of the
government’s plan to build and auction 33.7 gigawatts of
hydropower capacity in the Amazon through 2018, Thais Prandini,
executive director of Sao Paulo-based research company Thymos
Energia, said in an e-mail.  The incident followed two  occupations  in May of the 11,000-megawatt Belo Monte site by about 200 indigenous people that
shut construction for about 12 days.  Costs for Belo Monte, the dam being built by Norte Energia
SA that’s set to be the world’s third-biggest hydropower
facility, have swelled to an estimated 29 billion reais from 19
billion reais when the project was auctioned in 2010 and are
still rising, Biviany Rojas Garzon, socio-environmental
technician of the Xingu program at environmental group  Instituto
Socioambiental , said in a phone interview from Brasilia.  Higher Forecast  A Norte Energia spokeswoman who didn’t want to be named
because of company policy said the 19 billion-real estimate
wasn’t the consortium’s forecast and set the estimate at 25.8
billion reais when it participated in the bid. Norte Energia is
45 percent owned by Eletrobras and two of its units, according
to its website. State-run pension funds Petros and Funcef
jointly own 20 percent.  With every invasion that halts work, “it becomes more
expensive -- more expensive and fewer people are willing to take
on that risk,” said Marcelo Wood Chiarello, superintendent
director of Cia. Energetica Rio das Antas, a Porto Alegre-based
company that operates three hydro plants in the southern state
of Rio Grande do Sul. “There are some projects that are so
risky no one will participate.”  Conflicts with Amazon tribes are one of the reasons GDF and
Odebrecht are reluctant to get involved with the Sinop auction,
said  Pedro Galdi , an analyst for the market research company SLW
CVC Ltda.  GDF Suez  owns  60 percent of the 3,750-megawatt Jirau
project in Rondonia in western Brazil.  Costs Rise  When GDF Suez won contracts to sell electricity from the
project in a 2008 auction, it estimated the cost to accommodate
the dam’s workforce and relocate the local population at about
550 million reais. About 1.2 billion reais has so far gone to
compensating residents, mitigating environmental damage and
other efforts to reduce the dam’s impact on the region, Business
Director Maranhao said by phone from Rio de Janeiro.  “In the end we decided to build a city with 1,600 houses,
hospitals and shopping centers,” he said.  Odebrecht owns 19 percent of the Santo Antonio hydropower
plant on the Madeira River. The  Salvador , Brazil-based company
hasn’t studied the Sinop project, a press official said in an e-mail who asked not to be identified because of company policy.  Eletrobras doesn’t plan to take controlling stakes in
future plants, though the company does play “a large part in
projects that have a bigger impact on local communities,”
Ronaldo dos Santos Custodio, director of engineering and
operations at Eletrobras unit Eletrosul Centrais Eletricas, said
by phone from Florianopolis, Brazil. “That’s the reason we’re
studying the possibility of participating in Sinop.”  More Protests  Indigenous groups are vowing more protests, further driving
up costs. A set of seven hydroelectric plants planned for the
Tapajos region will submerge half the villages of the Munduruku
tribe, Valdimir Munduruku, the group’s spokesman, said in a
telephone interview.  “Most people have lived their whole lives in their
villages,” he said. If construction goes ahead “we’ll do
something, definitely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  