-- Arsenal, Real Agree on $35 Million Higuain Fee: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-05T07:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/arsenal-real-agree-on-35-million-higuain-fee-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Higuain Fee Agreed  Arsenal agreed to pay Real Madrid a club-record transfer
fee of 23 million pounds ($35 million) for Argentine striker
Gonzalo Higuain, the  Sun reported .  Higuain, 25, will have a medical test today and is expected
to sign a three-year contract with the Gunners worth 100,000
pounds a week, the newspaper added.  Pepe Tops List  Real Madrid defender Pepe is said to be top of  Manchester
City ’s transfer targets, the  Independent reported .  Pepe, 30, is the third-choice center-back at Real and would
be available for about 15 million pounds, the newspaper added.  Saints to Spend?  Southampton is interested in signing former Tottenham
Hotspur target Leandro Damiao, whose Brazilian club wants 21
million pounds for the striker, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Saints manager Mauricio Pochettino is also eyeing Celtic’s
Victor Wanyama and Ever Banega of Valencia to strengthen his
midfield, the newspaper said.  Payment-By-Results  Manchester United  wants  Wayne Rooney  to agree to a new
“payment-by-results” contract if he’s to retain his 250,000-pounds-a-week salary, the  Independent reported .  Rooney’s future at the club may come down to money and
whether he’s willing to accept a contract which factors games
played, goals scored and United’s success, the newspaper added.  Stay Away  Former United manager  Alex Ferguson  could keep a low
profile during  David Moyes ’s first games in charge because his
presence may undermine his successor and put more pressure on
him, the  Guardian reported .  Ferguson is trying to find an executive box at Old Trafford
where he will be able to watch in privacy, and may even stay
away entirely from matches such as Chelsea’s visit on Aug. 24,
the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  