-- Bank of America Boosts U.S. 10-Year Yield Forecast to 3% on Jobs
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-07-05T20:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/bank-of-america-boosts-u-s-10-year-yield-forecast-to-3-on-jobs.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  increased its
year-end forecast for Treasury 10-year yields to 3 percent after
data showed June employment exceeded projections, fueling
speculation the Federal Reserve will reduce monetary stimulus.  “Today’s payroll data, in light of the Fed’s new reaction
function, justifies a move higher in rates,” Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said in a report. The company, one of 21 primary
dealers that trade with the central bank, raised its 10-year
forecast from 2.4 percent issued in early June.  The outlook for higher yields is also supported by so-called convexity hedging linked to mortgage-backed securities,
increased yields on Japanese government securities and outflows
from bond mutual funds, the report said. Treasuries may also be
hurt as investors in  emerging markets  reduce duration and
central banks liquidate dollar reserve assets to support their
local currencies, it said.  U.S. 10-year note yields  rose  22 basis points, or 0.22
percentage point, to 2.73 percent in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was the biggest one-day yield
increase since August 2011.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last month policy makers
may “moderate” their bond-buying program this year and may end
it mid-2014 if growth meets forecasts. Economists at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the Fed will
begin tapering sooner than they had expected after today’s Labor
Department report, which showed employers added 195,000 workers
to payrolls for a second month in June. .  “Our economists have also revised their Fed calls since
our last forecast -- we now expect tapering to be announced by
the end of the year and the first Fed hike in mid-2015,” the
report said.  The central bank has kept its target rate for overnight
lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008 to support the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  