-- Basel Probes Banks’ Diverging Views of Risk-Weighted Assets
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-07-05T12:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/basel-examines-banks-diverging-views-of-risk-weighted-assets.html
Global regulators are weighing steps
to ensure that  banks  take a realistic view of the possible
losses on their investments, after uncovering variations in how
lenders assess risk.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said that a
study of 32 global banks had found “material” differences in
how much capital lenders thought was needed to guard against
possible losses on assets such as corporate and household debt.  The variations meant that some lenders were backing
investments with as much as 20 percent more capital than other
banks, the Basel group said in a report published on its  website 
today.  “The considerable variation observed warrants further
attention,”  Stefan Ingves , chairman of the Basel committee,
said in the statement. “Information from this study on the
relative positions of banks is being used by national
supervisors and banks to take action to improve consistency.”  U.S. bankers, including Jamie Dimon, chief executive
officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have claimed that flexible
implementation of previous rounds of Basel rules in the European
Union has allowed European lenders to hold less capital against
some assets than their U.S. counterparts.  Asset Riskiness  International standards set by the Basel committee require
banks to meet minimum capital requirements, measured as a
percentage of their assets. The amount of capital that must be
held is linked to the riskiness of the assets, with large banks
allowed to use their own models to calculate the likelihood of
losses. This process is known as risk weighting.  The Basel group’s review of risk models is “a step forward
and will show us what kind of specific implementation there is
of the Basel rules in banks,” Bundesbank Vice President Sabine Lautenschlaeger, a member of the Basel group, said in a
telephone interview. “Some of the problems that arise from risk
weighting can be addressed using these kinds of exercises.”  The Basel study, which focused on assets banks intend
to hold to maturity, found that North American  banks  “generally
have above-average risk weights.” Lenders from other parts of
the world “did not show any strong pattern overall, as banks
from those regions can be found on both ends of the scale,”
according to the document.  Risk Weightings  Still, the findings show that European banks generally
apply lower risk weights to their holdings of bank-issued debt
than lenders based elsewhere.  While most banks’ included in the exercise had risk
weightings within 10 percent of each other, there were some
outliers, the report said.  The Basel group is weighing a range of possible options for
ensuring that banks’ risk models are realistic, according to the
report. These range from rules requiring lenders to disclose
more information on how they calculate possible losses to
“more explicit constraints,” such as the setting of minimum
risk levels for some assets.  “The short-term policy options that the committee will
consider include enhanced disclosure, additional guidance and
possible clarifications of the Basel framework,” the group
said. “Over the medium term, the committee will examine the
potential to further harmonize implementation requirements and
to put constraints” on the risk estimates produced by bank
models, the group said.  Capital Requirements  Concerns about banks’ ability to reduce their capital
requirements by simply changing how they measure the risk of
losses on their assets have prompted investigations by
regulators and calls from some supervisors for more
reliance on simpler, non-risk-sensitive capital rules, known as
leverage ratios.  U.S. regulators indicated this week that JPMorgan,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will be among eight
U.S. banks to face tougher leverage ratios than required under
Basel rules.  The Basel committee published a draft leverage ratio in
2010 as part of a general overhaul of its bank capital
standards. The group is working on the details of the measure,
which is scheduled to become binding on banks from 2018. It
would require banks to hold Tier 1 capital equivalent to 3
percent of their assets, with no scope for these assets to be
risk weighted.  Supervisor ‘Toolbox’  Today’s review should be used as an opportunity to
improve risk-weighted capital requirements, not to move away
from them, Lautenschlaeger said.  “Without doubt, we need a leverage ratio, but it is only
one of the instruments in a well-stocked toolbox used by
supervisors,” she said. By not taking into account what kinds
of investments a bank is making, a leverage ratio “incentivizes
banks to have a high-risk profile,” she said.  “Taking a leverage ratio alone or making it dominant would
be a mistake because you can’t compensate for the disadvantage
of creating a system of unhealthy incentives,” she said.  Once the Basel group has completed its investigations,
it “will have to take a stance on it all,” Ingves said in an
interview earlier this week. The group will need to “think
about whether the differences” in how banks measure risk “are
too big, and what we, in that case, will do about that,” he
said.  Risk Model  The impact of risk-model variations on banks’ capital
requirements “could be material,” according to the report.
Capital ratios could vary by as much as 1.5 to 2 percentage
points, or 15 to 20 percent in relative terms.  “In my opinion, there is no major problem as long as the
outliers can be explained satisfactorily,” Lautenschlaeger
said. “I’m sure that others assess this differently, and see
the variations as too large.”  It was a good sign that the “degree of variation” was
broadly similar whether banks were assessed under so-called
Basel I rules, which have fixed risk weightings, or Basel II
rules, which give lenders more scope to use internal models, she
said.  The group’s assessment of 32 banks was part of a broader
study of the risk models lenders’ use on assets they intend to
hold to maturity.  Corporate debt and retail investments such as mortgages are
the greatest source of variations in risk weighting, according
to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  