-- Bernanke Seen Sticking to QE Tapering Plan After Jobs Report
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-07-05T20:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/bernanke-seen-holding-to-qe-tapering-plan-after-payrolls-report.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has reason to maintain his plan to start pulling back
on bond purchases this year after today’s report showing
payrolls growth beat economists’ forecasts.  “These data likely keep the Fed on the taper trail,”  Tony Crescenzi , executive vice president at  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said today
in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said the  Federal Open Market Committee  will begin tapering
sooner than they had expected after today’s Labor Department
report, which showed employers added 195,000 workers to payrolls
for a second month in June. The gain exceeded the median
forecast for a 165,000 increase in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  “Coming into today, our call for a December first taper
was already probably a little underwater, and after today’s
report we are moving to a call for a first reduction in asset
purchases at the September FOMC meeting,”  Michael Feroli , chief
U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase, wrote in a note to clients.  Treasuries sank, sending the 10-year yield to the highest
since August 2011, while the dollar rallied as the report fueled
bets the Fed will begin to reduce the bond buying intended to
fuel growth and put more Americans back to work. Stocks trimmed
early gains.  Dollar Index  The rate on the 10-year U.S. note climbed 23 basis points
to 2.73 percent as of 4:40 p.m. in  New York , and the Dollar
Index, which tracks the currency against six major peers, rose
1.4 percent to 84.43. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1
percent to 1,631.89.  “The market’s already priced in the tapering,” Crescenzi
said. “The market is pulling forward the date at which it
thinks the tapering will turn to no asset purchases.”  A plurality of economists in a June 19-20 Bloomberg survey
said the central bank will reduce the pace of its asset
purchases at the Sept. 17-18 meeting of the FOMC. In its first
move, the Fed will reduce purchases to a monthly pace of $65
billion from the current $85 billion, according to the survey.  Fed officials next meet July 30-31 in  Washington , yet they
will not update their economic forecasts, and Bernanke isn’t
scheduled to hold a press conference after that meeting. By the
time of the September meeting, the Labor Department will have
published jobs reports for July and August, giving the Fed more
information to make a decision.  Initial Cutback  Today’s report “reinforces the view that the Fed can get
the first initial cutback in asset purchases out of the way in
September without creating any presumptions about when the
phase-out process will end,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist
at Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , who projected
a gain of 190,000 for June payrolls.  In order for July and August payrolls numbers to derail a
September tapering of quantitative easing, “it would have to be
really bad, and it would have to be bad in a way that raised
doubts about economic activity as a whole,” Crandall said.  Job gains and a rebound in housing are shoring up
Americans’ finances and boosting expectations that the economy
will gain momentum even after the  payroll tax  increased and
government agencies began to cut spending.  Private payrolls, which don’t include government agencies,
increased 202,000 in June after a 207,000 gain the prior month.  Bernanke last month said the central bank may start
tapering later this year if economic performance meets the Fed’s
expectations.  ‘Broadly Consistent’  “If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this
forecast, the committee currently anticipates that it would be
appropriate to moderate the monthly pace of purchases later this
year,” Bernanke said in a June 19 press conference.  Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  said officials should consider
economic data since the program began last year, rather than
looking only at the most recent figures. The FOMC should “be
clear that in making a decision in, say, September, it will give
primary weight to the large stock of news that has accumulated
since the inception of the program,” Stein said in a June 28
speech in New York.  The  unemployment rate  has fallen to 7.6 percent from 8.1
percent last August, the most recent figure available when the
Fed launched the program the following month. Payroll gains in
the six months before QE3 averaged 97,000. As of today’s report,
monthly job gains averaged 202,000 in the first half of 2013.  Varying Dates  Not all economists expected tapering as soon as September
before today’s report. Fifteen percent of those surveyed June
19-20 said tapering would come in October, while 28 percent
picked the Fed’s December meeting. The remaining 13 percent said
the Fed won’t begin reducing purchases until at least next year.  Bernanke said that “when asset purchases ultimately come
to an end, the unemployment rate would likely be in the vicinity
of 7 percent” which would probably happen around mid-2014.  Today’s report showed no progress toward that goal. The
jobless rate remained at 7.6 percent for the second consecutive
month. The rate reached 7.6 percent in March for the first time
since the end of the last recession.  If the rate doesn’t begin to decline, Fed officials may not
end the program as early as Bernanke outlined, said  John Silvia ,
the chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina .  “I just can’t envision them cutting the quantitative
easing to zero while the unemployment rate is still hovering
above 7 percent,” said Silvia, who forecast the economy would
add 185,000 jobs in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  