-- Bitcoin Trust, HSBC Accord, Deloitte-Spain: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/bitcoin-trust-hsbc-accord-deloitte-spain-compliance.html
Cameron and  Tyler Winklevoss ’s
proposal for an investment tracking the virtual currency Bitcoin
faces a protracted fight to win over regulators and market
makers.  The twins, who attended Harvard University at the same time
as  Facebook (FB)  founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and claimed in a lawsuit
that the idea for the social media site was theirs, this week
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to create
the Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust, a variation of an exchange-traded
fund that would hold Bitcoins and issue shares on a secondary
exchange.  The trust would be the first product in the $2 trillion ETF
industry to track a virtual asset, rather than securities such
as stocks and bonds or commodities such as gold and oil. The
biggest hurdle for the 31-year-old brothers is persuading the
SEC, which has moved haltingly when approving funds that break
new ground, to give their product the green light. The
examination could take years, according to Reginald Browne, head
of exchange-traded product trading at Knight Capital Group Inc.  The trust aims to attract investors who might be put off by
the complexities and costs associated with trading in the
digital currency.  “We recognized that there was not an easy way to gain
Bitcoin exposure, so we’re trying to creating a simple
solution,” Tyler Winklevoss said in an e-mailed statement.  Bitcoin is a virtual currency that can be used to buy and
sell a broad range of items. The Winklevosses own about $10
million of Bitcoins, 1 percent of the outstanding amount.  Regulators haven’t released comprehensive guidance on how
Bitcoins might be regulated.  The SEC’s division of corporate finance reviews
registration statements for securities issuers to make sure they
comply with disclosure requirements,  John Nester , a spokesman,
said in an interview. The review doesn’t produce any comment on
a product’s utility, he said. The Bitcoin trust would also
require approval from the agency’s division for trading and
markets, he said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  European Drug Group to Require Disclosing Payments to Doctors  Drugmakers operating in Europe must disclose payments made
to doctors starting in 2016 in an effort to boost transparency
and make patients aware of possible conflicts of interest.  The new ethical code requires all members of the  European
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations  to
disclose payments made in 2015 by 2016, the trade group said in
a  statement  July 2.  Each company must reveal names of health-care professionals
and associations that have received payments, the amounts, and
the types of relationships on their websites or on a common
website, EFPIA said. The rule follows a similar U.S. provision
in President  Barack Obama ’s health law.  The  Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry 
started publishing aggregate totals in May of payments made last
year to health-care professionals.  China Bond Futures May Trade in September, Journal Says  China may restart trading of government bond futures in
September, the China Securities Journal reported July 3, adding
to signs an 18-year ban is drawing to an end.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission will decide on
an exact time for the start of trading after the State Council
approved the plan for government bond futures, the newspaper,
which is controlled by the official Xinhua News Agency, reported
July 3, citing people it didn’t identify. Trial trading of the
futures during the past year has gone smoothly, the paper said.  China first allowed trading of treasury futures in 1992,
before ordering a halt in 1995 after a probe into market
manipulation led to the jailing of Guan Jinsheng, then president
of Shanghai International Securities Co.  Regulators have sought to restart trading to provide
investors with a hedging tool for the fixed-income market.  The securities regulator didn’t immediately respond to
faxed questions seeking comment.  Compliance Action  Spain May Sanction Deloitte for Failure to Probe Bankia Assets  Spain started proceedings to sanction Deloitte SL and
partner Francisco Celma Sanchez over their role as auditors of
 Bankia SA (BKIA)  before it was nationalized last year.  The Spanish Accounting and Audit Institute, a unit of the
Economy Ministry, said Deloitte may have breached rules that
could have compromised its independence as an auditor, according
to a June 13 report obtained by Bloomberg. Sanctions may include
a fine or, in the worst case, stripping Deloitte and Celma of
their licenses to work as auditors in Spain, the report showed.  Deloitte may have had a conflict of interest because it
advised Bankia’s parent company on its corporate structure at
the same time it was auditing the lender, the institute said.  “This proceeding could perfectly well be dismissed or
could conclude with a proposed penalty,” Deloitte said in an e-mailed statement. “The proceeding focuses on technical
formalities which in no case represent a modification of the
entity’s audited financial statements.”  Deloitte has 15 days from June 13 to respond to the
allegations, the document said. Spokesmen at Bankia and the
Economy Ministry in Madrid declined to comment and a spokeswoman
for Deloitte referred questions to the statement.  Glaxo, Danone Probed as China Scrutinizes Foreign Companies  China’s probes of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Danone (BN)  highlight
challenges for foreign companies in a market where they may be a
bigger “prize” for regulators seeking to allay concerns that
medicines and foods are unsafe.  The U.K. drugmaker is being probed for alleged bribery,
while Danone, along with  Nestle SA’s (NESN)  Wyeth brand,  Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , are under investigation
for pricing that may have violated anti-monopoly laws.  Demands for a government crackdown on safety violations has
taken hold in China, partly fueled by food-product scandals, and
Premier  Li Keqiang , who took office in March, has pledged to
root out consumer abuses. More than two thirds of member
companies that responded to a survey by the American Chamber of
Commerce in Shanghai released in February said the regulatory
environment was either “not improving” or “deteriorating.”  A senior Glaxo finance executive in Shanghai and employees
in Beijing were detained as part of a corruption investigation,
the  South China Morning Post  reported on July 1, citing an
unidentified person from Shanghai’s drug industry. Simon Steel,
a Glaxo spokesman in London, declined to comment on June 30
about whether any staff have been arrested or detained.  Police in the southern city of Changsha said June 28 that
senior Glaxo China executives were suspected of economic crimes
and were being investigated, without elaboration. The company is
unclear about the nature of the investigation, Steel said.  Danone, Nestle’s Wyeth brand, Mead Johnson, Abbott
Laboratories, Dutch producer Royal FrieslandCampina NV as well
as local firm  Biostime International Holdings Ltd. (1112)  are being
investigated by the National Development and Reform Commission,
China’s top economic planning agency, for pricing of their
 infant formula , the official People’s Daily reported July 2.  The agency didn’t answer at least five calls or respond to
a fax seeking comment on its investigation.  The NDRC has evidence the companies sold products at high
prices in China and their prices have increased about 30 percent
since 2008, according to the newspaper, which is published by
the Communist Party.  Danone, Mead Johnson and Nestle said they are cooperating
with the authorities. Biostime hasn’t received any official
feedback or information on possible penalties from the NDRC,
Jason Xu, the firm’s assistant chief financial officer, said
over the phone July 3. Jan-Willem ter Avest, a spokesman from
Royal FrieslandCampina, said in an e-mail that the company is
fully cooperating with the government to comply with pricing
policies and regulations. A spokesman for Abbott couldn’t be
reached for comment.  Courts  HSBC Judge Approves $1.9 Billion Accord on Money Laundering  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s $1.9 billion agreement with the U.S. to
resolve charges it enabled Latin American drug cartels to
launder billions of dollars was approved by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn, New York,
signed off July 1 on a deferred-prosecution agreement, a
critical component of the London-based bank’s settlement. The
order was filed more than six months after the government
announced reaching an accord with the bank.  Both sides argued Gleeson didn’t have the power to approve
or reject the terms they came to, the judge said in his order.
Gleeson disagreed, writing in his order that the court is “not
a potted plant” and approving the deferred-prosecution
agreement is “the legitimate exercise of the court’s
authority.”  HSBC was accused of failing to monitor more than $670
billion in wire transfers and more than $9.4 billion in
purchases of U.S. currency from HSBC Mexico, allowing for money
laundering, prosecutors said.  Gleeson said he will continue supervising implementation of
the deal, under which the bank agreed not to contest criminal
charges of failing to maintain an effective anti-money-laundering program, among other violations.  The bank, Europe’s largest, agreed to pay a $1.25 billion
forfeiture and $665 million in civil penalties, prosecutors
announced in December.  The case is U.S. v. HSBC Bank USA NA, 12-cr-00763, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Interviews  Mucci, Valliere, Others Comment on Health-Law Mandate Delay  Martin Mucci, chief executive officer of  Paychex Inc. (PAYX) ,
talked about the Obama administration’s decision to delay a
crucial provision of its health-care law, giving businesses an
extra year to comply with a requirement to provide their workers
with insurance.  The delay is a “positive” for employers, he said. Mucci
spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Greg Valliere , chief political strategist at  Potomac
Research Group , described the decision to delay the provision as
“blow” to Obama.  He was joined by New York University professor J.P. Eggers
and  Eurasia Group  President  Ian Bremmer  in a discussion with  Tom
Keene , Scarlet Fu and Alix Steel on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  