-- Bond Darwinism Buoys Default-Tested Corporates: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   N e w l e y   P u r n e l l
-- 2013-07-05T17:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/bond-darwinism-buoys-default-tested-corporates-argentina-credit.html
Argentine company bonds, buffered by
the third-highest yields in the world and reduced debt burdens,
are defying a global selloff to post the best returns in
emerging markets.  Dollar bonds from Argentine companies including  Pan
American  Energy LLC and Aeropuertos Argentina 2000 SA gained 6.8
percent this year, including reinvested interest, as corporate
notes globally lost 1.3 percent, according to data compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. Argentina’s
government securities, ensnared by a legal dispute over
defaulted debt, have lost 12 percent in 2013, the third worst
decline among 56 developing nations tracked by JPMorgan.  Speculation the  Federal Reserve  may soon curb unprecedented
stimulus has sparked a  surge in Treasury yields  that’s wracked
the world’s safest corporate debt, while concern that liquidity
will decline is prompting record outflows from emerging market
bond funds. Argentine companies, whose bonds pay 11.23 percent,
have net debt that’s an average 1.9 times earnings, according to
 Fitch Ratings . That’s in line with U.S. companies ranked BBB+,
or eight levels higher than Argentina’s B- cap for most
corporate ratings.  “Our view is that since Argentina’s been really cut off
from international markets, anything that say  Ben Bernanke  says
has less of an effect on Argentine corporates,” Mariela Anguiano, an analyst at BCP Securities LLC, said in a telephone
interview from Greenwich,  Connecticut . “Many of these companies
have very strong fundamentals, but are essentially just in a bad
neighborhood.”  Outflows Quickening  Yields on 10-year U.S. Treasuries have surged 0.91
percentage point, or 91 basis points, to 2.72 percent in the
past two months. The extra yield investors demand to own
Argentine company bonds instead of the benchmarks slipped 13
basis points in the period to 960 basis points on July 3,
according to JPMorgan index data. Markets were closed yesterday
in the U.S. for a holiday.  Outflows from  emerging markets  are quickening, with
investors withdrawing a record $5.7 billion from bond funds in
the week through June 26 after Bernanke said he could cut back
stimulus as the U.S. labor market improves, EPFR Global data
compiled by Morgan Stanley show.  BCP recommends clients buy dollar bonds due 2021 from Pan
American Energy, the country’s largest oil exporter. The
securities, which yield 8.43 percent, have returned 16.7 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pan American  Pan American is operated by 40 percent-owner Bridas Corp.,
a joint venture between the billionaire Bulgheroni brothers and
state-owned Chinese producer Cnooc Ltd. BP Plc owns the other 60
percent, and allows the Argentine brothers to manage the
company.  Pan American’s ratio of net debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization fell to 1.1 times
in the first quarter from 1.5 in 2012. Profit surged in the
three months through March by 31 percent to 607.5 million pesos
($113 million) after the oil producer secured higher export
prices from the government.  Guillermo Baistrocchi, a press official for Pan American
Energy, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails and telephone
calls seeking comment on the company’s bond performance.  BCP also recommends Aeropuertos  Argentina  2000’s $270
million of 10.75 percent amortizing notes due 2020. The
securities, which have returned 14.4 percent this year to date,
pay 13.19 percent, more than double the average for emerging-market corporate debt. The company has contracts to operate 33
of Argentina’s 54 airports for the next 15 years.  Airport Operator  Carolina Barros, a press official for Corp. America SA, the
holding company for Aeropuertos Argentina, declined to comment.  The world’s third-highest inflation, tightening currency
controls and the threat of further nationalizations after the
takeover of YPF SA in 2012 have prevented Argentine companies
from accessing international debt capital markets for over a
year. Heavy regulatory and tax burdens along with a poor
investment climate add significant sovereign risk to even
companies that are fundamentally sound, according to Greg Saichin, who helps oversee about $212 billion as head of
emerging market and high yield portfolio management at Pioneer
Investments in  London .  “For companies servicing coupons, amortizations and debt
repayment, there is always constant risk of falling into
technical default due to the inability to source and transfer
dollar payments,” Saichin wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions. Sovereign risk “constitutes the dominant risk
here.”  ‘Darwinism’ Survival  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine
government debt over Treasuries narrowed 26 basis points to
1,178 basis points at 2:03 p.m. in  Buenos Aires , according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  The cost of insuring Argentine debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps fell 34 basis points to
2,910 basis points yesterday, according to prices compiled by
CMA Ltd. That level implies an 88 percent probability of
default.  Argentine firms have largely been successful building
capital structures to defend against the policy mix of current
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, according to Joe Bormann, a managing director at Fitch in  Chicago .  “There is a degree of Darwinism in terms of survival of
the fittest in Argentina,” Bormann said in a telephone
interview. “There are some extremely strong companies. They’re
trying to position themselves as best they can to weather the
storm.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Newley Purnell in New York at 
 npurnell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  