-- Boz Scaggs on ‘Memphis’ Sessions, Singing Jack Nicholson
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 7 4 9 9 5 4 3 ]   J e f f r e y   B u r k e   [ ]
-- 2013-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/boz-scaggs-on-memphis-sessions-singing-jack-nicholson.html
Almost four decades after his album
“Silk Degrees” occupied the charts for 115 weeks, Boz Scaggs
is on the road again, supporting his first solo album in five
years.  He recorded “ Memphis ,” a compilation of covers, in three
days at the Tennessee city’s historic Royal Studios, one of the
oldest in the world.  Scaggs, 69, is on a brief hiatus from the Dukes of
September Rhythm Revue, his blues super-group with Steely Dan’s
Donald Fagen and the Doobie Brothers’ Michael McDonald.  We spoke by phone during an earlier break in his  tour ,
which has stops in  Connecticut ,  Massachusetts ,  Pennsylvania  and
 New Jersey  through July 10.  Grant: How did the “Memphis” sessions come together?  Scaggs: I sifted through a number of songs and assembled a
rhythm section. The difference from other records was that I
didn’t want to produce; I wanted to just be a singer. I also
wanted to work with drummer Steve Jordan ( Eric Clapton , John Mayer) as producer.  Grant:  Al Green ’s “So Good to Be Here” was an interesting
choice. Was that meant as a homage to Willie Mitchell’s legacy
at Royal?  Scaggs: Steve presented it to me as a song he hadn’t heard
anyone else do. It was new to me, and I loved it.  Grant: Is there a song on “Memphis” that you interpret
differently in your life today than when you first came across
it?  Right Mood  Scaggs: It happens a lot. A year or so ago, a good friend
of mine died. In trying to find some material that would apply
for that memorial situation, Tony Joe White’s “Rainy Night in
 Georgia ” came into my head and I just picked up the guitar. The
mood of the song seemed to be fitting for that occasion.  When the song came up as a choice in the studio, it was
very, very late, the first night -- two or three in the morning.
When we played it that night, it held significance for us. That
happens a lot in looking for songs in my collaboration with
Donald Fagen and  Michael McDonald .  Grant: Did you consider bringing Fagen or McDonald with you
on the “Memphis” tour?  Scaggs: Well, they have extensive solo careers and Donald
also tours with Steely Dan. We worked together quite a bit last
year, and now we’ve got our individual stuff going on. The plan
is to reconvene at the end of this year and get back on the road
soon.  Grant: I’m amazed at how well “Lido” has held up over
time. Do you remember the sessions?  Newman, Nicholson  Scaggs: Well, I would get together with David Paich (Toto,
 Michael Jackson ), who was a keyboard player, and sketch out the
arrangement ideas before the session itself.  The only song that I recall that really we felt something
extraordinary for was “Lowdown.”  I don’t recall feeling that about “Lido.” I do remember,
after the record came out and it was a hit, I was playing at the
Universal Amphitheatre in  Los Angeles . Randy Newman and  Jack Nicholson  came backstage to say hi to me. I’d never met either
of them, and Jack Nicholson starting singing “Lido” and
really, really loved it and told me about the energy of the
song. And of course that’s an image that I always have now.  It’s had that effect and still does in concert. I often
close the main part of the set with it. It just never fails to
get people up and singing along. It’s a strange bird.  Grant: “Silk Degrees” was a gold mine. It was also your
seventh album. Did that feel late to you?  Scaggs: I’ve thought about it over the years and I think
there are some real reasons for it. It goes back to the right
time and the right place.  It was a time when urban R&B connected with mainstream.
Radio and general music were sort of crossing over and a lot of
R&B trends were combining with pop music and the album was able
to connect to both sides of the radio dial.  (Sarah Grant works for  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are her own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Peter
Rainer  on  film . 