-- Brazil’s Ethanol Demand Seen Rising by Copersucar on Fuel Price
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-05T16:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/brazil-s-ethanol-demand-seen-rising-by-copersucar-on-fuel-price.html
Ethanol demand in  Brazil , the largest
sugar producer, is set to gain as the price of the biofuel at
the pump is now more competitive than gasoline, according to Sao
Paulo-based trader and producer Copersucar SA.  Ethanol prices are 62 percent to 63 percent that of
gasoline, a level that will start attracting demand, Luis Roberto Pogetti, chairman of Copersucar, said in an interview in
 London  today. Brazilian flex fuel cars can run on either a mix
of ethanol and gasoline or pure biofuel. Filling up with ethanol
usually becomes more advantageous than with gasoline at the
parity of 65 percent, researcher Datagro Ltd. estimates.  Millers in Brazil’s center south, the main growing region,
will direct less cane to making sugar this season from a year
earlier as ethanol will be more profitable, Pogetti said. The
share of cane used to make the sweetener in the 2013-14 crop
year that started in April will be 43 percent, lower than the
market expectation of 45 percent, he said. Last year, 49 percent
of cane was used to make sugar, industry group Unica data show.  “If the current parity is maintained, we start to
stimulate demand,” he said. “When the harvest started, the
price of ethanol fell fast at the producer level, but it didn’t
fall as fast at the pump. It took some time for this to reach
consumers.”  Record Cane  The sugar cane crop in the center south will be a record
590 million metric tons this year, according to Copersucar.
Sugar production will reach 35 million tons and ethanol output
will be 27 billion liters (7.1 billion gallons), Pogetti said.
Last year, millers made 34.1 million tons of sweetener and 21.4
billion liters of biofuel, data from Unica in  Sao Paulo  showed.  Unseasonal wet weather in the region interrupted harvesting
and about 10 days of crushing this season has been lost, he
said. Millers may not be able to process all of the crop if the
rain continues, he said.  Brazil will also make more ethanol as a falling local
currency means that millers now have the opportunity to export
to the U.S. to meet the advanced biofuels mandate, he said. The
Brazilian real fell 9.4 percent in the second quarter, making it
the worst performer in a basket of 24 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Changes to currency have also made it
unlikely that Brazil will keep importing corn ethanol from the
U.S., Pogetti said.  Corn Futures  “If you look at corn futures and the  exchange rate , it’s
not viable to have business from the U.S. to Brazil,” he said,
referring to ethanol imports. “At the same time, we now have a
positive arbitrage for exports of advanced ethanol to the U.S.
This is one more economic incentive to make ethanol.”  While a weaker currency has increased the opportunity to
export ethanol to the U.S., a large corn crop there will mean
that Brazil’s biofuel shipments will drop from a year earlier,
Copersucar forecasts. Ethanol exports from the center south will
be 2.5 billion liters in 2013-14 from 3 billion liters a year
earlier, according to Pogetti.  A falling real has meant that the price at which millers
favor ethanol over sugar is now lower, he said. The biofuel is
now 17.5 cents a pound, compared with 18-19 cents Copersucar had
forecast earlier this year, he said. Even with the fall, ethanol
is still trading above raw sugar at 16.28 cents a pound on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  