-- Brazil Real Drops as U.S. Payroll Gains Overshadow Intervention
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a r a
-- 2013-07-05T14:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/brazil-real-drops-as-u-s-payroll-gains-overshadow-intervention.html
Brazil’s real fell as U.S. payroll
gains added to speculation the  Federal Reserve  will curtail a
stimulus program that has buoyed emerging-market assets,
overshadowing intervention by Brazil’s central bank.  The real depreciated 0.9 percent to 2.2690 per  U.S. dollar 
at 11:26 a.m. in Sao Paulo, the weakest level since April 2009
on a closing basis. The currency extended its weekly drop to 1.7
percent. Swap rates on contracts due in January declined three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.84 percent. They
haven fallen nine basis points since June 28.  Brazil sold $1.9 billion worth of currency swap contracts
today to stem the real’s decline in the 12th day of intervention
in five weeks. Central bank president Alexandre Tombini said on
June 18 that policy makers are working to reduce the
inflationary pressure that may stem from a drop in the real.  “It’s very likely that they’ll intervene again if
needed,” Joao Paulo de Gracia Correa, currency manager at
Correparti Corretora, said in a telephone interview from
Curitiba,  Brazil .  Shorter-term swap rates fell after a report showed
inflation slowed in June more than analysts forecast, damping
speculation that the central bank will increase borrowing costs
at a faster pace.  Consumer prices rose 0.26 percent in June after a 0.37
percent increase in the prior month. The rate was lower than the
0.33 percent median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. While annual inflation of 6.70 percent exceeded the
6.50 percent upper level of the central bank’s target range, it
was slower than the 6.77 percent median forecast.  Brazil’s currency dropped along with most of the dollar’s
emerging-market counterparts as the U.S. Labor Department
reported that employers added more positions than forecast in
June. The jobless rate held at 7.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Lara in Sao Paulo at 
 plara6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  