-- Brazil Sugar-Cane Use for Fuel Seen by Datagro Above Outlook
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-05T14:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/brazil-s-sugar-cane-use-for-fuel-seen-by-datagro-beating-outlook.html
Sugar millers in  Brazil ’s center
south, the main growing region of the largest producer, will use
more of this year’s crop to make ethanol than previously
forecast because of unseasonal rain, Datagro Ltd. said.  Wet weather at the end of May and in June, usually the dry
season, reduced the crop’s potential to yield sugar, Plinio Nastari, president of the Barueri, Brazil-based researcher, said
in an interview yesterday. Millers will direct 53.8 percent of
the cane harvested in the 2013-14 season that started there in
April to making ethanol, up from a previous forecast of 52.6
percent, he said. Brazil makes both the sweetener and the
biofuel from sugar cane. Nastari didn’t give a new estimate.  “The fact that it rained a lot at the end of May and in
June is increasing the prospects that the mix will favor more
ethanol than previously forecast,” Nastari said before
Datagro’s and the Brazil government’s Sugar & Ethanol Summit in
 London  today. “When it rains, the sucrose that was in the
mature cane goes back to being glucose and fructose and you
can’t crystallize as much as you want and millers are therefore
forced to turn these sugars into ethanol.”  Millers in the center south will process a record 586.1
million metric tons of sugar cane in 2013-14 and make 35.3
million tons of sugar, Nastari said. Last year, sugar production
was 34.1 million tons, data from Sao Paulo-based industry group
Unica showed. Ethanol output in the area will be 25.5 billion
liters, Datagro forecasts. That compares with 21.4 billion
liters in 2012-13, according to Unica data.  Slumping Real  While a slumping Brazilian real has made exports of the
sweetener sold in dollars more attractive, millers won’t be able
to take advantage of that in the short-term because of the rain,
Nastari said. The Brazilian real fell 9.4 percent in the second
quarter, making it the worst performer in a basket of 24
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The lower real
meant that ethanol was trading below sugar, Deutsche Bank AG
said on May 25. Raw sugar fell 4.2 percent in the quarter.  A weaker local currency boosted the price difference
between gasoline in the Brazilian and international markets and
increased the chances that  Latin America ’s biggest economy will
allow a second increase in fuel prices this year, Nastari said.
Brazilian gasoline was 19 percent below the international level
on June 18, compared with 13 percent a month earlier, he said.  The Brazilian government controls the price of fuel.
Earlier this year, it allowed state-controlled oil company
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, or Petobras, to lift prices of gasoline
at refineries 6.6 percent. Higher gasoline prices increase the
competitiveness of ethanol at the pump.  Real Devaluation  “The real devaluation makes the gasoline price discrepancy
more acute,” Nastari said. “It becomes unsustainable to keep
the subsidy policy on gasoline.”  Ethanol prices at the pump in Brazil are 62.3 percent to 63
percent that of gasoline, below the threshold of 65 percent that
makes ethanol more advantageous for consumers, Nastari said.
That means demand for the biofuel is set to rise, he said.  Brazil will export 4.1 billion liters (1.08 billion
gallons) of ethanol to the U.S. in 2013-14, up from 3.03 billion
liters a year earlier, according to Datagro. The U.S. will need
Brazilian ethanol to meet its advanced biofuels mandate, Nastari
said.  Imports of U.S. ethanol, made from corn, into Brazil will
climb because the harvest in the South American country’s
northeast region was smaller in 2012-13 and will probably fall
further in 2013-14, Nastari said. Imports were estimated at 520
million liters from 213 million liters a year earlier, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 