-- Brazil June Consumer Prices Rise Less Than Analysts Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-07-05T13:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/brazil-june-consumer-prices-rise-less-than-analysts-forecast-1-.html
Brazilian consumer  prices (BZPIIPCM)  rose less
in June than analysts forecast, reducing pressure on the central
bank to boost the pace of interest-rate increases when it holds
its monetary policy meeting next week.  Prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA index increased
0.26 percent in the month, the slowest in a year, the national
statistics agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. The number was
lower than every  estimate  from 35 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, whose median forecast was for a 0.33 percent rise.
Annual inflation accelerated to 6.7 percent from 6.5 percent,
compared with a median estimate of 6.77 percent.  The central bank will raise the benchmark Selic rate by 50
basis points rather than 75, as some traders have been betting
in recent weeks, said  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual
Investimentos.  “I do believe now the bets for a greater hike in the Selic
rate won’t materialize,” Perfeito said in a phone interview
from Sao Paulo. “Fifty basis points is the right call now for
monetary policy.”  Above-target inflation has hurt purchasing power and
domestic consumption in Latin American’s biggest economy even as
the government undertakes stimulus measures. Growth unexpectedly
slowed in the first quarter, with household spending dropping to
its lowest level since 2011. Finance Minister Guido Mantega on
June 27 cited fiscal restraint in delaying new tax breaks, and
days later President Dilma Rousseff said fiscal control helps
contain inflation.  Spending Cuts  The government will announce spending cuts next week
totaling less than 15 billion reais ($6.7 billion), Mantega
said, according to the website of the G1 channel of Globo TV.
Mantega said the main goal is meeting the primary surplus target
of 2.3 percent of gross domestic product, he said.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 9.74 percent at 10:20 a.m. local time. The
real weakened 0.8 percent to 2.2663 per U.S. dollar.  “The worsening of family and business sentiment is
partially fueled by price increases in segments with high
visibility, such as food, fuel and public tariffs,” the central
bank said in its quarterly inflation report released last week.
“In the short-term, annual inflation still has a tendency to
rise and the balance of risks in the prospective outlook is
unfavorable.”  Food, Transport  Today’s inflation report showed food and beverage prices,
which were largely responsible for the acceleration of headline
inflation last year, rose 0.04 percent in June, the slowest
since July 2011. Transport prices rose 0.14 percent as compared
to a 0.25 percent fall in May in part due to public bus fares
that were applied then canceled after protests.  The diffusion index, reflecting the extent to which
inflation is widespread, fell to 45.7 percent in June from 47.1
percent in May, according to Perfeito.  The central bank’s monetary policy committee raised the
benchmark rate by 50 basis points to 8 percent in May following
a 25-basis-point increase in April. The committee will hold its
next meeting on July 9-10. The bank targets annual inflation of
4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.55 percent in the first
quarter, less than the 0.9 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. The economy expanded 0.9 percent last year,
the worst performance since 2009. Economists surveyed by the
central bank have cut their 2013 growth outlook for seven
straight weeks to 2.4 percent.  Services Pressure  Annual  inflation , at 6.70 percent, accelerated above the
upper limit of the central bank’s target range. This will be the
peak for annual inflation in 2013, Enestor dos Santos, principal
economist for  emerging markets  at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said by telephone from  Madrid .  Still, economists surveyed by the central bank have
increased their 2013 inflation outlook for three straight weeks
to 5.87 percent, its highest level all year.  Service prices increases accelerated in June to 0.64
percent from 0.56 percent in May, pressured by near record low
unemployment and rising real wages, according to  Pedro Tuesta ,
senior Latin America economist for 4Cast Ltd. Unemployment in
May was 5.8 percent, up from 4.6 percent in December.  The labor market “is giving, but mostly on the industrial
side, not on the services side, and that’s one problem for the
government,” Tuesta said by telephone from  Washington . “The
government needs to allow the labor market to ease and I’m not
sure it wants to do that. I believe they won’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  