-- British Land Targets London Rail Hub in $707 Million Deal
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-07-05T16:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/british-land-buys-commercial-property-in-london-for-707-million.html
British Land Co. (BLND)  bought offices,
stores and land next to  London ’s Paddington Station for 470
million pounds ($707 million), anticipating that more tenants
will be drawn to the area by a new high-speed rail line.  The properties at Paddington Central were purchased from
 Aviva Plc (AV/)  and other investors, British Land said in a statement
today. The U.K.’s second-largest real estate investment trust
will own 1 million square feet (93,000 square meters) of space
once the site has been fully developed. It will be the company’s
fourth-largest single asset by value.  Developers including  Derwent London Plc (DLN)  and  Great Portland
Estates Plc (GPOR)  are seeking to profit from the construction of the
Crossrail high-speed rail line connecting London’s east and
west. Paddington will be one of three Crossrail stations in the
West End district when the rail line opens in 2018, said British
Land, which is based in the city.  “Bigger users who want the location just can’t get space,
let alone space at the sort of price that we can offer,” Chief
Executive Officer Chris Grigg said by phone.  British Land has permission to build 355,000 square feet of
 office space  on the two Paddington Central development sites.
The company may seek planning approval to construct as much as
30,000 square feet of additional space, Finance Director Lucinda Bell said by telephone.  British Land was up 7 pence, or 1.2 percent, at 591.50
pence at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The shares have gained
5.3 percent this year, while the FTSE 350 Real Estate Investment
Trust Index has added 9.5 percent.  Added Earnings  Paddington Central “is the most significant acquisition we
have made since the equity placing in March, and we are
confident that investment of those proceeds will now be
accretive to 2014 earnings, ahead of our original objective,”
Grigg said in the statement.  British Land raised 493 million pounds in a  share sale  in
March and has since spent more than 750 million pounds on
acquisitions excluding future property development spending,
according to today’s statement.  The existing office buildings at Paddington Central will
give British Land a yield of 6.2 percent when fully leased,
Grigg said. That compares with 3.5 percent for office buildings
in the West End district that includes Mayfair and St. James’s,
broker  Savills Plc (SVS)  said in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  