-- Impey Retains Yellow Jersey as Sagan Wins Tour de France Stage
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-05T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/cannondale-s-peter-sagan-wins-seventh-tour-de-france-stage.html
South Africa ’s Daryl Impey kept the
race-leading yellow jersey for a second day as Peter Sagan of
 Slovakia  won the seventh Tour de  France  stage, his first success
this year after four near-misses.  Sagan outsprinted  Germany ’s John Degenkolb after a 128-mile
(205.5-kilometer) ride on rolling terrain yesterday between
Montpellier and Albi. Daniele Bennati of  Italy  was third.  Sagan’s Cannondale team set the pace for almost five hours
of riding, chasing down attacks and guiding the 23-year-old to
victory. Sagan was second or third four times in the Tour’s
opening week and is wearing the green jersey for  leading the
points classification  ahead of sprinters Andre Greipel and  Mark Cavendish .  “Thank you my team, without my team I can’t do this,”
Sagan said in a televised interview.  Impey’s Orica-GreenEdge teammates assisted Cannondale’s
riders near the end of the stage, ensuring Impey remained in the
yellow jersey. He is the first South African to lead the Tour.  Impey, 28, said it would be “pretty hard” for him to
retain the lead after today’s stage, which is the first
mountainous ride in the Pyrenees.  Race favorite Chris Froome remains in seventh place and is
eight seconds off the lead, with two-time champion  Alberto Contador  another six seconds back.  Froome, a Kenya-born Briton who was second last year, is
the favorite to win the 100th edition of the race, according to
seven bookmakers’ odds on  oddschecker.com . Contador of  Spain  is
the second favorite. The 2012 champion Bradley Wiggins is absent
because of injury.  Wheelie Whiners  Sagan won three of the first six stages as a rookie at last
year’s Tour de France, irking some more-experienced riders with
his celebrations that included a wheelie.  He sat back on his bike as he crossed the line yesterday,
without making a show.  A group including Greipel and Cavendish, who each won a
stage in the first week, couldn’t match the pace of almost 29
miles per hour in the fourth hour yesterday and finished about
15 minutes off.  Today, riders will tackle the 9.5-mile road up the Col de
Pailheres that’s rated out-of-category -- the most difficult
kind of ascent. The stage finishes with a 4.8-mile ascent to the
Ax-3-Domaines ski resort.  The Tour, which covers 2,116 miles, ends July 21 in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at in London 
 celser@bloomberg.net  