-- Chernin-AT&T Said to Submit Joint Hulu Bid in Final Round
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/chernin-group-at-t-said-to-submit-joint-hulu-bid-in-final-round.html
Chernin Group and  AT&T Inc. (T)  submitted
a joint bid for Hulu LLC, the video-streaming service, meeting
the deadline for binding offers, according to a person with
knowledge of the situation.  Bids for Los Angeles-based Hulu, owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,
21st Century Fox Inc. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , were due yesterday,
said two people, who sought anonymity because the sale process
is private. The value of the offer wasn’t immediately known.  Three suitors, including  DirecTV (DTV) , previously had offered at
least $1 billion, people familiar with the matter said in May.
Hulu would give Chernin Group an online outlet for programming.
Led by former  News Corp . President and Chief Operating Officer
 Peter Chernin , the company produced the “Rise of the Planet of
the Apes” film and TV’s “New Girl.” It also backed startups
such as Tumblr Inc. and Flipboard Inc.  Charles Sipkins , a Chernin spokesman, declined to comment,
as did  Brad Burns , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T. Meredith Kendall, a spokeswoman for Hulu, also declined to comment. The
auction is being run by Guggenheim Partners LLC.  Chernin, 62, was a founder of Hulu while at News Corp. and
served on the Internet company’s board. In April, his Santa
Monica, California-based firm offered at least $830 million for
the website, including the assumption of $330 million in debt,
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Last month, Chernin Group joined with AT&T, which operates
the pay-TV service U-verse, to work on a bid, the two people
said.  Home Stretch  Hulu’s board also previously received non-binding bids from
Guggenheim Digital LLC, owner of the  Hollywood Reporter ; Yahoo!
Inc., the largest U.S. Web portal;  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the
second-biggest U.S. cable system; and private-equity firm KKR &
Co. Silver Lake Partners and talent agency William Morris
Endeavor Entertainment LLC made a joint proposal. It’s unclear
if any of those companies submitted a final offer.  After Hulu’s board selects a buyer, the winning bidder will
need to negotiate content licensing with Disney and Fox, the
people said. The media companies are offering an extension at
current rates for two years for the Hulu Plus service and five
years for the free model, the people said.  Hulu allows people to watch network-TV shows and other
programs over the Internet -- a popular option among people who
have dropped their cable or satellite subscriptions, or so-called cord cutters.  The site  offers a free version of the
service and a $7.99-a-month service with greater access to
shows. Hulu said the number of paying subscribers exceeded 4
million in the first quarter.  Profitable Site  Hulu’s free, ad-supported business is profitable, a person
familiar with the matter said in June. Hulu Plus, the paid
service, loses money, the person said. Though it generates
monthly subscriber fees, Hulu Plus also has higher licensing
costs for the more extensive programming. Hulu Plus could be
profitable in 18 months, the person said.  Two of the three owners, Disney and Fox, have clashed over
Hulu’s future, leading to the current auction. Comcast, the
third owner, is barred from an operational or board role under
an agreement with regulators related to its NBC Universal
acquisition in January 2011.  Disney, based in Burbank, California,  gained  0.3 percent to
$63.82 yesterday in New York. The stock has risen 28 percent
this year. New York-based 21st Century Fox, recently split from
News Corp., gained 2.5 percent to $30.39, while Comcast, based
in Philadelphia, added 1.3 percent to $41.70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  