-- China Plans First Talks With U.S. Under Cybersecurity Dialogue
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-05T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/china-plans-first-talks-with-u-s-under-cybersecurity-dialogue.html
China  and the U.S. will hold the
first meeting of a cybersecurity working group set up following
accusations that the Chinese government is responsible for
hacking attacks against American companies.  The working group, established when Secretary of State  John Kerry  visited China in April, will meet July 8 in Washington
before the annual U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue,
Assistant Foreign Minister Zheng Zeguang said yesterday.  American and Chinese officials may also discuss former U.S.
National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden, whose
revelations about an NSA spying program last month overshadowed
U.S claims made earlier this year that China is waging a cyber-espionage campaign. Chinese officials have demanded an
explanation for Snowden’s allegation that the U.S. has hacked
computers in  Hong Kong  and mainland China since 2009.  Before Snowden went public, White House national security
adviser Tom Donilon warned that cyber-attacks from China
threatened to derail President  Barack Obama ’s efforts to improve
ties with China. China maintains that it’s also a victim of
hacking and opposes such activities.  “The Internet in China has always been under a serious
threat, including hacking and cyberviruses and other illegal and
criminal activities,” Zheng said. “The information released by
the media shows once again that China is among the victims of
cyber-attacks.”  The annual economic talks will take place on July 10-11. A
third China-U.S. Strategic Security Dialogue will be held on
July 9 and will be attended by People’s Liberation Army Deputy
Chief of Staff Wang Guanzhong and U.S. Undersecretary of Defense
 James Miller , as well as Admiral Samuel Locklear, commander of
the U.S. Pacific Fleet, Zheng said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  