-- China to Resume Trading of Treasury Futures After 18-Year Halt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-05T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/china-to-resume-trading-of-treasury-futures-after-18-year-halt.html
China will resume trading of
government bond futures for the first time in 18 years to
provide investors with a hedging tool and help boost the fixed-income market.  Trading of the futures was approved by the State Council,
China’s highest-level government body, the China Securities
Regulatory Commission said yesterday. The securities regulator
has in turn approved the China Financial Futures Exchange to
start the trading, according to two statements posted to the
commission’s website. Preparation will take about two months,
the CSRC said.  The approval comes amid government efforts to have
companies decrease their reliance on bank loans and spread their
credit risk by selling debt. China is opening its $3.7 trillion
bond market to foreign investors through its Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor and  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor programs.  The trading may start as early as September, the China
Securities Journal reported on July 3.  Sales of government notes rose to 1.6 trillion  yuan  ($261
billion) last year, from 53 billion yuan in 1997, according to
 Chinabond , the nation’s biggest debt clearinghouse. Maturities
range from 91 days to 50 years.  Haitong Futures Co., a subsidiary of China’s second-biggest
listed brokerage, said in November the reintroduction of bond
futures may help boost trading in the spot market by 20 percent
to 30 percent.  China started trading government bond futures in 1992, and
stopped it in 1995 amid a scandal involving Guan Jinsheng, then
president of Shanghai International Securities Co., who was
accused of market manipulation. Guan was consequently jailed for
17 years for accepting bribes and misappropriating public funds
between 1992 and 1994.  Futures are a type of derivative used to hedge risk or for
speculation.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  