-- China Money Rate Falls a Second Week on Select Bank Injections
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-05T02:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/china-money-rate-falls-a-second-week-on-select-bank-injections.html
China ’s money-market rate declined
for a second week on speculation the central bank injected funds
into select banks to help ease a cash shortage.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 236 basis points, or 2.36
percentage points, to 3.80 percent as of 10 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It fell 15 basis points today. The
benchmark reached a record high of 12.45 percent on June 20.  The People’s Bank of China hasn’t  issued  91-day bills since
June 20 or 28-day repurchase  contracts  since June 6. Maturing
short-term securities added a net 46 billion  yuan  ($7.5 billion)
to the financial system this week, compared with 25 billion yuan
in the period to June 28,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The market believes the central bank has selectively
injected capital into the financial system,” said  Frances Cheung , a Credit Agricole CIB strategist in  Hong Kong . “But
investors may still re-price the repo rate to a higher normal
level, speculating it won’t inject capital across the board.”  She estimates the repo rate may stay between 3.8 percent
and 4 percent in the next two to three weeks. A daily fixing for
the seven-day  rate  touched an all-time high of 10.8 percent on
June 20, and averaged 4.49 percent last quarter, the highest
since the National Interbank Funding Center started compiling
the data in 2003.  ‘Extreme Tightness’  The fixing may average 4 percent in the third quarter,
compared with 3.62 percent in the past year, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts.  The PBOC signaled June 25 that any liquidity support during
the cash squeeze would be focused on banks that lend to help the
economy.  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate,
declined 19 basis points this week to 3.78 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell two basis points today.  “While inflation remains controlled, the central bank may
want to keep money-market rates elevated to reduce banks’ off-balance-sheet assets,” said Huang Wentao, a fixed-income
analyst at China Securities Co. in Beijing, the country’s
second-biggest brokerage and underwriter of bonds. “We probably
won’t see a return of the extreme tightness in June, but a 4
percent repo rate is still very high.”  Shares of China’s four biggest  banks  plunged an average 12
percent last month and yield premiums on their bonds soared as
the cash crunch underscored concerns excessive lending to
property projects and local governments will end in rising
defaults. President  Xi Jinping  said last month that officials
shouldn’t be judged solely on their record in boosting gross
domestic product, signaling that the new administration is
prepared to tolerate slower economic expansion.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, Robin Ganguly  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 