-- China Pledges to Boost Financial Support After Cash Crunch
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-05T11:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/china-state-council-pledges-to-maintain-credit-after-cash-crunch.html
China’s State Council, headed by
Premier Li Keqiang, pledged to improve the effectiveness of
financial support for the economy after a cash crunch last month
sent interbank borrowing rates to the highest on record.  Misallocation of capital is hampering the restructuring of
the economy and the financial sector must play a better role in
helping the overhaul, the cabinet said in a seven-page  statement 
released in Beijing today. The State Council said it will
maintain its “prudent” monetary-policy stance while ensuring a
reasonably supply of money and credit.  Policy makers in the world’s second-biggest economy are
trying to reassure investors after turmoil in the country’s
money markets roiled global stocks last month. The cash crunch,
instigated by the government to clamp down on excessive short-term and speculative lending, may exacerbate a growth slowdown
that puts the government at risk of missing its expansion target
for the first time since 1998.  “It shows that the State Council led by Li is urging
ministries to carry out what’s already been decided -- to make
better use of existing credit resources,” said Ding Shuang,
senior  China  economist at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong. “At the
same time, it shows the government so far has no intention of
boosting overall credit.”  China’s economic growth is stable although there are still
“prominent” structural problems, the State Council said in its
statement that was released before a briefing in Beijing by
officials from the People’s Bank of China and China Banking
Regulatory Commission to discuss the document.  Bad Debts  The State Council reiterated the need to improve financial
support for small companies, agriculture-related businesses,
growth industries including information technology and
environmental protection, and industrial upgrading.  Banks should be prepared to write off the bad debts of
companies with outdated capacity, and help wind them down and
exit the market, it said. At the same time, financial
institutions should “pro-actively support key infrastructure
projects such as railways,” it said.  Chinese banks can still lend to players in industries with
over-capacity problems, Yang Jiacai, an assistant chairman at
the CBRC, said at today’s briefing. He cited Wuhan Iron & Steel
Co. as a company that should be supported as its cold-rolled
steel products are competitive.  Growth Threat  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the
nation’s biggest shipyard outside state control, said today it
is seeking financial support from the government after orders
plunged. Its shares slumped 16 percent in Hong Kong trading
after it warned of a first-half loss and said it was
“gradually” reducing production.  Rongsheng’s problems underscore the threat to China’s
economic growth. The pace of expansion probably slowed to 7.5
percent from a year earlier in the second quarter, according to
the median  estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey, down from 7.7
percent in the first three months of the year. The data are due
July 15.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., China International Capital Corp.,
Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc last month pared their growth
projections for the full year to 7.4 percent, below the
government’s 7.5 percent goal and the  slowest pace  since 1990.  The State Council pledged to gradually resolve the debt
risks of local government financing vehicles and strictly
control the risks in property financing.  ‘High Alert’  At a separate briefing today, Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  warned the nation must be on “high alert” to the
dangers of rising debt in companies set up by local authorities
to fund investment projects. The government is still trying to
gauge the exact amount of such borrowings, he said, adding that
the figure is probably higher than the end-2010 figure of 10.7
trillion  yuan  ($1.74 trillion) given by the  National Audit
Office  in June 2011.  Liquidity in the financial system is “sufficient,” Zhu
said. Some individual financial institutions experienced cash
shortages “because they had some problems in their management
that needed attention” and the central bank had to give a
warning, he said.  Xie Duo, the director-general of the financial markets
department at the PBOC, said at a briefing today that China’s
financial markets are currently stable and market fluctuations
are normal.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Jessica Zhou, Huang Zhe and
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Zhou Xin in
Beijing at   xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  