-- China Widens Dairy Investigation as Tetra Pak Under Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-05T15:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/china-probes-tetra-pak-for-abuse-of-market-control-xinhua-says.html
China is widening its investigations
into the food and dairy industry as it probes Switzerland-based
food processing and packaging company Tetra Pak Group for
possible abuse of market dominance.  The State Administration for Industry & Commerce has
organized more than 20 of its regional agencies to investigate
the allegations, Zhang Mao, head of the market watchdog,  said  at
a forum today. It’s also investigating 23 cases of possible
monopoly violations, according to the transcript of his speech
on the regulator’s website.  The investigation into Tetra Pak is the latest sign of
increased scrutiny into the operations of overseas companies in
the world’s second-largest economy.  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Danone’s (BN) 
infant-nutrition units are cutting some prices after the
People’s Daily reported July 2 that the government started
probing possible price-fixing by global producers of  infant
formula . Drugmakers including  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  are being
probed separately.  Tetra Pak was asked by the Chinese authorities to provide
information about its business in China a few weeks ago, said
spokesman Christopher Huntley. “We have no information about a
formal investigation.” The information requested was “very
broad” and the company is cooperating, he said, declining to
disclose further details.  Tetra Pak, which entered the Chinese market in 1972,
processes food including dairy and milk products as well as ice
cream, according to its  website . It has a research and
development center in  Shanghai  and factories in cities including
Beijing, Foshan, Kunshan and Hohhot.  Company Apologies  Telephone calls to the watchdog’s press office in Beijing
weren’t answered.  Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang , who took office in March, has
pledged to root out consumer abuses. Apple Inc. and  Yum! Brands
Inc. (YUM)  are among foreign companies that have had to apologize this
year to consumers in China after authorities began investigating
their operations.  “You always got to contend with the fact that anything in
China is always political,” said Matthew Crabbe, Asia director
of research at industry analyst Mintel Group Ltd. Foreign
companies “have to play the political game” and protect their
brand image as China is a “very important market for companies.
They are going to do what they have to for market share in
China.”  Pricing Probe  China’s National Development and Reform Commission, the top
planning agency, started an investigation into the pricing of
infant formula sold by Nestle’s Wyeth and other foreign
companies including  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) ,  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  and Dutch producer Royal FrieslandCampina NV, the
official People’s Daily said this week.  Domestic company  Biostime International Holdings Ltd. (1112)  is
also being investigated, it said. The NDRC has evidence to show
their pricing increased about 30 percent since 2008, the same
year milk powder contaminated with the chemical melamine killed
at least six infants, fanning distrust among Chinese consumers
of local milk and driving them toward foreign brands.  Scandals including contaminated milk powder and rat meat
sold as mutton have fueled demands for the government to crack
down on safety violations.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy
exporter, was contacted on a “broad ranging investigation of
consumer dairy products in  China ,” and it’s cooperating with
the authorities, the Auckland-based company has said.  Price Cuts  A day after the People’s Daily report, Wyeth, owned by
Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle, said it would lower the prices
of some baby-formula products by as much as 20 percent. It also
canceled a plan to increase the prices of its S-26 range of milk
powder and said the price reductions will save consumers an
estimated 450 million  yuan  ($73 million) in the next 12 months.  Danone said its Dumex unit is also preparing a price cut
and will disclose details later.  Today, FrieslandCampina said it will cut prices of its
Frisco dairy products in China by 5 percent as of July 8. The
Amersfoort, Netherlands-based company is “fully cooperating”
with the NDRC, it said on its website.  Biostime rose 4.7 percent in  Hong Kong  trading today,
paring its decline since June 27, when it said it was under
investigation for price fixing, to about 31 percent.  The commission is also examining the costs and prices of
drugmakers including GlaxoSmithKline, Merck & Co., Novartis AG
and  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  to improve the pricing system for
medicines, it said on July 2.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong in Hong Kong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  