-- China Metal Futures Volumes Slump as Super Cycle Fades
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-05T05:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/china-metal-futures-volumes-slump-as-super-cycle-fades.html
Industrial metals futures trading in
 China  slumped in the first half of this year amid a rout in
global commodities as investment banks called an end to the
super cycle of gains in raw materials prices.  Zinc volume dropped the most among base metals, falling 43
percent in the first six months from a year ago to 7.25 million
lots on the  Shanghai  Futures Exchange, data from the  China
Futures Association  showed. The total number of contracts on the
SHFE and futures bourses in Dalian and Zhengzhou climbed with
the addition of four new products including coking coal.  The LMEX Index of six base metals on the London Metal
Exchange, the biggest bourse for metals trading, dropped 13
percent this year on concern that slowing growth in China, the
largest user of metals, would damp demand.  Raw materials  lagged
behind equities this year as banks from UBS AG to Deutsche Bank
AG forecast the decline of the commodity super cycle, a longer-than-average period of rising prices.  “The overall performance of commodities wasn’t attractive
enough to draw in funds, given the China slowdown theme,” said
Wang Zhouyi, an analyst at Shanghai Cifco Futures Co. “That’s
why a very small number of products had volume gains.”  In Shanghai, lead and aluminum volumes fell 14 percent and
0.8 percent, respectively, while the number of copper contracts
was little changed. Fuel oil futures trading slumped 92 percent
to 577 lots, according to the association data.  Non-genetically modified soybean trading dropped 48 percent
to 5.21 million lots on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange .  Combined Volume  The combined volume for all commodity futures in China
doubled to 914.38 million lots from 452.99 million a year
earlier, according to calculations by Bloomberg based on the
group’s data. Contracts were added for glass, rapeseed, rapeseed
meal, in addition to coking coal, to give industry more tools
for hedging against price swings.  Steel reinforcement-bar futures in Shanghai, the world’s
most-traded ferro contract on an exchange, climbed more than
four-fold to 183.5 million lots, association data show. Steel
wire and silver more than doubled and gold future trading
climbed 14 percent.  “A recovery in the real estate market has led to a lot of
interest in the rebar futures,” Shanghai Cifco’s Wang said.
“For gold and silver, price volatility was attractive.”  New home prices in China jumped in June by the most since
December, defying tighter government curbs on property.  The Dalian exchange, where soybean, soybean meal,  soybean
oil , and palm oil trade, was the busiest among the three
bourses, accounting for 38 percent of volume, according to
calculations by Bloomberg based on the association’s data. The
Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange followed with a 32 percent share
and the SHFE with 30 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  