-- China’s Grain Imports Seen Surging as Global Crop Prices Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-05T03:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/china-s-grain-imports-seen-surging-as-global-crop-prices-decline.html
Grain imports by  China , the biggest
consumer, are on course to surpass last year as a slump in
global prices encourages purchases even as farmers across the
country prepare to increase harvests for a 10th straight year.  Inbound shipments of wheat, corn and rice are projected to
rise, while domestic corn and rice output expands and wheat
remains in line with last year or falls, according to estimates
from state and private forecasters in China and the U.S.  Chinese purchases benefit growers of corn and wheat from
the U.S. to Argentina and Ukraine, while  Thailand  supplies
premium rice and coarser varieties of the Asian staple are
shipped from Vietnam and  Pakistan . Wheat and corn futures
slumped more than 20 percent in  Chicago  the last 12 months while
Thai white rice, the regional benchmark, fell 14 percent.  “Imported grains are cheap and some local crops like
wheat, which has had issues with quality, are struggling to
compete,” Li Qiang, chairman of Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.,
said by phone today during a crop tour of central Henan
province. “It’s conceivable we’ll get a record in combined
imports of all grains this year.”  China will buy 4 million metric tons of wheat in the year
that began June 1, the most in nine years, while corn imports
will rise 67 percent to 5 million tons, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said July 3. Corn purchases in the 12 months
starting Oct. 1 may rise to a record 7 million tons, according
to a Bloomberg survey last month.  Rising labor costs and policies to boost local prices to
aid farming incomes have made Chinese crops less competitive,
said Li.  Wheat Output  Wheat output will increase for a 10th year, according to a
June 28  report  by the Ministry of Agriculture in Beijing. The
harvest may match last year’s 120.6 million tons, the state-owned China National Grain & Oils Information Center said on
June 13, while private researchers including Ma Wenfeng at
Beijing Orient Agribusiness Consultant Ltd. projected declines.  Wheat imported under government-issued low-tariff quotas
costs about 2,100  yuan  ($343) a ton, compared with a domestic
price of about 2,400 yuan, according to Shanghai JC.  Wheat for September delivery in Chicago closed at $6.65 a
bushel on July 3 after the USDA reported China bought 360,000
tons of the grain from America. Corn futures ended at $5.0275 a
bushel and Thai white rice closed at $524 a ton.  Profits from importing corn under official quotas are about
400 yuan a ton, researcher Grain.gov.cn said July 3. Private
companies bought three cargoes of new-crop U.S. corn in the last
two weeks, bringing shipments for the year beginning Oct. 1 to
4.5 million tons, it said.  Corn Shipments  Argentina, the world’s second-biggest corn exporter,
shipped 60,000 tons to China last month, Agriculture Minister
Norberto Yauhar said June 12. That would be the first after the
two nations signed a quarantine agreement last year.  Rice imports may exceed last year’s record, said Ma at
Beijing Orient. Rice purchased from  Vietnam , including import
costs, is 25 percent cheaper than domestic supplies, he said.  Global grain output, excluding, rice may climb to 1.92
billion tons from an estimated 1.78 billion tons in 2012-2013,
the International Grains Council said July 1. Rice production is
seen rising to 476 million tons from 470 million tons, the
council forecast.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  