-- China Names New CIC Chairman as U.S. Mulls Winding Down Stimulus
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-05T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/china-names-ding-xuedong-chairman-of-sovereign-wealth-fund-cic.html
China  appointed Ding Xuedong, a
deputy secretary-general of the State Council, as head of the
nation’s  sovereign wealth fund  at a time when the prospect of
the  Federal Reserve  reducing stimulus has roiled global markets.  Ding succeeds  Lou Jiwei , who became finance minister more
than three months ago, as chairman of China Investment Corp.,
the Beijing-based company said on its website yesterday. The
appointment ends speculation since March on who would take the
helm at the $482 billion fund.  Under Lou, CIC boosted holdings of resources-related
companies and bolstered long-term portfolio and private-equity
assets. Ding faces the prospect of rising interest rates after
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said bond purchases that have
buoyed assets worldwide may be halted in 2014 if the world’s
largest economy performs in line with the central bank’s
projections.  “It will be difficult to meet return expectations in light
of recent market volatility,” Sven Behrendt, managing director
at Geneva-based political risk research and advisory firm
GeoEconomica, which does research on sovereign wealth funds,
said before the announcement. “Those return expectations will
be high, given CIC’s bumpy performance over the past years.”  North America  accounted for 44 percent of CIC’s diversified
equity investments as of Dec. 31, 2011, according to its latest
annual report. The fund held 62 percent of its fixed-income
portfolio in  government bonds .  Meet Expectations  CIC, set up in 2007 to boost yields on China’s foreign-exchange reserves, achieved an 11 percent investment return on
its overseas portfolio last year, compared with a loss of 4.3
percent in 2011 as declines in global commodity prices roiled
the value of its resource-heavy portfolio, Xinhua News Agency
reported June 7, citing President  Gao Xiqing . The fund met the
government’s expectations by delivering 5 percent annualized
returns since its creation, Gao was cited as saying.  Ding, 53, was a deputy finance minister when he was
appointed to his state council job three years ago after more
than 10 years at the ministry, according to a resume published
by Xinhua. He holds a doctorate in economics from the finance
ministry’s research institute, according to Xinhua.  Two candidates -- Shanghai Vice Mayor Tu Guangshao and
People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  -- declined the
position because of concerns they may be blamed for investments
that end up poorly, the Financial Times reported in May, citing
unidentified people.  ‘Great Changes’  China is ushering in a new generation of chiefs in its
finance system following the once-in-a-decade leadership
transition that culminated in Li Keqiang replacing Wen Jiabao
March 15 as premier of the nation holding the world’s largest
foreign-exchange reserves.  “Lou has made some great changes in terms of the direction
and investment allocation transformation during his tenure,”
Winnie Deng, a Shanghai-based analyst covering sovereign wealth
funds at research firm Z-Ben Advisors, said in an e-mail before
the announcement. “But it is up to the new head to actually
realize returns from the shift in investment strategy.”  The fund is adding stable-return assets including
infrastructure and real estate as it cuts an “over-reliance”
on  U.S. debt , Lou told a forum in  Hong Kong  in January.  It boosted private-equity positions and expanded real
estate holdings to pursue stable asset returns in 2011, while
continuing to make direct investments in oil and gas, mining and
infrastructure, according to the annual report for that year.
Equities fell 9 percent to $59.7 billion as of end of 2011,
while alternative investments expanded 38 percent to $40.5
billion, it said then without elaborating.  Heathrow Airport  CIC bought 10 percent of  London ’s  Heathrow Airport  from
investors, including a 5.72 percent stake from Spanish builder
 Ferrovial SA (FER) , the companies said in November. The fund, together
with Moscow-based VTB Capital, purchased bonds the same month
from billionaire Suleiman Kerimov and his partners in potash
producer OAO Uralkali that can be exchanged for shares valued at
about $3.2 billion.  The wealth fund holds stakes in China’s biggest banks
through unit Central Huijin Investment Ltd., which contributes
to the fund’s profit.  CIC is ranked the world’s fifth-largest state-owned
investment entity after funds in the  Middle East ,  Norway  and
China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE,
according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.  Foreign Reserves  The fund was created with an initial $200 billion from the
Ministry of Finance to improve returns on the nation’s  foreign
reserves , which have more than doubled since 2007 to $3.44
trillion at the end of the first quarter, driven by current
account surpluses and foreign direct investments. The fund
received a further $30 billion capital infusion at the end of
2011 after in the previous year allocating almost all its
initial capital raised by a $200 billion bond sale by the
 finance ministry .  CIC posted a 2.1 percent loss on its overseas investments
in 2008 amid the financial crisis, before reporting an 11.7
percent return in each of the following two years as the global
economy recovered. It booked a 10.7 percent return for last year
as it sold some earlier investments to lock in profit, Executive
Vice President Liang Xiang said earlier this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  