-- China Vice Finance Minister Urges ‘High Alert’ on Local Debt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-05T06:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/china-vice-finance-minister-urges-high-alert-on-local-debt.html
A Chinese vice finance minister
warned the nation must be on “high alert” to the dangers of
rising debt in companies set up by local governments to fund
investment projects.  “Prominent risks are not only in the shadow-banking area
but also in local government financing vehicles, and we do need
to be on high alert,”  Zhu Guangyao  said at a briefing in
Beijing today. At the same time, companies are mainly investing
in infrastructure projects with relatively good operations and
repayment abilities, he said.  The central government may be forced to bail out some local
authorities and take over their liabilities, Moody’s Investors
Service said last month, after a new audit report showed a jump
in borrowings. The ratings company lowered its outlook for
China’s sovereign credit rating to stable from positive in April
and Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut the country’s long-term local-currency debt rating, with both citing risks from local-government debt and credit expansion.  “The most significant medium- and long-term threat to
China’s fiscal position lies in the system of implicit
guarantees that the central government has established for local
government debt,” Zhang Monan, a researcher at the State
Information Center, wrote in a commentary posted yesterday on
the Project Syndicate  website . “When a local government is no
longer able to service its debt, the central government will
have to place its own fiscal capacity at risk by assuming
responsibility.”  Higher Debt  Local government investment vehicles raised 636.8 billion
yuan in urban-investment bonds last year, about 150 percent more
than in 2011, Zhang said.  Zhu said today the total amount of debt owed by such
companies was probably higher now than the end-2010 figure of
10.7 trillion yuan ($1.75 trillion) given by the  National Audit
Office  in its first report on local government debt released in
June 2011. The agency issued a report last month that showed the
debts of 36 authorities chosen for scrutiny had risen 13 percent
to 3.85 trillion  yuan  in the two years through Dec. 31, 2012.  Last month, banking regulator Shang Fulin said the nation’s
banks had 9.59 trillion yuan of outstanding loans to local
government financing vehicles at the end of March. Most local
debt is guaranteed with assets and the “overall risk is
controllable,” he said.  In its report last month, Moody’s estimated that total
local government direct and guaranteed debt may have risen 13
percent to 12.1 trillion yuan by end-2012 from end-2010, based
on data in the National Audit Office’s June  review .  Trial Program  The Finance Ministry said yesterday it will expand a trial
program first started in 2011 that allows local governments to
sell bonds directly. The eastern provinces of Shandong and
Jiangsu will be included, joining Zhejiang and Guangdong
provinces plus the cities of Shanghai and Shenzhen.  The ministry also announced two auctions this month for
commercial banks to bid on 100 billion yuan of fiscal deposits
via the People’s Bank of  China , a move that may help ease
liquidity shortages after a cash crunch last month sent
interbank lending rates to at least a decade high.  Fiscal policy must act with monetary policy to maintain
market stability, especially when needed to address liquidity
shortages, Zhu said today. “The Ministry of Finance has moved
in this regard by auctioning fiscal funds to banks as
deposits.”  Liquidity in the financial system is “sufficient,” Zhu
said, citing above-target growth in M2, China’s broadest measure
of money supply. M2 has grown more than 15 percent every month
this year, against a government goal for 2013 of 13 percent.  At the same time, some individual financial institutions
experienced cash shortages “because they had some problems in
their management that needed attention,’ Zhu said. “The central
bank, in line with the principal of prudent regulation, has to
give a warning, and that’s necessary,” Zhu said.  “The central bank of any country, as the last lender, has
the duty and responsibility to maintain financial market
stability,” Zhu said.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from  Henry Sanderson  in Beijing.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Zhou Xin in
Beijing at   xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  