-- Citigroup Wins Dismissal of Ex-Client’s Forex Bets Claim
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-07-05T06:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/citigroup-wins-dismissal-of-ex-client-s-forex-bets-claim.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  won dismissal of a
Hong Kong lawsuit by former private banking client Natamon
Protpakorn seeking $17.9 million for damages from currency bets
liquidated when the bank closed her positions.  Citigroup had “good reason” to be concerned about the
sources of Natamon’s wealth, High Court Judge Jonathan Harris
said in the judgment delivered today. Such concerns “might
reasonably be expected to cause it to wish to close her
account,” he said.  Natamon, a Thai national who had previously been a client
of UBS AG, first sued Citigroup’s Hong Kong unit in 2005. She
claimed the bank had persuaded her to invest in foreign exchange
trades in 2001 and then unfairly closed her positions in 2004,
according to previous rulings from the eight-year legal battle.  Natamon’s lawyer Christine Tsang said before the verdict
was delivered that her client wouldn’t comment. Citigroup’s Hong
Kong-based spokesman Richard Tesvich declined to comment.  Citigroup staff became concerned about Natamon’s account
when they discovered in 2004 that the Japanese man who directed
her trading positions had been convicted of fraud, according to
the judgment.  Natamon didn’t take the opportunity in the trial to
demonstrate that the bank’s concerns about the ownership of her
assets were unjustified, Harris wrote in his 40-page ruling,
dismissing her claim.  “Banks are under increasingly onerous regulatory
obligations to ensure that they are not used as conduits for
improper financial dealings,” Harris said.  The case is Natamon Protpakorn v. Citibank N.A., HCCL5/2011
in  Hong Kong ’s Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  