-- Conergy Files for Insolvency as Banks Disagree on Investor
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-07-05T10:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/conergy-plans-insolvency-filing-as-investor-sought-for-rescue.html
Conergy AG (CGYK) , once  Germany ’s largest
solar-energy company, filed for insolvency today after one of 10
lenders rejected a short-term plan for an investor to take over
loans held by the company.  As payments from a large project are delayed and the
company failed to bridge a financial gap, executives submitted
the application at the District Court of Hamburg, said Antje
Stephan, spokeswoman for Hamburg-based Conergy.  “In the past 15 months we presented to our lenders two
concrete proposals for a strategic investor to enter the
company, and we greatly regret that in no case they were able to
agree on short-term implementation,” Chief Executive Officer
Philip Comberg said in a statement.  Conergy and its domestic counterparts are under pressure as
subsidies fall at home and amid competition from Chinese solar
providers that has depressed margins and panel prices.  The shares fell as much as 71 percent, the most since its
March 2005 initial stock sale, and traded down 65 percent at 12
euro cents at 12:55 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Nine of ten lenders had signaled their agreement with the
latest plan for a new investor, Conergy said. The company last
year had earnings before interest and taxes of 83.8 million
euros ($108 million). Conergy plans to continue its search for
an investor while the court appoints a bankruptcy adviser.  “The management remains confident of achieving a
continuation of the whole business operations,” the company
said. The timescale of the insolvency process remained unclear,
spokeswoman Stephan said.  Conergy, which had sales of 473.5 million euros last year,
employs about 1,200 employees, two-thirds of them in Germany.
The company plans, finances and supplies components for solar
plants.  Manufacturing units Conergy SolarModule GmbH & Co. KG in
Frankfurt an der Oder near the Polish border and Mounting
Systems GmbH in Rangsdorf near Berlin will also file for
insolvency, as well as Conergy Deutschland GmbH, its sales unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  