-- Congress Is on Pace to Do Less Than Record-Breaking Low
-- B y   M e g a n   O ’ N e i l
-- 2013-07-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/congress-is-on-pace-to-do-less-than-record-breaking-low.html
The current  U.S. Congress , facing a
backlog of unfinished business and sliding approval ratings, is
on pace to clear fewer bills than its predecessor -- which had
the least number of measures signed into the law since modern
record keeping began in the 1940s.  Since the 113th Congress convened in January, the Senate
has been in session 80 days and the House 84 days. Lawmakers
passed 15 bills that were then signed by the president. That’s
eight fewer than in the first six months of the last Congress
and 19 fewer than in the same stretch of the 111th Congress.  “The 113th Congress is on track to be even less productive
than the historic 112th Congress,” said  Thomas Mann , a senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington . “The problem
arises from a Republican House unwilling and unable to engage in
the normal process of negotiation and compromise with the
president, and their continued willingness to live with a
destructive sequester.”  Left undone have been major pieces of legislation including
a budget agreement and a farm and food-aid policy bill.
Lawmakers missed a July 1 deadline to prevent subsidized
Stafford  student loans  from doubling to 6.8 percent. While the
Senate passed a comprehensive immigration overhaul bill and farm
legislation, the House hasn’t charted a way forward on either
issue.  Fractured Conference  Ronald Peters, a congressional historian at the University
of  Oklahoma , said output is closely linked to party ideology.  “It is Republicans who don’t like Washington and prefer to
spend as much time as possible in the districts,” Peters said
in an e-mail. House Speaker John “Boehner has an additional
problem -- a fractured conference. So, if they cannot agree on
what to do in D.C., they are better off staying home and cozying
up to constituents.”  That performance isn’t sitting well with the public, who on
average earn far less than lawmakers and can’t take as many
breaks from the office. A June Gallup Poll found 78 percent of
Americans disapprove of the way Congress does its job.  While most members of Congress earn $174,000 annually, the
median  household income  in the U.S. was $50,054 in 2011,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  Weeks Away  So far, the House and Senate have had eight complete weeks
away from Washington, though the Congressional Record documents
brief sessions -- one lasted just three minutes -- when
legislative housekeeping was done in an all-but-empty chamber on
a few of those days. Both chambers are scheduled to be gone for
almost the whole month of August and the first week of
September.  Most weeks, the first votes are scheduled at 5:30 p.m. or
6:30 p.m. on Monday, and lawmakers often leave by Thursday
evening.  It’s far from a typical American work schedule.  In a 2008 survey by Opinion Research Corp., 52 percent of
respondents reported taking one week or less of paid vacation
the previous year. Those figures have only gotten worse since
the economic downturn, said John De Graft, who heads the
vacation advocacy group Take Back Your Time.  Lawmakers’ time away is hardly a vacation, according to
staff members. Those weeks away from Washington, formally called
“district work periods,” are designed to provide time for
work-related travel (Republican Senator Deb Fischer of  Nebraska ,
for instance, was in  Afghanistan  last week) or for office hours
and town meetings back home.  “It’s critical for members to have district work periods
to hear from their constituents on a variety of matters,
including chronic unemployment, the Senate’s inaction on student
loans and the next steps toward addressing immigration and our
debt crisis,” said Rory Cooper, an aide to House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor .  Nasty Meetings  Those constituent meetings can turn nasty. In August 2009,
as Congress considered sweeping changes to the health insurance
system, town-hall meetings erupted into shouting matches.  Texas Republican  John Carter , a member of a bipartisan
group of House members that’s drafting an immigration overhaul
plan, said he’s bracing for heated August meetings, similar to
what members experienced when they last considered immigration
changes in 2006.  “I expect the big push from both sides to be over August
like we experienced the last time we tried to bring this up,”
said Carter before the July 4 break. “There are a lot of people
who weren’t here in ’06 and don’t remember how rough that was.
We ought to be warning them because it is rough.”  This year began with a bang, as the 112th Congress in its
waning days cleared a bill that extended Bush-era tax cuts
except for those on higher-income people and averted cuts in
Medicare payments to doctors.  Pace Slowed  After the new Congress was sworn in Jan. 3, the pace slowed
as lawmakers failed to reach agreement on a long-term
alternative to sequestration. While both chambers passed their
own budget blueprints for fiscal 2014, they haven’t entered into
negotiations to reconcile the differences.  The Senate deadlocked on proposals to broaden requirements
for gun background checks in the wake of the school shootings in
Newtown,  Connecticut .  Also unresolved is a deal on raising the federal debt
limit. The Treasury is expected to hit its $16.7 trillion
borrowing cap sometime between October and December.  Congress took one action after public outcry about the
automatic spending cuts: passing rules to prevent furloughs of
air traffic controllers that threatened long lines at airports.  The House passed the annual authorization of defense
programs and two of the dozen appropriations bills for next
fiscal year -- the ones covering  homeland security  and military
construction. Congress also cleared an omnibus spending bill to
provide funding for federal programs through the end of the
current fiscal year and sent the Violence Against Women Act
reauthorization to the president for his signature.  The slow start isn’t viewed as problematic by some  House
Republicans , said  Tom Davis , a Virginia Republican who served in
the House from 1995 to 2008.  “I think a lot of Republicans feel they were put there to
stop the Obama agenda,” Davis said. “The 2010 election was not
about putting Republicans in power but about putting a check on
the President. You can look at it as the least productive
Congress, but a lot of them see that as their job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan O’Neil in Washington D.C. at 
 moneil14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  