-- Corn Traders Most Bearish Since 2010 on U.S. Production Outlook
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-07-05T05:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/corn-traders-most-bearish-since-2010-on-u-s-production-outlook.html
Corn traders are the most bearish
since 2010 as prospects improve for a rebound in global supplies
after U.S. farmers planted the most acres since 1936.  Fifteen of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices
to fall next week, with six bullish and four neutral, the
largest proportion of bears since November 2010. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  on June 28 raised its estimate for
national corn planting to 97.379 million acres (39.4 million
hectares), even as wet weather slowed fieldwork in April and
May.  Corn crop conditions in the U.S., the world’s biggest
grower and exporter, improved for a third week through June 30
as the weather turned warmer and  drier , government data show.
U.S. farmers may harvest a record 14.005 billion bushels,
helping boost global production to an all-time high of 355.7
million metric tons, 12 percent more than a year earlier, when
dry weather curbed output from the U.S. to eastern  Europe , the
USDA estimates.  “Weather is generally good for the crops,” said  Dale Durchholz , a senior market adviser at Agrivisor LLC in
Bloomington,  Illinois . The USDA’s projections for production and
acreage “are still a drag on the market,” he said.  Improving prospects for supplies pushed corn futures on
July 2 below $5 a bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade for the
first time since October 2010. The most-active contract is down
28 percent this year, the worst performance after silver among
the 24 commodities in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of raw
materials. The GSCI is down 2.9 percent this year, while the
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose 5.6 percent.  Ukrainian Harvest  Production also may rebound in the European Union, with
corn output pegged at 70.02 million tons, up 17 percent from the
previous season, the European Commission said yesterday. The
London-based International Grains Council raised its outlook for
global corn production on July 1 to 946 million tons because of
improving prospects for crops in Ukraine and other former Soviet
Union countries.  Soybean traders were bearish for a third week, with 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predicting prices will fall next
week. A further 10 were bullish and one was neutral. The USDA
predicts U.S. farmers planted the oilseed on a record 77.811
million acres.  Wheat traders were bearish for a fifth week, the longest
negative streak since the Bloomberg survey began in November.  Global wheat production may climb to 683.1 million tons, up
4.2 percent from a year earlier and 1 million tons more than
previously predicted, the IGC said July 1. U.S. farmers had
 harvested  43 percent of their winter-wheat crops as of June 30,
according to the USDA, and the harvest will begin in Europe and
 Russia  in the next month.  “Things in the Northern Hemisphere are looking fairly
positive,”  Darren Cooper , an economist at the IGC in  London ,
said in a telephone interview July 3. “There’s nothing so far
on the horizon to suggest crop downgrades, and things in the
 Black Sea  are looking good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  