-- Crisis Redefines Liquidity as Denmark Diversifies Debt Sales
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-05T14:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/crisis-redefines-liquidity-as-denmark-diversifies-debt-sales-1-.html
Denmark ’s takeaway from the global
financial crisis is to tap as many different debt markets as
possible in case one dries up, even if that erodes liquidity in
individual series.  The debt office at the Copenhagen-based central bank saw
its two-year bond yields turn negative last year after investors
fleeing  Europe ’s debt turmoil sought refuge in AAA Denmark.
Though a surge in volatility last month sent that spread to its
widest since February 2010, investors are now coming back. Ove Sten Jensen, who heads the debt office, says the trick is having
a broad enough palette to ensure there’s always one class of
bonds investor ready to buy, no matter how panicked markets are.  “We have more products now compared with a few years ago
and that means the individual series may not be as large,” he
said in an interview. “It’s not just about building up a very
large 10-year or 2-year series. It’s also about having different
types of products. That’s also a way of creating liquidity.”  Adding to its portfolio has helped Denmark attract
investors from the U.S.,  China  and  South America . That’s helped
keep Denmark’s 10-year yield below the U.S.’s. The Scandinavian
nation pays about 80 basis points less to borrow over that
maturity than the government of the world’s largest economy.  Extra Revenue  Denmark last year introduced its first inflation-linked
bond to tap interest from pension funds seeking protection
against price increases that may erode savings. The debt office
also reintroduced a Treasury bill program in 2010 that was
dropped two years earlier. In April, it sold debt in U.S.
dollars.  Denmark is set to receive extra revenue of about 40 billion
kroner ($7 billion) over the next two years from capital pension
taxes, which the government has said will be used to repay debt.  The debt office has no plans to change its issuance pattern
as Denmark’s public finances improve, Jensen said.  The debt office will keep a “relatively stable year-on-year issuance,” Jensen said. “We have communicated very
clearly that we won’t submit to a stop-go policy where we
suddenly change our issuance.”  Yet definitions of liquidity vary. Some of Denmark’s
biggest investors say the debt office’s decision to offer more
series is damaging the depth of existing issues and eroding
liquidity.  Buy Side  “It may be that that the debt office has had an easy time
selling its papers in recent years due to international
circumstances,” Poul Kobberup, who oversees about 100 billion
kroner ($17 billion) in Danish mortgage and  government bonds  as
head of fixed income investments at PFA Asset Management, said
in an interview. “But that may not be the case going forward,
so liquidity management is even more important.”  Kobberup wants the agency to “more aggressively” buy back
illiquid bonds, including the 2 percent 2014 note and the 7
percent 2024 bond, freeing it to issue more in its benchmarks.  “Denmark is already starting to pay the price as we can
see that the premium paid compared with other nations is getting
bigger,” he said. “Investors really don’t like illiquid
markets.”  The difference in yield between Danish and German 10-year
bonds, which was negative through most of last year, reached 14
basis points at the end of last week. Denmark’s government bond
market is about one 13th the size of  Germany ’s 1.1 trillion euro
($1.4 trillion) debt market.  ‘Very Expensive’  The debt office isn’t planning to follow PFA’s advice
because buying up Denmark’s illiquid series would be “very
expensive,” Jensen said. “Our mandate is to manage the
government debt as cost-efficient as possible,” he said.  The debt office has bought back a nominal 5.2 billion
kroner in illiquid bonds this year at a market price of 6.4
billion kroner, according to its  website . In 2013, it has issued
bonds for 50.5 billion kroner, mostly in its 10-year benchmark,
the 1.5 percent 2023 note.  Anders Svennesen, co-chief investment officer at ATP,
Denmark’s biggest pension fund with about $140 billion in
assets, said the debt office’s efforts to maintain liquidity are
enough to meet its demand.  “Liquidity issues are something all bond markets are
facing,” said Svennesen, who manages about 50 billion kroner of
government bonds, mostly Danish. “The biggest threat to
liquidity comes from regulatory developments. The banks have
historically been large providers of liquidity for the bond
markets. With regulation like Basel III, banks’ trading
functions are being scaled down.”  Cash Buffer  The debt office has taken advantage of record-low yields to
prefund about one year ahead. That means this year’s issuance
will cover the government’s 2014 financing need.  Nordea Bank AB said in a June 25 note the debt office may
consider suspending the T-bill program next year and instead
sell bonds as the financing need shrinks and prefunding boosts
state coffers.  “We have a cash buffer now, but’s it’s our stated
intention to keep a buffer,” Jensen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  