-- Cynthia Lufkin, Philanthropist Wife of DLJ Founder, Dies at 51
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-07-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/cynthia-lufkin-philanthropist-wife-of-dlj-founder-dies-at-51.html
Cynthia Lufkin, whose marriage to a
co-founder of Wall Street firm Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette
created a  New York   power couple  in social and philanthropic
circles, has died. She was 51.  She died on July 3 at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center  in  Manhattan , her husband Dan Lufkin, said in an
interview. The cause was complications of breast and  lung
cancer . Her home was in  Washington ,  Connecticut , about 80 miles
(129 kilometers) north of  New York City .  Diagnosed with breast cancer while pregnant with her second
child in 2005, Lufkin focused her later philanthropic work on
the disease. The holder of a degree in biochemistry, she was
particularly interested in how healthy living could bolster the
outlook for cancer patients, and her work led to the opening of
the Cynthia Lufkin Fitness and Seminar Room at Sloan-Kettering’s
Evelyn H. Lauder Breast Center.  “She focused on things which tended to be ignored by
normal medical procedures and normal medical institutions,” Dan Lufkin, 81, said. Those included “the fact that recently
diagnosed patients need reinforcement and understanding that
this disease can be fought and its impacts postponed for a
period of time.”  Dan Lufkin co-founded DLJ in 1959 with William Donaldson
and Richard Jenrette. The firm’s research work, led by Lufkin,
focused on small companies just beginning to grow and helped
attract pension funds, mutual funds and other institutional
investors as clients. Bucking New York Stock Exchange rules, DLJ
went public, in 1970, blazing a trail that other Wall Street
firms soon followed.  Cancer Research  The couple married in 2000. It was her second marriage, his
third.  She was co-chairman of the  Breast Cancer Research
Foundation  in New York and was active in its support of a Sloan-Kettering project to develop a DNA vaccine for melanoma, a type
of skin cancer.  Following her treatment for  breast cancer , which included a
double mastectomy, she was diagnosed with non-small-cell lung
cancer, which mostly strikes people who never smoked cigarettes,
her husband said.  Around the time of her initial diagnosis in 2005, Lufkin
and her husband were turning the former chapel of the New York
Cancer Hospital, built in the 1880s on Central Park West between
105th and 106th streets, into their Manhattan residence.  ‘Giving Thanks’  The New York Times, in a 2008 article on the Lufkins and
their home, said Mrs. Lufkin appreciated the irony: “You could
see people praying for miracles and giving thanks here, and in
reality that’s what it became for us.”  Cynthia Joy Henry was born on April 30, 1962, in
Somerville,  New Jersey , and raised in the neighboring town of
Branchburg. Her mother, Joyce Ford, is among her survivors.  She graduated from  Trinity College  in Hartford,
Connecticut, in 1984. Traveling in Milan after her graduation,
she landed a nonspeaking part on a soap opera, as “a secretary
for a wealthy gentleman,” according to the 2008 Times story,
which quoted her as saying, “I lit his cigars and opened up his
Jaguar door.”  She called that role “training for the future,” referring
to Dan Lufkin. “We do have a Jaguar, and he does love cigars.”  With the National Audubon Society, Lufkin created an annual
 $100,000 prize  for environmental leadership named for her
husband, who, after leaving  Wall Street , served as Connecticut’s
environmental commissioner and was on the steering committee
that in 1970 organized the first  Earth Day .  Her first marriage produced a daughter before ending in
divorce. Lufkin was working in public relations for Tiffany &
Co. when she met Dan Lufkin in 1999.  In addition to her mother and husband, survivors include
her daughter from her first marriage, Schuyler Hazard, 16; her
two children with Lufkin, daughter Aster Lee Lufkin, 7, and
Daniel Patrick Lufkin, 4; and her brother, Don Henry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  