-- Daiwa House to Raise Up to 137.9 Billion Yen Through Share Sale
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-07-05T08:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/daiwa-house-to-raise-up-to-137-9-billion-yen-through-share-sale.html
Daiwa House Industry Co. (1925) , Japan’s
biggest homebuilder, plans to raise as much as 137.9 billion yen
($1.37 billion) in Asia’s biggest share sale this year by a
property company.  The proceeds will go toward 650 billion yen the Osaka-based
company plans to spend over the next three years on building or
redevelopments, including warehouses, mergers and acquisitions,
and  capital spending , according to a statement through the Tokyo
Stock Exchange.  Japan’s construction industry is recovering after the March
2011 earthquake aided by the government’s pledge to spend 3.8
trillion yen for rebuilding and disaster prevention on top of 19
trillion yen already budgeted. Daiwa House managed to achieve
its three-year  sales  target of 2 trillion yen in the fiscal year
ended March 31, a year earlier than it had planned, the company
said in the statement.  “The company will be able to curb a rise in debt, given
the proceeds from the public offering, ample  cash flow  and
expected recoveries from property sales,” Hirohide Kinoshita, a
Tokyo-based credit analyst at Rating & Investment Information
Inc., said in a note after the announcement. “Because of strong
appetite for business expansion, however, improvement in the
balance between risk assets or debt and equity capital may
stall.”  The sale will be the biggest additional offering in Asia by
a company in the real estate industry this year, followed by
 Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) ’s $1.25 billion sale, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Daiwa House  shares  declined 1 percent to 1,965 yen at the
close of trading in Tokyo before the announcement. The stock has
gained 33 percent this year, outperforming the 29 percent
advance by the 94-member Topix Construction Index.  Brokerages including  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  were appointed for the sales, Daiwa House said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  