-- De Beers Strike to Start as South Africa Unrest Reaches Diamonds
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-07-05T12:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/de-beers-strike-to-start-as-south-africa-unrest-reaches-diamonds.html
De Beers  workers in  South Africa  will
strike from tonight over pay, becoming the latest miners to down
tools after Glencore Xstrata Plc employees walked out in May.  Strikes will go ahead at the Voorspoed operation in Free
State province, Kimberley in Northern Cape province and Venetia
in Limpopo province even as talks continue, said Peter Bailey, a
negotiator for the  National Union of Mineworkers . The action
will also affect the company’s trading arm, Diamond Trading Co.  The union gave notice July 3 after meeting with De Beers
representatives. The action follows a walkout at Glencore’s
South African chrome operations after a supervisor was accused
of assault. Tensions throughout the country’s mining industry
remain high as companies and unions square up in regular wage
talks at a time of weakening commodity demand and soaring costs.  Discussions between  De Beers , which is a unit of  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) , and union representatives have continued since the
strike notice was delivered, Bailey said by telephone. The NUM
demands a wage increase of 13 percent, while the company has
offered 6 percent, according to the union. Workers are also
seeking more leave.  Tom Tweedy, a De Beers spokesman, didn’t answer a call or
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment. De Beers
Consolidated Mines has 2,550 employees with 1,300 represented by
the union, he said yesterday in an e-mail.  De Beers’s South African mines account for about 16 percent
of the company’s total carats recovered. It also has operations
in Botswana, Canada and  Namibia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  