-- De Beers Agrees to 9% Pay Raise to Avoid Strike
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-07-05T18:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/de-beers-agrees-to-9-pay-gain-to-avoid-strike-labor-union-says.html
De Beers  will raise pay 9 percent in
 South Africa  to prevent a strike that was scheduled to start
later today after the  National Union of Mineworkers  reached an
agreement with the world’s biggest diamond producer.  “They could not afford a strike but neither could the
NUM,” Peter Bailey, chief negotiator for the union, said in a
phone interview. “A strike is always the last resort.”  Strikes were planned at the Voorspoed operation in Free
State province, Kimberley in Northern Cape province, Venetia in
Limpopo province, and the company’s trading arm, Diamond Trading
Co., the NUM said in an earlier statement.  “We’re pleased that we have an agreement,” Wayne Smerdon,
head of employee relations at De Beers, said in a phone
interview.  Labor relations across the South African  mining industry 
are tense as companies and unions square up in pay talks at a
time of weaker commodity demand and soaring costs. The NUM gave
notification to strike on July 3 after meeting with De Beers
representatives.  De Beers, a unit of London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , and
the NUM agreed to the “across-the-board” pay raise and two
extra days of leave, Bailey said. The annual inflation rate in
South Africa was 5.6 percent in May. Talks previously had been
at a standstill, with the NUM seeking 13 percent and the company
offering 6 percent, according to the union.  De Beers’s South African mines contribute about 16 percent
of the company’s total carats recovered, with other operations
based in  Botswana ,  Canada  and Namibia. De Beers Consolidated
Mines has 2,550 staff with 1,300 represented by the NUM, Tom Tweedy, a company spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  