-- Detroit Says It Sued Insurer Syncora Over Casino Revenue
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-07-05T22:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/detroit-says-it-sued-insurer-syncora-over-casino-revenue.html
Detroit  sued swaps insurer Syncora
Guarantee Inc., blaming it for the withholding of as much as $11
million a month in casino-derived revenue, city Emergency
Manager Kevyn Orr said in a statement.  “Syncora is exerting power it does not have to get money
to which it has no legal claim, and its actions are putting the
city’s entire restructuring efforts in peril,” Orr said today
in a statement announcing the Wayne County Circuit Court filing.  The filing couldn’t be immediately confirmed in court
records. Michigan Governor Rick Snyder in March appointed Orr,
an attorney, to lead the city out of a fiscal crisis that has
put it on the brink of municipal bankruptcy.  Detroit seeks a court order barring Syncora and other
defendants from taking any steps to limit the city’s access to
revenues from its three casinos.  Michael Corbally, a spokesman for New York-based Syncora
Guarantee, didn’t immediately reply to an after-hours e-mail
request for comment. The company is a unit of Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Syncora Holdings Ltd. (SYCRF)   Syncora insures some of the $1.4 billion in “Certificates
of Participation” issued by the city to “shore up the
underfunding” in two of its public employee pension funds in
2005 and 2006 as well as swap agreements through which the city
hedges interest rates payable on some of the certificates
according to Orr’s statement.  Casino-derived revenues were pledged to secure the swaps in
2009, according to Orr.  While the city has defaulted on some of those certificates,
holders have been paid by Syncora. The city has not defaulted on
the swap agreements, the emergency manager said.  A Wayne County judge today issued an order blocking a
custodial bank from refusing to release payments and set a
follow-up hearing for July 26, according to Orr’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  