-- TDF Said to Seek $5.1 Billion in Sale of French Towers
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p   a n d   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-07-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/tdf-said-to-seek-5-1-billion-in-sale-of-french-towers.html
The private-equity owners of
broadcast-tower operator Telediffusion de France SAS are seeking
more than 4 billion euros ($5.1 billion) for the company’s
French unit, people familiar with the sale said.  TPG Capital, Axa Private Equity, Charterhouse Capital
Partners LLP and the French state-backed investment fund Fonds
Strategique d’Investissement are set to receive first-round bids
next month, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. The shareholders are
seeking enterprise valuations for TDF’s French unit of about 11
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, which totaled about 400 million euros in 2013, two
of the people said.  Private equity and infrastructure fund groups including AMP
Capital and Macquarie Capital are among potential bidders that
have shown an interest in TDF’s largest unit after receiving
marketing materials last month, the people said.  Paris-based TDF’s shareholders, advised by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Rothschild, considered selling shares in a public
offering for TDF in 2011, according to a report in  Les Echos  at
the time. The same year, the broadcast-tower operator received
lenders’ approval to extend the maturity of about 4 billion
euros of loans to 2016 and sell bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Since then, TDF sold subsidiaries including Finnish  Digita 
to First State Investment ICVC, according to TDF’s website.  The group’s customers include television networks,  radio
stations  and telecommunications operators, according to its
 website . TPG and AXA Private Equity agreed to buy 60 percent of
TDF for about 3 billion euros in 2006. Charterhouse invested
about 241.5 million euros in 2002 in a deal that valued TDF at
2.5 billion euros at the time.  Spokesmen for AMP Capital, Axa Private Equity,
Charterhouse, Goldman Sachs, Rothschild, TDF and TPG Capital
declined to comment. A spokeswoman for the FSI did not
immediately return a call for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  