-- Drax’s Sole Bid for Carbon Capture Funds Casts Doubt on EU Goals
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-07-05T16:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/drax-alstom-seek-europe-funds-for-u-k-carbon-capture-plan.html
A European Union program to fund as
many as 12 carbon capture projects attracted only one bid for
the emissions-trapping technology, a proposal submitted by a
venture between  Drax Group Plc (DRX) ,  Alstom SA (ALO)  and BOC Group Ltd.  The White Rose project applied under the second phase of
the European Commission’s NER300 program, said an official for
the Capture Power Ltd. venture who asked not to be identified.
It was the  sole carbon -capture plan, the EC said on its website.  The failure of the program, which also finances renewable
energy, to lure more bids for the technology undermines European
plans to cut emissions by building a commercial carbon capture
and storage industry by the 2020s. Trapping emissions from power
plants and industry would allow countries to keep burning fossil
fuels and operating factories that have driven economic growth.  “One is completely insufficient and we have to find new
ways of taking CCS forward,” Chris Davies, a member of the EU
Parliament’s Environment and Public Health Committee who
introduced the NER300 concept, said by phone. “I suspect it
means that there’ll be massive concentration on making sure this
project qualifies. It would just be embarrassing for everyone if
there wasn’t any CCS project to show for all the work.”  NER300 sought to finance CCS and renewable energy projects
from the sale of 300 million emissions allowances. The second
phase will be funded from 100 million allowances and about 288
million euros ($370 million) of unused funds from the first,
which failed to finance any carbon-capture proposals.  U.K. Program  Member states had until July 3 to submit applications and a
total of 32 renewables projects applied in the second tranche.  The U.K. has a separate 1 billion-pound ($1.5 billion)
funding plan for CCS and in March selected White Rose and a
project in  Scotland  by Royal Dutch Shell Plc and SSE Plc to trap
emissions from a gas-power plant as preferred bidders.  The Department of Energy and Climate Change said on its
website that it would only put forward CCS projects for the
European program that would qualify for its own initiative.  Shell’s Peterhead project in Aberdeenshire didn’t plan to
seek NER300 funding, a company spokeswoman said. Shell will work
with the DECC on the venture under the U.K. program, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  