-- E.CL Falls After Postponing Northern Chile Power Project
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-05T19:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/e-cl-falls-after-postponing-northern-chile-power-project.html
E.CL SA (ECL) , northern Chile’s biggest
power producer, headed for the biggest weekly drop in a year
after its top executive told  El Mercurio  that the company is
delaying a new plant as copper producers delay projects.  The shares retreated 2.6 percent to 811 pesos at 3:13 p.m.
in Santiago, extending a weekly decline to 5.5 percent. The 90-day volatility, a measure of price swings, rose to 21.3, the
highest since March 2012. Chile’s benchmark  Ipsa (IPSA)  index fell 0.8
percent.  E.CL, the local unit of France’s  GDF Suez (GSZ) , will delay
building its 750-megawatt Energetica Mejillones plant because it
hasn’t secured contracts with raw-material producers to justify
the $1.5 billion cost, Chief Executive Officer Lodewijk Verdeyen
said in an interview with El Mercurio. Mining companies have
been delaying copper projects amid an economic slowdown in China
and scarcity of water in northern Chile, Verdeyen told the
Santiago-based newspaper.  “The uncertainty about the project is pressuring the stock
and creating short-term volatility,” Marcelo Catalan, an
analyst at  Banco de Credito e Inversiones (BCI)  said by phone from
Santiago. Catalan, who rates E.CL the equivalent of hold, said
the shares are “overly punished” because he isn’t including
 cash flow  from the Mejillones project in his valuation model.  E.CL has fallen 27 percent in 2013, the worst performance
among electricity companies in the IPSA, which is down 11
percent this year.  Beatriz Monreal, head of corporate communications at E.CL,
said by e-mail that the information El Mercurio published was
accurate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  