-- Mealworms on Menu Seen as Risk to Diners With Shellfish Allergy
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-05T15:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/mealworms-on-menu-seen-as-risk-to-diners-with-shellfish-allergy.html
Eating mealworms, insect larvae seen
as an alternative to beef and pork, may pose a risk to people
allergic to shellfish or dust mites, Dutch researchers said.  Laboratory tests found a possible link, Geert Houben, food-safety business line manager at TNO, said by phone today. TNO
conducted a study with the University Medical Centre Utrecht.
The organizations will now serve the larvae to people to test
for allergic reactions in a separate follow-up study carried out
with the national food-safety authority, Houben said.  Insects are nutritious and convert feed more efficiently
than cows or pigs while producing fewer  greenhouse gases ,
according to the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization, which promotes their use as food. Mealworms are a
“serious candidate” to replace poultry, beef and pork,
 according  to Delft, Netherlands-based TNO.  “There’s more and more international activity in the quest
for alternative protein sources,” Houben said. “We’re cheering
on this search for alternatives, but you do have to keep an eye
out for possible risks.”  The follow-up study’s results are expected in the middle of
next year, according to Houben. Sensitivity to shellfish is the
most common adult food allergy, affecting about 2 percent of
U.S. adults,  research  shows.  “It’s clear this type of risk always exists when new foods
are introduced,” Harry Wichers, a professor at the Netherlands’
Wageningen University Research Center who studies immune-system
responses to food, said by phone. “Proper labeling will go a
long way.”  Kiwifruit  Wichers cited kiwifruit as an example of a food that was
never suspected to cause allergies and was revealed to be a
cause after it was introduced.  Predicting the incidence and severity of possible allergic
reactions to mealworms is difficult and requires more research,
such as the planned follow-up study, according to Wichers.
Reactions to shellfish can be “very serious,” he said.  French chef David Faure, who serves mealworms in his
Michelin-starred restaurant Aphrodite in Nice, has praised the
nutty tones of the insects, which he adds to a codfish dish as
well as dessert. While at least 2 billion people worldwide eat
insects as part of their traditional diet, the practice has yet
to become popular in  Europe  or the U.S., according to the FAO.  “When you start changing proteins in food, the first thing
you have to consider is allergies,” TNO’s Houben said. “Insect
proteins are an obvious case to study because they’re a focus of
attention right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  