-- Least Sales Since '11 Offer Cushion Against Losses: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-07-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/least-sales-since-11-offer-cushion-against-losses-muni-credit.html
The steepest losses in almost three
years for U.S. municipal debt may wind up helping bondholders.
Issuers jolted by rising yields are scaling back sales to the
slowest pace since 2011, helping limit declines in the $3.7
trillion market.  From  California  to  New York , localities may postpone or
reduce borrowings in the second half of 2013 after benchmark 10-year yields reached  2.96 percent  in June, the highest level
since April 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Interest
rates soared last month on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce its bond purchases as the economy improves.  With higher yields making it harder to refund debt, top-rated Georgia and New York’s  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority , operator of the biggest U.S. transit system, delayed
or canceled sales last month. Refinancings were down 20 percent
in the first half of 2013 from a year earlier, according to
 George Friedlander , chief muni strategist in New York at
Citigroup Inc., the third-largest  U.S. bank  by assets.  “Less issuance will help keep interest rates from rising
too dramatically,” said Gary Pollack, who oversees $6 billion
of munis as managing director in Deutsche Bank AG’s private-wealth unit in New York. “It will be a buffer against rising
interest rates.”  Slow Down  The municipal market lost 3.3 percent last quarter, the
most since 2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  With the borrowing slowdown this year, Citigroup cut its
2013 issuance forecast about 13 percent to $350 billion, which
would be the least since 2011. Localities are pulling back on
borrowing as investors withdrew $4.5 billion from muni mutual
funds in the week through June 26, the most since Lipper US Fund
Flows began tracking the data in 1992.  Issuers led by Illinois sold  $24.4 billion  of long-term,
fixed-rate debt last month, the slowest June in two years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The amount of debt maturing or being redeemed surpassed
borrowings by almost $60 billion in June, the biggest negative-net-issuance since at least July 2012, when Bloomberg began
tracking the data.  Stability Prospect  Local borrowings exceeded the amount of maturing or
redeemed debt in only three of the past 12 months.
Municipalities sold $166 billion of bonds in the first half of
2013, the least since the same period in 2011.  “To the extent that a decline in new-issue volume supports
prices, I’m happy as an investor because my market will be
steady and stable if I need to sell,” Pollack said.  Georgia , with the highest grade from all three major
credit-rating companies, last month canceled a refinancing
because of the spike in interest rates, said Lee McElhannon,
director of bond finance for the state’s financing and
investment commission. The refunding required the state to hold
bond proceeds in an escrow account, where Treasury yields failed
to match those on muni bonds, he said.  “It was not only the increase in the muni rates,”
McElhannon said. “It was that municipal rates increased faster
than Treasury rates and threw off the ratios.”  Ratio Runup  At  4.17 percent , yields on benchmark munis due in 30 years
compare with the 3.49 percent interest rate on comparable-maturity Treasuries. The ratio of the two, at 119 percent, is
the highest in a year, Bloomberg data show. The higher the
figure, the cheaper tax-exempt bonds are in comparison.  Georgia has yet to pick a date for the refinancing deal.
Officials are watching the market for a future opportunity,
McElhannon said.  Refinancing is set to slow as states and cities in the past
year have already taken advantage of historically low  interest
rates , he said. The refundings that remain have a smaller
opportunity for savings, McElhannon said.  “The low-hanging fruit has already been picked,” he said.  After postponing the deal June 20 because of rising
interest rates, the MTA this week sold $334 million of revenue
bonds that will refund debt. The U.S. bond market was shut
yesterday for the Independence Day holiday.  States and cities are poised to offer  $12 billion  of long-term debt in the next 30 days, down from $17 billion on June 25,
close to a 10-month high.  The planned issuance includes a $2.9 billion revenue deal,
the biggest muni sale this year, from  Texas ’s Grand Parkway
Transportation Corp. to help finance a new toll road in the
Houston area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  