-- Heavenly Voices, Earthly Hate Mark ‘Choir Boy’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/heavenly-voices-earthly-hate-mark-choir-boy-review.html
In his blue blazer, khakis, striped
tie and penny loafers, Pharus Jonathan Young would ordinarily
fade into the classrooms of the Charles R. Drew Prep School for
Boys.  Receding’s not his style. A precocious intellect, seraphic
voice, already outsize ego and the unembarrassedly effeminate
mannerisms announcing that he’s gay mark the title character in
Tarell Alvin McCraney’s gently disturbing coming-of-age tale at
the  Manhattan Theatre Club . No wallflower he.  With an unnerving mix of poignancy and shamelessness,
Pharus -- played with consummate sympathy by Jeremy Pope --lifts
“Choir Boy” above a run-of-the-mill feel-good lesson in
tolerance. This kid is above all a born provocateur.  The suggestion that someone else might lead the school’s
famed vocal ensemble, for example, puts him in a derisive mood.
He’s the best, and he knows it. When a guest teacher (played by
Austin Pendleton with his usual irresistibly shlumpy appeal)
challenges the young men to think, Pharus offers a treatise
against the preferred narrative of Negro spirituals as coded
guides to freedom that infuriates his fellow students.  Taunter, Bully  He tends to exasperate the headmaster (Chuck Cooper,
radiating empathy), not to mention his loyal roommate (the fine
Grantham Coleman). Pharus’s greatest antagonist is the
headmaster’s nephew (Wallace Smith), taunter and bully.  McCraney’s “The Brother/Sister Plays” and “In the Red
and Brown Water” have already distinguished him as a voice
that, like Pharus’s, demands to be heard. Under Trip Cullman’s
sleek direction, economically designed by David Zinn (set and
costumes) and Peter Kaczorowski (lights), “Choir Boy” has the
elegiac ring of autobiography.  And when these boys harmonize (the superb musical direction
and arrangements are by Jason Michael Webb), “Choir Boy”
rises, as the poem goes, “on wings of song.”  Through July 21 at City Center Stage II, 131 W. 55th St.
Information: +1-212-581-1212;  http://www.nycitycenter.org .
Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  New York   Weekend  and  Peter Rainer 
on  movies .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 