-- Teck Joins Miners Benefiting From Loonie Drop
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-05T13:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/teck-joins-miners-benefiting-from-loonie-drop.html
  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  and  HudBay
Minerals Inc. (HBM)  are among resource companies poised to profit from
a sliding Canadian dollar even as analysts call an end to the
commodity boom.  Canada ’s currency has fallen 6.7 percent to C$1.0583 per
U.S. dollar from parity at the beginning of the year in the
steepest first half slide since 1984. Today it weakened past
C$1.06 per U.S. dollar for the first time since October 2011.
Miners with costs in Canadian dollars and sales in the U.S.
stand to benefit if the slide continues and they repatriate
revenue.  A further 5 percent drop would translate into a 25 percent
jump in  cash flow  per share this year for Vancouver-based Teck
and a 38 percent gain for Toronto-based HudBay, according to
 National Bank of Canada. (NA)   “It’s a silver lining,” Paolo Lostritto, a mining analyst
at National Bank said in a phone interview from Toronto on June
27. “If the Canadian dollar weakens, the costs of doing
business in Canada falls relative to the U.S., and therefore on
a relative basis they should outperform.”  The foreign exchange boost, which may also benefit  oil
companies  and other exporters, comes as commodity prices have
plunged and growth in  China , the world’s biggest commodity
consumer, is forecast to slow. Gross domestic product in China
will grow 7.7 percent this year, according to the average
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, down from a five-year average of 9.3 percent from 2008 to 2012.  Boom Over  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast in a May report precious
metals including gold and silver will drop 4 percent in 12
months, joining Citigroup Inc. in pronouncing the decade-long
commodity bull market over. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of
24 commodities has fallen 3 percent this year, with spot gold
down 25 percent and copper 13 percent.  Analysts have cut their year-end forecasts for the Canadian
currency 5 percent in the last three months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, as strengthening U.S. growth looks set to
leave Canada behind. The U.S. dollar has also gained as the
 Federal Reserve  unveiled a time line for ending monetary
stimulus which had been a weight on the currency.  Canada’s annual growth last year was 1.7 percent, trailing
the U.S.’s 2.2 percent rate for the first time in five years,
according to Bloomberg data. U.S. out performance is forecast to
continue until 2015, Bloomberg surveys show.  As the economies diverge, some forecasters are calling for
the loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, to continue its
slide, with Toronto-Dominion Bank, HSBC Holding Plc. and Morgan
Stanley all predicting it will fall to about C$1.10 per U.S.
dollar next year.  Go Further  That’s the level where companies like Teck, which has 76
percent of its operations in Canada but generates 95 percent of
sales outside the country, would start to see a boost, Lostritto
said.  “Your money coming in is U.S. and the money you have to
pay out to your employees and hopefully some supply chain stuff,
you’re paying it in Canadian dollars,”  said Stefan Ioannou, a
mining analyst at Haywood Securities Inc., by phone from
Toronto. “So the U.S. dollars you’re bringing in go a lot
further,”  Teck Resources, a miner of zinc, copper, and metallurgical
coal, has slumped 38 percent this year while HudBay, which
generates almost 50 percent of its revenue from copper, has
tumbled 30 percent.  Teck Resources declined to comment on how a weaker Canadian
dollar affects the  mining industry , Chris Stannell, a spokesman,
said in an e-mail. Bonnie Little, a spokeswoman for HudBay,
didn’t return a voicemail message requesting comment.  ‘Good Earnings’  A similar dynamic is at play for Canadian oil producers,
many of which have the majority of their production in  Alberta ’s
oil sands yet export to the U.S., Kyle Preston, an analyst at
National Bank Financial, said in a telephone interview on June
27.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , the country’s largest oil producer,
derives almost 80 percent of its revenue from Canada, while
fourth-biggest Cenovus Inc. generates 100 percent from domestic
sales, according to Bloomberg  data .  “I’m expecting some pretty good earnings out of the oil
and gas sector if this continues,” said  David Cockfield ,
managing director and portfolio manager at Northland Wealth
Management. Northland manages about C$225 million ($213
million).  A lower dollar, higher oil price and new rail transport
capacity are coming together to make a profitable environment
for Canadian oil producers, said Cockfield.  Spook Investors  “Canadian heavy oil’s getting all the way down to the Gulf
right now, which a few months ago seemed like it wasn’t likely
to happen,” he said.  Companies including Suncor,  Baytex Energy Corp. (BTE)  and
 Crescent Point Energy Corp. (CPG) , all Calgary-based, are set up to
benefit from the slumping loonie, Cockfield said.  To be sure, the risk of further declines in the currency
may spook international investors, said Greg Dean, an analyst at
CI Investments Inc. A weaker loonie erodes the value of
investments in foreign currency terms.  “We’ll see a ton of  money flow  out of Canada because a lot
of U.S. and international managers have said, ’I have to invest
domestically because I’m worried about the Canadian currency,’”
he said.  The benefits of a falling loonie for both mining and energy
companies could also be offset if commodity prices fall in step.
In the last decade crude oil futures have had an average 50
percent correlation with the Canadian dollar’s movements against
its U.S. counterpart, while the GSCI index has had a 56 percent
correlation.  This hasn’t been true of oil recently as West Texas
Intermediate crude has surged 15 percent over the past 12 months
to hover around $100. Meanwhile, the  discount  Canadian producers
receive for their crude against the U.S. benchmark has narrowed
to $15.75 from a record $42.50 in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  