-- Hedge Funds Post June Decline as Bernanke Roils Markets
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-07-05T16:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/hedge-funds-post-june-decline-as-bernanke-roils-markets.html
Hedge funds  posted their biggest
monthly loss in more than a year after signs that the U.S.
Federal Reserve may scale back its unprecedented stimulus
triggered a selloff across global markets.  Hedge funds lost 1.4 percent in June, the most since May
2012, paring the gain in the first six months of 2013 to 1.4
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hedge funds
that use computer models to decide when to buy and sell
securities slumped 6.3 percent last month, extending losses for
the year to 7.1 percent, and  emerging-market stock funds 
declined 6.6 percent, leaving them down 9.7 percent in 2013.  Hedge funds have trailed the MSCI All-Country World Index
for five of the past seven years as managers have struggled to
predict markets amid intervention by central banks across the
globe. Funds overseen by  John Paulson , Jamie Dinan and  Barry
Rosenstein  reported declines in June, as comments by Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  spurred declines in stocks, bonds,
currencies and commodities worldwide.  Global equities posted the biggest two-day retreat in 19
months after Bernanke’s June 19 comments that policy markers may
start reducing its bond purchases if the economy meets
expectations.  Paulson Credit Opportunities dropped 3.7 percent last
month, paring its gain for the year to 12 percent, according to
a performance update sent to clients of New York-based Paulson &
Co., which oversees $19 billion.  York, Jana  York Capital Management LP, the $15.5 billion New York-based multistrategy hedge fund run byDinan, fell 1.9 percent in
June and rose 17 percent this year in its York Select fund,
according to a performance update obtained by Bloomberg. Mary
Beth Grover, a spokeswoman for York, declined to comment.  Jana Partners LLC’s Jana Partners fund fell 1.3 percent
last month and rose 10 percent year to date, according to a
performance update to investors, a copy of which was obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The $5.7 billion New York-based firm’s Jana
Nirvana fund decreased 1.7 percent in June and climbed 16
percent this year, according to the update. Rosenstein is the
firm’s managing partner and co-portfolio manager, along with
David DiDomenico. Charles Penner, a partner at Jana, did not
respond to a request for comment.  Some funds managed to post gains. Passport Capital LLC’s
Passport Global fund rose 1.9 percent in June and 10 percent
this year, according to a performance update to investors
obtained by Bloomberg News. The $3 billion San Francisco-based
firm is run by  John Burbank .  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for
Passport, declined to comment on the returns.  New Mountain Vantage Advisers LLC, the $1.9 billion New
York-based long-short equity hedge fund, posted a 1 percent June
gain in its New Mountain Vantage LP fund, bringing yearly
returns to 11 percent, according to a person familiar with the
matter. Daniel Riley and  David Frost  are the fund’s co-portfolio
managers.  Patrick Clifford , a spokesman for the firm, declined
to comment on the returns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  