-- Egypt Violence Seen Rising as Brotherhood Shuns Politics
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-07-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/egypt-violence-seen-rising-as-brotherhood-shuns-political-stage.html
Violence in  Egypt  could increase as
the Muslim Brotherhood, which still commands some support, drops
out of politics after the ouster of President Mohamed Mursi,
said  Jon Alterman , a former State Department official for Middle
East affairs.  “You’re going to have a bumpy ride because the Army acted
with a lot of popular support, but the Brotherhood still
probably enjoys the support of between 10 million and 20 million
Egyptians,” Alterman said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend. He said if the Brotherhood drops out of politics,
“that’s actually a problem.”  The Muslim Brotherhood may have concluded “the game is
stacked and the only way to get what they deserve is to change
the game, not to play in the game,” said Alterman, who
previously served as a special assistant on Middle East affairs
at the State Department and now directs the Middle East program
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington. “That’s a big change from where the Brotherhood was
a year ago.”  Clashes between security forces and Islamist supporters of
Mursi have persisted since Egypt’s first democratically elected
civilian president was deposed by the Army on July 3 after four
days of nationwide protests.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration, which supported
the Muslim Brotherhood-backed Mursi government, should have been
more critical, Alterman said.  Everyone ‘Unhappy’  In the aftermath of the military removing Mursi, the Obama
administration is “perceived to be both in bed with the
Brotherhood and in bed with the army,” Alterman said.
“Everybody’s been unhappy with the Obama administration.”  Egyptians never have been happy about U.S. judgments on
their politics, he said.  The Obama administration would be ill-advised to halt its
more than $1.5 billion annual aid, Alterman said.  “I don’t think aid is going to be cut off,” Alterman
said. Even attaching conditions to the U.S. aid to enforce a
transition to democracy is unlikely to be effective, he said.  Egyptians concerned about the political future of their
country are unlikely to be swayed by aid conditions, Alterman
said.  “And the fact is our Gulf allies, especially  Saudi Arabia 
and the U.A.E., who are very, very concerned about the
Brotherhood, could write a check overnight that would triple the
consequences of American aid and there would be no strings and
no conditions,” Alterman said, referring to the  United Arab
Emirates .  Aid Law  The Obama administration has avoided describing the
military takeover in Egypt as a coup because that could force a
cutoff in U.S. aid to Egypt. A U.S. law bars “any assistance to
the government of any country whose duly elected head of
government is deposed by a military coup d’etat or decree,” or
a coup “in which the military plays a decisive role.”  Elsewhere in the region, the military takeover in Egypt is
likely to be welcomed, Alterman said.  “I think the guys in  Tel Aviv  are relieved because they
always felt they had a better relationship with the army than
the Brotherhood,” Alterman said.  Israel  “never trusted the
Brotherhood.” Israel won’t speak up in approval of the army
takeover “but the fact is people in Tel Aviv are sleeping much
better tonight than they have” in the past.  Iran Focus  In  Iran , Mursi’s removal is unlikely to be a focus because
the country is dealing with the aftermath of its elections that
resulted in Hassan Rohani being chosen as the next president,
Alterman said.  Iranians are “trying to figure out what the election of
Rohani means. They’re trying to figure out how much conciliation
they’ll have with the rest of the region. They’re thinking a lot
about  Syria ,” Alterman said. “So I think the Iranians are not
focused on Egypt nearly to the same degree as they might have
been three months ago.”  U.S. leverage is limited, Alterman said.  “Americans have been trying to democratize Egyptian
politics for more than a half century with very, very paltry
results to show for it,” he said. “There is that sense when it
comes to politics, the Americans just don’t know what they’re
talking about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  