-- Egypt Rating Cut by Fitch on Concern Turmoil to Curb Growth
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-07-05T17:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/egypt-rating-cut-by-fitch-on-concern-overthrow-to-damp-growth.html
Egypt’s credit rating was cut by
 Fitch Ratings  on concern that the ouster of President Mohamed Mursi will damp economic growth and fan political instability.  The “military coup” that overthrew Mursi and the
resulting political turmoil will set back the country’s economic
recovery and make it harder to implement fiscal and structural
changes needed to secure assistance from the  International
Monetary Fund , Fitch said today in a statement. The long-term
foreign-currency rating was reduced one level to B-, or six
levels below investment grade, with a negative outlook.  Fitch’s warning comes after Egypt’s stock market posted its
biggest rally in more than a year yesterday, sending the
benchmark index up 7.3 percent, on speculation the overthrow
will open the way for a new government to take over with broader
political support. The yield on  Egypt ’s $1 billion of dollar
bonds due 2020 extended yesterday’s record drop, falling 0.26
percentage point to 9.03 percent as of 1:45 p.m. in  New York .  “There’s a lot of uncertainty about how this will play
out,” Steffen Reichold, an emerging-market economist at Stone
Harbor Investment Partners LP, which oversees $66 billion of
assets, said in an interview from New York. “People weren’t
happy with how the last government managed the economy. Some
think there’s a prospect for better policies going forward.”  Fitch’s rating gives Egypt the same classification as
 Greece , Cyprus and Ecuador, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It is one level lower than Egypt’s grades from both
Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .
politicians take charge and the IMF deal is expedited, he added.  Debt Payments  Military officials said they aimed to restore stability
when they forced Mursi out of office on July 3. The country is
struggling with the worst economic slump in two decades and
facing the  Middle East ’s biggest budget deficit as a percentage
of economic output.  “There is a risk of a material deterioration of domestic
political stability, with downside risks for economic outcomes
and creditworthiness,”  Paul Gamble , director of the sovereign
group at Fitch, wrote in today’s report.  Egypt has about 169 billion pounds ($24 billion) of local-currency debt repayments this quarter, a record, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Political bickering since Mursi
became the country’s first democratically elected president a
year ago has prolonged talks with the International Monetary
Fund for a $4.8 billion loan.  The Market Vectors Egypt Index  ETF (EGPT)  rallied 3.9 percent
today to $43.69, which would be the highest closing level since
May 30. Oil producer Circle Oil PLC, which has assets in Egypt,
jumped 10 percent in  London .  Yield Spread  While the stock and bond markets have rallied since the
overthrow, they both slumped earlier this year.  The benchmark EGX 30 Index tumbled 13 percent in the first
half of 2013, led by Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE,
compared with a 1.7 percent drop in the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Egypt’s dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has jumped 3.4 percentage
points this year to 7.93 percentage points, according to data
from JPMorgan Chase & Co. That compared with an average increase
of 0.81 percentage points for emerging markets tracked by
JPMorgan’s EMBIG index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  