-- Embraer in Talks With American Airlines for Jet Order
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-07-05T18:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/embraer-in-talks-with-american-airlines-for-76-seat-jet-order.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3) ,  Brazil ’s biggest
planemaker, is in talks with  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines for
an order of 76-seat jets.  An Embraer official confirmed the discussions in a
telephone interview today and declined to specify which plane
model or how many jets are being discussed.  U.S. carriers are buying more of the 76-seat E-175 jets
while phasing out the fuel-inefficient 37- and 50-seaters.
Embraer announced orders for 119 E-Jets and 365 firm orders and
commitments for its second generation E2 planes at the  Paris Air
Show  last month, where Chief Executive Officer Frederico Curado
said he saw “strong demand” from U.S. carriers.  Shares of Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil-based Embraer rose
0.3 percent to 20.28 reais at 3:05 p.m. in Sao Paulo, paring an
earlier decline of as much as 2.1 percent.  On July 3, online trade publication Flightglobal  reported 
that American was close to selecting either the Embraer 175 or
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s CRJ900.  Michael Trevino, a spokesman for Fort Worth, Texas-based
American Airlines, declined to comment in an e-mail on talks
with Embraer or Bombardier.  “It is known in the industry that they are shopping for
new regional jets,” said Marc Duchesne, a spokesman for
Montreal-based Bombardier, in a telephone interview. He declined
to provide any further information. “American Airlines knows
that we have the best regional jets on the market.”  American is nearing emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy
proceedings. The carrier’s partner  Republic Airways Holdings
Inc. (RJET)  ordered 47 E-175 jets this year, with an option for another
47.  A pilot union contract agreement at American and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC) , which are expecting to close their merger in the
third quarter, allows lower-paying commuter partners to fly
larger planes. Such outsourcing had been limited to smaller
models, which are now out of favor with jet-fuel prices up
almost sevenfold in the past 15 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  