-- Emerging Stocks Join Currencies Lower on U.S. Jobs Data
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o ,   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-07-05T21:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/emerging-stocks-advance-led-by-chinese-banks-as-samsung-tumbles.html
Emerging-market stocks declined,
extending a weekly slump, and currencies fell as stronger-than-forecast U.S. jobs data boosted speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will pare back monetary stimulus in the world’s biggest economy.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 0.5 percent to 917.58,
sending its weekly retreat to 2.4 percent. The  Borsa Istanbul
Stock Exchange National 100 Index (XU100)  led losses among developing
nations, while the lira weakened to a record low. Twenty two out
of the 24 currencies tracked by Bloomberg fell. Gold producers
paced a slump in  South Africa ’s benchmark stock index as the
metal sank amid a U.S. dollar rally. The premium investors
demand to own emerging-market debt over U.S. Treasuries tumbled
15 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Stocks erased gains after government data showed that U.S.
employment increased more than forecast in June, wages picked up
and the U.S. jobless rate held close to a four-year low as the
world’s largest economy weathered the effect of higher taxes and
 federal budget  cuts. Today’s report gives Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke more reason to start trimming bond purchases intended
to spur the economy and lower unemployment.  Emerging markets are “looking at it more from the
standpoint of implications for Fed policy, thinking that this
may lead to the Fed tapering bond purchases more quickly,”
 Peter Jankovskis , who helps oversee $3 billion as co-chief
investment officer of Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook Investments
LLC, said by phone. “Anything that removes support from the
economy is going to be negative for the world economy, which
would certainly impact emerging markets.”  Biggest Losses  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell, led
by commodity and phone shares. The broad measure has slumped 13
percent this year, compared with an 8.3 percent gain in the MSCI
World Index. The developing-nation gauge  trades  at 9.6 times
projected earnings, lower than the MSCI World’s valuation of
13.3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund slid 0.6 percent to $37.34. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slipped 3.9 percent to 29.56.  The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  fell 1.2 percent as steelmaker Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA and iron-ore producer Vale SA
dropped as metals declined. The real depreciated even after
 Brazil ’s central bank sold $1.9 billion worth of currency swap
contracts today to stem the currency’s decline in the 12th day
of intervention in the past five weeks.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  reversed earlier gains OAO Magnit,  Russia ’s
biggest food retailer, tumbled 2.8 percent. OAO Raspadskaya, a
Russian producer of coal for steelmaking, surged 4.8 percent.  Gold Producers  Turkey ’s benchmark gauge slumped to the lowest level since
June 25, while the lira retreated 1.3 percent.  Poland ’s WIG20
Index dropped 1.5 percent and Hungarian shares gained. The
FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index slumped 2.1 percent in
Johannesburg as DRDGOLD Ltd. and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. plunged.  China ’s benchmark stock index advanced, capping its first
weekly gain since May, as  rallies  in property firms and material
producers overshadowed losses in energy shares and drugmakers.
China Vanke Co. climbed 4.1 percent after the developer’s sales
increased last month.  India ’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  extended this week’s advance to 0.5
percent, a second straight week of gains. Hindustan Unilever,
India’s biggest household products maker, rose to a record.
Reliance Industries Ltd., owner of the world’s largest refining
complex, added 2.2 percent, the biggest boost to the Sensex.  The extra yield for emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries tumbled to 319 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  