-- Supreme Court Lending Bias Case in Settlement Talks
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-07-05T17:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/lending-discrimination-case-at-supreme-court-in-settlement-talks.html
The Township of Mount Holly,  New
Jersey , and a local citizens’ group are seeking to settle a
dispute now before the U.S.  Supreme Court  that threatens to
undercut the Obama administration’s crackdown on alleged
discrimination in lending.  “The parties are currently engaged in settlement
discussions to attempt to resolve the matter,” M. James Maley,
Jr., counsel to the township, wrote in a  June 26 letter .  Maley said both sides want a 25-day extension of an Aug. 1
deadline for a brief to the court arguing the township’s case, a
filing that sets in motion other deadlines. That request was
granted, according to the Supreme Court  website .  The justices on June 17 agreed to consider an appeal by
Mount Holly, which is fighting a U.S. Fair Housing Act lawsuit
filed by residents over the demolition of a predominantly
minority neighborhood. The town says the residents must prove an
intent to discriminate, not just that the project has a
disproportionate effect on minorities.  The case will test a legal theory, known as “disparate
impact,” that the Obama administration has repeatedly invoked
in lawsuits against banks over housing and auto loans.  Bank of
America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  have
agreed to pay at least $480 million to settle claims since
December 2011.  A regulator created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial
regulatory overhaul, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
has embraced the same legal theory.  St. Paul Case  The Supreme Court had agreed to consider the disparate-impact issue during its 2011-2012 term, in a case involving  St.
Paul , Minnesota. The city dropped its appeal in February,
scuttling the case.  Congressional Republicans  have accused the Obama
administration of improperly inducing St. Paul to drop the case
-- to avert a Supreme Court decision limiting the Fair Housing
Act -- by promising to stay out of an unrelated fraud suit
against the city. They have also raised the issue in the debate
over confirming Tom Perez, head of the  Justice Department ’s
civil-rights division, to be Obama’s next secretary of labor.  The case now in settlement talks is Township of Mount Holly
v. Mount Holly Gardens Citizens in Action, 11-1507.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  