-- Merkel Offers 5% Gains in Bid to Win Voters for Power Grid Plan
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-07-05T13:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/merkel-offers-5-gains-in-bid-to-win-voters-for-power-grid-plan.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government
unveiled a program aimed at getting voters to invest in building
new power lines and transformers that seeks to turn opponents of
the “smart power grid” construction project into stakeholders.  Merkel’s Citizen’s Dividend program targets cash to fund
the 10 billion euro ($12.9 billion) grid. When complete, the
network will transport power from off-shore wind farms and new
fossil-fuel power plants in northern  Germany  to consumers and
industry in the south. Private investors may co-finance as much
as 15 percent of the total costs with returns of “up to 5
percent,” the government said today in Berlin.  “Speeding up construction of the grid is urgent if Germany
is to achieve its ambitious energy targets,” the Economy and
Environment Ministries said in a  joint statement  on their
websites. Offering co-investment to ordinary Germans “can raise
the degree of acceptance” of the project that entails building
2,700 kilometers (1,680 miles) of new  power lines  and renewing
another 2,800 kilometers of cable.  With national elections on Sept. 22, Merkel’s project may
serve a dual purpose of winning over voters who oppose the
building of the grid in their neighborhoods and deflecting
opposition-party criticism which alleges that she’s bungling the
nation’s shift to renewables. Local residents in states like
Thuringia oppose power lines due to be built through a mountain
forest.  Speed Construction  Building the grid, that will be operated by Tennet TSO
GmbH, TransnetBW GmbH, 50Hertz GmbH and Amprion GmbH, has been
delayed amid squabbles with the government over liability in
financing construction. On June 6, the upper house of parliament
that represents the states and is dominated by opposition Social
Democratic and Greens parties agreed to give up control over
power lines built in their regions in order to speed up
construction.  Merkel’s energy shift program requires a grid with built-in
storage capacity as Germany ramps up the share of renewable
energy sources in power generation to 35 percent by 2020 from 23
percent last year. Germany will close all its nuclear  power
plants  by 2022.  The government is mainly targeting German investors and
groups living close to the new power lines, according to the
statement. A minimum investment of 1,000 euros is envisaged with
the four grid operators gaining the right to set investment
packages and buy stakes back from investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  