-- European Stocks Rise for a Second Week on ECB Guidance
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-07-05T16:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/european-stocks-rise-for-a-second-week-on-ecb-guidance.html
European stocks  rose for a second
week as the  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  said
interest rates will remain low for an extended period of time.  PSA Peugeot Citroen surged 12 percent, its biggest weekly
gain since May. Nokia Oyj rallied 9.1 percent after the Finnish
phonemaker agreed to buy Siemens AG’s stake in their joint
venture. Fresenius Medical Care AG tumbled 12 percent after the
U.S. government proposed cutting payments to dialysis-center
operators under the Medicare program from next year.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 1.2 percent to 288.31 this
week. The equity benchmark has pared its retreat from its 2013
high on May 22 to  7.2 percent . The Stoxx 600 declined 3 percent
in the second quarter as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  indicated that the central bank may reduce its asset
purchases if the economy improves in line with its forecasts.  “The fact that the ECB and the BOE will keep rates low for
longer than expected weakened the euro and sterling and this
provided a huge boost to the stock market,” said Lex Van Dam, a
 fund manager  who overseas $500 million at Hampstead Capital LLP
in  London .  The euro fell 1.4 percent to $1.2831 this week, while the
pound slid 2 percent to $1.4910.  European stocks rallied 2.3 percent on July 4 as ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said that interest rates will remain at
their current levels or lower for as long as necessary.  “What the Governing Council did today was to inject a
downward bias in  interest rates  for the forseeable future,” he
said. “Our exit is very distant.”  Forward Guidance  In the U.K., the Bank of England signaled that it will
leave interest rates at a record low for longer than investors
had expected.  “The implied rise in the expected future path of  bank rate 
was not warranted by the recent developments in the domestic
economy,” the BOE said in a statement on July 4.  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed that
employers added 195,000 jobs in June, more than the 165,000
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey. The better-than-forecast jobs growth intensified concern that the Fed will
begin to reduce its asset purchases. The  unemployment rate 
remained at 7.6 percent.  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of the 18 western-European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 2.6
percent and  France ’s CAC 40 climbed 0.4 percent.  Germany ’s DAX
Index slid 1.9 percent.  Portugal’s Government  Portugal ’s PSI 20 Index retreated 2.7 percent this week as
the country’s government lost the leader of its junior coalition
partner. Paulo Portas, who leads the CDS party, resigned from
his ministerial job on July 2 after Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  appointed Maria Luis Albuquerque as the new minister of
finance. Portas said Albuquerque would merely continue the
country’s deficit-cutting plans.  Coelho said on July 4 that CDS will continue to support the
coalition government’s agenda.  Peugeot rose 12 percent after analysts at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said the  unprofitable company  will probably beat its
goal of reducing cash consumption.  Valeo SA advanced 11 percent. The second-biggest maker of
car parts in France said it expects sales in  China  to double
every four years.  Nokia Rallies  Nokia gained 9.1 percent after it agreed to buy Siemens
AG’s share in their joint venture for 1.7 billion euros ($2.2
billion), giving the Finnish company full access to the phone-equipment maker’s cashflow for a less-than-estimated price.  Taylor Wimpey Plc  added 7.4 percent. The U.K.’s second-largest housebuilder by market value reported an operating-profit margin in its domestic market of more than 13 percent in
the first half of the year, compared with 11.2 percent a year
earlier.  Persimmon Plc rose 6.4 percent after first-half revenue
climbed 12 percent. The U.K.’s largest homebuilder said the
government’s Help to Buy loan program increased demand.  Mediaset SpA surged 10 percent. The broadcaster controlled
by former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  expects July
advertising sales to increase by more than 3 percent. They have
fallen for the last 22 months.  Sky Deutschland AG soared 12 percent as Berenberg Bank
raised its recommendation for the shares of the German pay-TV
provider and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added it to its
“conviction buy” list.  Fresenius Medical Care tumbled 12 percent after the U.S.
government proposed cutting payments to operators of kidney-dialysis centers by 9.4 percent next year.  Celesio AG slid 9.6 percent after it fired Chief Executive
Officer Markus Pinger. The German drug distributor said in a
statement that the CEO and the supervisory board had different
opinions over the management of the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  