-- Mexican Peso Tumbles as U.S. Jobs Report Drives Up Bond Yields
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-07-05T14:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/mexican-peso-tumbles-as-u-s-jobs-report-drives-up-bond-yields.html
Mexico ’s peso fell the most in two
weeks as stronger-than-forecast U.S. jobs data added to
speculation that policy makers in the Latin American nation’s
biggest trading partner are poised to reduce monetary stimulus.  The currency slid 1.2 percent to 13.0662 per  U.S. dollar  at
9:11 a.m. in Mexico City, leaving the currency down 1 percent on
the week. Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 surged 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 5.99 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors have been dumping Mexican peso bonds since May
when Federal Reserve policy makers began fueling speculation
that improvement to the  U.S. economy  could lead them to pare
back the debt purchases that have fueled demand for higher-yielding, emerging-market securities. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 the central bank could start reducing its
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases, known as quantitative
easing, later this year and end the program by mid-2014.  “There was this benefit from quantitative easing --
foreign capital flows based on the liquidity provided by the Fed
-- going also into the Mexican peso,” Bernd Berg, global
emerging-market foreign exchange strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said by phone from Zurich. “The market is fearing
that this liquidity is going to be withdrawn.”  Payrolls rose by 195,000 workers for a second straight
month, the Labor Department reported today in  Washington . The
median economist forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for an
increase of 165,000 jobs. The jobless rate held at 7.6 percent.  Rising U.S. Treasury yields are luring money away from
Mexican fixed-income assets, driving down the peso even as
improving U.S. growth bolsters exports from  Latin America ’s
second-biggest economy, according to Berg.  Yields on 10-year  U.S. Treasury yields  jumped 19 basis
points today to 2.69 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  