-- Ford, Tesla Push First-Half Battery Car Growth Rate
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-07-06T04:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/ford-tesla-push-first-half-battery-car-growth-rate.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s expansion of hybrid
and plug-in models and demand for  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s luxury
battery sedans helped U.S. first-half sales of electric-drive
cars and trucks increase faster than even surging pickups.  U.S. sales of hybrid, plug-in hybrid and battery-only autos
rose at least 23 percent to more than 287,000, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg. Deliveries of full-size pickups climbed
22 percent, according to Autodata Corp.  “The number of entries in the segment continues to grow,
so as a buyer you don’t have to make a compromise to get what
you want,” Alan Baum, principal of Baum & Associates, said in a
phone interview yesterday from West Bloomfield,  Michigan . “Ford
is obviously increasing sales, but what’s more important is
they’re now a serious player in this space.”  Environmental rules in the U.S., Europe and  Japan  have
pushed carmakers to offer more vehicles that don’t emit climate-warming gases and consume less fuel. Pressure on Toyota’s Prius,
the world’s  top-selling  electric-drive vehicle, is growing as
competitors work to replicate the hybrid hatchback’s mass-market
success.  Ford’s hybrid and plug-in versions of the Fusion sedan and
C-Max wagon boosted its electric-drive deliveries to 46,197,
more than five times its year-earlier volume.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
led with 176,506 such sales, up 4.4 percent.  Pickup Profit  Full-size pickup deliveries exceeded 928,000 in the first
half, more than triple sales of electric-drive vehicles. Such
trucks also are the top source of earnings for U.S.-based Ford,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC. Automakers make an
$8,000 to $10,000 profit per pickup they sell, versus $3,000 per
mid-size car, John Casesa, senior managing director at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, said this week on Bloomberg Radio.  While first-half sales of the four-model Prius line fell
5.1 percent to 120,214, the world’s largest automaker still
plans to sell as many as 250,000 this year, Bill Fay, Toyota’s
group vice president for U.S. sales, said July 2. A revived
advertising push, no-interest loans and discount leases are in
place to help meet that goal, Fay said in a conference call.  Tesla, which led North American rechargeable auto sales in
the first quarter, topping GM’s Volt plug-in and  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201) ’s battery-electric Leaf, may have relinquished its volume
lead in the first half.  The electric-car maker led by billionaire Elon Musk may
have sold 8,931 units of Model S, priced from $69,900, this year
through June, according to an estimate by Woodcliff Lake, New
Jersey-based Autodata.  Volt, Leaf  Tesla doesn’t currently report sales on a monthly basis.
The company will provide delivery figures when it releases
second-quarter results, said Shanna Hendriks, a Tesla
spokeswoman, who declined to confirm Autodata’s estimate. Tesla
sold few electric vehicles in last year’s first half after
concluding Roadster sports car deliveries and starting Model S
output.  The Volt, a plug-in hybrid that goes about 38 miles (61
kilometers) on battery power before a gasoline engine engages,
had a 12 percent increase to 9,855 units in the first half. That
kept Volt just ahead of Nissan’s Tennessee-built Leaf with 9,839
sales, tripling its year-ago sales.  Baum, who analyzes developments in the alternative-powertrain vehicle segment, said he estimates that electric-drive sales may have grown as much as 27 percent in the first
half to a record 299,000. The figures compiled by Bloomberg
include data released directly by most automakers, and Autodata
estimates for companies including  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  and Tesla.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Koenig at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  