-- France Had Chilly June as Excess Rain Caused Southwest Flooding
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-05T11:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/france-had-chilly-june-as-excess-rain-caused-southwest-flooding.html
France, the European Union’s largest
grain producer, had a chilly June, while excess rain in the main
corn-growing region in the Southwest caused flooding.  Last month’s average temperature was 17.8 degrees Celsius
(64 degrees Fahrenheit), 0.7 degree below normal for June, the
Paris-based  Agriculture Ministry  wrote in an online  report 
today. Rain on average was 8 percent lower than normal across
the country, while in the Southwest it was 53 percent higher.  Corn conditions have worsened in the Southwest, with the
crop rated as good or excellent in the Aquitaine region sliding
for a sixth week as of June 24, according to crop office
FranceAgriMer. The region and neighboring Midi-Pyrenees grow
about 30 percent of France’s corn.  “Rainfall diverges by region, severe flooding in the
Southeast and a deficit in the Center-East, Southeast and
Corsica,” the ministry wrote. “Temperatures remain fresh
across almost all of the territory.”  Communities in the Southwest suffered severe floods and mud
slides between June 17 and 20, with the Gave de Pau River rising
the most since the 1950s, the ministry wrote.  In the Southwest, temperatures averaged 17.2 degrees
Celsius last month, 1.6 degrees below normal and  France ’s
coldest region relative to long-term average temperatures.  The country’s north, which accounts for about 55 percent of
French wheat production, averaged 16.2 degrees Celsius, 0.4
degree below normal and the sixth month of colder-than-usual
temperatures, the ministry’s weather data show.  National rainfall averaged 5 centimeters (2 inches) in May,
ranging from 1.2 centimeters in Corsica to 10.1 centimeters in
the Southwest, the ministry said. Total rainfall since March 1
was 26 percent above usual amounts in the country, it said.  Soil-humidity levels as of June 1 were close to normal for
the Southeast, slightly deficient on the coast in the North and
above normal for the rest of the country, particularly the
Northeast and Southwest, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  