-- Gafisa Rallies After Banco BTG Says Buy on Outlook for Profit
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-07-05T15:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/gafisa-rallies-after-banco-btg-says-buy-on-outlook-for-profit.html
Gafisa SA (GFSA3) , the Brazilian homebuilder
that tumbled 33 percent in the past month, rallied as  Grupo BTG
Pactual (BBTG11)  recommended buying the stock on the outlook for profit.  The shares advanced 4.9 percent to 2.78 reais at 11:52 a.m.
in  Sao Paulo , heading for the biggest one-day gain since  June
25. That was the second-best performance on the Ibovespa stock
benchmark, which slumped 1.9 percent.  After the plunge in the past month, Gafisa is trading at
0.25 times its tangible book value when considering its
remaining stake in Alphaville Urbanismo, a builder of higher-end
homes that it sold control of on June 7, Marcello Milman and
Gustavo Cambauva, analysts at BTG Pactual, wrote in a note to
clients today. That’s “too cheap even for a company whose
earnings power remains a question mark,” they wrote.  The homebuilder has the potential to break ground on more
projects, improve profit margins and cut costs, which could
“translate into substantial upside in the medium-term,” the
analysts wrote. Sao Paulo-based Gafisa posted unexpected  losses 
in the past two quarters as the company overestimated demand for
government-subsidized homes for low-income families.  Gafisa agreed last month to sell a 70 percent stake in
Alphaville to a unit of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and a local partner
for 1.4 billion reais ($620 million). Proceeds will be used to
reduce Gafisa’s net debt as a percentage of assets to 53 percent
from 94 percent at the end of the first quarter, Chief Financial
Officer Andre Bergstein said in a telephone interview on June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  