-- GDF Suez Chief Urges Shale Gas Research as Winter Blackouts Loom
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-07-05T16:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/gdf-suez-chief-urges-shale-gas-research-as-winter-blackouts-loom.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  Chief Executive Officer
Gerard Mestrallet urged Europe to consider shale gas and review
energy policies that have led to higher power prices and  carbon
emissions  and cut peak capacities as winter blackouts loom.  “The  energy policy  is a failure, whether it’s on climate,
competitiveness, or securing supplies,” Mestrallet said today
at a conference organized by Le Cercle des Economistes in Aix-en-Provence, southern  France . “We have overcapacities on
average, but shortages for peaks because we’re closing gas-fired
plants like crazy.”  Europe must rebuild a “real, stable and non-erratic”
carbon dioxide market, have peak production capacities “to
avoid the big blackouts that are looming next winter,” boost
spending on power grids and on research on unconventional oil
and gas, the GDF Suez CEO said. He also called for EU nations to
develop renewable energies at a cost that’s “bearable for
consumers.”  Utilities including GDF Suez and EON SE are idling gas
plants and turning to cheaper coal imported from the U.S. as the
economic crisis in  Europe  and the development of subsidized
renewable power have increased overcapacities under windy and
sunny weather.  GDF Suez is closing, or mothballing, more than 8,000
megawatts of capacity in Europe from 2009 to 2013.  Europe needs an energy mix “that rules out no solutions,
including the one that’s giving competitiveness back to the
U.S.,” Mestrallet said. “Energy prices for individuals and
companies are falling in the U.S.” because of shale gas,
“while they are rising in Europe because of taxes and the cost
of renewables, which are becoming almost unbearable in some
countries like  Germany .”  Shale gas is providing the U.S. with “considerable
competitiveness relative to Europe,” the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Aix-en-Provence at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  