-- German Upper House of Parliament Backs Bank Supervision Law
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-07-05T14:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/german-upper-house-of-parliament-backs-bank-supervision-law.html
Germany ’s upper house of parliament,
where the country’s 16 states are represented, gave final
parliamentary approval today for the European Central Bank to
take over as euro-area bank supervisor.  The the Bundesrat backed a law that was already passed in
the lower house, the Bundestag, on June 13, a spokesman for the
upper chamber said by telephone. The opposition-controlled
Bundesrat said in a statement that  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
government is hindering the establishment of a banking union.  “The Bundesrat reiterates its concern that the ECB may
exert assertive supervision only under certain conditions,
including the creation of a European restructuring regime, which
allows banks to be actually wound down in an emergency,” it
said. “The Bundesrat notes that the federal government has so
far blocked such a unified resolution mechanism in Europe.”  The ECB probably won’t take over as single supervisor of
banks until the final months of 2014 as European Union lawmakers
won’t vote on the legislation before September, further delaying
the banking union that leaders wanted in place quickly to stem
the sovereign debt crisis.  The European Commission proposed the so-called Single
Supervisory Mechanism under the auspices of the ECB on Sept. 12
in an effort to strengthen Europe’s economic and monetary union.
Lenders with a balance sheet of more than 30 billion euros
($38.5 billion) and more than 20 percent of their country’s
gross domestic product will be subject to ECB supervision.  Supervisory Tasks  Once the SSM regulation takes effect, the ECB is allowed to
prepare for operative supervisory tasks such as seeking
information and carrying out balance-sheet assessments. It won’t
be allowed to make regulatory decisions.  “Prerequisites for a functioning banking union also
include the establishment of a European restructuring and
settlement fund, which is fed via a bank levy,” the Bundesrat
said. “That’s the only way to avoid that taxpayers must
continue to pay for the stabilization of distressed banks.”  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has said a
network of national resolution authorities and backstops could
form a first stage of banking supervision until treaty changes
and further EU integration in other areas of policy making are
completed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  