-- Ghana’s Foreign Exchange Market Dries Up Before Bond Sale
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-07-05T08:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/ghana-s-foreign-exchange-market-dries-up-before-bond-sale.html
Currency traders in  Ghana  are waiting
for the West African nation’s second sale of Eurobonds to revive
business as a scarcity of dollars halted buying after the cedi
reached a record low.  “The  interbank market  is virtually dead,” Sadiq Abubakar,
a currency trader at International Commercial Bank in Accra, the
capital, said by phone yesterday. “We’re hoping to see if the
Eurobond comes to fruition, then we will see some liquidity in
the market.”  Finance Minister Seth Terkper said Ghana plans to sell $1
billion of international debt this month, following Rwanda and
 Nigeria  as African nations tap investor appetite for assets from
the world’s fastest growing region after developing  Asia . Ghana
became the first sub-Saharan African nation outside of  South
Africa  to issue Eurobonds, selling $750 million in 2007. Foreign
reserves dropped to $4.99 billion in April from $5.01 billion in
March, according to the Bank of Ghana.  The central bank sells dollars to lenders at irregular
intervals based on market demand, which is led by manufacturers
seeking raw material, oil importers and traders, Abubakar said.
Ghana’s economy, the second-biggest in West  Africa , is forecast
to grow 8 percent this year.  “I am able to meet less than 10 percent of client demand
in a day,” Abubakar said.  Currency trading  among banks ceased about two weeks ago
because of the lack of dollars, said Nikoi Kotey, a trader at
CAL Bank Ltd. in Accra. The cedi weakened 0.7 percent to match a
record low 2.04 per dollar as of 7:01 a.m. in Accra.  Fifth Worst  “Nobody is quoting rates because everybody is seeking to
buy,” Kotey said.  The cedi may strengthen with proceeds from Eurobonds,
pushing the currency below the 2 per dollar level, Kotey and
Abubakar said.  “If the market becomes liquid, it will impact the
currency,” Abubakar said. By the end of the year, the cedi may
reach 1.99 per dollar, he said. The currency has declined 6.6
percent this year, the fifth-worst among 24 African currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Ghana’s trade deficit worsened to $334.6 million in the
first quarter from near zero a year earlier, as the world’s
second-biggest cocoa grower and Africa’s second-largest gold
producer saw exports drop 7.3 percent,  the central bank said  May
22. The current account, the broadest measure of trade in goods
and services, widened to a deficit of $1.1 billion in the first
three months from $986.6 million a year before, the  Bank of
Ghana  said.  Yields on the nation’s debt due October 2017 fell 33 basis
points, or 0.33 percentage point, to 6.41 percent as of 9:06
a.m. in  London . That compares with 4.95 percent at the end of
the 2012.  Adams Nyinaku, head of treasury at Bank of Ghana, wasn’t
available to comment, said a woman who answered two calls made
to his office yesterday and didn’t give her name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  