-- Greece, Troika Continue Talks in Athens in Bid to Release Funds
-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2013-07-05T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/greece-troika-continue-talks-in-athens-in-bid-to-release-funds.html
Greece’s government goes into a sixth
day of talks with international inspectors today on cuts to
thousands of state jobs in a bid to clinch a deal that will
convince euro area finance ministers to release further aid
payments.  “We are close, nothing substantive has changed,”
Administration and E-Governance Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis
told reporters in Athens late yesterday after meetings with the
so-called troika of officials from the  European Central Bank ,
European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund .
Discussions on the final details will be held today, he said.  Locked out of markets since 2010, Greece is hoping to
secure payment of 8.1 billion euros ($10.4 billion euros) at a
meeting of euro area ministers in Brussels on July 8. The loan,
part of pledges of 240 billion euros in support from the euro
area and IMF, hinges on Prime Minister Antonis Samaras meeting
creditor demands for reforms, including cuts to the government’s
payroll.  Samaras was last month forced to replace ministers in his
cabinet and give coalition partner Pasok a greater role after
junior partner Democratic Left withdrew its support. Democratic
Left quit the government after Samaras shut down national
broadcaster ERT without consultation, firing 2,600 employees, a
day after the country failed to draw any bids in its sale of the
national gas company Depa SA, which punched a hole in plans to
reduce debt through the sale of state assets.  Asset Sales  The troika agreed during the talks in  Athens  to reduce the
target for revenue from state asset sales to 1.6 billion euros
this year, state-run Athens News Agency reported, citing an
unidentified official from Hellenic Republic Asset Development
Fund. The government will need to raise another 1 billion euros
next year, with the gas company set to be sold in the first
half, ANA said. The troika is due to leave Athens tomorrow,
Mitsotakis said.  Greece is aiming to receive approval from the euro area
finance minister’s meeting, said a finance ministry official,
who asked not to be identified. A law bundling the measures
agreed will be submitted to Parliament on the same day as the
meeting in Brussels, he said.  Under the agreement with the troika,  Greece  has to place
12,500 public employees in a so-called mobility program
immediately. The staff would be reallocated to new positions or
let go after a 12-month period. Another 12,500 public employees
will be put on the plan by the end of the year.  The country’s public-sector union called on civil servants
in Athens to strike from midday July 8 in response to the plans.  “In a country where unemployment has reached 30 percent,
and 60 percent for the young, public services are gradually
being abolished while the new measures will promote more
unemployment and greater poverty of Greek society,” the Athens-based Adedy labor union said in an e-mailed statement  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  