-- Greece’s Public-Sector Union Calls Strike to Protest Job Cuts
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2013-07-05T16:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/greece-s-public-sector-union-calls-strike-to-protest-job-cuts.html
Greece ’s public-sector union called
on civil servants in Athens to strike from midday July 8 to
protest measures to cut the number of state workers, part of
demands made by international creditors in exchange for
continued funding.  “In a country where unemployment has reached 30 percent,
and 60 percent for the young, public services are gradually
being abolished while the new measures will promote more
unemployment and greater poverty of Greek society,” the Athens-based Adedy labor union said in an e-mailed statement.  Greece, locked out of markets since 2010, is awaiting
payment this month of its next international loan tranche
totaling 8.1 billion euros ($10.4 billion euros). Payment hinges
on Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s government meeting creditors
demands for economic reforms, including cuts to the government’s
payroll.  Administration and E-Governance Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis told reporters in Athens today before meeting with
the so-called troika of officials from the  European Central
Bank , European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund 
that he hopes talks on public-sector job cuts conclude today.  At the end of 2012, a so-called mobility scheme was created
whereby state staff would be reallocated to new positions or let
go after a 12-month period.  Greek officials and the troika have identified 12,500
public employees to be put in the mobility plan as part of the
country’s targets for reducing the number of state workers,
state-run Athens News Agency reported today, without citing
anyone. An additional 12,500 public employees will be put on the
plan by the end of the year, ANA said.  Progress has been made with the troika on all issues and
the aim is to reach a political agreement on the next aid
payment on July 8, when euro-area finance ministers are
scheduled to meet in Brussels, Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said yesterday. Talks with the troika will continue
until July 7 if needed, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in  Athens  at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  