-- Lincoln Mastered Wisdom of Unsent Letter After Gettysburg
-- B y   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2013-07-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/lincoln-mastered-wisdom-of-unsent-letter-after-gettysburg.html
Abraham Lincoln , remembered 150 years
after a “decisive” battle of the U.S. Civil War, could have
excelled in modern-day Washington politics, one of the pre-eminent scholars on the American president says.  “He would be tech savvy, he would lose the beard, he would
have some cosmetic surgery, he would make an asset of his
height,” historian  Harold Holzer  said in an interview for
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing
this weekend. “He was so smart about working with the press,
getting the press to work in his behalf, giving out exclusives,
and he would have mastered any medium.”  As one measure of Lincoln’s political prowess, Holzer
recited an often-told tale of Lincoln thinking twice before
dispatching a letter upbraiding his general who defeated the
enemy at the Battle of Gettysburg, a turning point for the
Northern victory in the Civil War. It was a precursor to the
dilemma of hitting the send button on a regrettable e-mail.  Lincoln was disappointed that his Union Army’s Major
General George Gordon Meade hadn’t conquered General Robert E.
Lee and his Southern forces following a three-day battle at
Gettysburg,  Pennsylvania . He wrote “a stinging letter to Meade
saying, ‘I don’t think you appreciate my disappointment,’”
Holzer explained. “He got his anger off, he let off his steam
and then he thought better of humiliating the general who had,
after all, turned back Robert E. Lee.”  “This is sort of an interesting lesson in executive
management,” Holzer said in this interview conducted at the
150th anniversary of the Battle of Gettysburg.  ‘Decisive Moment’  The confrontation of Union and Southern armies on  July 1-3,
1863 , claimed more than 7,000 lives, left more than
33,000 wounded and almost 11,000  missing or captured.  It was one of the final pivotal points of a war in which
Lincoln’s army defeated the Confederacy, which had seceded from
the union, and preserved the U.S. as one nation. The battle was
waged near the July 4 anniversary of the birth of the U.S.  Lincoln “was cognizant throughout Gettysburg that this was
the decisive moment of the war,” Holzer said. “What he was
disappointed about -– disappointment he largely kept to himself
–- was that he thought it could have ended the war, not just
have been the so-called Confederate high-water mark.”  Political Impact  For Lincoln, it also was a necessary political moment.  His re-election “was a year away, but Lincoln was already
in trouble,” Holzer said.  “The congressional elections the previous fall had gone
very much against him, probably in large measure because of the
executive order that resulted in the  Emancipation Proclamation ”
that Lincoln issued Jan. 1, 1863, prohibiting slavery in the
states in rebellion, according to Holzer. “He was always in
political jeopardy and this -– a successful invasion in the
North -- would have crippled him politically.”  Four months after the Battle of Gettysburg, Lincoln
traveled there to dedicate a national soldiers’ cemetery and
deliver what has become known as the Gettysburg Address.  “Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth
on this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and
dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now
we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that
nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long
endure,” Lincoln said. “That government of the people, by the
people, for the people, shall not perish from the Earth.”  “It’s the most astonishing expression of faith in the
human experiment and the democratic experiment that was ever
rendered,” Holzer said. It was made “more astonishing” in
that Lincoln was ill with smallpox and returned to  Washington 
that day “so sick he had to lie down and apply a hot cloth to
his head. He was a sick man when he spoke.”  “If there is any mythology about the fact that it
wasn’t well-received, I would attribute it to the fact that he
was not at his best form,” he said. “But in terms of mastery
of the English language and writing something
memorable that would define the new birth of freedom and lay
out the challenge of fulfilling the unfinished work, absolutely
nobody’s said it better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  