-- Indonesia Foreign-Exchange Reserves Fall to Two-Year Low
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-07-05T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/indonesia-foreign-exchange-reserves-fall-to-two-year-low.html
Indonesia ’s foreign-exchange reserves
fell to a two-year low in June as  Bank Indonesia  intervened to
support the rupiah, adding pressure for the central bank to
raise  interest rates .  The country’s  reserves  fell to $98.1 billion last month
from $105.15 billion in May, Bank Indonesia Governor Agus Martowardojo said in a press briefing in Jakarta late yesterday.
That was the lowest level since January 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Bank Indonesia has trimmed its 2013
economic growth forecast and lifted its outlook for inflation to
7.2 percent-7.8 percent, Martowardojo also said.  The authority will probably raise the benchmark reference
rate by a quarter of percentage point for a second straight
meeting to 6.25 percent on July 11, a Bloomberg survey shows.
Indonesia in June became the region’s first major economy to
boost borrowing costs this year, as policy makers grapple with a
slumping currency, a persistent current-account deficit and
foreign-exchange  reserves  that have fallen this year.  “Like it or not, Bank Indonesia has to raise its  reference
rate  or Fasbi rate to invite longer-term investment, if rupiah
moves are volatile next week,” Lana Soelistianingsih, an
economist at PT Samuel Sekuritas Indonesia in Jakarta, said
before the briefing.  The rupiah was little changed at 9,943 per dollar yesterday,
prices compiled by Bloomberg from local banks show. It has
fallen about 6 percent in the past 12 months, the worst
performer among 11 Asian currencies after the yen and the Indian
rupee.  Recovery Thwarted  A recovery in the currency has hitherto been thwarted by
the prospect of a scaling back in U.S. monetary stimulus, which
spurred outflows from  emerging markets  in recent weeks.  Global funds sold 2.5 trillion rupiah ($250 million) of
local-currency government bond  holdings  in the week after the
government raised fuel prices on June 22, a move aimed at
containing a current-account deficit that has hurt the currency.  Foreign exchange levels are still adequate to stabilize the
rupiah and Bank Indonesia will consistently guard the currency,
Martowardojo said yesterday.  “Bank Indonesia is ready with a policy mix as a pre-emptive step to guard economic stability,” Martowardojo said in
the briefing.  The central bank’s policy options can include interest-rate
and macro-prudential measures, said Peter Jacobs, director of
communications at the central bank, in an interview on July 3.
The authority released a rare statement after its July 2 weekly
board meeting citing plans to boost the policy mix against
accelerating inflation at the next monthly meeting.  Domestic Slowdown  The  World Bank  cut its 2013 forecast for Indonesian growth
to 5.9 percent this month, saying accelerating inflation could
hurt domestic demand as exports and investment cool. The
increase in subsidized fuel prices, combined with monetary
policy tightening, will probably hit already weakening
investment growth and drag economic expansion to 5.7 percent in
2013, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Domestic consumption may slow on the fuel price
increase,’ Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo told
reporters at the briefing. Bank Indonesia now sees 2013 economic
growth at between 5.8 percent and 6.2 percent.  In the days leading up to the June benchmark rate increase,
the central bank signaled it was preparing to tighten policy.
Warjiyo said late May that the authority was “moving toward a
tightening bias.” At a June 11 board meeting, it decided to
raise the Fasbi rate to 4.25 percent.  “The central bank is trying to give clear information and
reduce negative sentiment about the nation’s economic conditions,
as there’s an overreaction from foreign investors,”  Anton Gunawan , an economist at PT Bank Danamon Indonesia in Jakarta,
said before the briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  