-- Japan Utilities Announce Plans to File for Nuclear Restarts
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-07-05T09:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/japan-utilities-plan-to-file-for-atomic-plant-restarts-correct-.html
Four regional utilities, including
 Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) , have told  Japan ’s nuclear regulator
they intend to apply for safety checks to restart reactors idled
after the Fukushima atomic disaster in March 2011.  Kansai Electric, the nation’s second-biggest regional power
company,  Shikoku Electric Power Co. (9507) ,  Hokkaido Electric Power Co. (9509) 
and  Kyushu Electric Power Co. (9508)  alerted the  Nuclear Regulation
Authority  today they’ll request inspections when the agency
begins accepting applications on July 8.  All but two of Japan’s 50 reactors are idled for safety
assessments after the earthquake and subsequent tsunami of March
11, 2011 caused meltdowns and radiation leaks at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The NRA was set up after
the disaster to independently review Japan’s nuclear power.  Naomi Hirose, president of  Tokyo Electric , visited Niigata
prefecture today to explain to local officials that his company
planned to apply for a safety assessment of its Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear plant.  Tokyo Electric, Japan’s biggest utility better known as
Tepco, said earlier this week that it would seek permission to
start the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant as soon as possible. The
utility, which had a 685.3 billion yen ($6.8 billion) loss last
fiscal year, said in May 2012 that it would return to profit
this year if it’s allowed to restart the reactors at the plant.  Restarts  The utilities applying July 8 are expected to be able to
start their reactor units before the end of March 2014,
Hidetoshi Shioda, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc., wrote today in a report.  Combined with rate increases planned for sometime before
October, the restarts would enable those utilities to become
profitable again during the fiscal year ending March 2015 by
reducing their fuel bills, Shioda said.  Japan’s nine utilities with atomic plants reported combined
losses of 1.59 trillion yen in the year ended March 31. Only
 Hokuriku Electric Power Co. (9505)  posted a profit, ending the year 100
million yen ahead.  Japan has relied on traditional fuel sources to fill much
of its energy gap since Fukushima, paying 24.7 trillion yen for
fossil fuels in the year ended in March, up 36 percent from the
12 months before the disaster.  Inspection Teams  By filing on July 8, the utilities put their reactors in
the first batch of units to be inspected by the regulator, a
step toward gaining clearance to restart the plants. All
utilities planning a July 8 filing were required to communicate
their intention by 3 p.m. today. The agency has three inspection
teams, each of which can work at one facility at a time, the
agency said this week.  Kansai Electric  plans to file to restart the No. 3 and No.
4 units at its Takahama facility, spokesman Takahiro Senoh said.
The company will also seek the regulators’ endorsement for the
No. 3 and No. 4 units at its Ohi plant, now the nation’s only
operating reactors, he said.  Hokkaido Electric will file for unit Nos. 1-3 at its Tomari
plant, according to spokesman Toshihiro Kikuchi. Shikoku
Electric plans to file for the No. 3 unit at its Ikata plant,
spokeswoman Yasuko Takemoto said. Kyushu Electric will file for
unit Nos. 3 and 4 at its Genkai plant and for unit Nos. 1 and 2
at its Sendai plant, according to spokesman Hiromasa Imaizumi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  