-- Keker & Van Nest, Wachtell, Paul Weiss: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-05T11:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/keker-van-nest-wachtell-paul-weiss-business-of-law.html
Major League Baseball  hired San
Francisco Attorney John W. Keker to be lead counsel in the suit
brought by the city of  San Jose ,  California , accusing it of
improperly keeping the  Oakland Athletics  from moving there to
shield the nearby  San Francisco Giants  from competition.  San Jose alleged in a complaint filed June 18 in federal
court that there’s a “blatant conspiracy” by MLB to prevent
the A’s from moving and the city has lost millions of dollars in
new sales-tax revenue as a result.  Keker, of Keker & Van Nest LLP, will work with the  New York 
office of Proskauer Rose LLP, MLB’s longtime counsel, according
to a statement by MLB.  Keker, who specializes in complex antitrust, commercial and
intellectual-property cases and securities cases, is helping
McGraw-Hill Cos. and its  Standard & Poor’s  unit fight U.S. fraud
claims. He was also recently lead counsel for the U.S. legal
adviser to Ecuadorians who obtained an $18 billion judgment
against Chevron over environmental damage.  San Jose sought baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig ’s blessing
to relocate the A’s in 2010, according to the complaint. He
hasn’t approved the move, which would place the A’s in the
defined territory of the Giants, according to the suit, which
names Selig as a defendant. The A’s currently play home games at
the O.co Coliseum in Oakland, on the east side of the  San
Francisco Bay .  Major League Baseball intends to block the A’s move using
rules that unlawfully restrict the transfer and relocation of
teams, San Jose said in the complaint. One such rule says no
team can move “within the operating territory of a member
without the written consent of such member.”  The case is City of San Jose v. Office of the Commissioner
of Baseball, 13-cv-02787. U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Jose).  For more, click here.  Law Firm News  Freshfields Revenue Rise Outperforms Allen & Overy, Linklaters  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, the  law firm  that
advises the  Bank of England , increased revenue by 7.2 percent to
1.22 billion pounds ($1.84 billion), outperforming two of its
competitors.  Linklaters LLP, another one of the largest London-based law
firms, said today that its revenue rose by 1 percent to 1.19
billion pounds in the last financial year. Allen & Overy LLP’s
earnings increased less than 1 percent to 1.19 billion pounds.  The firms, three of the largest in the world by revenue,
have been relying heavily on fees from litigation and regulatory
advice as restructuring, deal work and advice in  emerging
markets  slowed. Freshfields has the largest litigation practice
of the three firms by number of lawyers.  “Over the past six years we have worked hard at making our
offering across our practices, sectors and geographies as nimble
and flexible as possible to ensure we can adapt to changing
client demand,” Ted Burke, managing partner at Freshfields,
said in a statement. “These strong results demonstrate how this
approach is working.”  Freshfields’ profit per equity partner, a key measure of
law firm profitability, rose by 7.6 percent to 1.3 million
pounds during the last financial year, the firm said in a
statement. Partner profit at Linklaters rose by 5.6 percent to
1.3 million pounds.  Allen & Overy’s profit per partner was stable at 1.1
million pounds, the firm said yesterday. Clifford Chance LLP
hasn’t reported its earnings yet, and  Slaughter and May  doesn’t
publish results. The five London-based firms are known
collectively as the Magic Circle, a term created by U.K. legal
trade publications.  Linklater’s revenue stagnated in the last financial year
because of “volatile” global markets, while African and Asian
markets continue to provide cause for optimism,  Simon Davies ,
the firm’s managing partner, said in a phone interview.  “Our clients continue to face a challenging market and we
have done our very best to serve them,” Davies said.  Deals  Exco to Buy Chesapeake Oil and Gas Shale Assets for $1 Billion  Latham & Watkins LLP advised  Exco Resources Inc. (XCO) , the
Dallas-based energy producer that agreed to buy  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  assets in the Eagle Ford and Haynesville shale
formations for about $1 billion. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
is legal adviser to Chesapeake Energy’s Board of Directors. Ray
Lees at Commercial Law Group is the outside counsel representing
Chesapeake Energy in the transactions.  Latham’s Houston-based corporate team was led by partner
Robin Fredrickson.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate
partner David A. Katz.  Exco, whose market value has dropped by more than half
since 2010, is adding the equivalent of 6,100 barrels of oil
production a day in the Eagle Ford and 114 million cubic feet of
natural gas in the Haynesville, the company said July 3 in a
statement. The transaction, expected to close this month,
includes 55,000 net acres in  Texas  and 9,600 net acres in
 Louisiana , Exco said.  For more, click here.  A&O, Morgan Lewis Advise on Rosneft $2.9 Billion Stake Purchase  Allen & Overy LLP advised  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  on its acquisition of
full control of  OOO Itera , an independent natural-gas producer
and trader, buying the remaining 49 percent for $2.9 billion as
the country’s biggest oil company expands. Morgan, Lewis &
Bockius LLP advised Itera.  A&O’s lead partner was Moscow corporate partner Anton Konnov.  Morgan Lewis Moscow partners leading the deal include  Roman
Dashko  and  Dina Kzylkhodjaeva . The team on the project also
included partner  Jonathan Hines .  “Gas business is one of the top priorities,” Rosneft
Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  said in a statement. The
deal will boost growth and “will ultimately increase the total
capitalization.”  State-controlled Rosneft is challenging  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the
world’s biggest gas producer, with plans to double its share of
the domestic market and sell liquefied natural gas to  Asia .
President  Vladimir Putin  has called for the government to loosen
Gazprom’s monopoly with a gradual liberalization of LNG exports.  Rosneft and Itera last year teamed up to produce and sell
gas, with the oil producer acquiring 51 percent of the joint
venture in exchange for the Kynsko-Chaselsk field and $173.4
million in cash.  For more, click here.  Nokia Buys Out Siemens in Equipment Venture for $2.2 Billion  Shearman & Sterling LLP advised  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , which agreed to
buy  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s share July 1 in a six-year venture for 1.7
billion euros ($2.2 billion), giving the Finnish company full
access to the phone-equipment maker’s cashflow for a less-than-estimated price. Slaughter and May LLP advised Nokia.  Shearman’s M&A team consisted of partners Jeremy Kutner,
 Peter Lyons , Scott Petepiece and Samuel Waxman, M&A/intellectual
property transactions. Additional partners on the deal included
Mei Lian and Clifford Atkins finance; Jacques McChesney,  capital
markets ; Matthew Readings, antitrust; Iain Scoon, tax; and
Doreen Lilienfeld, executive compensation and employee benefits.  Tim Boxell led the team for Siemens.  Nokia will pay 1.2 billion euros for Siemens’s 50 percent
stake in Nokia Siemens Networks, with the remainder as a secured
loan from Siemens due a year after the deal is completed, the
companies said. Nokia doesn’t plan to integrate Nokia Siemens
and may still decide to seek partners, Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Elop said on a conference call.  The Finnish handset maker fighting to come back in the
smartphone industry jumped as much as 10 percent in Helsinki
trading. The purchase price values the venture, which became
profitable last year, at 3.4 billion euros, less than at least 5
billion euros projected by Hannu Rauhala, a Helsinki-based
analyst at Pohjola Bank. Siemens has been seeking to exit
wireless-gear manufacturing to focus on energy equipment,
health-care and infrastructure projects.  For more, click here.  Moves  Paul Weiss Adds Estate Planning Partner in New York  Loretta A. Ippolito joined Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP as a partner in its personal representation
department. Ippolito, formerly a partner and co-chairman of the
private clients group at Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, will be
resident in New York, where she will focus her practice on
estate planning and estate and trust administration for high net
worth individuals and families, the firm said.  “Loretta is an important addition to our personal
representation department,” partner and co-chairman of the
personal representation department Alan Halperin said in a
statement. “Loretta is one of the leading lawyers in the field,
and she brings a thoughtful and creative approach to advising
clients.”  Paul Weiss  has more than 700 lawyers at eight offices in
 North America ,  London  and Asia.  Jones Day Adds Banking & Finance Team in Hong Kong  Michelle Taylor, formerly Asia managing partner and China
office leader at Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, is joining
 Jones Day ’s banking and finance group in  Hong Kong .  Taylor’s focuses her practice on structured finance, real
estate finance, debt capital markets, general banking and
securitization, the firm said.  “Michelle’s in-depth knowledge and market-leading
experience in structured finance make her a great asset to our
clients and significantly enhances our ability to work on the
some of the most innovative financial transactions in the
region,” Robert Thomson, partner-in-charge of Jones Day Hong
Kong, said in a statement.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 40 offices
worldwide.  Cozen O’Connor Adds Partners in Florida and Los Angeles  Cozen O’Connor added two senior lateral attorneys:
corporate transactions attorney  Jahan S. Islami , formerly of K&L
Gates LLP, who joins the firm as a partner in the Florida
office, and commercial litigator Matthew S. Steinberg, of
Greenberg Traurig LLP, who joins the firm as a partner in the
 Los Angeles  office.  Islami focuses on corporate transactions, private-equity
and other financings and general corporate matters, the firm
said.  Steinberg has more than three decades of business
litigation experience involving major commercial disputes,
including in trade secrets disputes and class actions.  Cozen O’Connor has 575 attorneys at 23 offices in North
America and London.  Patrick Ryan Joins Jeffer Mangels as Antitrust Head  Commercial trial lawyer Patrick M. Ryan has joined Jeffer
Mangels Butler & Mitchell LLP as a partner and will head the
firm’s antitrust practice group. He was previously with Morgan
Lewis & Bockius LLP.  Ryan has experience in complex commercial litigation
including antitrust, class-action, intellectual-property, anti-counterfeiting/supply chain, and constitutional matters, the
firm said.  “Throughout his legal career, he has produced outstanding
results by advising his corporate clients in how to mitigate
litigation risk, by resolving disputes creatively and
efficiently, and by going to trial and winning,” Jeffer Mangels
managing partner Bruce Jeffer said in a statement.  Jeffer Mangels has 125 lawyers at three California offices.  Ogletree Deakins Adds McGuireWoods Partner in Virginia  Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC added  Amy
Pocklington  as a shareholder in its Richmond, Virginia, office.
She was previously at McGuireWoods LLP.  Pocklington focuses her practice on traditional labor
relations and employment law including election representation
and unfair labor practice charges before the  National Labor
Relations Board , advising and training on union avoidance and
campaign strategies. Earlier in her career she was the general
counsel for Performance Food Group Co., the firm said.  Ogletree Deakins has more than 650 lawyers in 44 offices in
the U.S. and in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 