-- Kerry Warns Egypt to Avoid Mursi Retribution as U.S. Reviews Aid
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-07-05T00:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/kerry-warns-egypt-to-avoid-mursi-retribution-as-u-s-reviews-aid.html
President  Barack Obama  met with his
top national security advisers yesterday at the White House to
discuss the ouster of Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, with the
fate of U.S. aid hanging in the balance.  The Situation Room meeting of Obama and members of his
National Security Council came as U.S. officials weigh how to
respond to the Egyptian military’s overhaul of their elected
government. The White House and most leaders in Congress have so
far avoided using the word “coup,” a definition that could
cost Egypt more than $1.5 billion in annual military and
humanitarian aid under U.S. law.  Administration officials including Secretary of State John Kerry and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel placed calls to
counterparts in  Egypt  to stress the “importance of a quick and
responsible return of full authority to a democratically elected
civilian government as soon as possible,” National Security
Council spokeswoman Bernadette Meehan said in an e-mailed
statement.  U.S. officials told Egyptian leaders they needed to have a
“transparent political process that is inclusive of all parties
and groups,” according to Meehan. Administration officials said
Mursi and his supporters shouldn’t be arbitrarily arrested,
according to Meehan’s statement.  Kerry spoke with Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr and opposition leader Mohamed ElBaradei, while Hagel called
Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi, who announced July 3 that
Mursi had been removed from power.  Israel’s Leader  Kerry also called  Israel ’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and foreign ministers in  Norway , Qatar,  Turkey  and the
United Arab Emirates, Meehan said. Hagel and National Security
Adviser Susan Rice also spoke with their Israeli counterparts.  Obama said July 3 he has “directed the relevant
departments and agencies to review the impact under U.S. law for
our assistance to the government of Egypt.” U.S. law blocks
directly financing “any assistance to the government of any
country whose duly elected head of government is deposed by a
military coup d’etat or decree,” or a coup “in which the
military plays a decisive role.”  By the letter of the law, the July 3 ouster of the
democratically elected Mursi and suspension of the constitution
could cost Egypt the $1.3 billion in annual military aid that it
receives, as well as about $256 million a year in economic
assistance. Military aid to Egypt funds M1A1 tanks jointly
produced with  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , as well as  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  F-16 fighter jets.  Obama Requested  Obama requested a total of $1.55 billion in U.S. aid to
Egypt in his fiscal 2014 budget. The president didn’t address
Egypt during brief remarks to armed service members and their
families at the White House’s annual Independence Day barbecue.  One U.S. official who’s been in contact with some Egyptian
counterparts and asked not to be identified, said the army’s
move wasn’t a military coup. Instead, the official said, it was
an effort to block what some Egyptian officers -- and some
Americans -- have feared was a slow-motion takeover by
Islamists.  Congress is on a week-long recess for the July 4th holiday.
Leaders who have commented on Mursi’s ouster have generally
echoed House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican
who said in a July 3 statement that “the Egyptian military has
long been a key partner of the United States and a stabilizing
force in the region, and is perhaps the only trusted national
institution in Egypt today.”  ‘Great Disappointment’  An exception was Senator Patrick Leahy, the Senate
president pro tempore and chairman of the Senate Appropriations
subcommittee that oversees the State Department and foreign
operations. While Leahy called Mursi’s time in office a “great
disappointment,” he said in a statement that the law is clear:
“U.S. aid is cut off when a democratically elected government
is deposed by military coup or decree.”  Beyond U.S. aid, the International Monetary Fund and
Egyptian authorities have been negotiating the terms of a
possible $4.8 billion loan to Egypt. An IMF spokeswoman, who
asked not to be further identified, said in an e-mail on July 1
that the fund was following developments closely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  