-- Natural Gas Drops in Survey on Moderate Eastern U.S. Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-07-05T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/natural-gas-drops-in-survey-on-moderate-eastern-u-s-weather.html
Natural gas futures may decline next
week as moderating weather limits demand for the power-plant
fuel, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Five of 12 analysts, or 42 percent, predicted that futures
will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through July 12.
Four, or 33 percent, said gas will stay the same and three
predicted prices will increase. Last week, 53 percent of
participants said gas would decline.  The region east of the  Mississippi River , including
Chicago, New York and  Washington , may have near-normal
temperatures from July 13 to July 17, according to  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC. Increases in  gas
stockpiles  have topped five-year averages for five consecutive
weeks, Energy Information Administration data show.  “The weather is warming up but it’s not hot enough to
develop a significant amount of demand for this time of the year
and the injections are going to continue to be bearish,” said
Kent Bayazitoglu, an analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston.  Natural gas futures gained 12.5 cents, or 3.5 percent, to
$3.69 per million British thermal units during the first three
days of this week on the Nymex. The futures are up 10 percent
this year.  The market was closed yesterday in observance of the July
4th U.S. Independence Day holiday. Any electronic trades will be
booked for today.  Weather Outlook  The normal average reading for July 15 in  New York City  is
about 77 degrees Fahrenheit (25 Celsius), according to the
 National Weather Service . In  Boston , it’s 74; Chicago, 74; and
in Houston, 84.  Power plants  will account for 32 percent of U.S. gas
consumption this year and are the biggest users of the fuel in
the lower 48 states, said the Energy Information Administration,
the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  U.S.  gas stockpiles  increased 72 billion cubic feet to
2.605 trillion in the week ended June 28, above the five-year
average gain for the period of 71 billion, according to EIA
data. Analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg predicted a gain
of 74 billion.  A  deficit  to the average narrowed for a fifth week, to 1.1
percent from 1.2 percent the previous period. Supplies were 15.9
percent below levels a year earlier  and the least since March 1.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  3      5      4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  