-- New Zealand Coal Mine Victims Get Fraction of U.S. Payout
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-07-05T06:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/new-zealand-coal-mine-blast-victims-get-fraction-of-u-s-payout.html
The victims of the worst mining
accident in  New Zealand  in 96 years will get compensation of
NZ$110,000 ($86,000) each, a fraction of the payments awarded to
the families affected by a similar accident in the U.S.  Pike River  Coal Co., which went into receivership after 29
workers at its namesake mine died in an explosion in November
2010, was also ordered to pay a NZ$760,000 fine on nine charges,
according to an e-mailed statement today from the Ministry of
Business, Innovation and Employment.  The compensation compares with the $46.5 million for the
families of the 29 workers killed in a 2010 blast at the Upper
Big Branch mine in  West Virginia , that was owned by Massey
Energy Co.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) , which acquired Massey,
agreed to pay $209.3 million in 2011 to end a criminal
investigation and civil proceedings relating to the blast.  “The U.S. is out on its own in terms of inflated large
awards of damages, reparation, that sort of thing,” said Andrew
McIntyre, a partner at law firm DACBeachcroft in Wellington.
“We tend to be far more conservative. For a death in these
sorts of circumstances where the culpability is quite high, and
taking into account the ability to pay, NZ$110,000 would be
about right.”  Including the payments to two survivors of the New Zealand
blast, Pike River was ordered to pay $3.3 million. Given the
company went into receivership because it couldn’t meet its
debts, the Press  newspaper  cited Judge Jane Farish, who made the
ruling, as saying the payments may need to be met by
shareholders and directors.  Royal Commission  The men died after a blast on Nov. 19, 2010, at the mine
near Greymouth on the west coast of New Zealand’s  South Island .
The workers were trapped and probably died in the first
explosion, while blasts over the following five days frustrated
efforts to reach the men, and their bodies remain in the mine.  A Royal Commission report on the tragedy in November found
the company lacked the systems and infrastructure necessary to
safely produce coal. Ventilation and methane drainage systems
were insufficient and “numerous” warnings of methane build-up
to explosive volumes weren’t heeded, it said.  Labor Minister Kate Wilkinson resigned after the report and
Prime Minister John Key apologized to the families on behalf of
the government. His political opponents today called on the
government to pay some compensation.  Unsecured Claim  “It’s now time for the government to stump up with fair
and reasonable compensation so that the families can continue
their lives beyond this tragedy,” opposition  Labour Party 
parliamentarian Damien O’Connor, who represents the West Coast-Tasman electorate, said in an e-mailed statement.  The reparation payments are an unsecured claim against the
company and if there isn’t enough money to pay secured
creditors, as is the case with Pike River, then there will be
nothing to distribute to the families, receiver John Fisk told
the Press.  Pike River was found guilty in April of nine breaches of
health and safety laws including those relating to ventilation
and methane management. The ruling today ended a two-day
sentencing hearing before Judge Farish that included the reading
of victim impact statements.  Pike River Chief Executive Officer Peter Whittall
separately faces 12 charges relating to health and safety
breaches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  