-- Nigeria’s Jonathan Seeks Infrastructure Funds From China
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-07-05T07:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/nigeria-s-jonathan-seeks-infrastructure-funds-from-china.html
Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan
will take a group of state governors and key ministers to  China 
next week, seeking to strengthen ties with the Asian nation in
everything from power production to bond buying.  The leader of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer will hold talks
with President Xi Jinping and officials from Huawei Technologies
Co.,  ZTE Corp. (763) , and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  during a
five-day trip starting on July 9, the Abuja-based presidency
said in an e-mailed statement. Jonathan is traveling with a
delegation of state governors, lawmakers, and 15 cabinet members
including Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Trade and
Investment Minister Olusegun Aganga, Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke and Agriculture Minister Akinwunmi Adesina.  “We’re not just going there to seek loans, we want
investments,” Okonjo-Iweala said in a July 3 interview in
Abuja, the capital. “We also want China to invest more in
 Nigeria .”  Trade between Nigeria and China is projected to reach $10
billion by the end of the year from $2 billion in 2005,
according to the West African nation’s Trade and Investment
Ministry. Chinese companies and investors will attend a forum
with Nigerian counterparts during the trip where “matchmaking”
for potential partnerships will be made, Aganga, the trade
minister, said in a separate interview on July 3.  Bond Market  Agreements on defense, economic and technical cooperation,
and visa exemption for holders of diplomatic and official
passports will be made, according to the government. A $1.29
billion-loan deal for the construction of four airport terminals
and a 700-megawatt hydropower station will be signed with the
 Export-Import Bank of China .  Officials will also discuss “an agreement for the  Central
Bank of Nigeria  to invest in China’s interbank  bond market 
through the People’s Bank of China,” according to the statement
from the presidency.  “This is the largest country in Africa and the largest
country in  Asia  coming together,” Aganda said. “That sends a
powerful message to the rest of the world.”  China continues to increase its presence in Africa’s most
populous nation of more than 160 million people, operating in
industries including oil and gas and communications.  Companies such as China Civil Engineering Construction
Corp. and Sinohydro Corp. are helping to build hundreds of miles
of double carriage railway lines, roads, airport terminals, and
hydropower plants as Jonathan’s administration tries to improve
infrastructure to spur business. The projects are partly
financed with loans from China’s Exim Bank.  “Our objective is to get them to increase trade, get them
to increase investment in Nigeria, and get a strategic long-term
relationship,” Okonjo-Iweala said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  