-- Nokia Rating Cut Further Into Junk by S&P on Siemens Buyout
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-07-05T10:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/nokia-debt-rating-cut-further-into-junk-by-s-p-on-siemens-buyout.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s debt rating was cut one
step deeper into junk by  Standard & Poor’s , which said the
handset maker’s net cash may tumble after it agreed to buy
 Siemens AG (SIE) ’s share in their equipment venture for 1.7 billion
euros ($2.2 billion).  The rating was lowered to B+ from BB-, four levels below
investment grade, with a stable outlook, S&P said in a statement
today. The rating company said Nokia’s net cash may fall as low
as 1.3 billion euros at the end of this year. Moody’s Investors
Service put Espoo, Finland-based Nokia on review this week for a
downgrade, while  Fitch Ratings  said the acquisition would
pressure the company’s balance sheet.  Nokia will pay 1.2 billion euros for Siemens’s 50 percent
stake in Nokia Siemens Networks, with the remainder as a secured
loan from Siemens due a year after the deal is completed. Nokia
doesn’t plan to integrate Nokia Siemens and may decide to seek
partners, Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop said this week.  “With a strong positive gross and net cash position, Nokia
was able to take advantage of an opportunity to fully own Nokia
Siemens Networks and, we believe, create meaningful value for
Nokia shareholders,” Timo Ihamuotila, Nokia’s chief financial
officer, said in an e-mail. “We will continue to prudently
manage our cash resources post-transaction.”  Nokia  shares  fell 2 percent to 3.10 euros at 1:02 p.m. in
Helsinki.  ‘Strategic Sense’  Nokia is the second-biggest maker of mobile phones and has
5.27 billion euros in  debt , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. By acquiring the Siemens stake it gains control over
a business that’s more profitable than its own and whose cash
flow will support its attempts to improve phone sales and take
on Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  Nokia should come to the market to refinance as soon as
there’s an opportunity, Malin Hedman, a credit analyst at ING
Bank NV in Amsterdam, said in an interview this week.  The handset maker’s decision to buy the 50 percent stake in
Nokia Siemens Networks “makes strategic sense, but puts
pressure on Nokia’s balance sheet and comes at a time when the
future of its handset business is still uncertain,” Owen Fenton
and Stuart Reid, analysts at Fitch in  London , said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  