-- North Korea Agrees to Talks With South on Shuttered Factory Park
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-05T04:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/north-korea-agrees-to-talks-with-south-on-shuttered-factory-park.html
North Korea  agreed to hold talks with
 South Korea  on reopening a jointly-run industrial zone, part of
moves to repair ties that it severed earlier this year after
conducting a nuclear test.  Tomorrow’s talks at the Panmunjom border village will
discuss normalizing relations at the Gaeseong factory park, a
key source of hard currency for Kim Jong Un’s regime, and
allowing South Korean businesses to retrieve completed products
from the zone.  The North’s agreement on the talks, which was announced by
the South’s Unification Ministry in a text message last night
and came after it restored a border hot line yesterday, reflects
a broader shift toward dialogue after Kim defied the  United
Nations Security Council  with a nuclear test in February. China,
the North’s chief backer, later toughened enforcement of UN
sanctions, and the totalitarian state has since sought talks
directly with the U.S. as well.  “North Korea is trying to showcase both domestically and
internationally that it is willing to ease tension with South
Korea and take the lead in doing so,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a
North Korean studies professor at  Dongguk University  in Seoul.
“North Korea’s top priority right now is senior-level talks
with the Americans which could get them much-needed aid, and the
U.S. is unwilling to engage the North when inter-Korean tensions
are so high.”  The North withdrew its workers from Gaeseong in April to
protest the UN sanctions and U.S.-South Korean military drills.
While it requested talks with the South last month on reopening
Gaeseong, the North scrapped the offer five days later over a
protocol dispute.  Nuclear Program  On June 16, North Korea proposed dialogue with the U.S.,
even as its refusal to abandon its nuclear program remains an
impediment to any resumption. Such talks if they were to occur
would be the first since it fired a missile last year to break a
food-aid deal brokered in exchange for a halt on weapons tests.  China  has repeatedly called on Kim’s regime to return to
six-party talks over its nuclear program that it quit in 2009.  “We have seen some positive changes in the situation of
the Korean peninsula,” Assistant Foreign Minister Zheng Zeguang
said at a briefing today in Beijing. “What we need to do now is
open instead of close the door to dialogue and we hope that all
parties could work together to offer conditions so that we can
begin the six-party talks at an early date.”  In a statement delivered via the Panmunjom hot line July 3,
the North pledged to cooperate in arranging a visit by South
Korean executives to Gaeseong. The executives want to visit on
July 9, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday from the
association of companies operating in the complex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  