-- O’Bannon Can Add Current Student Athlete to NCAA Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-07-05T21:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/o-bannon-can-add-current-student-athlete-to-ncaa-lawsuit-1-.html
Ed O’Bannon, the college basketball
player of the year in 1995, won court permission to add a
current student athlete to his antitrust lawsuit against the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association .  U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken in Oakland, ruled today
in a one-page order that the former  University of California,
Los Angeles  forward “may add a new named plaintiff who is a
current student-athlete” to the case. The filing doesn’t
identify the athlete.  O’Bannon is challenging the right of college sports’
governing body, conferences and schools to keep proceeds from
selling the rights to athletes’ likenesses to be used in such
things as television broadcasts, videogames and clothes. The
plaintiffs say the case may reduce the $6.4 billion in annual
revenue universities get from athletics by as much as 50
percent.  A victory for O’Bannon, 40, might upend the model that has
developed since Rutgers College defeated what is now  Princeton
University  in the first college  football game  144 years ago.
Schools would have to share revenue with athletes and possibly
drop money-losing sports to offset the cost.  Class Action  Last month, Wilkin heard arguments whether O’Bannon’s suit,
now combined with a lawsuit filed by former  Arizona  State
University quarterback Sam Keller, should become a class action,
allowing the plaintiffs’ attorneys to sue on behalf of all
college football and basketball players.  The plaintiffs are asking to represent and seek damages for
all former student athletes in the U.S. who competed in
Division I basketball or NCAA football’s top echelon and whose
images or names have been included in game footage or video
games since July 2005.  The lawsuit began almost four years ago when O’Bannon sued
the NCAA and its licensing company, claiming that they agreed to
block him and other former college athletes from getting paid
for their likenesses in  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  sports videogames
after they left college.  Rocky Unruh, a lawyer representing the NCAA, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the judge’s ruling.  The case is Keller v. Electronic Arts Inc., 09-cv-01967,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  