-- Holy Grail Producer Wins Spamalot Royalties in Dispute
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-07-05T11:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/holy-grail-producer-wins-spamalot-royalties-in-london-dispute.html
The producer of “Monty Python and
The Holy Grail” won a lawsuit against six of the 1975 film’s
stars over a profit-sharing agreement from the hit musical
“Spamalot.”  Mark Forstater  is entitled to a larger share of the
royalties from the musical based on the film, Judge Alastair Norris ruled in  London  today.  “I have been waiting eight years for this,” Forstater
said outside court today. “I have always been adamant I was
correct. I have been proved right. Justice has prevailed.”  Spamalot grossed $168 million before it closed at  New
York ’s Shubert Theatre in January 2009, according to the
Broadway League, a trade association of landlords and producers.
The six actors each earn between $500,000 and $800,000 in
royalties a year, according to a 2009 interview with Roger
Saunders, the London manager of their company,  Python (Monty)
Pictures Ltd .  Paul Lambeth, a lawyer for Python (Monty) Pictures, said
his clients were considering an appeal. The judge ruled that the
company didn’t breach its contract with Forstater.  In the film, King Arthur gathers his knights for a quest to
find the Holy Grail. Along the way, they encounter blood-thirsty
villagers looking for witches to burn, French soldiers who toss
cows and insults at them over battlements, and a huge knight who
demands a shrubbery to let them pass.  Between 1975 and 2005, Forstater received one-seventh of
half the merchandising and spinoff income from the Holy Grail,
his lawyers said in court documents. Lawyers for the actors
argued that he should get a smaller proportion at a hearing in
November.  A hearing in October will determine damages, Forstater said
today.  The case is: Mark Forstater & Anr v Python (Monty) Pictures
Limited, case no. 11-1394,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery
Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  