-- Holzer Says Lincoln Tempered Anger After Gettysburg (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 1 1 8 6 2 ]   R o b i n   M e s z o l y   [ ]
-- 2013-07-05T10:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/holzer-says-lincoln-tempered-anger-after-gettysburg-transcript-.html
Historian Harold Holzer said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend following the 150th anniversary of
the Battle of Gettysburg, that President Abraham Lincoln thought
twice before dispatching a letter upbraiding his general who
defeated the enemy in a turning point for the Northern victory
in the U.S. Civil War.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We’re joined now by America’s foremost Lincoln
scholar and author of the recent “Civil War in 50 Objects,”
Harold Holzer. Thank you so much; it’s such an honor to have you
here, Mr. Holzer.  HAROLD HOLZER: It’s great to be here, thank you.  HUNT: Thursday, we celebrated America’s 237th birthday, the
day before, on July 3, we celebrated 150th anniversary of
Gettysburg.  I guess my question is, would our July 4th have
occurred if Lee’s army had prevailed at Gettysburg?  HOLZER: Well, I think Lee had it in mind to impact the
traditional 4th of July celebration by occupying not only
Gettysburg, but I think his goal was actually Philadelphia. Had
the battle been over in a couple of days, as he expected, his
intention was to march on the place where American independence
was born and probably to hoist the Confederate flag over
Independence Hall. That would have been quite a different
Fourth.  HUNT: Certainly a Confederate victory on Union soil would
have jeopardized Lincoln’s re-election prospects, wouldn’t it
have?  HOLZER: Yes. The election was a year away but Lincoln was
already in trouble. The congressional elections the previous
fall had gone very much against him, probably in large measure
because of the executive order that resulted in the Emancipation
Proclamation. People forget, not very popular among white
northerners, much less southerners.  So, he was always in political jeopardy and this - a
successful invasion in the north would have crippled him
politically. And the relief he felt, it was enough for him to
write a poem about how Robert E. Lee was on his way to sack
Phil-del and instead caught particular hell. So he felt it.  HUNT: I would too. On July 1, as those two great armies met
on the bucolic Pennsylvania countryside, was Lincoln cognizant
of the huge stakes, that this really could be the turning point?  HOLZER: Yes. He was cognizant throughout Gettysburg that
this was the decisive moment of the war. What he was
disappointed about - disappointment he largely kept to himself -
was that he thought it could have ended the war, not just have
been the so-called Confederate high-water mark.  He was really disappointed in the end, although publicly
celebratory, because General Meade did not follow up his
advantage by pushing Lee’s army back toward the Potomac River,
which happened to be swollen from flooding and was impassable by
the time Lee’s army reached it to cross back into  Virginia .  Meade was content to see such a drive the enemy from our
soil and when Lincoln heard that, he exploded and he said,
doesn’t he understand it’s all our soil? That’s the whole point
of this war.  And then he wrote - this is sort of an interesting
lesson in executive management - he wrote a stinging letter to
Meade saying, I don’t think you appreciate my disappointment.
You had the enemy within the hollow of your hand and you let
them go and it’s very distressing to me.  And then he put the letter down and waited a day and
ultimately wrote on the bottom, never signed, never sent. He got
his anger off, he let off his steam and then he thought better
of humiliating the general who had, after all, turned back
Robert E. Lee.  HUNT: You mentioned soil. You were in Gettysburg last week.
That really is our sacred soil, isn’t it?  HOLZER: It is sacred. There is some astonishing sense of
quiet and a haunted feeling one gets. And, you know, the
National Park Service and the Gettysburg Foundation and all of
the folks who see to the sanctity of that property have done an
amazing job in recent years clearing away so much of the
commercialism, so much of the modern intrusions. To walk there
today is to really be back in time as much as is possible.  The topography is unique in the world; it’s got every
element that you could ask for in a classic training ground and
- which is why not only tourists go, but West Point classes go
to learn, tragically, an art that we still have to learn, which
is the art of war.  HUNT: Four months later after that great battle, of course,
the dedication of the National Cemetery. I think most people
think it was the most memorable speech in American history. I
know you’ve gone back - you’ve gone to the place where Lincoln
stayed, the bedroom where he stayed. What are your thoughts as
you think of that?  HOLZER: I think it’s the most astonishing expression of
faith in the human experiment and the democratic experiment that
was ever rendered and just made more astonishing by the fact, A.
that he wasn’t the principal orator that day - Lincoln, B. that
he had smallpox starting to debilitate him by the time he stood
up and spoke. We know that because when he returned to
 Washington  an hour later, he was so sick he had to lie down and
apply a hot cloth to his head. He was a sick man when he spoke.  And if there is any mythology about the fact that it wasn’t
well-received, I would attribute it to the fact that he was not
at his best form. But in terms of mastery of the English
language and writing something memorable that would define the
new birth of freedom and lay out the challenge of fulfilling the
unfinished work, absolutely nobody’s said it better.  And the principal orator said, ‘I wish I could have come as
close to the central idea of the occasion in two hours as you
did in two minutes.’ So, I think widely appreciated at the time
and as you say, no one said it better.  HUNT: Sometimes overlooked is the day after Gettysburg,
Ulysses Grant and the Army of  Tennessee  took Vicksburg. You
noted earlier that Lincoln was upset with Meade for not pursuing
Lee.  He, of course, became a - he named Grant the chief
general. Was that the beginning of the ascension of Grant? Do
you think Lincoln had an idea shortly after Gettysburg and
Vicksburg that Grant was his man that he had been looking for?  HOLZER: Yes, absolutely. I think, you know, Grant was so
successful at Vicksburg it did require patience because it was a
siege, it just wasn’t a rush to capture that Citadel City as it
was called. It was a tough place to take, it was so high in
elevation.  Yes, Lincoln wrote him a famous letter saying, you were
right and I was wrong. An amazing concession by a commander-in-chief to a subordinate. And he had his eye on Grant. He had had
his eye on Grant since Shiloh the year before. This was a man
who saw the whole battlefield, endured casualties but sort of
saw the goal over the horizon of whatever complications and
chaos was ensuing.  And because of the twin victories - and those of us who
focus mostly on Gettysburg - sometimes forget the fact that
there were two huge victories around Independence Day. Nothing
could be more symbolic than for the Union to win in the east and
win in the west.  And so Lincoln goes out to a window in the White House to
speak to a crowd that’s gathered for a victory serenade and he -
something occurs in his head and he says, how long ago was it,
80-odd years since a group of people got together and declared
as a governing principal that all men are created equal? That
was the first thought that struck him and that’s what he
massaged and edited into ‘four score and seven years ago’ months
later for the actual dedication. It immediately occurred to him
at Gettysburg.  HUNT: Let me ask you a trite question that you’ve been
asked innumerable times, I’m sure: could the great Lincoln make
it today in America’s politics?  HOLZER: Yes, sure. He would be tech savvy, he would lose
the beard, he would have some cosmetic surgery, he would make an
asset of his height. He was so good with the media. It’s
something I’m writing about now. He was so smart about working
with the press, getting the press to work in his behalf, giving
out exclusives and he would have mastered any medium. He was
smart enough to do that.  If he could master journalism coming from a hardscrabble
background where no one was literate, practically, except for
him, I think he would have been fine.  HUNT: I can’t wait to read that book, I can’t wait to read
anything you write. Thank you so much for being with us this
special week.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 