-- Hong Kong Stocks Pare Weekly Decline as Lenders Climb on Europe
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-07-05T01:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/hong-kong-stocks-pare-weekly-decline-as-lenders-climb-on-europe.html
  Hong Kong   stocks  advanced, with the
benchmark equity index heading for the biggest two-day gain
since January, as financial companies rallied after European
policy makers pledged to keep borrowing costs low for longer.  The  Hang Seng Index  increased 1.4 percent to 20,753.89 at
9:30 a.m. in Hong Kong, with just three of the 50 companies on
the gauge falling. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index, down
more than 20 percent from the year’s high, added 2.1 percent to
9,210.05.  A  gauge  of banks and insurers advanced the most among the
four industries in the  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  China’s central bank and
banking regulator will hold a joint press briefing today on
financial support for the structural adjustment of the economy.
Lenders also gained after Temasek Holdings Pte, the biggest
foreign investor in Chinese banks, said it’s not concerned by a
cash crunch that sent stocks plunging last month and plans to
increase its assets in the nation.  The Hang Seng Index posted its biggest monthly decline in a
year last month, declining 7.1 percent as China’s money-market
rates surged to record and after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said policy makers may start dialing down stimulus if the  U.S.
economy  shows sustained improvement.  Shares on the benchmark gauge traded at 9.72 times
estimated earnings yesterday, compared with multiples of 14.66
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.93 for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  First Half  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, capped its worst  first half  of a year since 2008
last week and closed 26 percent below its Feb. 1 high yesterday,
meeting some investors’ definition of a  bear market . The measure
trades for 1.09 times the value of net assets, near levels not
seen since the depths of the 2008 global financial crisis.  Just two of the 11 industries on the Hang Seng Composite
Index have advanced this year. Materials and energy companies
have led declines as reports signaled China’s economic growth is
slowing.  The ECB’s Draghi pledged to keep  interest rates  at a record
low for an “extended period” yesterday after Bank of England
chief  Mark Carney  said increases in market rates weren’t
warranted.  Reports this week showed expansion in China’s non-manufacturing and  manufacturing  industries is losing pace as the
government seeks to redirect the economy away from its
dependence on exports. The People’s Bank of China and the China
Banking Regulatory Commission are holding a joint press briefing
today at 3 p.m. to discuss financial support and structural
adjustment of the economy.  China’s economic growth in the second half may be 7.6%,
according to State Information Center report published in China
Securities Journal. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., China
International Capital Corp., Barclays Plc and  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) 
last month pared their China growth projections this year to 7.4
percent, below the government’s 7.5 percent goal.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  increased 0.9 percent. U.S.
markets were closed yesterday for the July 4 holiday.  Hang Seng Index futures climbed 1.7 percent to 20,763. The
HSI Volatility Index dropped 6.1 percent to 21.73, indicating
traders expect a swing of 6.2 percent for the equity benchmark
in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  