-- RBS Put on Review for Downgrade by Moody’s on Break-Up Talks
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-05T16:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/moody-s-puts-rbs-on-review-for-downgrade-as-osborne-weighs-split.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s 
credit rating was put on review for downgrade by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited the government’s decision to
consider a break-up of the bailed-out British lender.  Moody’s put Royal Bank of Scotland Group’s long-term
ratings and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s A3 long-term debt and
deposit ratings on review, according to a  statement  today.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne hired Rothschild
this week to assess the case for breaking up RBS and hiving off
its toxic assets into a so-called bad bank. The Treasury is
struggling to cut its 81 percent stake in the lender, with the
shares trading for less than the price the government paid for
them when it provided the costliest bank bailout in history.
Stephen Hester quit last month as RBS’s chief executive officer.  “It’s not surprising given the uncertainty surrounding the
future of RBS,” said  Simon Maughan , a banking analyst at
Olivetree Securities Ltd. in  London . “There are big issues
about who is going to run RBS, whether it’s going to be allowed
to have an investment bank, and what impact that is going to
have on profitability.”  RBS fell 2.6 percent to 276.70 pence in London trading
today, extending its decline this year to almost 15 percent.
Edinburgh-based RBS is the worst-performing British bank stock
this year.  ‘Further Uncertainty’  “Moody’s action reflects the further uncertainty for
bondholders resulting from the U.K. government’s recent
announcement that it is examining the merit of a possible
breakup of RBS and how this could be achieved,” the ratings
company said. “Some of these options may entail losses for
creditors.”  Splitting the bank could increase the risk of losses
especially for junior bondholders, as assets are sold. A smaller
bank would also be less profitable, Moody’s said.  The ratings company said it expects to complete its review
after the government decides what to do with RBS, a decision
slated for the autumn.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s third-largest bank by market value,
Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG had their credit
ratings lowered this week by Standard & Poor’s as new rules and
“uncertain market conditions” threaten their business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Bailey at 
 sbailey16@bloomberg.net  