-- Murray Outaces Janowicz to Set Up Final Against Djokovic
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/top-seed-djokovic-beats-del-potro-to-reach-wimbledon-men-s-final.html
Andy Murray  outserved six-foot-eight
(2.03-meter) Jerzy Janowicz to set up a Wimbledon men’s final
tomorrow againstNovak Djokovic.  Murray defeated the first man from Poland in a major
semifinal 6-7 (2-7), 6-4, 6-4, 6-3 to move into his second
straight title match at the All England Club in southwest London
and fourth in a row in a Grand Slam in which he’s played.  Top seed Djokovic hit 22 aces earlier yesterday to overcome
Juan Martin  Del Potro  of  Argentina  in the longest men’s
semifinal in Wimbledon history and maintain his chance of a
second championship at the grass-court tennis tournament.  “Very tough match today, completely different from any of
the other matches I have played so far,” Murray said in a
televised interview. “He hit some huge serves out there, gave
me very little rhythm,” said Murray, who struck 49 winners
including 20 aces.  The women’s final is today, with  Germany ’s Sabine Lisicki,
the 23rd seed, facing France’s  Marion Bartoli , the 15th seed.
Neither has won a Grand Slam title.  Also today, American twins Bob and  Mike Bryan  will play
Ivan Dodig and Marcelo Melo in the men’s doubles final. A
victory by the Bryans would give the 35-year-old brothers all
four Grand Slam tennis titles plus the Olympic gold medal at the
same time, a feat dubbed the “Golden Slam.”  Janowicz, the tournament ace leader before the match, had
43 winners against Murray including nine aces. The top speed on
his serve was 143 miles per hour (230 kilometers per hour),
giving his opponent about six-tenths of a second to react.  ‘Bit Different’  “This year has been a little bit different for me, I was
almost expected to get to the final,” Murray said, referring to
defending champion  Roger Federer  and two-time winner  Rafael Nadal  being knocked out of his half of the draw in the first
three days. “Today I was delighted to get through and play in
another Wimbledon final.”  The second seed from Britain has lost 11 of his 18 matches
against Djokovic, including the last three. Murray won their
only match on grass, at the All England Club during the London
Olympics. He’s trying to become the first British man since  Fred Perry  in 1936 to capture the singles title at Wimbledon.
 Virginia Wade  was the last Briton to win, in 1977.  2012 Loss  The 26-year-old Murray cried on Centre Court after he lost
last year’s final to Federer of Switzerland. He responded by
beating the 17-time major champion in the gold-medal match at
the London Olympics, and then won his first major title at the
 U.S. Open  in September by beating Djokovic in the final. Murray
was runner-up to Djokovic in  Australia , and skipped the  French
Open  this year because of a lower-back injury.  Djokovic beat Del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open champion, 7-5,
4-6, 7-6 (7-2), 6-7 (6-8), 6-3 in a match lasting 4 hours, 43
minutes.  “It was one of the best matches I’ve been part of,” said
Djokovic, a six-time major champion and the 2011 Wimbledon
winner. “It was one of the most exciting. It was so close, you
couldn’t separate us. That’s why he’s a Grand Slam champion.
Every time he’s in a tough situation, he comes up with an
amazing shot.”  Their match topped the previous tournament semifinal record
of 4:01, set by  Boris Becker  of Germany and  Ivan Lendl  of the
 Czech Republic  in 1989. Becker won that meeting.  Janowicz saved two set points against Murray with a pair of
booming serves at 5-4 down before taking the first set in a
tiebreaker as Murray double faulted.  The Pole’s serve faltered in the opening game of the second
set as he double faulted twice. After saving two break points at
4-3 with two big serves, Murray took the second set 6-4 with a
130 mph ace and three service winners.  Having complained to the umpire about a lack of light, and
asking when the roof would be closed, Janowicz raced to a 4-1
lead in the third set when his game unraveled. As darkness set
in and the wind picked up, Murray rattled off five straight
games to win the set 6-4.  Closed Roof  Then it was Murray’s turn to get angry, as he argued with
supervisor Andrew Jarrett about play being stopped, saying there
was plenty of light left for a fourth set.  After a half-hour delay, Murray continued where he left
off, breaking early to go up 4-3. He broke the Pole’s serve
again, this time taking the match, on a forehand error.  “I didn’t play my best tennis,” Janowicz said. “It was
my second-worst match of the tournament. I was struggling with
my serve, and everything collapsed off of this. But deep down,
I’m happy because it was my first time in a grand slam
semifinal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  