-- Mortgage REITs Slide Most Since 2011 on Fed Tapering Concern
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   D a n   K r u g e r
-- 2013-07-05T20:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/mortgage-reits-slide-most-since-2011-as-data-stoke-fed-concern.html
Real estate investment trusts that
buy mortgage debt slumped after a better-than-forecast
employment report stoked speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
begin to reduce the size of its asset purchases.  A  Bloomberg index  of shares in the REITs tumbled 3.9
percent as of 4:40 p.m. in New York, the largest drop since
October 2011.  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) , the largest of the
companies, and  American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC) , the second
biggest, each plunged more than 5 percent.  Firms that buy mortgage bonds and loans have been roiled by
speculation the Fed will reduce its $85 billion of monthly debt
buying as the economy shows signs of strengthening,  losing  21
percent since the end of April including reinvested dividends.
Data released today showed the U.S. added 195,000 jobs in June,
compared with a median forecast of 165,000 in a Bloomberg News
survey.  “The number that came out is consistent with a September
taper” in the central bank’s bond buying, saidShyam Rajan, an
interest-rate strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New
York , one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Government-backed mortgage securities posted their biggest
quarterly losses since 1994 in the three-month period ended in
June, declining 1.92 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Some mortgage REITs, such as American
Capital Agency, focus their investing on that debt, using
borrowed money to amplify potential returns.  Asset Purchases  Other U.S. home-loan bonds owned by certain mortgage REITs
have also slumped as the potential slowing of the central bank’s
stimulus agitates credit markets, losing as much as 22 percent
in June to trade at the lowest prices of the year, according to
data from Bank of America and Barclays Plc.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month that policy
makers may “moderate” their asset-purchase program later this
year and end it in mid-2014 if economic growth meets their
forecasts.  Yields on  Fannie Mae ’s current-coupon 30-year securities
rose 0.3 percentage point today to 3.69 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest since August
2011, and up from 2.23 percent on Dec. 31. Government-backed
mortgage bonds had rallied last week to pare losses since April.  A measure of spreads on the Fannie Mae current coupon debt,
or bonds trading closest to face value, rose today to the
highest since April 2012. Relative yields on the securities
climbed about 0.1 percentage point to 1.52 percentage points
higher than an average of five- and 10-year Treasury rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  