-- Housewives’ Secret Stash at Record as Consumers Await Abenomics
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-07-05T07:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/housewives-secret-stash-at-record-as-consumers-await-abenomics.html
Japanese housewives have stashed away
the most “secret” savings in at least eight years,
underscoring the challenge for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to
encourage consumers to spend.  The value of the cash and investments that housewives hold
without telling their husbands rose 8.2 percent from a year ago
to 4.16 million yen ($41,500), a report released today by the
Sompo  Japan  DIY Life Insurance Co. showed. The total was the
highest on record in data back to 2005.  Japan’s housewives tend to control budgets -- often keeping
their husbands in the dark -- making their saving and spending
habits one indicator of the health of consumers in the world’s
third-biggest economy. While Abe’s strategy of monetary and
fiscal stimulus and deregulation has helped stoke corporate
profits, wages have stayed flat and companies have accumulated
record cash rather than boosting investment.  “Japanese housewives continue to hold financial power in
households,” said Koya Miyamae, an economist at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in Tokyo whose wife manages his family budget.
The rise “could be because housewives are still concerned about
the outlook of Japan’s economy,” he said.  The survey showed the average summer bonus for Japanese
salarymen was still 10 percent below its 2007 peak even after a
rise this year, helping cement “a strong intention” to save,
said Makiko Uematsu, group leader of public relations department
at Sompo Japan DIY Life Insurance Co.  Husbands’ Allowance  The bump in precautionary savings coincides with signs that
wives are trimming their spouse’s monthly allowances. The
average monthly spending money Japanese husbands received fell
to the lowest since 1982 this year, a report showed earlier this
week.  Even so, consumer spending has strengthened this year as
Abe seeks to revive the nation’s economy after two decades of
stagnation. Retail sales gained 1.5 percent in May from the
previous month, a government report showed last week.  Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd. (3099) , Japan’s biggest department
store operator, cited higher sales of women’s handbags, clothing
and shoes for driving a 5.7 percent increase in sales from a
year earlier in June, a July 1 report showed. Sales of women’s
clothing accounted 23 percent of department sales nationwide in
May, according to Japan Department Stores Association. Men’s
clothing accounted 7.5 percent.  Some 89.8 percent of housewives surveyed by Sompo Japan DIY
Life Insurance said they aren’t feeling any positive effect of
economic measures Abe has taken since he took office in December.
The prime minister is running a campaign for a July 21 upper
house election, with opposition parties saying his policies have
failed to raise incomes.  Salaries were unchanged in May from a year earlier, the
Labor Ministry said this week.  The Sompo Japan DIY Insurance surveyed 500 housewives from
June 7 to 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  