-- Peru First Lady Rules Out Presidential Bid in Boost for Humala
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-07-05T21:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/peru-first-lady-rules-out-presidential-bid-in-boost-for-humala.html
Peru ’s first lady Nadine Heredia
ruled out a bid for the presidency in 2016, putting an end to
speculation she would circumvent rules that bar her from
succeeding her husband.  Heredia emphasized her respect for the “rules of the
game” when announcing her decision to reporters today in  Lima .
The move probably will boost President  Ollanta Humala ’s
popularity and ease tensions with political allies who were
concerned her candidacy would represent a threat to democracy,
according to political scientist Fernando Tuesta.  “It’s an encouraging message that gives oxygen to the
government and removes an issue that was increasingly darkening
the political panorama,” Tuesta, dean of political science at
Pontificia Universidad Catolica del Peru., said by phone from
Lima. “It’s a step forward for the government.”  Heredia, 37, was seen as the strongest potential candidate
in the 2016 election, and Humala’s political foes probably will
welcome her decision and tone down their attacks on the
government in the short term, he said. Her decision also may
defuse allegations the Heredia is using government funds to
boost her potential candidacy, which former President  Alan Garcia  described as a marital re-election.  Humala’s approval rating fell to 41 percent in June from 51
percent two months earlier, while support for Heredia dropped to
50 percent from 60 percent, according to a June 12-13 poll by
Ipsos Peru. The poll of 1,226 people had a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.  In a June 10 note to clients, Citigroup Inc. economist
Jorge Pastrana described Heredia’s election as the Humala
government’s “most important political project” that could
lead to an increase in public spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  