-- Piedmont Says Official Signed Swap in Language He Couldn’t Read
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-07-05T12:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/piedmont-says-official-signed-swap-in-language-he-couldn-t-read.html
The official in the Italian region of
Piedmont who signed  interest-rate swaps  with Dexia Crediop SpA
and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  didn’t speak English well enough to
understand the contracts, according to the region’s documents at
a London court hearing.  Piedmont, which says it was wined and dined by the banks,
signed swaps to cover its interest-rate exposure on a 1.8
billion euro ($2.3 billion) bond issue in 2006, and hasn’t made
payments since January 2012, the two Italian banks said in court
documents. Dexia and Intesa asked a U.K. court to order
immediate repayment of about 36 million euros without the need
for a trial.  The province argued the swap isn’t valid under Italian law
and contained hidden profits for the banks. Its head of finance
in 2006 “spoke very limited English such that he could not
possibly have been expected to read and understand the complex
agreements which he was executing,” it said in documents.  Italian local governments from Piedmont to the southernmost
region of Sicily have lost money on derivatives they bought to
adjust interest payments on borrowings. A judge in Milan in
December convicted bankers and firms including Deutsche Bank AG,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  of fraud over deals with hidden
charges.  Spokesmen for Dexia and Intesa in  Italy  declined to
immediately comment. Andrew Wass, a U.K. lawyer for Piedmont
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Michelin Star  The banks paid for meals at Hotel Crillon in Paris and the
two-Michelin star Sea Grill in Brussels to win the swaps
contract, the region said in court documents. The officials
relied on the banks’ advice, Piedmont said, asking the court to
allow it to present its case at a full trial.  Piedmont has no chance of success and has “continued to
fail to meet its obligations,” the banks’ lawyers said in court
documents.  Piedmont settled a swap dispute with  Bank of America
Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch last month on confidential terms.  The case is Dexia Crediop S.p.A. v. Regione Piemonte, High
Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division Commercial Court  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  