-- Planned Parenthood, ACLU Sue Over Wisconsin Abortion Law
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-07-05T23:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/planned-parenthood-aclu-sue-over-wisconsin-abortion-law.html
The  American Civil Liberties Union 
and Planned Parenthood Federation of America sued Wisconsin
seeking to block a new law that would require abortion providers
to have admitting privileges at local hospitals.  The law, set to take effect July 8, was “rushed” through
the legislative process last month, the groups said in a
complaint filed today in federal court in Madison, the state’s
capital. The measure would force two of the state’s four
abortion providers to shut down, according to the complaint. A
fifth clinic is set to close for unrelated reasons, according to
the groups.  “The purpose and effect of the requirement, which is
wholly unnecessary and unreasonable, is to impose a substantial
obstacle in the path of women seeking abortion prior to
viability, in violation of their constitutional right to
privacy,” lawyers for the groups said in the complaint.  Wisconsin  is one of several states where legal battles are
taking place over newly introduced hospital-privilege
requirements for abortion providers. Federal judges in
Alabama and  Mississippi  have issued orders stopping similar 
laws from being implemented after finding that they might 
result in substantial burdens for women seeking to terminate 
pregnancies.  Hospital Privileges  Doctors performing abortions often have difficulty
obtaining hospital privileges because they can’t meet certain
terms, such as a minimum number of patient admissions, according
to the ACLU. Less than 0.3 percent of abortion patients require
hospitalization, the groups said in their complaint. Hospitals
may also have religious objections to offering admission
privileges to abortion providers, the groups alleged.  The Wisconsin law would force clinics in  Milwaukee  and
Appleton to close and cause  Planned Parenthood  to cut staff and
services at another clinic in Milwaukee, the state’s most
populous city. The changes would make the procedure unavailable
after 19 weeks of pregnancy and leave much of the state without
any abortion provider, according to the complaint.  A representative of Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen didn’t immediately return a phone message after regular
business hours seeking comment on the lawsuit.  “Enough is enough,” said Talcott Camp, deputy director of
the ACLU Reproductive Freedom Project, in a statement.
“Politicians can no longer be permitted to shut down clinics
that provide safe abortions and prevent a woman from making the
best decision for her and her family.”  The case is Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin Inc. v.  Van
Hollen , J.B., 3:13-cv-00465, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Wisconsin (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  