-- Portugal’s Coelho Meets President to Try to Avoid Early Vote
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a ,   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-05T21:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/portugal-s-coelho-meets-president-to-try-to-avoid-early-vote-2-.html
Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  presented the country’s president with a plan to
hold the government together after the leader of his coalition
partner announced his resignation from the Cabinet this week.  “The prime minister presented today to the president of
the republic the political understanding reached with the leader
of the CDS,” Rui Baptista, a spokesman for Coelho, said by
phone today. The leaders of the ruling Social Democrats and CDS
parties are set to make a statement after a meeting tomorrow
afternoon, he said.  Coelho, who leads the Social Democrats, needs the CDS for a
majority in parliament to pass measures and meet terms of a
bailout from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund 
that ends in June 2014. President Anibal Cavaco Silva, who has
the power to dissolve parliament and call early elections, is
set to meet with political parties next week.  “It’s very important that  Portugal  is able to stabilize
the political situation after scoring an own goal, and create
the prerequisites for economic success,” EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters today in
Mikkeli,  Finland .  CDS leader Paulo Portas, a former journalist, said July 2
he was quitting as foreign minister in a dispute over budget
policy with the prime minister. Coelho, who lost Finance
Minister Vitor Gaspar the day before, refused to accept Portas’s
resignation, citing his role as leader of a coalition party.
Portas remains in the Cabinet because Coelho hasn’t submitted
his resignation to the president.  Yields Fall  “A way will be found to guarantee the government has
political support from the CDS and in that manner ensure
political stability,” Coelho said yesterday. “As head of
government I will now seek from the two parties a reinforcement
of political support for the government.”  Portugal’s bond yields fell today after the 10-year rate
jumped to a seven-month high of more than 8 percent earlier this
week after the rift emerged. The yield dropped 14 basis points
to 7.13 percent in  London . That’s up from 6.45 percent on June
28, the last trading day before Gaspar resigned on July 1, and
from 5.19 percent on May 21, the lowest in almost three years.
The country pays 3.2 percent on its bailout loans.  Portugal’s credit rating outlook was revised today to
negative from stable by  Standard & Poor’s , which affirmed the
country’s BB long-term sovereign rating. Its debt is ranked
below investment grade by  Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors
Service and S&P.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  “This week’s ministerial resignations complicate
Portugal’s already challenging policy-making environment and
suggest even less room for maneuver than when we changed the
rating outlook to stable in March,” S&P said in a statement.
“Growing political uncertainty could derail Portugal’s
forthcoming debt issuance and its hoped-for exit in 2014” from
the aid program.  “I hope this is enough to convince the president, after
the meditating and listening he has to do, to move ahead and
avoid calling early elections,” Antonio Pires de Lima, a CDS
party official, said in comments broadcast by TVI television
channel today.  Cavaco Silva  will start meetings with leaders of
the political parties on July 8.  ‘Budget Rigor’  Preparing for the period after the country’s aid program
ends “is of the greatest importance for our future,
independently of the government that is in office in June
2014,” Cavaco Silva said at a conference in Lisbon today. “The
demands of  budget  rigor will not disappear with the end of the
ongoing adjustment program.”  The eighth review of Portugal’s progress on meeting terms
of the 78 billion-euro ($100 billion) aid program is due to
start July 15, the  Finance Ministry  said last month. The
government has started raising cash to finance its 2014 deficit
after covering its needs for this year, then-Finance Minister
Gaspar said in May.  “The tasks of implementing the program have been made more
difficult,”  Marco Buti , head of the European Commission’s
economics department, said today at the conference in Lisbon.
“A lot of progress has been made; let’s not jeopardize that.”  Coelho is battling rising  joblessness  and a deepening
recession as he cuts spending and raises taxes to meet the terms
of the bailout. He announced measures on May 3 intended to
generate savings of about 4.8 billion euros through 2015 that
include reducing the number of state workers.  Parties’ Disagreements  Last year, the two coalition parties overcame disagreements
to hold their alliance together. They differed on a plan to
raise the social security tax rate, which was later scrapped by
Prime Minister Coelho. The two parties said on Sept. 20 that
they would set up a Coalition Coordination Council to improve
cooperation.  Portas this week opposed the prime minister’s decision to
name Secretary of State for the Treasury Maria Luis  Albuquerque 
as finance minister to replace Gaspar. Pedro Mota Soares and
Assuncao Cristas, ministers from the CDS group, won’t follow
Portas in stepping down, Luis Queiro, a party official, said on
July 3.  Opposition Socialist leader Antonio Jose Seguro, whose
party led Coelho’s  Social Democrats  by 14 percentage points in a
poll last month, has called for early elections.  Coelho formed the majority coalition with the CDS after
June 2011 elections, taking over from a Socialist minority
government that had requested the EU-led bailout in April 2011.
Coalition governments in Portugal have tended to be unstable and
short-lived. Between 1974, when the country returned to
democracy after a four-decade dictatorship, and the 2011
election, Portugal had six coalition governments, none of which
survived a full term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  