-- Trades Rival University Degrees for Canada Labor Market
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   L a u r e n   S .   M u r p h y
-- 2013-07-05T13:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/trades-rival-university-degrees-for-canada-labor-market.html
Ellie MacRae is taking summer classes
to accelerate a four-year degree in early childhood studies,
even as she worries her efforts won’t pay off like her
boyfriend’s electrical training.  “Undergraduate degrees don’t get you a job,” said MacRae,
21, who is in her second year at Toronto’s  Ryerson University .
Her boyfriend “will have an easier time finding a job than me -
- there’s just a lot more opportunities in the trades.”  Canadian mining and resource companies such as Calgary-based  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  say they are  struggling  to find skilled
workers while the country’s education system focuses more on
preparing high school students for university instead of
colleges where trades are taught. Finance Minister Jim Flaherty
is increasing funding for training with youth facing joblessness
that’s more than twice as high as other workers.  One historical advantage of a university degree has been
fading: the jobless rate for those with bachelor degrees was 4.7
percent in June, compared with 5.2 percent for trade school
graduates, according to Statistics Canada. Twenty years ago,
university graduates had 6.2 percent unemployment, compared with
10 percent for those with trade school certificates.  Producing skilled workers and matching them to the best
jobs is critical for  Canada , where  exports  make up one-third of
output, shipments that are threatened by lagging productivity
and a strong currency.  Right Education  Choosing the right education is also more important now.
Canadians 24 years old and younger faced an unemployment rate
last year that was 2.4 times that of workers ages 25 to 54, the
highest differential in more than three decades, Statistics
Canada data show.  The jobless rate for Canadians between 15 and 24 was 14.3
percent in 2012, up from 11.2 percent in 2007 before the last
recession, according to data from the Paris-based Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development. In the U.S., youth
unemployment was 16.2 percent in 2012, up from 10.5 percent five
years earlier.  Mimosa Kabir learned first-hand the relative value of
education in the job market. After earning her four-year
bachelor of arts degree in development studies in 2010, she
decided to enroll at Toronto-based  Humber College  for a one-year
fundraising certificate because she said she was “very
apprehensive about finding work.” She was offered a job before
graduation.  ‘Proven Experience’  “Employers still value the idea of a B.A., but because
everyone these days seems to have one, it’s no longer enough,”
said Kabir, 24, a fundraising coordinator at the Toronto Public
Library Foundation. “There’s just no way to get ‘proven
experience’ when everything you’ve been learning is
theoretical.”  The country’s education system is the most skewed toward
preparing students for university instead of the trades,
according to the Conference Board of Canada  study  of 16
economies. Some 94 percent of high school students were in
academic programs in 2010, with the remaining 6 percent in
vocational training, according to the board’s annual
competitiveness report. In nine of Canada’s peers, the rate of
vocational training was more than 50 percent. Comparable U.S.
figures were not available because the country defines
vocational training differently.  Fewer Prepared  “It means there are fewer people prepared for the jobs
that exist in the economy,” said Michael Bloom, vice-president
of organizational effectiveness and learning at the Ottawa-based
Conference Board. “In Canada, we don’t have language that
conveys the idea of high prestige in a trade. In Europe, I think
there is more of a vocabulary. We have to find a way to create
an opportunity in the school system for kids to make those
choices.”  The Petroleum Human Resources Council of Canada said in a
May 30  report  their industry needs between 125,000 and 150,000
workers by 2022, a staffing level exacerbated by “significant
challenges in the availability of skills and talent required.”  The economy is struggling with a “mismatch” between jobs
and skills and “it exists in many regions and industries,”
Citizenship and Immigration Minister Jason Kenney said in an
interview last month. He cited needs beyond resource firms, such
as software companies in Waterloo, Ontario and computer game
makers in  Montreal .  Companies in resource-rich Alberta and Saskatchewan are
recruiting nationwide and overseas. Finance Minister Flaherty
told reporters in a March 8 press conference he would focus this
year’s budget on skills training after he met a university
graduate on a Toronto subway who was bagging groceries because
he couldn’t find a better job.  Training Programs  Flaherty’s fiscal plan allocated C$1.4 billion ($1.33
billion) for investment-tax credits and C$500 million in grants
to train workers, even as other programs were cut in a bid to
reduce Canada’s deficit. Some of the measures depend on
provincial governments agreeing to renegotiate terms of joint
labor-market agreements.  Opposition lawmakers have criticized the government for not
doing more to ease unemployment for young Canadians.  “Young Canadians have been left behind in the economic
recovery, and the lack of job opportunities is taking a heavy
toll on our youth and their parents who are supporting them,”
Liberal Party Leader Justin Trudeau said at a press conference
June 26.  Statistics Canada reported today that the  unemployment rate 
was unchanged at 7.1 percent in June, still above the 6.2
percent recorded before the last recession began in the fourth
quarter of 2008. Youth unemployment was 13.8 percent in June.  Wage Data  Some economists, including Toronto-Dominion Bank’s Derek Burleton, say wage data doesn’t suggest there is a skills
crisis. “There is no real smoking gun on a crisis with respect
to skills,” he said. He researched wages over 10 years ending
in 2010 for a February  report  that found occupations in highest
demand - trade, technicians and professional groups - have not
recorded above-average pay increases.  The Bank of Canada’s quarterly survey of businesses reports
labor shortages also remain below the pre-recession mark.
Twenty-two percent of companies surveyed in the first quarter
said they faced  shortages , down from 41 percent at the start of
2007.  University of Ottawa President Allan Rock, a former
Canadian industry minister, defended the value of four-year
degrees in a  speech  May 9 entitled “The ‘Skills Mismatch’ and
the Myth of the Irrelevant University.”  Liberal Arts  Rock cited Canadian banks seeking students taking arts
instead of business, and Canadian schools being asked by Chinese
and Indian educators for advice on how to widen offerings of
liberal arts and humanities courses.  Still, he said, there is “insidious and unfair” pressure
in Canada for students to go a university instead of a trade
school. “There may be students in university who would be
better served by college, just as the reverse is no doubt
true,” Rock said.  MacRae agrees. College “is a really good option for some
people,” she said. “You can save money and get a job
quicker.” Finding a teaching job with her early childhood
education degree would be difficult right now, she said, though
she’s hopeful opportunities will open in a few years.  The applied nature of her degree and the way it is being
taught is also helpful, she said. “It’s a college-style
program, more practical.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  