-- Rand Climbs Second Day Against Euro on ECB, BoE Stimulus Signals
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-07-05T08:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/rand-climbs-second-day-against-euro-on-ecb-boe-stimulus-signals.html
The rand strengthened against the
euro and bond yields fell for a second day after European
central bankers signaled their intention to maintain monetary
stimulus that has helped boost demand for higher-yield assets.  Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  and European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi yesterday pledged to keep borrowing
costs low, distancing themselves from Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s signal that the U.S. is preparing to reduce
bond purchases as that economy strengthens.  “Risky assets have loved the aggressively dovish
statements,” boosting the rand,  John Cairns , a currency
strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “The commitment by the BoE and the ECB to keep
rates at low levels for an extended period of time has helped
the rand against the crosses” including the euro, he said.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 12.9181
per euro at 10:17 a.m. in Johannesburg, bringing the drop this
week to 0.6 percent. It increased 0.2 percent against the
dollar, paring its five-day decline to 1.4 percent. Yields on
benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 dropped four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.89 percent.  The rand has declined 4.8 percent and yields have soared
since May 22, when Bernanke said the Fed would taper monetary
stimulus if the jobs market continues to improve. Employers
probably increased staff in June at the same pace as in the
prior month, data today will show, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “While early-morning trade will be about adjusting to the
BoE and ECB, afternoon trade will still be all about the U.S.
non-farm payrolls figure,” Cairns said.  The rand stayed stronger after the South African Reserve
Bank said gold and foreign-currency reserves dropped for a
second month in June as the price of bullion fell and the
central bank increased swap transactions.  Gross reserves dropped 2.4 percent to $47 billion, the
Pretoria-based central bank said on its website today. That was
lower than the $47.6 billion median estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Net reserves declined to $44.6 billion
from $45.4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  