-- Trayvon Martin’s Mother Says 911 Call Screams Are Son’s
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-07-05T14:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/trayvon-martin-s-mother-says-911-call-screams-are-son-s.html
Screams heard on a 911 call are the
voice of Trayvon Martin, the slain youth’s mother told jurors in
the murder trial of George Zimmerman as  Florida  prosecutors
neared the end of their case against the former Neighborhood
Watch volunteer.  Sybrina Fulton, Martin’s mother, testified for the
prosecution for about 10 minutes today in state court in
Sanford, Florida. Prosecutors, who said they may finish their
case today, played a recording of a 911 call to police from a
neighbor the night Martin was killed where screams could be
heard in the background.  “In your mind, as his mother, there is no doubt it was him
screaming?” Mark O’Mara, a lawyer for Zimmerman, asked Fulton
during cross examination.  “That is correct,” she said.  Fulton was followed to the witness stand by Martin’s
brother, Jahvaris Fulton, who also said the voice on the
recording was Martin’s.  “When I first heard it, I didn’t want to believe it was
him,” he said.  The recording, in which the screams end with the sound of a
gunshot, could be pivotal to the prosecution’s case that
Zimmerman, 29, was the aggressor. Zimmerman told police he acted
in self-defense after Martin punched him in face, knocked him to
the ground and threatened to kill him. There were no
eyewitnesses to the incident.  The Feb. 26, 2012, shooting triggered protests in several
U.S. cities and drew comment from President  Barack Obama  after
officials initially declined to arrest Zimmerman, saying it
appeared he had acted within the bounds of the state’s Stand
Your Ground law. The statute allows individuals who feel
threatened in a public place to “meet force with force.”  Zimmerman is accused of second-degree murder and faces a
possible sentence of life in prison if convicted.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Boyd in the Sanford, Florida, courthouse  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  