-- Trayvon Martin Gunman Calls Mother as Witness in Trial
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-07-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/trayvon-martin-shooter-begins-defense-in-florida-murder-trial.html
George Zimmerman, accused of second-degree murder in the shooting death of  Florida  teenager Trayvon Martin, began his defense by calling his mother to the witness
stand moments after prosecutors concluded their case.  Gladys Zimmerman, who spent just a few minutes testifying
yesterday in state court in Sanford, Florida, told jurors that
the screams recorded on a 911 call the evening Martin was killed
were her son’s. Earlier in the day, Martin’s mother made the
same claim about her son.  The voice is “my son George,” Gladys Zimmerman said after
the call, made by a resident of the condominium complex where
the fatal encounter occurred, was played in court. She said
she’d never heard him scream like that before.  The 911 call, on which the screams end with the sound of a
gunshot, could be pivotal in the case where prosecutors allege
that Zimmerman, a 29-year-old Neighborhood Watch volunteer, was
the aggressor. Zimmerman told police he acted in self-defense
after Martin, 17, punched him in face, knocked him to the ground
and threatened to kill him. While the resident called police
after hearing what sounded like a fight, there were no
eyewitnesses to the shooting.  Gladys Zimmerman was followed to the stand by her brother,
Jorge Meza, who also identified his nephew as the person
screaming in the background of the call.  “I heard my nephew screaming for his life,” he said.  Meza said he first heard the recording while his wife was
watching the evening news as he worked on a computer, paying no
attention.  ‘Hit Me’  “The voice just came on and it hit me,” he said. “I just
heard that. I not only heard it, I felt it in my heart.”  The Feb. 26, 2012, shooting of an unarmed black teenager by
a man whose father is white and mother Hispanic prompted rallies
and protests across the U.S. and elicited a comment from
President  Barack Obama  that if he had a son, that child would
have looked like Martin.  Officials initially declined to arrest Zimmerman, saying it
appeared he had acted within the bounds of the state’s Stand
Your Ground law. The statute allows individuals who feel
threatened in a public place to “meet force with force.”  Zimmerman is accused of second-degree murder and faces a
possible sentence of life in prison if convicted.  Mark O’Mara, Zimmerman’s lawyer, told reporters in a news
conference after trial broke for the weekend, that he expects
the defense case before the jury of six women to be finished by
July 12.  Background Witnesses  Earlier testimony on Zimmerman’s college studies may have
opened the way for witnesses to talk about Martin’s background,
O’Mara said. Seminole County Circuit Judge Debra Nelson earlier
ruled that testimony about Martin’s school troubles wouldn’t be
admitted.  Nelson yesterday denied Zimmerman’s lawyers’ request to
acquit their client because the prosecution couldn’t prove he
exhibited the ill-will, spite or hatred necessary for conviction
at the time he shot Martin.  After nine days of testimony, prosecutors wrapped up their
case yesterday by asking two members of Martin’s family to
identify the person screaming on the 911 call.  Nelson had earlier barred testimony by prosecution experts
who said the voice captured on the 911 recording was Martin’s.
She ruled their methods were too unreliable to be used in the
trial.  Sybrina Fulton, Martin’s mother, said she was certain the
voice was her son’s.  Martin’s brother, Jahvaris Fulton, also said the voice on
the recording was Martin’s.  “When I first heard it, I didn’t want to believe it was
him,” he said.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Boyd in the Sanford, Florida, courthouse  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  