-- Treasuries Drop Second Day as Economists Say Jobless Rate Fell
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-05T11:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/treasuries-fall-with-yield-at-highest-versus-g-7-in-two-years.html
Treasuries declined for a second day,
with 10-year yields approaching the highest since August 2011,
before a government report economists said will show U.S.
employers increased hiring in June and the jobless rate fell.  U.S. 10-year securities yielded 21 basis points more than
bonds in an index of their Group-of-Seven peers, data compiled
by Bloomberg based on closing prices show. The difference was
the most since February 2011, having widened on speculation the
American economy is growing fast enough for the  Federal Reserve 
to reduce its bond purchases this year. The U.S. bond market was
closed yesterday for a public holiday.  “It’s kind of a wait-and-see mode right now with an
absence of buyers that’s cheapening the market,” said Craig Collins, managing director of rates trading at Bank of Montreal
in London. “Today’s number is obviously crucial. Going into it,
I think people are concerned that a better number would revisit
higher yields. That’s another reason the Treasury market is a
little bit cheaper.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.56 percent at 7 a.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
due in May 2023 fell 14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000 face amount, to
93. The rate climbed to 2.66 percent on June 24, the  highest 
since Aug. 2, 2011.  Job gains and a recovery in housing are improving
Americans’ finances and bolstering speculation the economy will
gain momentum even after the  payroll tax  increased and
government agencies began to cut spending.  Payrolls Rise  U.S. employers boosted payrolls by 165,000 last month,
after adding 175,000 workers in May, according to a Bloomberg
News survey before the Labor Department report at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. The  unemployment rate  fell to 7.5 percent, matching
a four-year low, from 7.6 percent, a separate survey predicted.  The jobless rate may drop to 7.4 percent which would
“likely wreak some more havoc on the Treasury market,”
according to Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Societe Generale
SA in London.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 the central
bank may start to reduce its bond purchases this year if the
economy achieves the sustainable growth that the Fed has sought
since the recession ended in 2009.  Bernanke’s comment sent bonds tumbling around the world.
The  Bloomberg Global Developed Sovereign Bond Index (BGSV)  dropped 2.2
percent the next day, the steepest decline based on data going
back to January 2010. The index is down 6.4 percent this year,
while the  Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index (BUSY)  fell 2.9 percent.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares returned 7.3
percent in the period including reinvested dividends.  Economy ‘Recovering’  “Yields won’t go below 2 percent because everybody knows
the economy is recovering,” said Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman
in Tokyo at CIBC World Markets Japan Inc., a unit of Canada’s
fifth-largest lender. “The economy is so far, so good.”  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities each month to support the economy by putting
downward pressure on borrowing costs.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and Bank of
England Governor  Mark Carney  both signaled yesterday they will
keep borrowing costs at record lows for an extended period.  Investors demanded 87 basis points of extra yield to own
10-year bonds in the U.S. instead of  Germany , up from 58 basis
points a month ago.  Park Sungjin, head of asset management in  Seoul  at Meritz
Securities Co., which oversees $7 billion, is betting Treasuries
will fall because of the risk of reduced Fed bond purchases.  “It’s very clear,” he said. “U.S. economic data have
been very good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  