-- Regional Bank Stocks Advance on Signs of Improving Economy
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-07-05T20:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/regional-bank-stocks-advance-on-signs-of-improving-u-s-economy.html
KeyCorp (KEY) ,  Zions Bancorp (ZION)  and  SunTrust
Banks Inc. (STI)  were among the biggest gainers in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index on speculation lenders will benefit from an
improving U.S. economy.  KeyCorp, based in Cleveland, climbed 5 percent at 4:15 p.m.
in New York, the highest price since November 2008 and the
third-best performer in the  index , which gained 1 percent.
Zions, which has its headquarters in Salt Lake City, advanced
4.3 percent to $30.97, and SunTrust, based in Atlanta, jumped
4.2 percent to $34.31.  U.S. employers added 195,000 workers last month, beating
the median forecast of 165,000 in a Bloomberg survey and pushing
the yield on 10-year U.S. notes 23 basis points higher. The jobs
numbers are indicative of “improving economic momentum,” which
could help boost loan growth, said  Marty Mosby , an analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC.  “These banks are generally more levered to economic
growth,” Mosby said of KeyCorp, SunTrust and Zions today in an
e-mail.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest U.S. lender, and  Bank of
America  Corp., the second-biggest, increased 2.3 percent and 1.8
percent, respectively. Gains in larger banks have been hindered
by the prospect of stricter capital rules scheduled to be
decided next week, said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets.  Basel Rules  Basel III, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s
latest set of global standards, requires banks to hold loss-absorbing capital equal to 3 percent of total assets, known as a
leverage ratio. The U.S. is considering doubling that
requirement for its largest lenders, people familiar with the
talks have said. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. added a
vote on “enhanced supplementary  leverage ratio  standards” to
its July 9 meeting agenda.  “There’s going to be a distinct difference between the
regionals and small banks and the too-big-to-fail banks and the
amount of capital they have to carry,” Cassidy said today in a
telephone interview. “That unknown is affecting the relative
performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  