-- Rubber Pares Weekly Advance on Signs Growth Is Slowing in China
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-07-05T07:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/rubber-set-for-best-week-in-eight-as-yen-breaches-100-per-dollar.html
Rubber pared a weekly advance on
signs that economic growth is slowing in  China , the biggest user
of the commodity.  Rubber for delivery in December dropped 0.7 percent to end
at 245.1 yen a kilogram ($2,444 a metric ton) on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange. The most-active contract gained 3.7 percent
this week, the best performance since the week through May 10.  Reports this week showed expansion in China’s non-manufacturing and manufacturing industries is losing pace as the
government seeks to redirect the economy away from its
dependence on exports.  China’s economy  is stable although there
are outstanding structural problems, China’s State Council said
in a statement today ahead of a press briefing in Beijing.  “Some investors sold rubber amid worries that slow growth
in China may reduce demand,” Navarat Kaewpratarn, senior
marketing official at Future Agri Trade Co., said from Bangkok.  China’s economic growth in the second half may be 7.6
percent, according to State Information Center report published
in China Securities Journal. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., China
International Capital Corp., Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc
last month pared their China growth projections this year to 7.4
percent, below the government’s 7.5 percent goal.  Rubber for January delivery on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange fell 1.7 percent to close at 17,935  yuan  ($2,925) a ton.
Thai rubber free-on-board dropped 0.2 percent to 82.45 baht
($2.65) a kilogram today, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of  Thailand .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  