-- Rudd Gets Boost as Indonesia Plans to Aid People Smuggling Fight
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-07-05T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/rudd-gets-boost-as-indonesia-plans-to-aid-people-smuggling-fight.html
Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  secured
Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s support to
intensify efforts to stop the flow of boat people to  Australia ,
as he looks to gain traction with voters ahead of an election.  Rudd left Jakarta yesterday after a meeting with Yudhoyono
produced agreement for Indonesia to host a meeting of officials
from asylum seekers’ home countries. The Australian government
is seeking to stop the problem at its source, a change from
previous efforts which have focused on preventing people
smugglers from operating out of Indonesia.  The meeting will include representatives of countries
including Thailand, Malaysia,  Afghanistan , Iran and Myanmar,
Yudhoyono said. “We want these countries to sit together
seriously and find a solution,” he told reporters yesterday in
Bogor, West Java, without giving a date for the talks.  Increased asylum-seeker boat arrivals have contributed to
waning voter support for Rudd’s ruling  Labor party  ahead of this
year’s elections, with opposition leader  Tony Abbott  pledging to
“stop the boats.” Yudhoyono’s decision means Rudd, a former
diplomat who ousted  Julia Gillard  as leader last week, can claim
some progress from his trip, political analyst Zareh Ghazarian
said.  “This is exactly the sort of outcome Rudd was after,”
said Ghazarian, a lecturer in politics at  Monash University .
“The pressure will be on the coalition and Abbott to explain
what they would do that is different.”  The announcement came amid news that a boat carrying asylum
seekers was in distress off the southern coast of Java and had
requested assistance from Australia.  Patrol Boat  The HMAS Larrakia patrol boat was on the scene and an
Australian plane had flown over the vessel, the Australian
Maritime Safety Authority said in Twitter posts on its website,
without specifying the number of people on board the boat
seeking help. Merchant vessels were also going to the area, it
said.  “I salute you, Mr. President, on your bold initiative to
hold in a medium period ahead a ministerial conference to bring
about a concrete action to reduce the problem for all of us,”
Rudd told Yudhoyono during their post-meeting press conference.  Yudhoyono said he is confident that  Indonesia  and Australia
can increase their “friendship” under Rudd’s leadership.  ‘Ludicrous’ Policy  Malcolm Fraser, who was a Liberal-National prime minister
of Australia from 1975 to 1983, said in a July 3 interview that
Abbott’s policy of towing back boats -- often rickety and
leaking -- into Indonesian waters was “ludicrous.”  Asylum seekers from war-torn countries have used Indonesia
as a stepping stone to seek asylum in Australia. Between 2002
and 2004, 69 refugees arrived in Australia on three boats; last
year, 17,202 came on 278 vessels, according to figures from the
Refugee Council of Australia.  A total of 805 asylum seekers died on their way to
Australia since October 2009, according to the Department of
Immigration.  Successive governments have struggled with limiting boat
arrivals. Then-leader Gillard last year reopened processing
centers in  Papua New Guinea  and Nauru, which some commentators
said was a return to former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s policy
of holding applicants in offshore processing camps or remote
onshore detention centers.  A Newspoll published in The Australian newspaper July 1
showed Rudd led Abbott as preferred leader 49 percent to 35
percent. Labor trailed the coalition by two percentage points on
a two-party preferred measure, designed to gauge which party is
most likely to form government under Australia’s preferential
voting system, from 14 percentage points the week before.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  