-- Russia Prosecutor Seeks 6 Years in Jail for Putin Critic Navalny
-- B y   D e n i s   S h a d r i n   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-07-05T08:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/russia-prosecutor-seeks-6-years-in-jail-for-putin-critic-navalny.html
A Russian prosecutor demanded a six-year prison term for Alexey Navalny, who’s on trial for fraud,
in a case the leading opponent of President  Vladimir Putin  has
said is politically motivated.  The prosecutor in Kirov, 900 kilometers (560 miles)
northeast of Moscow, also asked the court to fine Navalny 1
million rubles ($30,000) over charges that he defrauded state
timber company Kirovles of 16 million rubles. He may be jailed
immediately in case of a guilty verdict even if the sentence is
being appealed.  Navalny, 37, who faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in
prison, denies any wrongdoing and says the case is payback for
helping lead protests in 2011 that were the biggest against
Putin’s 13-year rule.  Putin, 60, has sought to rein in dissent since his 2012
return to the presidency. Some protesters have been imprisoned
after a rally in May last year turned violent, while non-government organizations that get funding from abroad are being
threatened with fines or possible closing unless they declare
themselves foreign agents.  Sergei Guriev, an economist who advised the government and
served as rector of the New Economic School in Moscow, fled to
Paris in April, fearing prosecution because of his ties to
Navalny. Guriev is advising the opposition leader on his bid for
election as Moscow mayor in September.  Russia  was the lowest-ranked Group of Eight nation in
Berlin-based Transparency International 2012 Corruption
Perceptions Index. Net capital outflows reached $54 billion last
year and exceeded $38 billion in the first six months of 2013,
preliminary central bank  data  show.  No Stalinism  Putin in April denied he’s resorting to Stalin-era tactics
by locking up opponents.  “Stalinism is about a cult of personality and mass
violations of the law, with repression and camps,” Putin said
in response to a question about Navalny during a televised call-in show. “There’s no such thing in Russia and I hope there
never will be. No one is being jailed for political reasons.”  Investigators allege Navalny and two others embezzled more
than 10,000 cubic meters of wood products at state-owned
Kirovles between May and September 2009. The Investigative
Committee says that Navalny threatened the manager of the timber
company with dismissal to pressure him into signing a contract
with another company, Vyatskaya Lesnaya Kompaniya.  ‘Political Revenge’  Navalny, a blogger and anti-corruption activist who has
uncovered alleged wrongdoing at state companies, was working at
the time as an unpaid adviser on corporate governance in Kirov
to regional governor Nikita Belykh, who’s defended him.  Federal investigators twice overruled regional prosecutors
who’d dropped the case against Navalny. He has denounced the
proceedings as “political revenge” and vowed to keep up his
campaign to uncover fraud at state companies.  The trial follows the case against three members of all-female punk group Pussy Riot, who were convicted last August
after a protest targeting Putin inside Moscow’s Christ the
Savior cathedral. One was later freed on appeal.  Russian authorities opened a fourth criminal case against
Navalny on April 18, with all relating to separate cases of
alleged fraud. The trial will be conducted “absolutely
objectively,” according to Putin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  