-- Russia Widens Central Bank Remit in Biggest Expansion of Powers
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-07-05T12:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/russia-widens-central-bank-remit-in-biggest-expansion-of-powers.html
Russian lawmakers approved the
largest expansion of the central bank’s powers since it was
established more than two decades ago by broadening its
oversight to include brokerages and financial organizations.  The lower house of parliament passed sweeping changes
making the bank a unified financial regulator and introducing
economic growth into its policy mandate, according to a copy of
the changes posted on the State Duma  website . The changes also
extend central bank board members’ terms to five years from four
and increase the board to 15 people from 13. The bill must be
approved by the upper house of parliament and signed by
President  Vladimir Putin .  “The main goal of Bank Rossii’s monetary policy is
defending and ensuring the steadiness of the ruble by supporting
 price stability , including to create the conditions for balanced
and steady economic growth,” according to the legislation.  Russia  is adding the economic growth language as policy
makers prepare to begin formally targeting inflation starting in
2015 and following a dispute among government officials earlier
this year about whether the central bank needed to move more
quickly to support the economy by lowering  interest rates .  Central bank Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina , who took over for
Sergey Ignatiev last month, said in an interview that overcoming
a slower economy would be her priority. Nabiullina and Ignatiev
both argued against the need for a growth mandate alongside
inflation, saying Bank Rossii contributes to economic prospects
by seeking to ensure low and stable prices.  Still, Ignatiev told lawmakers June 19 that a carefully
worded mention of growth similar to the  European Central Bank ’s
mandate would be possible, as long as inflation comes first.
Lawmakers may further review the mandate later this year or next
as the central bank completes the switch to targeting inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  