-- Scoopon Sued by Australian Regulator Over Promotions
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-07-05T04:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/scoopon-sued-by-australian-regulator-over-promotions.html
Scoopon Pty , an Australian online
shopping company, was sued by the country’s competition
regulator over its promotions.  The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission  said  it
sued Scoopon in federal court in  Brisbane  over what it claims is
misleading and deceptive conduct and false and misleading
representations to businesses and customers.  Scoopon, based in  Melbourne , offers products on its website
that it says are discounted by as much as 93 percent. The
commission said it and other regulators have received “a
significant number of complaints” since the online group-buying
industry emerged in Australia in 2010.  “Scoopon misled consumers regarding their ability to
redeem vouchers, their refund rights and the price of goods
advertised in relation to some of its deals,” the regulator
said in a statement today. Businesses were promised there was no
cost involved, when a fee was payable to Scoopon, the commission
said.  Scoopon, which said it has more than 2 million customers,
will review the allegations and work to resolve the issues
raised, the company said in a statement today.  “Our number one goal is to connect happy customers with
happy business owners,” Scoopon said. “We have also recognized
the need to continuously improve our deal selection and customer
service policies.”  The lawsuit is scheduled for a court hearing on July 25,
the regulator said. It is seeking unspecified monetary damages
and court orders prohibiting the company from making misleading
representations.  The case is ACCC v. Scoopon Pty. QUD402/2013. Federal Court
of  Australia  (Brisbane).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  