-- Seadrill Rises to Record on Growth in Order Backlog: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-07-05T08:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/seadrill-rises-to-record-on-growth-in-order-backlog-oslo-mover.html
Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL)  climbed to a record in
Oslo as Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised investors to buy
the offshore driller due to rising demand and its order backlog.  The Bermuda-based company gained as much  2 percent  to 254.6
kroner, the highest level since it first sold shares on May 31,
2005, making it the Bloomberg EMEA Oil & Gas Index’s  biggest
gainer . Bank of America raised its rating to buy from neutral.  “Seadrill has continued with a high paced expansion and
optimization of the drilling fleet and we see this continuing to
pay off over the long term,” Bank of America analyst Fiona Maclean said today in an e-mailed note. “With a strong macro
environment in drilling, a high backlog with superior earnings
visibility, Seadrill is an attractive long term investment.”  The stock traded 1.9 percent higher at 254.4 kroner as of
10:52 a.m. in the Norwegian capital.  The company, controlled by billionaire  John Fredriksen , is
expanding its fleet in anticipation of higher demand from energy
companies that are extending the search for oil and gas reserves
into deeper and harder-to-access regions. The company currently
has 61 units, including drill-ships, jack-ups, semi-submersible
rigs and tender rigs, and more than 20 under construction.  The driller also plans to expand its fleet, able to operate
in shallow and deep-water areas, with acquisitions. On June 27,
the company said it was seeking to take over  Sevan Drilling ASA (SEVDR) 
and its rigs after buying more than half the company’s shares.  Seadrill increased its stake to 50.1 percent, buying 116.9
million shares at 3.95 kroner each, and said it will submit a
mandatory offer for the rest. That price “undervalues Sevan
Drilling’s assets and prospects, and represents a significant
discount to latest analyst consensus net asset value estimates
and target prices,” Sevan Drilling has said.  “Seadrill has invested heavily into its fleet and
consequently, its young and premium fleet is one of its key
differentiators versus peers,” Maclean said.  The company is the largest owner of ultra-deepwater
drilling rigs after Switzerland’s Transocean Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  