-- Seibu Meets Cerberus for First Time Since Board Seat Rejection
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-07-05T09:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/seibu-meets-cerberus-for-first-time-since-board-seat-rejection.html
Seibu Holdings Inc. met with Cerberus
Capital Management LP, its largest shareholder, today for the
first time since the fund lost a fight for board seats, to
discuss how to “move forward.”  Norinchukin Bank, the largest lender of the hotel and train
operator, and  Development Bank of Japan Inc.  also attended the
meeting, Shuhei Akasaka, a spokesman for Seibu, said by
telephone today. He declined to provide details of the meeting.  Cerberus, which failed in its bid to have eight directors
elected to Seibu’s board on June 25, aims to improve
profitability at  Japan ’s fourth-largest hotel operator before
selling shares to the public. Seibu President Takashi Goto has
said he won’t offer “any concessions” to Cerberus.  “It’s a good sign,” said Nicholas Benes, a representative
director of The Board Director Training Institute of Japan. “It
could be progress. Dialogue and discussion is all about being
open-minded.”  Cerberus, with a 35.5 percent stake in Seibu, recommended
executives including former U.S. Vice President Dan Quayle and
former U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow to the board. The
fund’s representatives won 39.8 percent of the votes cast, while
the hotel operator’s nominees all won at least 59 percent of the
vote, according to a statement from Seibu the day after the
shareholder meeting.  World’s Richest Man  Yoshiaki Tsutsumi, who holds 36 percent of second-largest
Seibu shareholder NW Corp., backed the hotel and rail operator.
Tsutsumi amassed a $16 billion personal fortune while at the
helm of Seibu and was named the world’s richest man by Forbes
magazine in 1990.  Seibu has said it’s “financially prepared” for an initial
public offering, while Cerberus has said it’s willing to wait as
long as three years and wants the company to improve earnings.  Tokorozawa, Japan-based Seibu had net income of  15.6
billion yen  ($156 million) in the year ended March, compared
with 8.4 billion yen a year earlier, with sales of 459 billion
yen, according to the company.  Stephen A. Feinberg’s fund spent about 120 billion yen
acquiring its stake in Seibu, which was delisted in 2004 for
breaking exchange rules by misstating stakes. The investment
compares with the $7.4 billion it spent to buy an 80.1 percent
stake in Chrysler LLC in 2007.  The fight for control at Seibu shows the challenge overseas
private-equity funds face in Japan, where attempts by foreign
investors to gain board representation have mostly been beaten
back.  T. Boone Pickens gave up his attempt to gain a board seat
in the 1990s at  Koito Manufacturing Co. (7276) , while Christopher
Cooper-Hohn’s Children’s Investment Fund Management UK LLP
failed in 2008, as did Warren Lichtenstein’s Steel Partners in
2010 with separate Japanese companies.  Hawaii Hotels  Prince Hotels Inc. , owned by Seibu, runs a chain of 50
hotels in Japan and around the world, including the  Hawaii
Prince Hotel Waikiki . Seibu got  155 billion yen , about a third
of its revenue of 459 billion yen, from its hotel and leisure
businesses in the year ended March, according to the company.  Cerberus published a list of nine topics earlier this month
that it wanted to raise at the shareholders meeting, including
failures to meet profit targets, lack of comparisons of results
with other companies in the industry, and lack of disclosure on
its operations in  Hawaii .  Cerberus, which raised its stake in Seibu in May, led a
2006 bailout of the seventh-largest railway operator in the
Tokyo area with Nikko Principal Investments Japan Ltd.  The hedge fund, which announced a tender offer in March to
boost its stake in Seibu, ended up buying 10 million shares,
3.04 percent of the amount outstanding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  