-- Shanghai Baosteel, Chalco Unit Win Uganda Copper-Mines Contract
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-07-05T13:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/shanghai-baosteel-chalco-unit-win-uganda-copper-mines-contract.html
Chinese companies including Shanghai
Baosteel Group Corp., which controls the country’s biggest
listed steelmaker, won a contract to develop copper mines in
 Uganda  after pledging $175 million to upgrade the operations.  The investment commitment in Kilembe Mines Ltd. was the
“highlight” in choosing the group that includes  Aluminum Corp.
of China (2600) ’s Chinalco Luoyang Copper unit over others, Finance
Ministry spokesman Jim Mugunga said today in an e-mailed
statement from Kampala, the capital. Tibet Hima Industry Co. is
leading the group that also includes  Yunnan Copper Industry Co. (000878) 
and Dongfang Electric Corp., he said.  Output at Kilembe, set up in 1950 and owned by the East
African nation, peaked at 1 million metric tons a year in 1970,
with the smelter producing 18,000 tons of copper in 1964,
according to a presentation on the Uganda Mining Ministry’s
 website . The operation has been under care and maintenance since
1982 and is near the border of  Democratic Republic  of Congo, the
world’s eighth-largest copper producer.  “The winning consortium committed to a signature fee to
government of $4.3 million as well as an annual concession fee
of $1.01 million,” Mugunga said.  Companies such as  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) ,  China  National Offshore
Oil Corp. and France’s Total SA, are developing Uganda’s
oilfields, which contain an estimated 3.5 billion barrels of
crude. Significant production may start in 2017, according to
Total. China’s foreign direct investment in  Africa  has surged in
recent years, with the nation putting in a bit more than $3
billion to work on projects on the continent, according to the
state-run Xinhua news service.  The Tibet Hima-led group may manage Kilembe for 25 to 30
years, depending on the outcome of talks with the government,
Mugunga said by phone.  The group will also upgrade Kilembe’s Mobutu hydropower
project to 12 megawatts from five megawatts, he said.  Nine companies originally bid for Kilembe, Mugunga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  