-- Siemens Crossrail Pullout Hands Bombardier U.K. Lifeline
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-07-05T14:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/siemens-exiting-crossrail-hands-bombardier-u-k-plant-a-lifeline.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  withdrew from the bidding
to supply trains worth 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion) to
 London ’s Crossrail project, handing a potential lifeline to the
last British railcar factory owned by  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)   Siemens, one of four rolling stock producers shortlisted
for the contract in 2012, is standing down because a high level
of existing commitments mean bidding “would not be a responsible
course of action,” the Munich-based company said in a statement.  “Crossrail is a very large project and, since first
undertaking our initial assessment of capacity and
deliverability, Siemens has won multiple additional orders,” it
said today. “To pursue another project of this scale could
impact our ability to deliver our current customer commitments.”  The withdrawal of Siemens opens the way to Montreal-based
Bombardier, whose plant in Derby, central  England , came under
threat of closure when its German rival won a 1.6 billion-pound
deal to build 1,200 carriages for Thameslink, whose north-south
London service will be completed by Crossrail’s east-west line.  The other bidders for the 60 train, 600-carriage contract
are Tokyo-based  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Construcciones y Auxiliar de
Ferrocarriles SA  of  Spain . Crossrail said a “strong field” of
potential contractors remains, adding that “we fully
understand” the reasons for Siemens’s withdrawal.  Industry Impact  The U.K. government changed its procurement guidelines
following a political outcry over the Thameslink award, which
will see Siemens build the trains in Krefeld, near Dusseldorf.
The new rules dictate that the impact on British jobs and
manufacturing expertise should be taken into account --something
which might in any case have favored Bombardier.  Hitachi is separately establishing a plant in northern
England to produce 90 Intercity Express trains made up of 596
railcars worth 4.5 billion pounds, though body-shells will be
shipped from  Japan  for final assembly.  Bombardier’s Derby plant, known as Litchurch Lane, has cut
hundreds of jobs since its Thameslink defeat while remaining in
business thanks to contracts including the supply of Tube trains
to London Underground and Electrostar models to London
Overground and  Go-Ahead Group Plc (GOG) ’s Southern commuter network.  The current pipeline of work, which supports 1,800 jobs,
runs through 2016, about the time the Crossrail units are due.
Bombardier declined to comment on the Siemens announcement.  Alstom Withdrawal  Britain has manufactured trains since it pioneered rail
travel 200 years ago. Bombardier’s Derby site was one of several
that made up state-owned British Rail Engineering Ltd. until
that business was privatized, passing into the ownership of ABB
Ltd.,  Daimler AG (DAI)  -- as Adtranz -- and then the Canadian company.  Alstom SA (ALO) , the French maker of TGV high-speed trains, shut
a 150-year-old plant at Washwood Heath in Birmingham in 2005
after completing a contract to build tilting Pendolino units for
 Richard Branson ’s Virgin Trains. Most London Underground tube
trains were built there by onetime owner Metropolitan-Cammell.  Final bids for the Crossrail tender are due next month,
with the company subsequently making recommendations to the U.K.
Department for Transport and Transport for London. Trains are
due to start running through the central tunnel section in 2018.  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ; 