-- South Korea’s Won Declines Before U.S. Jobs Report; Bonds Fall
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-07-05T07:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/south-korea-s-won-declines-before-u-s-jobs-report-bonds-fall.html
 The won fell after  South Korea  said
an equities sell-off by foreign funds in June was the biggest in
almost two years on concern the  Federal Reserve  may taper
stimulus, and before a U.S. report forecast to show jobs growth.  Government bonds  declined. Global investors were net
sellers of 5.1 trillion won ($4.5 billion) of local stocks, the
most since August 2011, the Financial Supervisory Service said
in a statement today. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which
measures the greenback against 10 major currencies, gained ahead
of a U.S. report today that may show companies added enough jobs
to lower the  unemployment rate , boosting growth prospects for
the world’s biggest economy.  “The dollar is strong globally as the likely improvement
in U.S. employment is adding to concerns about the Fed’s early
stimulus exit,” said Son Eun Jeong, an analyst at Woori Futures
Co. in  Seoul . “The won’s movements may not be big as investors
are waiting for the U.S. data later in the day.”  The won slid 0.4 percent to 1,142.50 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the 2.75
percent bonds due June 2016 rose four basis points to 2.98
percent, prices from Korea Exchange Inc. show. It climbed 10
basis points this week.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 12 basis points,
or 0.12 percentage point, to 10.33 percent.  The U.S. Labor Department will probably say today that
companies added 165,000 positions last month after increasing
them by 175,000 in May, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . A separate survey
predicted the jobless rate fell to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent
in May.  Proactive Policy  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 the central bank
may slow bond purchases this year and end them in 2014 if
economic growth meets its estimates. U.S. markets were closed
yesterday for a holiday.  South Korea will maintain a “proactive” macroeconomic
policy to help boost economic growth to above 3 percent in the
second half of the year and authorities will act to stabilize
markets when there’s “herd behavior” in the  currency market ,
Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said at a meeting with members of
the American Chamber of Commerce in Seoul today.  South Korea plans to offer 700 billion won of support to
the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund to help take over as much as 14
trillion won of corporate bonds, the Korea Economic Daily
reported today, citing a government official it did not name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  