-- South Africa Denies Mandela in ‘Vegetative’ State
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-07-05T11:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/south-africa-denies-mandela-in-vegetative-state.html
The office of South African President
Jacob Zuma denied media reports that  Nelson Mandela  is in a
vegetative state in a Pretoria hospital.  “Former President Mandela has been and remains under the
care of a multi-disciplinary panel of South African medical
experts,” the Presidency said in a statement yesterday. He is
in a “critical, but stable condition” and doctors “deny that
the former president is in a vegetative state.”  The 94-year-old Nobel Peace Prize winner has been
hospitalized since June 8 to receive treatment for a lung
infection.  Agence France-Presse  and  Sky News  reported yesterday
that doctors had advised family members that Mandela’s life
support machine should be turned off as he is in a permanent
vegetative state. The reports cited court documents dated June
26 that were submitted in relation to a family dispute over the
burial site of three of Mandela’s children. President  Jacob Zuma 
said in a statement on June 27 Mandela’s condition had improved
after a deterioration earlier in that week.  Mandela, who spent 27 years in prison for opposing white
minority rule, has been hospitalized four times since December.
He shared the  Nobel prize  in 1993 with F.W. de Klerk for
negotiating a peaceful transition to democracy. He became the
country’s first black president a year later when the  African
National Congress  won all-race elections. Known by his clan name
Madiba, Mandela stepped down after serving a five-year term.  The former leader is “sometimes uncomfortable, sometimes
he is in pain, but he is fine,” his wife Graca Machel said
yesterday, according to Johannesburg-based EWN.  Family Dispute  Denis Goldberg, who was convicted with Mandela for seeking
to overthrow the apartheid state in 1964, told the British
Broadcasting Corp. he had  visited  the former president at
Machel’s invitation.  “He is clearly a very ill man but he was in far better
shape than I would have imagined from all the reports and the
speculation,” Goldberg said in a video posted on  BBC ’s website.
“What a tough old man he is. There has been speculation about
switching off whatever machines he’s been on and so I asked
about this and Graca said the doctors say there has been no
massive organ failure and therefore they are not advising even
to think about it at this stage. They think he has a very good
chance of recovering.”  Goldberg said on Sky News he visited Mandela on July 1.  Graves Dispute  Mandela’s grandson, Mandla, lost a court battle on July 3
to keep the remains of Mandela’s three children in Mvezo village
in Eastern Cape province, where he is the tribal chief. Family
members including Mandela’s daughter, Makaziwe, had asked the
court to have the bodies returned to Qunu, where they were
buried until Mandla removed them two years ago, according to
Johannesburg-based City Press newspaper.  Nobel laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu urged the family to
reconcile and not sully Mandela’s image.  “Please, please, please may we think not only of
ourselves,” Tutu said in an emailed statement yesterday. “Your
anguish now is the nation’s anguish, and the world’s. It’s
almost like spitting in Madiba’s face” for the family to be at
loggerheads, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  