-- Swiss Banks May Lose $522 Million U.K. Tax Accord Payment
-- B y   D y l a n   G r i f f i t h s   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-07-05T16:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/swiss-banks-may-lose-522-million-payment-from-u-k-tax-accord.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
other Swiss banks may lose most of the 500 million-franc ($522
million) guarantee payment they made to the U.K. government as
part of a tax deal, the  Swiss Bankers Association  said.  That payment, under an accord signed by  Switzerland  and the
U.K. in October 2011, covered the failure by bank clients to
disclose undeclared money in the past. With fewer untaxed U.K.
assets in Switzerland than previously expected, the banks may
not be reimbursed by their British customers, the Basel-based
association said in an e-mailed  statement  today.  “The possibility can therefore not be ruled out that
either none or only a small part of the bank’s guarantee payment
of 500 million francs will be recovered,” the association said.  Switzerland and the U.K. signed the agreement to settle a
dispute over  tax evasion  by wealthy Britons holding offshore
accounts with Swiss private banks. With many British clients
opting for voluntary disclosure and others holding resident non-domiciled status, which means they don’t fall under the
withholding tax deal, repayments by bank customers will be
smaller than expected, the association said.  The shortfall may cost Credit Suisse as much as 90 million
francs, which will be booked in the second quarter, the bank
said in an e-mailed statement.  UBS Share  UBS’s share of the upfront payment is approximately 100
million francs, Dominique Gerster, a spokesman for the Zurich-based bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We will take into account all information available to us
in our assessment of the impact of the arrangement on our
second-quarter results,” he said.  Switzerland is trying to shake off its reputation as a tax
haven after amassing $2.2 trillion of assets from affluent
cross-border clients. Under the accord with the U.K., Swiss
banks will levy a withholding tax of 27 percent on  capital gains 
earned by Britons with offshore accounts. Revenue generated will
go to the British Treasury, while client identities remain
secret.  Britons may have opted to use the  Liechtenstein Disclosure
Facility  to declare untaxed assets instead, according to Mark
Summers, a lawyer with Speechly Bircham AG in Zurich.  “The reality was that in many cases and particularly with
larger accounts disclosure and regularization through programs
such as the Liechtenstein Disclosure was far cheaper than paying
withholding tax,” Summers said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Revenue Estimate  The estimate of revenue generated from the Swiss agreement
takes into account the balance between tax withheld by the banks
and tax collected directly from individual taxpayers following
disclosure, an official at the British Treasury said by e-mail.  “More people have chosen to disclose their tax affairs to
HMRC than expected so the yield from this route is likely to be
higher than anticipated,” the official said. “There is no
reason to revise the overall yield estimate at this point.”  The U.K.-Swiss deal probably didn’t force many voluntary
disclosures as it contains a series of loopholes, which means
the British government will only recoup a fraction of the 4
billion pounds ($6 billion) to 7 billion pounds envisaged by the
bilateral treaty, said Nicholas Shaxson, a spokesman for the Tax
Justice Network.  “This is an indication that the U.S.-Swiss tax deal has
failed and demonstrates the Swiss withholding tax model is
bankrupt,” Shaxson, author of “Treasure Islands: Tax Havens
and the Men Who Stole the World,” said by phone “It’s been
child’s play to escape the deal through the use of structures,
such as discretionary trusts and insurance wrappers.”  Switzerland has also agreed a withholding tax deal with
 Austria , while  Germany ’s Parliament rejected a similar accord in
November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dylan Griffiths in Geneva  at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  