-- Swiss Banks Push for Zurich to Become Yuan Offshore Trading Hub
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-07-05T08:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/swiss-banks-push-for-zurich-to-become-yuan-offshore-trading-hub.html
Swiss banks are pushing for Zurich to
become a center for  yuan  trading in Europe as  China  seeks to
take its currency global.  “ Switzerland  is already a hub for the  renminbi , but we
need to add to the infrastructure to strengthen that notion even
more,” Heinrich Siegmann of the  Swiss Bankers Association  said
at a briefing in Zurich, referring to another term
for the yuan. “We have government support to becoming a hub, we
have investments in renminbi bonds, and we have trading of these
bonds.”  Switzerland is basing its push for the offshore yuan
business on the country’s close ties with China, one of the
nation’s biggest trading partner. About 4 percent of Swiss
exports went to China in 2012, making the country the sixth most
important destination for foreign trade behind countries
including Germany, the U.S., and Italy, according to the Swiss
customs office. About 6 percent of Swiss imports came from China
in 2012.  China’s new Prime Minister  Li Keqiang  made the Alpine
country his initial stop on his first trip to Europe as premier
in May. Swiss Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann is flying
to Beijing today to sign an FTA tomorrow. The two countries have
also entered into a memorandum of understanding on financial
market dialog.  “Many banks are so-called qualified domestic institutional
investors in China, which allow for some privileged access to
the Chinese market,” Siegmann said in Zurich today. “We still
have a bit of work to do, in terms of clearing and swap lines,
clearly that would be an element that would be nice to add to
Switzerland as a hub.”  Outside Mainland  The world’s second-largest economy started pushing for the
great use of the yuan outside the mainland in 2010 and last
month signed a three-year swap agreement for 200 billion yuan
($32.6 billion) with the  Bank of England  to foster trading in
London. The  European Central Bank , based in Frankfurt, may
obtain a deal valued at four times that amount, according to
lobby group Frankfurt Main Finance. Almost 80 percent of
offshore yuan trading is currently settled in  Hong Kong .  By 2015, a third of China’s cross-border trade will be
settled in yuan, making the currency one of the three most used
in global trading along with the dollar and euro, according to a
HSBC Holdings Plc.  Yuan-denominated notes, known as dim sum bonds, sold by
companies, including McDonald’s Corp. and Caterpillar Inc., rose
to 174 billion yuan last year from 16 billion yuan in 2009,
Bloomberg data show. The accords provide companies with a safety
net that aims to give them more confidence in doing business
with their Chinese partners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  