-- Huawei to Build China-Pakistan Link as Sharif Woos Investors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-05T08:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/huawei-to-build-china-pakistan-link-as-sharif-woos-investment.html
China and Pakistan signed a deal to
build a $44 million fiber-optic cable connecting their border
region with the Pakistani military garrison city of Rawalpindi,
and agreed to explore a strategic transport corridor.  The pacts were the highlights of talks between Pakistani
and Chinese officials in Beijing as visiting Prime Minister
 Nawaz Sharif  seeks to secure the investment his new government
needs to repair a shattered economy. In a shot in the arm for
Sharif, Pakistan and the International Monetary Fund yesterday
agreed a $5.3 billion loan to boost the country’s depleted
currency reserves.  By choosing Beijing for his first overseas trip since
winning May 11 elections, Sharif signaled that securing Chinese
funding ranks among his foreign policy priorities. Pakistan’s
growing emphasis on ties with China follows years of strained
relations with the U.S. amid the war in Afghanistan and American
targeting of Pakistani guerrillas.  Meeting Premier Li Keqiang at the Great Hall of the People
in the Chinese capital today, Sharif lauded bilateral ties,
telling his host that the two countries’ friendship is “higher
than the Himalayas and deeper than the deepest sea in the world,
and sweeter than honey.”  Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s largest maker of
networking equipment, will build the fiber-optic link in three
years, project director Waseem Ahmad said, adding that 85
percent of the funding will be provided via Chinese loans. The
agreement will give Pakistan more connectivity to international
communications networks, Ahmad said. Rawalpindi is home to the
headquarters of Pakistan’s army.  Gwadar Pact  An initial pact on a transport corridor to link the western
Chinese city of Kashgar with the Pakistani port of Gwadar,
control of which was in February transferred to a state-run
Chinese company, was also signed today. No details were given on
what was described as a “long term” plan.  “China will encourage and support companies to invest in
 Pakistan  and Pakistan will provide a good environment for
China’s investment,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying
said at a briefing in Beijing today.  While Sharif has called the road-and-rail project a “game
changer” capable of generating revenue and jobs for Pakistan,
financing and security concerns could prove hurdles. The route
would run through Baluchistan province, where anger over
exploitation of gas and minerals has spurred a separatist
insurgency.  Touted Role  Aside from its touted role as a short cut for Chinese
imports of Middle Eastern oil, officials in  India  and the U.S.
have seen Gwadar as part of China’s strategic ambition to
project its growing naval power into the  Indian Ocean .  Unrest in the western Chinese province of Xinjiang which
authorities have in the past linked to Islamist training camps
in Pakistan may also be on the agenda for Sharif’s visit which
ends on July 8.  Pakistan’s government presented a “very robust reform”
agenda to secure the IMF assistance, Finance Minister Ishaq Dar
said at a briefing with officials from the multilateral lender
in Islamabad yesterday. The program of credit needs approval
from the IMF board, Pakistan mission head  Jeffrey Franks  said.  A plunge of about 40 percent in the reserves in the past
year to $6 billion has left Pakistan with enough to cover only
about two months of imports, central bank data shows. The slide
has weighed on the rupee and adds to other challenges facing
Sharif, which include energy shortages and a Taliban insurgency
in the northwest. The currency touched a record low this week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  