-- Mugabe Threatens to Quit SADC Over Election Date Dispute
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-07-05T16:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/mugabe-threatens-to-quit-sadc-over-election-date-dispute.html
Zimbabwe ’s President Robert Mugabe
threatened to withdraw from a regional body as he pressed ahead
with plans to hold elections this month despite a request by the
Southern African Development Community that they be delayed to
allow reforms.  “We are in SADC voluntarily,” he told a political rally
to announce his Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
party’s election manifesto at a stadium on the outskirts of the
capital, Harare, today. “If SADC decides to do stupid things we
can withdraw.”  The 15-nation group, which in 2009 brokered an end to a
decade-long political dispute in Zimbabwe, this month asked
Mugabe to seek a delay to July 31 elections to allow reforms,
that form part of a new constitution, to be enacted. Prime
Minister Morgan Tsvangirai, whose Movement for Democratic change
was compelled by SADC to join a coalition with Mugabe as part of
the 2009 pact, has sought a postponement.  Yesterday Zimbabwe’s Constitutional Court upheld a ruling
that elections should take place on July 31.  “It is a political decision and not a legal decision,”
MDC spokesman Douglas Mwonzora said in a phone interview
yesterday. He didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone today.  Tsvangirai has said he wants a code of conduct for police
and military forces ahead of elections. The MDC has also
demanded equal access to state media and closer inspection of
the country’s voters’ roll before the vote.  ‘Basic Reforms’  South Africa, a member of SADC, wants Zimbabwe to postpone
the elections by at least a month to implement “basic
reforms,” Lindiwe Zulu, an adviser to South African President
Jacob Zuma and a member of SADC’s facilitation team for the
elections, said in an interview on June 28.  “An ordinary woman says ‘no you can’t have elections on
July 31?’” Mugabe said today. “Really did such a person think
we as a country would take heed of this street woman’s stupid
utterances?”  Mac Maharaj, a spokesman for Zuma, didn’t immediately
respond to text messages and voice mails left on his mobile
phone.  Mugabe, who has ruled Zimbabwe since 1980 after leading a
guerrilla movement, has fought a series of elections since 2000
against Tsvangirai, bolstering his support by seizing white-owned commercial farms for redistribution to black subsistence
farmers and backing a law stipulating that foreign-owned
companies sell 51 percent of their assets to black Zimbabweans
or the government.  Tsvangirai has opposed the law, which has seen companies
including  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s two biggest producers of the metal,
cede assets.  ‘Still Oppressed’  “Indigenization and empowerment policies will drive the
growth and development of our economy,” Mugabe’s party said in
its manifesto, released today. “Land reform will continue to
anchor the growth of our economy.”  Elections in 2000, 2002, 2005 and 2008 were described as
marred by violence and electoral irregularities by most
observers, including the European Union. Sanctions were imposed
by the EU and the U.S. on Mugabe and his closest allies.  Mugabe said his experience of governing with Tsvangirai and
the faction of the MDC that the prime minister heads, known as
MDC-T, shows that “wearing a crown does not make one king.”  The MDC is split into two factions with Tsvangirai leading
the larger one.  Tsvangirai’s party will announce its manifesto on July 7.  “When I see MDC-T and other like-minded people fight
against indigenization and empowerment, it sadly reflects that
we still have a few of our people who are still oppressed and
have no sense of identity or what they own as Zimbabweans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  