-- Ulaanbaatar Rents to Jump as KFC, Cinnabon Enter, Kupperman Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-07-05T01:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/ulaanbaatar-rents-to-jump-as-kfc-cinnabon-enter-kupperman-says.html
Commercial real estate rents in
Ulaanbaatar will more than triple within five years as increases
in per-capita incomes lure international companies, said Harris
Kupperman, who runs a fund that invests in Mongolian properties.  Rental prices for the capital’s main commercial strip,
Peace Avenue, will top $100 per square meter per month by 2018,
up from as much as $30 currently, said Kupperman, the chief
executive officer of Canadian company  Mongolia Growth Group (YAK) , the
only non-mining internationally listed company that does
business in Mongolia.  Real estate prices in the capital surged as the economy
reached double-digit growth driven by a boom in coal and copper
mining. That prompted firms such as U.S. food companies KFC
Ltd., Cinnabon International Inc. and Round Table Pizza Inc. to
open shops this year, joining luxury outlets including  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and Giorgio Armani SpA.  “It starts with food and beverage, but eventually you are
going to have more retail, too,” Kupperman, 32, whose company
owns retail space in the Peace Avenue business corridor, said in
an interview in Ulaanbaatar July 3. “You get 10-year leases
signed by high-quality tenants and they add value to the
property. They pay their rent on time, so it increases the
value, and they tend to pay above market for top locations.”  Kupperman’s Toronto-listed firm has invested $40 million in
storefront properties, office buildings and redevelopment sites
since it set up shop in February 2011, and makes $200,000 a
month in revenue from these properties, he said.  Peace Avenue  Retail space on Peace Avenue costs $2,500 to $3,000 per
square meter, Kupperman said, adding that prices could reach
levels seen in Almaty, the biggest city in  Kazakhstan , where
prices range from $10,000 to $30,000 per square meter.  Mongolia Growth plans to spend as much as $500 million over
the next decade on developing high-end buildings on the
commercial strip, he said.  Kupperman said he remains “bearish” on downtown office
space. Grade-A rents in the area have surged to $70 a square
meter from around $45 a square meter three years ago, Alex
Skinner, the head of Real Source Inc., an Ulaanbaatar-based
property consultancy, said.  The central business district contains several high-rise
glass towers that house most of the big international firms
doing business in the country.  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , the world’s
second-biggest mining company, which is building the $6.6
billion Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine, has on office there.  Retail Focus  “There is a whole lot of supply; it’s going to hurt prices
in terms of rents,” Kupperman said, adding that prices in the
district could fall to $30 to $40 per square meter within two
years.  Instead, Kupperman said he was sticking to areas where
retailers are opening shops because of the growing purchasing
power of Mongolian consumers. Citizens, who owned flats
inherited from the Soviet-era, have become millionaires simply
by holding onto their ground-floor apartments, coveted as
valuable assets because they can be converted into shops.  Apartment prices prices across Ulaanbaatar have increased
23 percent per annum since 2005, Real Source’s Skinner said. In
prime locations such as downtown, a Soviet-era apartment that in
2005 would have cost around $337 per square meter, now is at
least $2000 a square meter, said Skinner.  A new central bank policy that allows homeowners to
refinance their  mortgage loans  down to 8 percent from 15 percent
to 20 percent and extend the loan period to 20 years from an
average of five years was helping boost consumer power,
Kupperman said.  “This will reduce payments by 70 to 80 percent,” he said.
“It is going to put a lot more money in the economy. With more
money, they are going to go shopping, which will be good for
retail and good for commercial real estate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  