-- Murray Beats Janowicz to Reach Wimbledon Final Against Djokovic
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-07-05T20:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/murray-beats-janowicz-to-reach-wimbledon-final-against-djokovic.html
 Second seed Andy Murray defeated
Jerzy Janowicz to reach the Wimbledon men’s final, where he’ll
play top seed Novak Djokovic.  Murray won 6-7 (2-7), 6-4, 6-4, 6-3. He’ll face 2011
champion Djokovic, who overcame Juan Martin Del Potro in five
sets in the longest-ever semifinal at Wimbledon earlier in the
day. Murray will try to become the first British player in 77
years to win the grass-court major.  The 22-year-old Pole and Murray, last year’s runner-up,
split their first two meetings, and had never played on grass
before today. Janowicz, the first Polish man to make a Grand
Slam semifinal, used powerful ground strokes to keep Murray at
the baseline, and had success with drop shots in the opening
sets.  The pair went to a tiebreak in the first set after Janowicz
saved two set points with a pair of booming serves at 5-4 down.
The six-foot eight (2.03 meter) tall Janowicz took the first set
in a tie-break as Murray double-faulted.  The Scot broke on the first game of the second set and then
held at love. Murray had two more break points, but Janowicz
clawed them back with 138 mile-per-hour serves and powerful
ground strokes to make it 2-3 to Murray. Janowicz’s ground
strokes were averaging 79 mph, 10 mph faster than Murray.  Janowicz -- who won 12 of the 19 points in the first set
when he came to the net -- continued with the tactic in the
second. He got a break point but several errant forehands
allowed Murray to go up 4-2.  Roof Closes  The 22-year-old from Lodz got two break points, but gave
one back with an unforced error and Murray got an ace. He then
held to go up 5-3. Murray took the second set 6-4 with a 130 mph
ace and three service winners.  With the time nearing 8 p.m. in  London , Janowicz asked the
umpire when the roof over Centre Court would close. He went on
to win the first game of the third set, and again inquired.  On Murray’s serve, Janowicz got two break points, but three
straight aces gave Murray the advantage, and an unforced error
on a backhand evened it at 1-1.  Janowicz held, and then broke Murray to go up 3-1 as the
wind picked up in southwest London. Janowicz held with an ace,
causing Murray to strike his chair with his racket at the change
over.  Murray started to get to the drop shots that hurt him
earlier in the match, and broke the Pole with a crosscourt
forehand after reaching one to get the set back on serve at 4-3.
The British No. 1 held at love, and then got a break to go one
game away from the set.  Janowicz recovered a set point by hitting Murray in the arm
after he’d come to the net, but an ace took the set.  Over the protests of Murray, officials made the decision to
close the roof, delaying the fourth set by about 30 minutes.  Murray broke in the third game, and held at love to take a
3-1 lead. Janowicz double faulted to give Murray a match point.
He took it witih a forehand volley.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  