-- Muslim Conversion Plan Dropped as Malaysian Ministers Revolt
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-07-05T11:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/muslim-conversion-plan-dropped-as-malaysian-ministers-revolt.html
Malaysia ’s government said it is
withdrawing proposed legislation that would have allowed single
parents to convert their children to Islam without their
partner’s consent.  The about-turn came after several ministers and the leaders
of Prime Minister Najib Razak’s biggest coalition partners
openly spoke in the Muslim-majority nation on behalf of
religious and ethnic minorities. The cabinet will withdraw the
Administration of Islam (Federal Territories) Bill 2013 to
ensure that any religious decision is just to all, Deputy Prime
Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said in a statement.  “It is a fair move taking into consideration the
sensitivities of everybody,” G. Palanivel, who heads the
Malaysian Indian Congress and is a government minister, said in
a texted statement. “Both parents are needed to convert their
children.”  The heads of some other parties representing minority
groups in Najib’s coalition, including the Malaysian Chinese
Association, also protested the bill, testing the alliance’s
unity as  economic  growth slows. The row came as parliament
resumed last week after May’s election, which saw support for
the government slide to its lowest level in more than 55 years.  About 60 percent of Malaysia’s 29.6 million-strong
population are Muslim, according to the CIA World Factbook.
Under the constitution, all ethnic Malays are automatically
Muslims and followers of other races, including Chinese and
Indians, aren’t allowed to leave the religion. In a court case
in 2007, Lina Joy lost an appeal to stop the government
referring to her as a Muslim on her identity card so that she
could marry her Catholic boyfriend.  In April this year, a Hindu hair salon owner discovered
that her estranged husband had converted their  two children  to
Islam without her knowledge, the Malaysia Chronicle reported
June 22.  The bill was withdrawn to give the government and others
time to review it “holistically” and will only be re-tabled
once a consensus is achieved, Muhyiddin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net . 