-- Veolia May Raise Revenue From Oil Sector Five-Fold: CEO
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-07-05T12:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/veolia-may-raise-revenue-from-oil-sector-five-fold-ceo.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) ,  Europe ’s
biggest water company, may boost revenue from oil and gas
operations five-fold to as much as 5 billion euros ($6.4
billion) in four years, aided by shale drilling and the
dismantling of aging offshore platforms.  The hydrocarbon business is “rapidly growing and rich,”
Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot said today at a news
conference where he detailed plans to take the utility into
areas more closely linked to industry. “Profit margins are
attractive.”  Frerot, more than halfway through a two-year plan to
curtail debt and scale back Veolia’s geographic reach, has
announced initiatives this year that move the Paris-based
company from its historic municipal water and waste contracts.
The utility will focus more heavily on  emerging markets  and
tackle the “most complex” industrial waste problems, he said.  Veolia already earns about 1 billion euros a year in
revenue from the oil and gas industry, including through water
supply and treatment for offshore production installations and
high-pressure cleaning of  storage tanks , according to Frerot.  One business expected to grow in the coming years is
dismantling of old installations in the  Gulf of Mexico  and the
 North Sea , he said. The utility helps decommission projects at
Lerwick in the Shetland Islands.  Shale oil and gas drilling may also provide the utility
with water-treatment contracts, the chief executive said.  Water Treatment  The French utility announced a water-treatment contract in
April worth as much as A$800 million ($734 million) for  BG Group
Plc (BG/) ’s Queensland Curtis liquefied natural gas project in
Australia, which will develop unconventional coal seam gas.  U.S. orders for water treatment related to shale drilling
are small for now because of a lack of federal regulations to
force energy companies to treat water, according to Frerot.
Until this occurs, orders are more likely from Europe where
Germany,  Poland  and the U.K. may develop the sector.  Frerot announced in December 2011 a plan to sell assets,
lower debt and cut costs to turn around the utility. In January
Frerot said Veolia would earn half its revenue within five years
from industrial clients compared with 35 percent now.  He has since detailed plans to focus on nuclear plant
dismantling, hazardous waste and now the oil and gas business.
The utility is contending with economic stagnation at home
combined with a move by French municipalities to take over water
contracts and curb margins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  