-- Vestas Gains as Orders Imply Market Share Win: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-07-05T08:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/vestas-gains-as-orders-imply-market-share-win-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  rose the most
among Copenhagen’s benchmark stocks today as an acceleration of
new orders signals the Danish wind turbine marker may be gaining
market share.  Vestas jumped as much as 4.2 percent, making it today’s
biggest winner in the Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen 20 index. The stock
added 3 percent to 87.95 kroner at 10:37 a.m. local time with
trading volume at 41 percent of the three-month daily average.  Vestas has announced more orders in the past eight days
than in the entire first quarter, building on positive sentiment
generated by narrowing losses from a cost-cutting program. The
company is benefiting from “very positive news newsflow,” Janne Vincent Kjaer, an analyst with Silkeborg, Denmark-based Jyske
Bank A/S, said today.  “The order inflow is strong and they’re getting more orders
than their peers,” Kjaer, who recommends investors buy Vestas
stock, said by phone. “After a period of losing ground, they’re
now winning back territory from the competition and are probably
back to where they were a year ago.”  In the last eight days, Vestas has announced four orders
with a combined capacity of 386 megawatts, compared with first
quarter’s order announcements of 271 megawatts, according to the
company’s website. The recent orders include projects in
 Australia ,  South Africa , Sweden and the Philippines.  Vestas’ two biggest competitors are Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Munich, Germany-based Siemens AG.
GE and Vestas were tied last year as the world’s biggest
suppliers of  wind turbines  with 5.7 gigawatts each, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Vestas reported on May 8 that its net loss for the three
months ending March 31 shrank to 151 million euros ($195
million) from 162 million euros a year earlier. Free  cash flow 
rose by 235 million euros to a deficit of 60 million euros in
the quarter, according to the Aarhus, Denmark-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 