-- Virgin, Novartis, Qualcomm, Dotcom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-05T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/virgin-novartis-qualcomm-dotcom-intellectual-property.html
Richard Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. said it will exit aircraft seat manufacturing,
hours after losing a six-year legal dispute over the patent on
its premium berths.  Virgin plans to sell the engineering department of its
Threesixty Aerospace unit to  Zodiac Aerospace SA (ZC)  after the U.K.
Supreme Court ruled that the French company -- the world’s
biggest maker of aircraft seats -- isn’t liable for 49 million
pounds ($75 million) in damages sought by the airline.  Founded as Reynard Aviation in 1998 to help Virgin compete
with new products from British Airways,  Threesixty  worked with
Contour Premium Aircraft Seating to produce the J2000 berth and
its successor, the flat-bed Upper Class Suite. A rift developed
when Contour, later bought by Zodiac, sought to supply seats of
a similar design to carriers including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   “The business needs to focus on what it does best, which
is designing and delivering products that our passengers love,”
Virgin said in an e-mailed statement.  Zodiac said separately that the purchase, for which it
didn’t disclose a value, involves activities at Threesixty
employing about 20 people.  Britain’s highest court ruled July 3 that Zodiac Seats U.K.
Ltd. of Cwmbran,  Wales , isn’t liable for damages even after an
earlier hearing ruled in Virgin’s favor. That’s because the
carrier amended the patent on its Upper Class seats following
the original decision in the wake of a European Patent Office
ruling that went against the U.K. judgment.  The July 3 ruling covers just one element of the
 intellectual property  dispute, Virgin spokeswoman Louise Holding
said in a separate statement, adding that the carrier invests
heavily in innovation to differentiate its product from rivals.  Zodiac Aerospace acquired its U.K. business via last year’s
purchase of Contour from Premium Aircraft Interiors Group Ltd.,
owned by a Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc investment vehicle.
The company, based in Plaisir, near Paris, employs 30,000 people
and has annual sales of 3.4 billion euros ($4.4 billion).  Threesixty Aerospace, based in Brackley, central England,
referred questions to Virgin Atlantic.  Novartis Sues Intas Pharmaceuticals for Patent Infringement  Novartis (HCBA)  AG sued  Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (INTAS)  for patent
infringement, claiming it sought U.S. approval to sell a generic
version of the immunosuppressant drug Myfortic before Novartis’s
patents expired.  Novartis, in a filing July 3 in federal court in
Washington, seeks to block Intas and its U.S. unit, Accord
Healthcare Inc., from importing and selling generic Myfortic in
the U.S. until its patents expire April 2017.  Novartis, based in Basel, Switzerland, alleges its patents
were violated when Intas filed a new drug application with the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  seeking to manufacture and
sell 180 milligram delayed-release tablets of generic Myfortic,
claiming Novartis’s patents are invalid.  The medication is used to treat patients who have had
kidney transplants.  “Defendants products, if approved, will be administered to
human patients in an amount effective to immunosuppress those
patients, which administration constitutes direct
infringement,” Frederick Haughey, a lawyer for Novartis, wrote
in the complaint.  Chid Iyer, a lawyer for Ahmedabad, India-based Intas
Pharmaceuticals at Sughrue Mion Pllc in Washington, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  The case is  Novartis AG (NOVN)  v. Accord Healthcare Inc. USA, 13-cv-01013, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Qualcomm Applies for Trademark to Be Used With SmartWatch  Qualcomm Inc., the maker of digital wireless communications
equipment, may be planning to come out with a wristwatch mobile
telephone, according to a recent filing with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  The San Diego-based company filed an application with the
patent office June 26 to register “Qualcomm TOQ” as a
trademark.  The company said in its application that it will use the
mark with “personal communication hub in the form of a
wristwatch; portable electronic devices for transmitting and
reviewing text, data, image, and audio files; hands-free devices
for mobile phones; battery chargers.”  While  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has filed a trademark applications in
Japan for an “iWatch” trademark, as of July 3 the Cupertino,
California-based company hadn’t filed a comparable application
in the U.S., according to the patent office database.  Both Apple and Qualcomm may be coming late to the party,
however.  Pebble Technology Corp. , a watchmaker that raised more
than $10.2 million on crowdfunding website Kickstarter, has a
smart watch that will beat both to the market. Pebble’s
smartwatch will be available in  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  stores beginning
July 7.  The $150 watch, which is compatible with devices that run
both Apple’s iOS and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android mobile software, is
already available on Best Buy’s and Pebble’s websites.  Nestle Barred From Registering Kit Kat Shape as U.K. Trademark  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, can’t register
the shape of its Kit Kat bar as a trademark in the U.K.,
Confectionery News  reported .  The U.K.’s Intellectual Property Office in a June 20
ruling, rejected the application from the Vevey, Switzerland-based company, which had been opposed by  Mondelez International
Inc. (MDLZ) ’s Cadbury unit, according to Confectionery News.  The U.K.  ruling  is at odds with a finding from the Board of
Appeals Office for the Harmonization in the Internal Market,
which registers trademarks in the European Union and allowed
registration of the shape, Confectionery News reported.  The hearing officer for the U.K.’s IP office said the
reason his ruling excludes the registration is that he was
provided more expert evidence than the Board of Appeals had,
according to Confectionery News.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Dotcom Spars With N.Z. Prime Minister at Heated Spy-Law Hearing  Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom accused  New Zealand  Prime
Minister John Key of lying as the two clashed at a parliamentary
hearing on new spying laws.  Dotcom came face-to-face with Key July 3 for the first time
since armed police stormed his Auckland-suburb mansion in
January last year and his cloud-storage Internet site was shut
down by the U.S. on piracy charges. He sparred with Key, who
denied knowing about the Internet entrepreneur before the raid.  Key knew of him “well before the raid,” Dotcom said.
“You know I know,” he said, turning to the prime minister and
drawing laughter from the gallery. “Why are you turning red
prime minister?”  “Why are you sweating?” Key replied.  “It’s hot,” Dotcom retorted.  The confrontation took place at a hearing into new
legislation that was prompted by Dotcom’s arrest in what the
U.S. calls the biggest copyright infringement case in its
history. New Zealand’s foreign intelligence agency, the
Government Communications & Security Bureau, was revealed to
have illegally spied on Dotcom as part of the U.S.-led
operation.  Key argues that New Zealand’s Security Intelligence Service
can already collect information on citizens, and that the laws
governing the GCSB need to be clarified and brought up to date
in a rapidly changing cyber-security environment.  The new law is “morally indefensible” and would set New
Zealand on the same path as the U.S., which is facing
accusations of mass cyber surveillance after leaks by former
national security contractor Edward Snowden, Dotcom said.  “We should avoid blindly following the U.S. into the dark
ages of spying abuse,” he said.  Key apologized to Dotcom in September for the GCSB’s
activity. Dotcom, 39, has sued the GCSB for intercepting his
communications. He is scheduled to face a hearing on his
extradition to the U.S. next month.  Dotcom was indicted in January 2012 in Virginia on charges
of racketeering,  money laundering , copyright infringement and
 wire fraud .  The New Zealand case is Between Kim Dotcom and Attorney
General. CIV2012-404-001928.  High Court  of New Zealand
(Auckland). The U.S. case is USA v. Dotcom, 12-cr-00003, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more copyright news, click here.  Obituary  Douglas Engelbart, Computer Mouse Creator, Visionary, Dies at 88  Douglas Engelbart, the visionary electrical engineer who
invented the computer mouse decades before the influx of
personal computers into homes and workplaces, has died. He was
88.  He died July 3 at his home in Atherton, California, the  New
York  Times reported, citing his wife, Karen O’Leary Engelbart.
The cause was kidney failure.  Engelbart’s work at the Stanford Research Institute,
today’s SRI International, resulted in 21 patents. The last one,
 No. 3,541,541 , filed in 1967 and granted in 1970, was for the
computer mouse, or as it was described in technical terms:  “An X-Y position indicator control for movement by the
hand over any surface to move a cursor over the display on a
cathode ray tube, the indicator control generating signals
indicating its position to cause a cursor to be displayed on the
tube at the corresponding position.”  He had devised the palm-sized, wheel-based instrument in
1963 as a way to move a computer-screen cursor by means other
than arrows on a keyboard. Other alternatives being weighed at
the time were a light-pen pointed at the screen, a tracking ball
and a joystick.  On Dec. 9, 1968, at a computer conference in San Francisco,
Engelbart unveiled his team’s work in a presentation that became
known in tech circles as “the mother of all demos.” During the
90-minute session, linked to his lab by a homemade modem,
Engelbart showed off then-novel feats including interactive
computing, video conferencing, windows display and hypertext --
plus the rectangular, three-button controller he used to control
the cursor on the screen.  “I don’t know why we call it a mouse,” he told his
audience that day. “Sometimes I apologize. It started that way
and we never did change it.”  The rationale for the name, he said in other interviews,
was quite simple: the device resembled the rodent, with its cord
as a tail. He said nobody on his team could remember who used
the term first.  Engelbart had four children -- daughters Gerda, Diana and
Christina, and son Norman -- with his first wife, the former
Ballard Fish, who died in 1997. He married the former Karen
O’Leary in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 