-- Viridian Taps Macquarie in Bid for Irish Bord Gais Unit
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n ,   K i e l   P o r t e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-05T10:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/viridian-taps-macquarie-in-bid-for-irish-bord-gais-unit.html
Viridian Group Ltd., Northern
Ireland’s largest energy supplier, hired  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  to
advise on its bid for the retail and power generation unit of
Irish state-owned gas company Bord Gais Eireann, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Bord Gais continues to assess initial offers for the
business, received June 12, and has yet to outline when it will
call for second-round bids, according to four other people, who
asked not to be identified, as the process is private. The unit
may be valued at as much as 1.4 billion euros ($1.9 billion),
including debt, two people familiar with the sale said May 28.  A successful Viridian bid may ultimately lead to a combined
company with Bord Gais Energy being put up for sale in the
future. Viridian’s parent, Bahrain-based investment firm
Arcapita Bank BSC, said last month it will sell its investments
“on a coordinated basis designed to maximize value” as it
seeks to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S.  Viridian said on June 20 Arcapita’s restructuring plan
doesn’t affect its day-to-day business and that the Northern
Ireland power company is “financially self sufficient.” It
said Arcapita’s plans include that its investments be sold
“over their natural investment life cycle.”  Officials from Viridian and Macquarie declined to comment
on being involved in an offer for Bord Gais Energy. Bord Gais
spokeswoman Christine Heffernan declined to comment on bidders.
A spokesman for Arcapita was not immediately available for
comment.  Other Bidders  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K’s largest home power company, and
 Tenaga Nasional Bhd (TNB) , Malaysia’s biggest energy group, filed bids
for Bord Gais Energy ahead of the June 12 deadline, people
familiar with the process said at the time.  Ireland is selling the business as part of an accord
stemming from its 67.5 billion-euro international bailout in
2010.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, France’s largest utility by market value, and
 Germany ’s  E.ON SE (EOAN)  may bid for the business, the Sunday Business
Post reported March 17. Keppel Corp., the world’s biggest oil-rig maker, based in  Singapore , is also interested in the
company, the same newspaper reported May 19.  Credit Suisse Group AG has also been advising Viridian on a
potential bid, according to a source with knowledge of the
matter. The Sunday Times first reported Credit Suisse’s
involvement in April. Credit Suisse officials weren’t
immediately able to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  