-- Wall Street’s Strongest Get Shot at Wheaties-Like Power Bar Fame
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-05T14:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/wall-street-s-strongest-get-shot-at-wheaties-like-power-bar-fame.html
Move over, Wheaties.  Wall Street ’s
strongest man and woman will get to have their images emblazoned
on boxes of chia power bars.  As part of a partnership with the annual RBC Decathlon,
which crowns the top all-around athlete in the financial
community,  Health Warrior  plans to incorporate the likeness of
the two competitors with the best overall scores in the strength
events on the nutrition product’s packaging.  The promotion is similar to that of Wheaties, the General
Mills Inc. cereal with the slogan, “Breakfast of Champions.”
Wheaties boxes have featured professional or Olympic athletes
such as  Lou Gehrig , Bruce Jenner,  Carl Lewis ,  Michael Jordan  and
 Wayne Gretzky  dating back to 1934.  “It could be a fun little piece of glory for the weekend
warriors,” said Jay Li, a 31-year-old equity analyst at
Trafelet & Co. who finished third in last year’s decathlon.  This year’s 10-event competition will be held July 28 at
 Columbia University ’s Wien Stadium in  Manhattan .  The  RBC Decathlon  raised almost $1.3 million last year for
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  and 10 percent of sales
proceeds from the Health Warrior chia bars bearing likenesses of
the strongest man and woman go to pediatric  cancer research .  “With our interest in finance as well as health and
fitness, it seemed like a cool event to partner with,” said
Health Warrior founder Dan Gluck, who launched the company in
2011 with Nick Morris, a former  University of Pennsylvania 
football player and fellow partner at a New York hedge fund.  Tarahumara Indians  Gluck, who played tennis at Colgate University, and Morris,
who was a safety at Penn, said they discovered the benefits of
chia reading the best-selling book “Born to Run,” which
documented the Tarahumara Indians of  Mexico  and how they used
the tiny black seeds to fuel ultra-marathon runs.  The two incorporated chia, which is rich in protein, fiber,
antioxidants and omega-3 fatty acids, into post-workout meals
for fuel, energy and nutrition. The benefits they experienced
led them to convert friends, family and colleagues on Wall
Street as chia users, and since finding a supplier in  Bolivia 
they’ve invested more than $1 million in Health Warrior.  “There’s really a buzz about chia,” Gluck, who
participates in marathons and Ironman-distance triathlons, said
in a telephone interview. “People are really focused on what
they’re putting in their bodies these days. To have a genuinely
healthy snack, people have really taken a liking to it. It’s
pretty cool to see, if you go to some Wall Street firms you’ll
see people with chia products on their desk.”  Chia Pets  Gluck isn’t referring to the novelty Chia Pets that became
popular in the 1980s with green chia sprouts coming off the back
of a terracotta body. Chia was popular far before the catchy
“Ch-ch-ch-chia” television commercials, having been used
hundreds of years ago by the Mayans, Aztecs and Incas, Heath
Warrior Chief Executive Shane Emmett said.  “It’s just making a comeback after 400 years,” Emmett
said in a telephone interview.  Health Warrior’s chia products are now in more than 1,000
stores and the company’s sales were up 650 percent last year,
when  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  started selling its bars and seeds.
Emmett declined to give specific sales figures.  Boxes of Health Warrior’s chocolate peanut butter, acai
berry and coconut chia bars -- plus the apple-cinnamon, coffee
and banana nut that are about to be introduced -- will soon
feature Wall Street’s strongest athletes. The winners will be
the male and female competitors who finish with the highest
cumulative point-totals in their gender group in the bench
press, pull ups and dips -- a triceps exercise using one’s own
body weight. There are seven additional events to test speed,
endurance and agility.  Reluctant Star  Craig Sheppard, a former UCLA running back who works on the
leveraged loans sales desk for Citigroup Inc., said he might
initially feel a little uncomfortable if his likeness were to
end up on store shelves.  “It would be kind of weird seeing my face on the box,”
said Sheppard, 26, who is competing in the Wall Street Decathlon
for the first time. “I have friends who do health modeling and
when you see them on commercials it seems kind of strange. But,
since it goes toward a cause, it’s good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  