-- West African Cocoa Harvests Seen Delayed on Weather to Crop Size
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-07-05T08:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/west-african-cocoa-harvests-seen-delayed-on-weather-to-crop-size.html
The third-biggest cocoa mid-crop on
record in  Ivory Coast  and dry weather are fueling speculation
the next harvest will be delayed in West Africa, the biggest
growing region for the beans used to make chocolate.  Farmers in Ivory Coast are harvesting the mid-crop, the
smaller of two annual harvests, and it’s estimated to be 440,000
metric tons, the third-biggest ever, the London-based
International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) said. Cocoa in London
yesterday climbed to a three-week high on speculation dry
weather now in Ivory Coast and  Ghana  will push back the start of
the next main crop season that officially starts in October.  “It hasn’t rained for about 20 days which is unusual for
the season,” Olivier Abeyao, a farmer planting cocoa in 13
hectares (32 acres) in Abengourou, eastern Ivory Coast, said by
phone yesterday. “The main harvest may be delayed if the rain
doesn’t fall by mid-July.”  A large mid-crop means the trees suppressed early setting
of the next main crop, according to Kevin Marcus, founder of the
commodity weather consulting company  Marcus Weather  in Passaic,
 New Jersey . That slows the development of pods. Harvesting of
the 2013-14 crop will probably start a month later than the
usual mid-to-late September, he said.  “Rain has been below normal since June 10 in Ivory Coast
and Ghana, Marcus said in a telephone interview on July 3. ‘‘The
combination of a big mid-crop and a dry April resulted in a late
start to the setting of the main crop.’’ The weather is dry in
east central parts of Ivory Coast and Ghana, according to MDA
Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  Rain Totals  Ivory Coast’s central-western Daloa region, which produces
about 300,000 tons of cocoa a year, was dry from June 21-30,
data from the National Meteorological Service showed. It usually
gets 42 millimeters (1.7 inches) of rain at that time of year,
the data show. The western region of Ghana, which accounts for
55 percent of output, was drier than last year. Rain in the
towns of Sefwi Bekwai, Bogoso and Echi was 102.9 millimeters in
June 11-20, data from the Ghana Meteorological Agency showed.
Last year, rainfall was 343.6 millimeters.  The main crop may be ‘‘a little bit late because of the
strong mid-crop but nothing of concern at this stage,’’  Laurent Pipitone , head of the economics and statistics unit at the ICCO
in London, said by phone yesterday. Rain in May was ‘‘quite
good,’’ he said.  A late start of the main crop means that there is still a
large proportion of young pods, known as cherelles, in early
July, Marcus said. The recent return of dry weather may cause
young pods measuring 1 inch to 3 inches to wilt, as this is a
period of high-moisture demand, he said.  ‘‘It has rained only three days in June while it should be
raining hard in this season,’’ said Gilles Bledou, head of a
farming cooperative in Aboisso, in southern Ivory Coast. In
Adiake, near Aboisso, rain was 20.2 millimeters in June 21-30
compared with 95.5 millimeters last year, according to the
National Meteorological Service.  ‘‘If there’s not enough rain, the output will be down and
the harvest will be delayed. We’re not in a critical situation
yet, but we hope it will rain more in July.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net 
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 