-- WTI Oil Trades Near 14-Month High on Outlook for Jobs
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g   a n d   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-07-05T13:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/wti-trades-near-14-month-high-on-u-s-economy-crude-inventories.html
West Texas Intermediate crude climbed
to a 14-month high on concern that unrest in  Egypt  will escalate
and speculation a strengthening U.S. economy will boost demand.  Futures rose as much as 1.2 percent in  New York  to $102.44
a barrel, the highest since May 4, 2012. U.S. employers created
as many jobs in June as a month earlier, a Labor Department
report showed today. Egypt declared a state of emergency in the
provinces of South Sinai and Suez, al Ahram newspaper reported.  “Even though the news didn’t relate to the Suez Canal
specifically, it nevertheless spooked the market,” Ole Hansen,
the head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen,
said by e-mail. “It shows with what ease geo-political news can
drive oil markets, especially when speculative accounts are
already long and happy to buy more on any further break.”  WTI for August delivery was up 78 cents at $102.02 a barrel
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
1:51 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures traded was 61
percent more than the 100-day average, following sparse activity
yesterday when Nymex pit trading was closed because of the U.S.
Independence Day holiday. Yesterday’s electronic transactions
will be booked today for settlement purposes.  The U.S. benchmark crude has advanced 5.7 percent since
June 28 and is poised to end the week above $100 for the first
time since April 2012.  Brent Loadings  Brent for August settlement was at $106.77 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, up $1.23 and headed
for a second weekly increase. It earlier rose as much as 1.7
percent to $107.34, the highest since April 4. The European
benchmark grade was at a premium of $4.75 to WTI contracts. The
spread was $4.30 yesterday, the narrowest based on closing
prices since January 2011.  Shipments of the four most important North Sea crude grades
will drop 11 percent in August, according to loading programs
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Exports of Brent, Forties, Oseberg
and Ekofisk, which which make up the Dated Brent benchmark, will
be 754,839 barrels a day next month, compared with 851,613
barrels in July. Maintenance will curb Forties shipments next
month.  U.S. non-farm payrolls rose by 195,000 workers in June,
unchanged from a revised number for May, according to the Labor
Department data.  Unemployment Rate  The same report showed the  unemployment rate  at 7.6
percent, unchanged from May. The U.S. accounted for 21 percent
of global oil consumption last year, compared with 11 percent
for  China , the second-biggest user, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  WTI surged above $100 a barrel this week for the first time
since September 2012 as a political upheaval in Egypt heightened
concern that unrest in the most populous Arab country will
spread and disrupt regional oil supplies.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. maintained its three-month
forecast for  Brent crude  at $105 a barrel, saying there hasn’t
been a supply disruption reported in Egypt. Still, the options
market has turned “short-term bullish,”  Jeffrey Currie , a New
York-based analyst at the bank, said in an report e-mailed
today.  Canal Working  Egypt’s army forced Mohamed Mursi from power a year after
his election and a military-appointed interim president, Adly Mansour, was sworn in. The White House and most leaders in
Congress have so far avoided describing the transition as a
“coup,” which could cost Egypt more than $1.5 billion a year
in military and humanitarian aid under U.S. law.  Egypt controls the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which a combined 2.24 million barrels a day of
oil was shipped from the  Red Sea  to Europe and  North America  in
2011, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
The waterway remained open today with 28 vessels transiting from
the north and 17 from the south, according to the  Suez Canal 
Authority, even as al Ahram reported a state of emergency was
declared in the province of Suez.  Futures will probably decline next week, a Bloomberg survey
showed. Twenty-one of 36 analysts and traders, or 58 percent,
forecast crude will decrease through July 12. Twelve
respondents, or 33 percent, predicted a gain. Three projected no
change. Last week, 39 percent in the survey forecast a drop.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  