-- WTI Rises to 14-Month High on U.S. Jobs Gain, Egypt
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-07-05T19:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-05/wti-rises-to-14-month-high-on-u-s-jobs-gain-egypt.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose to
a 14-month high after the U.S. reported adding more jobs than
forecast in June, boosting economic optimism, and on concern
that unrest in Egypt will escalate.  Futures capped the biggest weekly gain in more than two
years as the Labor Department said payrolls advanced by 195,000
workers, exceeding the 165,000 forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
Egyptian security forces clashed with supporters of deposed
President Mohamed Mursi in Cairo as protests broke out following
his ouster by the army. Brent oil in London increased more than
WTI on a report that North Sea exports will fall next month.  “We’re gaining strength on the better-than-expected
payroll number because that should translate into higher fuel
demand,”  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New
York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The protests
continue in Egypt and raise a number of risks. It would be hard
to go home short this weekend with the continuing unrest.”  WTI oil for August delivery rose $1.98, or 2 percent, to
$103.22 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since May 2, 2012. The volume of all futures
traded was 8.8 percent above the 100-day average for this time
of day. There was no floor trading yesterday because of the U.S.
Independence Day holiday and all electronic transactions were
booked today for settlement purposes.  The 6.9 percent weekly gain for the U.S. benchmark crude
was the largest since February 2011.  Brent Market  Brent crude  for August settlement advanced $2.18, or 2.1
percent, to end the session at $107.72 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest close
since April 2. Volume for all contracts was 30 percent higher
than the 100-day average. The spread with WTI was $4.50.  Shipments of the four most important North Sea crude grades
will drop 11 percent in August, according to loading programs
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Exports of Brent, Forties, Oseberg
and Ekofisk, which make up the Dated Brent benchmark, will be
754,839 barrels a day next month, compared with 851,613 barrels
in July.  “We are certainly seeing high volumes today,” said
 Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “This shows that there’s some
bullish conviction behind the move.”  Unemployment Rate  The U.S.  jobless rate  stayed at 7.6 percent last month,
while hourly earnings in the year ended in June advanced by the
most since July 2011, according to the Labor Department.  U.S. equities also extended their weekly advance on the
employment figures. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.8
percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 0.9 percent.  WTI surged above $100 a barrel this week as political
upheaval in Egypt heightened concern that unrest in the most
populous Arab country will spread and disrupt oil shipments from
the  Middle East .  Egypt’s army forced Mursi from power a year after his
election. A military-appointed interim president, Adly Mansour,
was sworn in. The White House and most leaders in Congress have
so far avoided describing the transition as a “coup,” which
could cost Egypt more than $1.5 billion a year in military and
humanitarian aid under U.S. law.  Egypt didn’t declare a state of emergency in the South
Sinai and Suez provinces, denying a report the al Ahram
newspaper that was carried by Reuters, the wire service said.  Suez Canal  Egypt controls the  Suez Canal  and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which a combined 2.24 million barrels a day of
oil was shipped from the  Red Sea  to Europe and North America in
2011, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
The waterway remained open today with 28 vessels transiting from
the north and 17 from the south, the Suez Canal Authority said.  “There might have been some initial excitement about the
events in Egypt but it’s important to remember that a coup is
never a good thing,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist
at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion. “At least half of the population voted for the
Islamists and are not at all pleased with what’s taken place.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. maintained its three-month
forecast for Brent at $105 a barrel, saying there hasn’t been a
supply disruption reported in Egypt. Still, the options market
has turned “short-term bullish,”  Jeffrey Currie , a New York-based analyst at the bank, said in a report e-mailed today.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index  climbed to the highest level since 2010 as
the U.S. jobs report fueling bets the  Federal Reserve  will begin
slowing monetary stimulus. The U.S. currency was also up after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged yesterday
to keep  interest rates  at a record low for an “extended
period.”  A stronger dollar reduces the appeal of commodities as an
investment. Gold, silver and copper futures in  New York  were
down more than 3 percent.  Crude is “meeting the bull market definition of reacting
to bullish news and ignoring bearish news,” said  Tim Evans , an
Energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “We’re
becoming progressively overvalued.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
August was 23.8 percent, up from 23.8 percent July 3, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 559,615
contracts as of 2:56 p.m. It totaled 1.08 million contracts July
3, the most since Feb. 7, 2012. Open interest was 1.76 million
contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  