-- 
ABC Drops Soaps Operas ‘All My Children,’ ‘One Life to Live’

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-04-14T21:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/abc-cancels-soap-operas-all-my-children-one-life-to-live-.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC television
network canceled two long-running soap operas, “All My
Children” and “One Life to Live,” and will replace them with
programs about food, fitness and personal finance.  The shows will end in September 2011 and January 2012,
respectively, ABC said today in an e-mailed announcement.
“General Hospital,” the second-most popular show in daytime,
will remain on the air, the network said.  ABC said it conducted “extensive research into what
today’s daytime viewers want.” The soaps will be replaced by
“The Chew,” focusing on food, nutrition and fitness, and a
program on health, lifestyle and financial makeovers of women.
That show is tentatively called “The Revolution.”  “While we are excited about our new shows and the shift in
our business, I can’t help but recognize how bittersweet the
change is,” Brian Frons, president daytime of the Disney ABC
Television Group, said in the statement. Both shows were created
by Agnes Nixon, ABC said.  The new shows, Frons added, will “provide an enormous
opportunity for the creation of ancillary businesses and
growth.”  “One Life to Live,” set in the fictional town of
Llanview, made its debut on ABC in 1968 and marked its 10,000
episode in 2007. The show gained national attention in 1992 by
introducing the character of a gay teen and was honored by the
Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation three times.  “All My Children” premiered in 1970 and revolves around
citizens of the fictional upscale town of Pine Valley. It won
three Emmys and made what ABC calls “television history” by
showing the first kiss between two lesbian characters.  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , fell 68 cents to
$41.02 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The stock has gained 9.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  