-- 
Lacker Says Fed Must Act to Remove Stimulus Before Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-04-15T00:21:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/lacker-says-fed-must-withdraw-stimulus-measures-before-inflation-picks-up.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said policy makers were too slow to
withdraw monetary stimulus last decade and should tighten credit
this time before inflation picks up too much.  “Four years of 3 percent inflation may not have been the
worst of all possible outcomes, but I do not consider it a
success,” Lacker said today in a speech in Baltimore, referring
to the period from 2004 to 2007. “I hope we do better this
time.”  Lacker is among a minority of Fed policy makers who have
indicated they may favor a move this year to start reversing
record monetary stimulus, while Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s top
lieutenants support keeping near-zero  interest rates  in place to
help reduce unemployment. Lacker dissented four times in 2006 in
favor of higher rates.  Fed officials must validate expectations of businesses that
inflation will remain low “by conducting monetary policy in
such a way that inflation does not accelerate,” Lacker said in
remarks at the University of Baltimore. “I believe we need to
heed the lesson of the last recovery that inflation is capable
of rising even if the level of economic activity has not
returned to its pre-recession trend.”  Beginning Debate  Fed officials are starting to debate what steps to take
after completing $600 billion of Treasury purchases through
June, a program dubbed QE2 for the second round of quantitative
easing. Policy makers were divided at their last meeting on
March 15, with a “few” officials saying tighter credit may be
warranted this year, while a “few others noted that exceptional
policy accommodation could be appropriate beyond 2011.”  Speaking with reporters afterward, Lacker said the central
bank’s method of exiting record monetary stimulus by raising
interest rates or selling assets isn’t “settled.” A first step
of halting the policy of reinvesting principal payments on
mortgage debt into Treasuries, a practice begun in August, would
be an “obvious approach,” he said.  Lacker, 55, doesn’t vote this year on decisions by the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee , which next meets
April 26-27 in Washington. He has been president of the Richmond
Fed since 2004, giving him the third-longest tenure among the
Fed’s 12 regional bank chiefs. He first voted on interest-rate
decisions in 2006.  The Fed last began to increase interest rates in June 2004,
starting a series of quarter-percentage-point rises from 1
percent that ended two years later at 5.25 percent. While “many
forecasters expected inflation to diminish” because of high
unemployment and low inflation excluding food and fuel costs,
the opposite occurred, Lacker said.  ‘Fair to Say’  “With hindsight, I think it is fair to say that policy
makers overestimated the extent to which high unemployment would
keep inflation from accelerating, and as a result, waited too
long withdraw monetary stimulus,” Lacker said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who served as a Fed governor from
2002 to 2005, has defended the central bank’s interest-rate
policy from last decade, though more against the criticism that
it fueled the U.S. housing bubble.  The U.S. government tomorrow is scheduled to report the
March change in the  consumer price index . Excluding food and
fuel, prices probably rose 1.2 percent from a year earlier,
based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey, after a
1.1 percent rise in February. Including all items, prices may
have climbed 2.6 percent over 12 months, compared with 2.1
percent in the year through February, according to the survey.  Higher Gas Prices  Higher gasoline prices may restrain growth in  consumer
spending , he said. “At this juncture,  futures markets  are
pricing in modest declines in petroleum products,” Lacker said.
“If the markets are right, the effect of energy prices on
consumer spending should only be temporary.”  The Fed said in its Beige Book report yesterday that the
economy expanded at a “moderate” pace across much of the U.S.
in February and March, led by manufacturing, with labor markets
showing improvements in most regions.  The U.S. economy is “firmly in recovery mode, and the
fundamentals for future growth are strong,” Lacker said. The
pickup in consumer spending is “solidly grounded in improving
fundamentals,” and business expansion “should make a
significant contribution to growth this year,” he said.  Economists forecast the  U.S. economy  will expand at a 2.9
percent annual pace this year, according to the median estimate
of 74 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey conducted from April 1
to April 7. That compares with a 3 percent median projection in
March.  ‘Firmer Footing’  The FOMC said at its last session March 15 that the economy
is on a “firmer footing” and unanimously affirmed plans to buy
the Treasuries through June. Bernanke will hold his first press
conference following the FOMC’s statement on April 27.  The economy added a greater-than-forecast 216,000 jobs in
March, and the  unemployment rate  fell to the lowest level in
more than two years, marking a drop of a full percentage point
over four months. A Labor Department report yesterday showed job
openings increased in February by the most since December 2004,
a sign companies are turning more optimistic about hiring.  Lacker was the fifth policy maker giving public remarks
today. Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke said in  Washington  that the
central bank is “absolutely committed” to  price stability  and
will “do our job” to control inflation.  Narayana Kocherlakota , president of the Federal Reserve
Bank of  Minneapolis , said in Helena,  Montana , that  core
inflation  “is very low right now” and he doesn’t see many
signs of price pressures.  Also, Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo said in Washington that
he sees no need to either terminate the central bank’s program
of large-scale asset purchases before it’s scheduled to end in
June or to increase its size.  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser , in a New York speech, restated his call for the central
bank to adopt a formal inflation goal, saying it would be
“particularly useful when we begin to unwind the extraordinary
accommodation measures that we took to mitigate the crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Baltimore at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  