-- 
Adidas Debuts World’s Lightest Basketball Shoe to Tackle Nike

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s   a n d   M i c h e l e   S t e e l e
-- 
2011-04-15T16:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/adidas-debuts-world-s-lightest-basketball-shoe-adizero-to-tackle-nike.html
Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-
largest sporting-goods maker, is challenging  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s market
leadership for basketball products with the lightest shoe in the
category, aimed at attracting amateur players.  Adidas introduced the AdiZero Crazy Light shoe in New York
yesterday. It has a weight of 9.8 ounces and is more than 15
percent lighter than any competing model, including Nike’s
LeBron Air Max 8 V/2. It will retail for $130 in the U.S. from
June 3, compared with Nike’s ultra-light model that sells for
160 euros ($231) in  Germany .  “We had strong growth in 2010, we expect those rates to
continue in 2011,” Lawrence Norman, head of Adidas’s global
basketball unit, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
yesterday, adding that sales advanced at a “high single-digit”
pace last year in the U.S. Norman was a professional basketball
player in  Israel  before joining Adidas in 1995.  Adidas, which announced an 11-year deal in 2006 to become
the official apparel provider to the  National Basketball
Association , aims to increase its stake in the world’s second-
biggest team-sport market. Sales of basketball-related sporting
goods reached 5.7 billion euros in 2009 and probably rose last
year, according to estimates by market researcher NPD Group.  Soccer, Running  Adidas, which is based in Herzogenaurach, Germany, says its
AdiZero F50 model is the lightest shoe in soccer, the world’s
biggest team-sport market. The company is also selling an ultra-
light AdiZero running shoe and has said that low-weight
performance gear is a growing market segment.  “It is noteworthy that the retail price of $130 marks the
highest price for an Adidas basketball shoe in many years,”
Juergen Kolb. a Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA analyst in
 Frankfurt , said in a report today. “It is the marquee category
in which usually only Nike or Air Jordan products are sold.”  Adidas has identified  North America  along with China and
 Russia  as “growth markets,” where it plans to generate about
half of its forecast 50 percent sales increase by 2015.  The company’s fourth-quarter profit declined because of
increased marketing expenses, which included an advertising
campaign at the start of the  NBA  basketball season.  Adidas outfits NBA players including Dwight Howard and
 Derrick Rose , both among the NBA’s top 11 scorers this year.  Earnings per share will increase 10 percent to 15 percent
this year after more than doubling in 2010, Adidas said last
month. Revenue will increase at a “mid-to-high single-digit”
percentage pace from last year’s record 11.9 billion euros.  Biggest Market  The U.S. is the biggest market for basketball-related
sporting goods, according to NPD, which is based in  Port
Washington ,  New York . The Americas account for more than two-
thirds of global sales, followed by the Asia-Pacific region,
where 22 percent of revenue is generated. About 450 million
people play basketball at competition and grassroots level,
according to the International Basketball Federation in Geneva.  “Lightweight is the big trend in the sporting-goods market
and Adidas has a very strong position here,” said Peter Steiner, an analyst at BHF Bank in Frankfurt. He has an
“overweight” rating on the stock.  Nike said in May that annual revenue related to the segment
is about $1.7 billion, equal to the Nike brand’s revenue from
soccer. Adidas doesn’t break down sales figures for the sport.  Adidas shares rose 99 cents, or 2.2 percent, to close at
46.87 euros in Frankfurt today, the second-biggest increase in
Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index. (DAX)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf Offc at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net ;
Michele Steele in New York at 
 msteele10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  