-- 
Madoff Trustee's Filing Alleges JPMorgan ‘Thoroughly Complicit’ in Fraud

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-04-14T22:21:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/madoff-trustee-files-revised-complaint-against-jpmorgan-chase.html
The trustee liquidating con man
Bernard L. Madoff’s former investment firm filed a revised
complaint that disclosed new details of his $6.4 billion lawsuit
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The document, a new version of the complaint filed by
trustee Irving Picard on Dec. 2 in  Manhattan , adds information
redacted from the original, including the names of almost two
dozen JPMorgan Chase employees and Madoff investors Norman Levy
and Carl Shapiro.  Today’s filing follows a ruling by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Burton Lifland  on April 12 ordering that the names be made
public. Lifland allowed other information to remain private to
protect  trade secrets  and confidential research.  “For whatever it’s worth, I am sitting at lunch with Matt Zames who just told me that there is a well-known cloud over the
head of Madoff and that his returns are speculated to be part of
a  Ponzi scheme ,” John Hogan, the bank’s chief risk officer,
according to Picard, is quoted as saying on June 15, 2007, a
year and a half before Madoff was arrested.  Zames is head of interest rate trading, global foreign
exchange, public finance, global mortgages and global fixed
income for JPMorgan Chase, according to the complaint.  The unsealing was requested by the  New York  Times Co.,
WNBC-TV, NBC News and CNBC.  JPMorgan Employees  The complaint names 23 current and former JPMorgan
employees in connection with allegations the bank should have
known about the Madoff fraud. They include, in addition to Hogan
and Zames, Carlos Hernandez, head of global equities, Brian Sankey, JPMorgan Chase’s chief credit officer, and Michael Cembalest, chief investment officer at J.P. Morgan Global Wealth
Management, according to Picard. No individuals are named as
defendants in the suit.  “JPMorgan complied fully with all applicable laws and
regulations in the banking services we provided to Madoff’s
firm,” said  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for the bank.
“Madoff’s assertion that his account activity should have
alerted us to his fraud is baseless and ignores his repeated and
concerted efforts to conceal his fraud.”  Evangelisti said JPMorgan Chase employees weren’t aware of
the fraud and the bank is confident it has good defenses to
Picard’s claims.  Surrogate Father  In February, Bloomberg News identified Levy, a New York
real estate broker described as a “surrogate father” to
Madoff, as “Customer 1,” as he was called in the original
complaint. According to Picard, Levy transferred more than $83
billion in and out of Madoff’s main JPMorgan Chase account from
1998 to 2001.  Picard also identified allegedly irregular transactions by
Madoff friend and investor  Carl Shapiro , which Picard claims
should have served as “red flags” alerting JPMorgan Chase to
the fraud.  Picard is suing 1,000 banks, individuals, feeder funds and
others he claims profited from Madoff’s fraud. So far he’s
recovered about $10 billion for Madoff creditors. In the
complaint he claimed JPMorgan Chase turned a blind eye, even
though there were numerous indications that he was carrying on a
fraud.  Feeder Funds  In the complaint, Picard claims Hogan told the story about
his conversation with Zames when JPMorgan Chase’s Hedge Fund
Underwriting Committee met to consider a proposal to invest
additional money in Madoff feeder funds.  Later, after Madoff’s arrest in December 2008, Sankey
referred to the agenda for the June 2007 Hedge Fund Underwriting
Committee meeting, saying: “Perhaps best this never sees the
light of day again!!” Picard claimed.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison after admitting he directed the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. Madoff was arrested and his firm, New
York-based Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, forced
into bankruptcy when news of the fraud became public in December
2008.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The JPMorgan case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 10-ap-
4932,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  