-- 
Canadian Stocks Rise as U.S. Manufacturing Activity Advances

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-04-15T16:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/aecon-group-catalyst-paper-guestlogix-canada-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose, trimming a
weekly decline, as energy producers gained after data from the
U.S. indicated expansion in manufacturing and improving  consumer
confidence .  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-
biggest energy company by market value, climbed 1.5 percent as
crude oil rallied.  Iamgold Corp. (IMG) , which produces gold in  Africa 
and  South America , lost 5.2 percent after agreeing to sell its
stake in two Ghanian mines.  Osisko Mining Corp. (OSK) , which explores
for gold in  Quebec , increased 3.5 percent after Credit Suisse
Group AG boosted its rating on the shares.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index gained 41.65
points, or 0.3 percent, to 13,863.45 at 10:37 a.m. in Toronto.
The equity benchmark pared its decline this week to 2.4 percent
after four straight weeks of gains.  “Those consumer-confidence numbers are looking good. The
economy’s looking strong,” said Gerry Brockelsby, who helps
oversee more than C$200 million ($208 million) as a  money
manager  at Marquest Asset Management Inc. in Toronto. “The
market is focused on the fundamentals of the economy, and it’s
getting better.”  The index had surged 17 percent in the year ending last
week as oil and copper rallied on demand from  China  and other
emerging markets. China is the world’s largest user of base
metals and second-biggest oil consumer behind the U.S. Energy
and raw-materials companies make up 50 percent of Canadian
stocks by market value.  U.S. Manufacturing  U.S. industrial production rose 0.8 percent in March, the
 Federal Reserve  reported. Economists had forecast a gain of 0.6
percent, according to the median estimate of 82 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s index of
manufacturing in New York and parts of New Jersey and
 Connecticut , advanced to 21.7 from 17.5 last month, exceeding
all 55 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  Stocks extended their rally after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of U.S.
consumer sentiment advanced to 69.6 from 67.5 in March. The
figure surpassed most estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Canadian Natural climbed for the first time this week,
increasing 1.5 percent to C$43.20.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , Canada’s
largest pipeline company, rose for a fourth day, gaining 1.2
percent to C$60.80. Oilfield-services provider  Precision
Drilling Corp. (PD)  advanced 3.2 percent to C$14.10.  Inflation  Precious-metals producers climbed after China and the euro
region reported higher inflation than most economists had
forecast and Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s credit
rating by two levels.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s second-largest gold producer by
market value, gained 1.2 percent to C$52.47.  Silver Wheaton
Corp. (SLW) , which resells silver mined by other companies, increased
2 percent to C$41.95.  Osisko Mining Corp., which is developing a gold project in
Quebec, rallied 3.5 percent to C$13.46 after Alex Terentiew, an
analyst at Credit Suisse, raised his rating on the shares to
“outperform” from “neutral.” Terentiew has a share-price
estimate of C$17 on the shares, which had fallen 18 percent from
November to yesterday.  Iamgold lost 5.2 percent to C$20.01 after agreeing to sell
its interests in the Tarkwa and Damang mines to Gold Fields Ltd.
for $667 million. The company, based in Toronto, is selling
minority stakes in assets to raise funds to buy majority
interests.  Political Unrest  Semafo Inc. (SMF) , a gold mining company that generated 69
percent of its revenue in Burkina Faso last year, slumped 5.8
percent to C$7.99 after the African country’s presidential guard
mutinied. Shares of the Saint-Laurent, Quebec-based company
plunged as much as 16 percent earlier today, touching an eight-
month low of C$7.16.  South American Silver Corp. (SAC) , which explores for metals in
South America, soared 18 percent to C$2.46 after saying its
Malku Khota project isn’t among those that Bolivia might
expropriate. The shares had tumbled 22 percent yesterday after
Bolivian President  Evo Morales  announced plans to undo mine
privatization.  BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  gained 2.3 percent
from a five-month low to C$52.73. In a note to clients, Tim Long, an analyst at Bank of Montreal, said RIM’s PlayBook tablet
computer “will prove to be a very strong product” for business
users.  To contact the reporter on this story;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 