-- 
Aeromexico Declines After Raising $330 Million in Initial Public Offering

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-04-14T20:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/aeromexico-raises-288-2-million-in-mexico-s-second-2011-initial-offering.html
Grupo Aeromexico SAB,  Mexico ’s
biggest airline by passengers, retreated in the first trading
day after its 3.9 billion peso ($330 million) initial public
offering priced near the bottom of the projected range.  The stock fell 0.9 percent to 30.72 pesos at 4 p.m. New
York time in Mexico City trading, after the airline sold 125.5
million shares yesterday at 31 pesos each, the lower end of the
forecast range of 30 to 34, according to a filing to the stock
exchange. The total raised includes the so-called greenshoe
option for underwriters to purchase shares.  The Mexico City-based airline may face obstacles in
generating shareholder returns after  oil prices  surged on unrest
in the Middle East and North Africa, driving up fuel costs and
potentially curbing travel, said Jorge Lagunas, who manages $200
million at Mexico City-based Grupo Financiero Interacciones SA
and declined to buy shares in the offer.  “The price of oil complicates things,” he said. “There’s
also the issue of indirect costs, unions, competition. With all
these issues and a low return on equity, it’s a very difficult
business.”  Crude oil climbed for a second day in  New York  on reports
that  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s largest oil reserves,
reduced output this month. Crude for May delivery rose 0.9
percent to $108.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  ‘Underserved’  The airline is working to raise market share after rival
Cia. Mexicana de Aviacion halted operations and filed for
protection from creditors last year. Aeromexico has said it will
expand its fleet and add routes. The company forecasts it will
benefit from natural growth in Latin America’s “underserved”
air travel sector, according to the prospectus.  “The stability that Aeromexico has exemplified sets it
apart,” Sergio Mendez, who helps manage 80.5 billion pesos in
assets as chief investment officer at pension fund Afore XXI,
said before the pricing. “It has advantages including dominance
in the market and strength in its corporate governance.”  Air traffic in the region may climb at an annual rate of
6.9 percent through 2029, according to Boeing Co.’s Current
Market Outlook  report . The size of the Mexican commercial
aircraft fleet tumbled to 273 in December from 324 in 2009,
according to the Communication and Transportation  Ministry .  Aeromexico transported 11.6 million people in Mexico and
abroad last year. It had 36.2 percent of the country’s domestic
market in the period, and 45 percent in the last quarter of
2010, the prospectus showed.  Profit Figures  Aeromexico posted consolidated net income of 2.3 billion
pesos last year, the prospectus showed. The price-earnings ratio
for shares, based on today’s price, is 9.4, according to
calculations by Bloomberg based on data in the prospectus.  Brazilian airline TAM SA trades at 7.09 times reported
earnings and Chilean carrier Lan Airlines SA has a price-
earnings ratio of 20.91 times.  Chief Financial Officer Ricardo Sanchez Baker said the IPO
generated demand that was twice the offering.  “With market conditions, you never know what’s going to
happen,” Sanchez Baker said today in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “We saw a window, and we wanted to go to the
market. We were prepared.”  The company plans to use the funds it raised as part of a
two-year, $1.3 billion plan to boost its cash position to about
15 percent of revenue and buy more planes, he said. The jet
purchases will include 10 Embraer SA 190s and 10 Boeing Co.
737s, according to Sanchez Baker.  Embraer, Boeing Jets  The underwriters on the sale, the second IPO in Mexico this
year, are  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Banamex unit, Corp. Actinver SAB and
Deutsche Bank AG.  Mexico’s government sold Aeromexico to Banamex in 2007 for
$249 million. Banamex took the company private shortly
afterwards.  Mexico’s benchmark IPC index of 37 stocks fell 0.7 percent
to 37,069.96 today. The gauge has dropped 3.8 percent this year.  Interjet, a low-cost airline, is evaluating whether to hold
an initial public offering that may be worth about $200 million,
the company’s founder and Chairman Miguel Aleman said in an
April 6 interview at Bloomberg’s Mexico City offices.  Mexicana, which had been Mexico’s largest airline by
passengers, said March 9 that it is evaluating proposals from
investors to restart operations.  IPO Outlook  Besides its namesake carrier, Aeromexico also operates
Aeromexico Connect and AM Travel units. The company flies to the
U.S.,  Canada ,  Europe ,  Asia  and other Latin American countries.  Fibra Uno de Administracion SA raised 2.6 billion pesos
last month in Mexico’s first sale of real estate securities,
known as Fibras, which are similar to U.S. Real Estate
Investment Trusts, or REITs.  Luis Tellez , chief executive officer of exchange operator
Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB, said March 29 that there would be
two IPOs in Mexico by summer. Mexico had five initial offerings
last year after a 22-month drought, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “This is a period of liquidity, a cycle of liquidity that
the company is taking advantage of,” the  fund manager  Mendez
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  