-- 
Aftershocks Threaten More Damage to Crippled Japan Nuclear Power Station

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-04-14T05:19:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/aftershocks-threaten-more-damage-to-crippled-nuclear-plant.html
Aftershocks rattling  Japan  after
the nation’s record quake on March 11 may continue for at least
six months, increasing the risk of damage to a crippled nuclear
plant at the center of the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  “Aftershocks as big as magnitude-7 are likely to continue
hitting in eastern and northern Japan for at least six months,”
said Teruyuki Kato, a professor at the University of Tokyo’s
Earthquake Research Institute.  The magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami last month left more
than 28,000 people dead or missing and knocked out back-up power
and cooling systems at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant
north of Tokyo, causing explosions and radiation leaks. Hundreds
of aftershocks, including three  stronger  than magnitude-7, have
struck the region, causing more deaths and hindering work to
cool damaged reactors.  Reactor containment vessels at the nuclear plant that have
been flooded with tons of water to keep fuel rods cool are at
risk in the event of another big quake, said Kazuya Idemitsu, a
professor of nuclear engineering at Kyushu University.  “One of my concerns is that the containment chambers may
have been compromised to some extent,” he said. Another strong
aftershock might damage parts such as “pipe joints and cause
more radioactive water to leak.”  Still, the pressure vessels inside the containment chambers
that surround the cores shouldn’t be at risk, said Idemitsu.
“The pressure vessels can withstand another magnitude-8
earthquake,” he said.  No Damage  Tepco spokesman Takeo Iwamoto said the company hasn’t found
damage to the site after the aftershocks. A magnitude-6.1  quake 
struck off Japan at 5:57 a.m. today, according to the  U.S.
Geological Survey .  “The worst-case scenario is for a 10-meter tsunami to
swamp the Pacific Ocean coast in northeastern Japan if a
magnitude-8 aftershock strikes offshore,” Kato said.  Tepco is still using emergency pumps to cool the reactors
and pools holding spent fuel, more than one month after the
initial rupture. Three blasts damaged reactor buildings and
spewed radiation into the air last month.  “The integrity of the core facilities at Fukushima Dai-
Ichi will probably be maintained because they are designed to
withstand earthquakes,” said Tomoko Murakami, a nuclear
researcher at the Institute of Energy Economics, Japan. “The
big problem is the radioactive water that is hampering efforts
to bring the cooling system on line.”  The earthquake and tsunami and the resulting nuclear
disaster show that atomic energy should be phased out in Japan,
according to a group that opposes such power stations.  “There is no such thing as a safe nuclear power plant in
Japan,” because it’s an earthquake-prone country, said Philip White, international liaison officer at the Citizens’ Nuclear
Information Center in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  