-- 
Lakers Favored to Win Third Straight NBA Championship; Knicks Are Ninth

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-15T04:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/lakers-favored-to-win-third-straight-nba-championship-knicks-are-ninth.html
The  Los Angeles  Lakers’ talent,
experience and popularity makes them the oddsmakers’ favorite to
capture a third straight National Basketball Association
championship.  The Lakers are a 5-2 pick to win the NBA finals, according
to  Las Vegas  Sports Consultants, which advises  Nevada ’s sports
books on betting lines. The Miami Heat are the second favorite
at 3-1, while the  New York Knicks  -- back in the playoffs for
the first time in seven years -- have 40-1 championship odds,
the ninth best among 16 playoff teams.  The Lakers were the last franchise to win three titles in a
row, from 2000 through 2002. Their 16 championships trail the
 Boston Celtics  by one for the most in league history and they’re
led by  Kobe Bryant , a 13-time All-Star who’s seeking to match
 Michael Jordan  with his sixth ring.  “They’ve been there and done it,” Sports Consultants
oddsmaker Andrew Patterson said of the Lakers in a telephone
interview yesterday from Las Vegas. “They’re two-time world
champions and Kobe has been unbelievable. With their West Coast
appeal, you know where the money is going to come in.”  The Lakers open their first-round series on April 17 in Los
Angeles against the  New Orleans Hornets  after losing five of
their final seven games to end the regular season.  It was the Lakers’ fourth losing streak of three or more
games this season, when they finished fourth in the league with
a 57-25 record.  “They can turn it off and turn it back on,” Patterson
said of the Lakers, who won all four games against the Hornets
during the regular season.  Heat vs 76ers  The  Miami Heat , who entered the season as the oddsmakers’
favorite after teaming  Dwyane Wade  with free agents  LeBron James 
and  Chris Bosh , had the NBA’s third-best record at 58-24.
They’ll be in action when the playoffs start tomorrow, hosting
the  Philadelphia 76ers  in Game 1 of their best-of-seven series.  “We know the challenge in front of us,” Bosh told
reporters after Miami’s season finale. “We have the type of
team that does whatever it takes to win.”  The Las Vegas Hilton’s Race and Sports Book has listed the
Lakers and Heat as 5-2 co-favorites to win the title even though
neither is the top seed in its conference.  The Lakers are second in the Western Conference behind the
 San Antonio Spurs  (61-21), while Miami is second in the East
behind the  Chicago Bulls  (62-20), who had the best overall
record in the NBA.  “I’m not sold on the Bulls,” Patterson said. “They
remind me a lot of those Pistons teams from a number of years
ago where they play hard every night but didn’t necessarily see
the results in the playoffs.”  Bulls’ Odds  The Bulls have 4-1 championship odds, followed by the Spurs
at 5-1 and the Celtics at 7-1.  “Everybody is saying we can’t do it, that we just got
together, that you need two or three years of chemistry before
you can be a championship team,” said forward  Carlos Boozer ,
who signed a five-year, $80 million deal with the Bulls in the
offseason. “We realize the history of the league and all that,
but it’s not going to stop us from trying.”  The defending Eastern Conference-champion Celtics meet the
Knicks in the opening round after losing 11 of 21 games to end
the regular season.  Boston is the third seed in the Eastern Conference and
swept all four regular-season meetings against the sixth-seeded
Knicks, who haven’t won a playoff game in a decade.  “Don’t let them fool you, they gear up mentally for the
playoffs and the long run,” Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni  said
yesterday on ESPN radio in  New York . “We’ll get their best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  