-- 
AllianceBernstein Hires Caxton’s Feuerman for U.S. Equities Team

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-04-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/alliancebernstein-hires-feuerman-from-caxton-hedge-fund-for-u-s-equities.html
AllianceBernstein LP, the asset
manager that’s struggling to end a wave of redemptions, hired
Kurt Feuerman from hedge fund Caxton Associates LP as senior
vice president and portfolio manager for U.S. stocks.  Feuerman, a senior managing director and fund manager at
Caxton, will join by the end of May or early June, according to
statement yesterday. New York-based AllianceBernstein will also
take on the role of investment manager and trading adviser for
several funds managed by Feuerman, including Equity Growth,
which can bet on rising and falling stocks, and Alpha Equity, a
long-only strategy.  “Kurt is an accomplished investor who strengthens our
equity team and brings valuable expertise in long/short
 portfolio management ,” Sharon Fay, head of equities at
AllianceBernstein, said in the statement.  AllianceBernstein has been plagued by client withdrawals
from its stock funds over the past two years as investors pulled
28 percent of the firm’s assets, the highest share for any
publicly traded U.S. mutual fund manager. Chief Executive
Officer Peter Kraus, hired in December 2008 with a pay package
valued at $52 million, has recruited money managers, tied
compensation more closely to stock performance and rolled out
new products to end the bleeding.  The firm last year bought the alternative investments group
of SunAmerica, adding a team that manages a portfolio of hedge-
fund and private-equity fund investments.  Caxton Veteran  Feuerman has been with Caxton, the New York-based hedge
fund founded by Bruce Kovner, since 1998. The amount of assets
he will bring with him was not disclosed, according to  John Meyers , a spokesman for AllianceBernstein.  Shares of  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , the publicly traded
company that owns 38 percent of the asset manager, declined 6.9
percent this year through yesterday.  Before joining Caxton, Feuerman was a managing director at
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , which is also in  New York . He has a bachelor’s
degree from  McGill University  in Montreal and a master’s of
business administration from  Columbia University  in New York.  Kovner earned an estimated $640 million last year, which
made him the eighth-highest paid U.S. hedge-fund manager,
according to AR magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  