-- 
Anglo Irish, Liberty Mutual Move on Insurer; Quinn Ousted

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-04-14T13:34:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/anglo-irish-liberty-mutual-move-on-insurer-quinn-ousted-1-.html
Liberty Mutual  Group Inc. and Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. may take over Quinn Insurance Ltd. as the
lender ousted Sean Quinn and his family from a debt-laden empire
that spanned real estate to financial services.  If the country’s regulator approves, Boston-based Liberty
Mutual would take a majority stake and Anglo Irish a minority
holding in Quinn Insurance, Ireland’s central bank said in a
 statement  today. Anglo Irish also took control of the equity
interest of the Quinn Group (ROI) Ltd., parent of a company
whose interests include the Belfry golf club in the U.K.  “The bank is owed an enormous amount of money by Sean
Quinn and his family, which they are not in a position to pay,”
Anglo Irish Chief Executive OfficerMike Aynsley said in a
statement.  The Quinns owe 2.8 billion euros ($4 billion) to Anglo
Irish, the company said in a Jan. 11 statement. Once ranked by
the Sunday Times as Ireland’s richest man, Sean Quinn and his
family no longer have any role in the management, operations or
ownership of the company, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said
in a statement today.  A spokesman for the family declined to comment. Matthew Elderfield, Ireland’s head of financial regulation, installed
administrators last year after Quinn Insurance posted a loss of
788 million euros for 2009.  Quinn Group Chairman Pat O’Neill said the company has
reached a form of restructuring that “will permanently
relieve” the company’s manufacturing unit of more than 500
million euros of debt. In a statement, he said the move was
necessary for the survival of the company.  Debt Plan  Anglo Irish’s Aynsley said the lender has reached an
agreement in principal on a five-year debt restructuring plan
with Quinn Group (ROI) Ltd. bondholders owed 1.28 billion euros
by the cement-to-insurance group. The lenders agreed to a
“substantial” cut in the debt, they said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The appointment of a share receiver to the Quinn family’s
equity interest will have no impact on the day-to-day running of
the businesses and there are absolutely no planned redundancies
or expected job losses,” said Aynsley in a phone interview.
“The bank will not assume any management role.”  Quinn’s problems began when he built a 25 percent interest
in  Anglo Irish , which was nationalized in 2009 as real estate
loans soured. Quinn said last year his family lost 3 billion
euros on equity investments following the collapse of shares on
the Irish stock market in 2007.  Quinn began his business career in the 1970s by selling
gravel from his family’s County Fermanagh farm. He went on to
build Ireland’s second-biggest cement-maker before expanding
into more than 20 businesses including insurance.  In 2007, Quinn agreed to buy the Irish health-insurance
business of British United Provident Association Ltd., adding
almost 500,000 customers. Quinn resigned as chairman of Quinn
Insurance in 2008 after the country’s financial regulator fined
the company for making loans that breached regulations.  Quinn said last year he would resign from the board of the
Quinn Group, as he wanted to focus on his family’s “interaction”
with Anglo Irish.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  