-- 
Anglo Irish, Liberty Mutual Move on Insurer; Quinn Family Ousted

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-04-14T12:24:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/anglo-irish-liberty-mutual-move-on-insurer-quinn-family-ousted.html
Liberty Mutual  Group Inc. and  Anglo
Irish  Bank Corp. may take over Quinn Insurance Ltd. as the
lender ousted Sean Quinn and his family from an empire that
spanned real estate to financial services.  If the country’s regulator approves, Boston-based Liberty
Mutual would take a majority stake and Anglo Irish a minority
holding in Quinn Insurance, the country’s central bank said in a
 statement  today. Anglo Irish also took control of the equity
interest of the Quinn Group (ROI) Ltd., parent of a company
whose interests include the Belfry golf club in the U.K.  “The bank is owed an enormous amount of money by Sean
Quinn and his family, which they are not in a position to pay,”
Anglo Irish Chief Executive Officer Mike Aynsley said in a
statement.  The Quinns owe 2.8 billion euros ($4 billion) to Anglo
Irish, the company said in a Jan. 11 statement. Once ranked by
the Sunday Times as Ireland’s richest man, Sean Quinn and his
family no longer have any role in the management, operations or
ownership of the company, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said
in a statement today.  A spokesman for the family declined to comment. Matthew Elderfield, Ireland’s head of financial regulation, installed
administrators last year after Quinn Insurance posted a loss of
788 million euros for 2009.  Quinn Group Chairman Pat O’Neill said the company has
reached a form of restructuring that “will permanently
relieve” the company’s manufacturing of more than 500 million
euros of debt. In a statement, he said the move was necessary
for the survival of the company.  Anglo Irish’s Aynsley said the lender has reached an
agreement in principal on a five-year debt restructuring plan
with Quinn Group (ROI) Ltd. bondholders owed 1.28 billion euros
by the cement-to-insurance group.  “The appointment of a share receiver to the Quinn family’s
equity interest will have no impact on the day-to-day running of
the businesses and there are absolutely no planned redundancies
or expected job losses,” said Aynsley in a phone interview.
“The bank will not assume any management role.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  