-- 
Arab, Malaysian Companies Bid for $1.2 Billion Iraq Plants

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-14T12:05:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/arab-malaysian-companies-bid-for-1-2-billion-iraq-plants-1-.html
Companies from  Iraq , the U.A.E.,
Jordan and  Malaysia  submitted bids for $1.2 billion contracts to
build three power plants in southern Iraq.  The three gas-fired plants will each add generation
capacity of 500 megawatts, Iraqi Electricity Minister Raad Shallal said today at a press conference in  Baghdad .  Dubai-based Uruk Engineering, Iraq’s Almco Group and Al
Bilal, as well as a Jordanian company bid for a plant in
Diwaniya, he said. Uruk and Al Bilal bid for a plant in Samawa.
The winner of each of the $400 contracts will be announced
within 10 days, he said.  Al Bilal, Alamco, a Jordanian company and a joint Iraqi-
Malaysian group bid for the third $400 million power station in
Amarah, Electricity Ministry spokesman Masaab Serri said in an
interview today.  The three bids were announced in December, along with a
tender for a 1,250-megawatt plant near Basra.  Iraq faces severe power shortages eight years after the
U.S.-led invasion ousted President  Saddam Hussein . Iraqis get
power from the national grid for an average of about one hour in
every five. Its electricity plants and distribution system have
suffered through years of conflict, sanctions and sabotage.  Former Electricity Minister Karim Wahid resigned last June
after two people were killed in riots over blackouts and power
rationing. Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki pledged to address the
problem after forming his new government in December.  Power supply this summer will improve to an average of
eight hours a day nationwide, up from about six hours a day last
summer, Shallal said last month. Iraq produces 7,000 megawatts
and imports an additional 1,000 megawatts, while demand is about
14,000 megawatts, he said.  A group of South Korean companies signed contracts on April
7 to build 25 power stations, half of 50 that are planned at a
total value of $6.25 billion.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Man SE (MAN)  are
among companies that have bid for the remaining 25 plants,
Shallal said on March 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  