-- 
Arcos Raises $1.25 Billion in Expanded Initial Public Offering

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/arcos-raises-1-25-billion-in-expanded-initial-public-offering.html
Arcos Dorados Holdings Inc., the
Buenos Aires-based operator of  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  restaurants in
Latin America and the Caribbean, raised $1.25 billion in its
expanded initial share sale, 33 percent more than it sought.  Arcos said in a statement yesterday it sold 73.5 million
shares at $17 each. The company had offered 62.5 million shares
at $13 to $15 apiece, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The deal received more than
10 times more orders than the amount of stock being offered, a
person with knowledge of the situation said.  The fast-food chain is among seven companies attempting to
raise a combined $1.89 billion in U.S. IPOs this week, the
biggest number of deals in more than two months. Arcos and
Zipcar Inc., the car-sharing company that rents vehicles by the
hour, both increased the number and price of shares in their
IPOs yesterday to meet investor demand.  “We’re moving toward traditional IPOs that have good
growth characteristics,” said Timothy Cunningham, a manager at
 Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management,
which oversees about $78 billion. “That’s what investors want
to see.”  The expansion of  Brazil ’s economy has helped Arcos more
than quadruple net income since 2007, when it bought the
McDonald’s Latin America business. Sales at the operator’s
Brazil outlets surged 33 percent last year, outpacing a 13
percent jump for all of Arcos.  Zipcar Growth  Zipcar, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , raised $174
million, 31 percent more than it sought. The company sold 9.7
million shares at $18 each, Bloomberg data show, after offering
8.33 million at $14 to $16.  The company operates in 14 metropolitan areas, including
 London , and has more than 8,000 cars. It plans to expand in the
U.S. and international markets including  Europe , according to
its filing. Revenue increased more than sixfold to $186.1
million in the five years through 2010, the prospectus showed.  In other IPO news, Box Ships Inc., the international
shipping company, and TMS International Corp., the provider of
outsourcing services to steelmakers, both raised less than they
sought, pricing their offerings below the proposed range.  Box Ships sold 11 million shares at $12 each, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Athens-based company had offered
10 million shares at $15 to $17 apiece. UBS AG of Zurich and
Morgan Stanley led the offering, and the shares will trade on
the NYSE under the symbol TEU.  TMS International  TMS International raised $145.6 million, pricing 11.2
million shares at $13 each. The Glassport, Pennsylvania-based
company had offered 12.5 million at $15 to $17. Bank of America
Corp., Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. led the offering. The shares will trade on the NYSE under
the symbol TMS.  Arcos’s offering was led by Bank of America, based in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina ; JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley and
Citigroup Inc. of  New York ; and Sao Paulo-based Itau Unibanco
Holding SA. The shares will list on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol ARCO.  Zipcar’s share sale was managed by New York-based Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan. The shares will be listed on the
Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol ZIP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 