-- 
Harper Tells Quebec He Will Deliver Stability in Canadian Election Debate

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-04-14T14:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/harper-tells-quebec-he-can-deliver-stability-in-canada-debate.html
Canada ’s political leaders appealed
to Quebec voters during a televised debate yesterday, with Prime
Minister Stephen Harper saying only his Conservatives can
deliver stable government and his rivals countering that he is
out of touch with the French-speaking province.  Harper kept to his campaign message that the three
opposition parties may form an alliance if he doesn’t win a
majority in the May 2 election, undermining the country’s
economic recovery. To help secure a majority, the Conservatives
are trying to maintain the seats they hold in Quebec, Canada’s
second-largest province.  “I am asking for another mandate to finish our economic
recovery plan,” Harper, 51, said. “Canada is on the right
economic track and we need a stable majority government to stay
on this track.”  At stake in the vote is leadership of the world’s 10th-
largest economy, which grew at the fastest pace among Group of
Seven nations in the fourth quarter. Canada’s currency has been
the strongest in the G-7 over the past two years.  Government
bonds  have returned 4.4 percent over the past year as of April
12, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data,
compared with a 2.6 percent average for the G-7.  Quebec in ‘Bloc Hands’  “Harper wasn’t a big winner, he didn’t expand his
possibility for seats in Quebec,” said Harold Chorney, who
teaches political science at Concordia University in  Montreal .
“Quebec will remain largely in Bloc hands.”  The televised French-language debate, held in Ottawa,
followed one in English the previous night. Along with Harper,
it included Liberal Party leader  Michael Ignatieff , New
Democratic Party leader  Jack Layton , 60, and Bloc Quebecois
leader  Gilles Duceppe .  Harper, who has been prime minister since 2006, won 38
percent of the vote in 2008 elections, which gave the
Conservatives 143 seats in the 308-member House of Commons. He
has never held a majority of seats in the Parliament.  Recent polls indicate Harper may win the most seats in the
next election without gaining a majority. The Conservatives were
supported by 38.9 percent of decided voters, followed by 31.1
percent who supported the Liberals, according to a
CTV/Globe/Nanos election survey published today. The telephone
survey of 1,200 people was conducted April 11-13 and has a
margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percent.  Polls  A  poll  by Leger Marketing taken between March 30 and April
2 found the  Bloc Quebecois , which runs candidates only in
Quebec, had the support of 39 percent of voters in the province.
The Conservatives and Liberals were tied at 20 percent with the
 New Democrats  at 15 percent. The poll of 1,118 Quebeckers had a
margin of error of 3 percent.  The French-language debate, which was originally planned
for tonight, had been rescheduled to take place a day earlier so
it wouldn’t conflict with a National Hockey League playoff game
between the Montreal Canadiens and  Boston Bruins .  Duceppe, 63, said voters should support his party because
it defends the interests of people in Canada’s French-speaking
province, and is the only one that can prevent Harper from
winning a majority government. The Bloc won 49 of the province’s
75 seats in the last election in October 2008.  “The federalist parties are a coalition, you all support
things that Quebec doesn’t want,” Duceppe said.  Worker Support  He also attacked the other leaders for supporting billions
of dollars in bankruptcy aid to automakers such as General
Motors Co. in Ontario while failing to give assistance to Quebec
forestry workers after mills closed.  Ignatieff, 63, kept to his key message last night, arguing
his Liberals are the only alternative to the Conservatives and
attacking Harper for agreeing to buy 65 of Bethesda, Maryland-
based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter jets, building large
prisons and moving ahead with corporate tax cuts.  “You can choose a Liberal government or you can choose to
continue with Mr. Harper,” Ignatieff said.  The Liberals currently hold 14 seats in Quebec, mostly in
and around Montreal, the province’s largest city.  The format of the debate had the four party leaders in a
semi-circle, standing in front of podiums. Questions were
submitted by Canadians and videotaped earlier.  Gun Laws  The debate included a question on Quebec’s status in
Canada, while the opposition parties also sought to attack
Harper on policies that are widely opposed in the province, such
as his opposition to Canada’s registry of long-guns such as
rifles. Gun control is popular in  Quebec , where fourteen women
were shot and killed at Montreal’s Ecole Polytechnique in 1989.
The province’s national assembly last year unanimously passed a
resolution asking the Harper government to maintain the
registry.  Harper said he always respects provincial jurisdiction.
Duceppe challenged that position, saying that Harper should drop
his government’s plan to establish a national securities
regulator to replace the current system of 13 provincial and
territorial regulators.  “If he truly recognizes Quebec as a nation, he will stop
trying to create a national securities regulator based in
Toronto,” Duceppe said.  Harper said if Canada’s  Supreme Court  rules the regulator
proposal unconstitutional, he will drop it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 