-- 
Harvard Fund Hires Parikh of RBS to Build Commodities Team

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-04-14T16:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/harvard-fund-hires-parikh-of-rbs-to-build-commodities-team-1-.html
Harvard University , the world’s
richest school, hired Satu Parikh to lead investments in
commodities, the second hire this year as the endowment expands
its staff of internal managers.  Parikh, 36, will join Harvard Management Co. in June from
RBS Sempra Commodities LLP, where he was president and head of
trading, the Cambridge, Massachusetts, school said today in an
e-mailed statement. He will be in charge of building a portfolio
management team focused on commodities.  Jane Mendillo, Harvard Management’s president, has made the
fund more liquid, shuffled staff and expanded her group of
internal managers after the endowment posted a record 27 percent
loss following the September 2008 bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  In January, Harvard appointed Rene Canezin of
 Barclays Capital  as managing director of its portfolio-
management team to lead investments in debt.  Harvard “has long had broad exposure to commodities and
commodity-related investments, and adding Satu’s leadership and
extensive experience will provide extra dimensions to our market
perspectives,” said Stephen Blyth, who heads internal
management at the endowment.  Trailing Peers  Mendillo, who took over in 2008 from Mohamed El-Erian, has
thinned the ranks of external money managers by 20 percent,
hiring hedge-fund executives Emil Dabora  and Mark McKenna from
Caxton Associates LLC and Michele Toscani, a former managing
director for Fortress Investment Group LLC in  Tokyo .  In the year ended June 30, Harvard’s $27.6 billion fund
climbed 11 percent, beating its own benchmark while trailing the
median 13 percent gain of institutional funds, including public
and corporate pensions, endowments and foundations, tracked by
Wilshire Associates, a consulting firm in Santa Monica,
California.  Before RBS Sempra, Parikh spent 13 years at Lehman
Brothers, most recently as head of commodities. He is a graduate
of the Wharton School at the  University of Pennsylvania , where
he received a B.S. in economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 