-- 
Stocks Climb as House Passes Spending Bill; Portugal, Greece Yields Surge

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-04-14T20:26:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/asian-stocks-copper-drop-on-tightening-concerns-singapore-dollar-gains.html
U.S. stocks rose, erasing an early
slump, as the House approved a spending bill to avert a
government shutdown. Greek and Portuguese bond yields surged to
records amid concern over possible debt restructurings. Gold and
silver advanced, while the dollar weakened and oil rallied.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent
to 1,314.52 at 4 p.m. in New York, erasing a slide of as much as
0.9 percent.  Portugal ’s five-year yields climbed as high as
10.49 percent, while the Greek 10-year yield topped 13 percent
for the first time since at least 1998. The dollar weakened
against 14 of 16 major peers, while oil advanced to 0.9 percent.  Stocks reversed losses as the federal budget fight neared a
close with the House’s approval of legislation to cut $38.5
billion in spending. The Senate planned to pass the measure
later today. Losses in Greek bonds came after German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told Die Welt newspaper Greece may
need to renegotiate its debt, an event that  Moritz Kraemer , head
of S&P’s European evaluation team, said may result in a 50
percent to 70 percent “haircut” on the securities’ values.  “The government is still running,” said  Richard Sichel , who
oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co. “That’s a sigh of relief. Investors are
focusing on the good economic fundamentals and solid corporate
earnings. Yes, we do have global issues, European debt concern,
higher commodities prices. Still, the stock market is very
resilient.”  Supervalu Rallies  Supervalu Inc. led consumer-staples shares to the biggest
gain among 10 groups in the S&P 500 after the company’s earnings
and full-year profit forecast topped analysts’ estimates. Shares
in the owner of Save-A-Lot and Albertsons grocery stores jumped
17 percent, the most in Bloomberg data going back to 1980.  Chevron Corp. and Exxon Mobil Corp. paced gains in energy
producers as oil futures increased $1 to $108.11 a barrel in  New
York  amid reports that  Saudi Arabia  reduced output this month.  Earlier declines in U.S. equities followed an increase in
jobless claims to a two-month high of 412,000 and a slump in
financial shares. Applications for jobless benefits rose 27,000
in the week ended April 9 to exceed economists’ projections for
a little-changed reading of 380,000, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The S&P 500 will rise to 1,525 over the next 12 months as
the  U.S. economy  expands and corporate sales grow, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. strategist  David Kostin  wrote in a note dated
yesterday. He favors energy and technology shares, while
reducing financials to “neutral” from “overweight.” Kostin
also narrowed the size of Goldman’s health-care “underweight”
recommendation.  Banks Slump  Financial shares in the  S&P 500  slipped 0.9 percent
collectively for the biggest decline among 10 groups.  Goldman Sachs lost 2.7 percent. Senator  Carl Levin ,
releasing the findings of a two-year inquiry yesterday, said he
wants the  Justice Department  and the Securities and Exchange
Commission to examine whether Goldman Sachs violated the law by
misleading clients who bought investments linked to mortgages
without knowing the firm would benefit if they fell in value.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Portuguese 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds widened to a euro-era
record 550 basis points, with the Greek-German spread increasing
37 basis points to 985 basis points. Greek two-year yields
jumped 90 basis points to 17.83 percent, taking this week’s
advance to 155 basis points.  “That  Greece  may have no other alternative but to
restructure in order to get itself back on the sustainable debt
path is probably the worst kept secret,” said Greg Venizelos, a
credit strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  London .  Bond Yields  Spanish 10-year debt yields jumped 9 basis points, with
Irish yields 25 basis points higher. The 10-year bund yield
slipped one basis point to 3.43 percent.  The yield gap between Treasury 2- and 30-year securities
shrank to 3.78 percentage points, the narrowest in a week, as
the jobless claims data unexpectedly rose and wholesale costs
slowed, tempering speculation the economy is improving.  The spread contracted today as the U.S. drew higher-than-
forecast demand at an auction of $13 billion of 30-year debt. A
bond-market gauge that signals traders’ inflation expectations
declined after a report showed producer prices increased less
than forecast.  Five stocks fell for every two that gained in the Stoxx
600.  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI)  lost 2.7 percent, helping
lead a decline in banks, as two people familiar with the
situation said Italy’s oldest cooperative lender will consider a
rights offer after the central bank asked it to boost capital.
 Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  tumbled 7.5 percent after saying
Chief Executive Officer Bart Becht will step down.  Dollar Slumps  The declines in the dollar were led by the Norwegian krone
and  Singapore dollar , which strengthened 0.8 percent and 1
percent respectively. The euro appreciated to a 15-month high
versus the dollar, rising 0.3 percent to $1.4491, on bets that
the European government-debt crisis will be contained and the
region’s central banks will raise  interest rates  further.  The yen strengthened 0.4 percent versus the dollar. The
pound strengthened 0.5 percent against the dollar and 0.2
percent versus the euro as a Nationwide Building Society report
showed U.K. consumer confidence rose in March from a record low
as Britons grew more optimistic about the outlook for the
economy and spending.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.3 percent before
government reports tomorrow that may show inflation accelerated
at the fastest pace since 2008 and economic growth slowed,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Russia’s Micex Index retreated 1.6 percent as companies
including OAO Rosneft and OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel sank.  Gold rose for the most in a week on speculation that higher
raw-material costs and record-low interest rates will spur
demand for an inflation hedge. Gold for June delivery climbed
1.2 percent to $1,472.40 an ounce. May silver jumped 3.5 percent
to $41.664 an ounce, the metal’s biggest gain of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  