-- 
Latvia Completes Talks With IMF, EU for 300 Million Euros

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-04-14T17:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/latvia-completes-talks-with-imf-eu-for-300-million-euros-1-.html
Latvia  completed talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Commission to free
up about 300 million euros ($434 million) in funds from its
bailout loan.  “We have agreement on all the main issue,” the IMF’s
Latvian mission chief, Mark Griffiths, said today in at a news
conference with Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis. The lenders
and government agreed to a budget-deficit target of 2.5 percent
of gross domestic product for next year, Griffiths said.  To reach the target, Latvia needs to find savings and raise
revenue equal to 1 percent of GDP, Griffiths said. Gabriele
Giudice, the EC’s mission chief to Latvia, said at the same news
conference that a decision may be made in June on freeing up the
funds, which will come from about 600 million euros that was set
aside for bank restructuring costs.  The Baltic country’s parliament today passed another round
of spending cuts and tax increases to lower the deficit this
year and meet demands from the lenders. Latvia turned to a group
led by the EC and the IMF for a 7.5 billion-euro loan after its
second-biggest bank needed a state rescue in 2008.  The deficit will be about 4.5 percent of GDP this year and
2.5 percent next year, so that it can be below the 3 percent
limit needed to qualify for adoption of the euro, which the
country plans to introduce in 2014, Griffiths said.  “The authorities want to take no chances in meeting it and
they want to meet in it a cast-iron way,” he said.  Euro adoption is “a major thing that Latvia needs to
achieve,” Griffiths said, and will mean lower  interest rates 
and no exchange-rate risk.  Latvia plans to return to markets with its first
international bond sale since 2008 in coming months. The country
may sell as much as 1.5 billion euros in bonds this year to
finance the budget, Finance Minister Andris Vilks said in
January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 