-- 
Audi, Peugeot Race to Make Hybrid Cars Cool at 24-Hour Le Mans

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-04-14T22:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/audi-peugeot-vying-to-make-hybrids-competitive-at-24-hour-le-mans-race.html
Audi AG and PSA Peugeot Citroen are
vying to win the  24 Hours of Le Mans  with a hybrid motor, a feat
that might boost the use of the more fuel-efficient cars.  The two teams have won 10 of the last 11 editions of the
race, and are working on a part-electric engine that recoups
energy from braking to reduce re-fuelling stops. It’s proving
difficult: Peugeot said on April 11 that it abandoned plans to
run a 908 Hybrid4 in an official test at the circuit southwest
of Paris, citing reliability problems. Audi won’t be ready until
next year’s race at the earliest.  They’re dueling for a landmark moment in motor sports that
would boost the image of hybrid cars and their brand, according
to former U.K. Science Minister Paul Drayson, who has twice
raced at  Le Mans . The event, sponsored by Swiss watchmaker Rolex
Group and glorified in a 1971 movie starring Steve McQueen,
draws as many as 200,000 fans.  “It would be a big deal if a hybrid wins,” Drayson said.
It’s “a good platform for convincing people a low-carbon future
doesn’t have to be boring,” he said.  The 24 Hours of Le Mans was first staged in 1923 near the
French town of the same name as a durability test for carmakers,
including Bugatti, said Quentin Spurring, who’s writing a
history of the event. Drivers take turns to cover the most
distance in 24 hours on an 8.5-mile circuit. Audi won with a
podium sweep last year, 12 months after Peugeot snapped its
five-year winning streak.  Peugeot Scraps Plans  Organizer Automobile Club de l’Ouest will start allowing
hybrids in  the top class  at this year’s June 11-12 race after
consulting Audi, Peugeot and other carmakers who might enter in
the future, including Toyota Motor Corp., two people familiar
with the situation said. Cars can reuse braking energy from the
front or back wheels.  Peugeot, whose 908 Hybrid4 stores the recaptured energy in
batteries, won’t trial it in the April 24 test, having already
ruled out entering it in this year’s race. “The car wasn’t
sufficiently mature to run” reliably, Bruno Famin, Peugeot
Sport’s technical director, said.  Making a hybrid engine for a 24-hour race poses more
problems than for other series because there’s more risk of
overheating and parts breaking, Paul Andrews, founder of
Lancaster, England-based Oaktec, which develops Honda Motor Co.
hybrids for rallying.  “It’s do-able but it’s going to be a long process” of
research and development, Andrews said.  ‘Performance-Killing’  Audi is grappling with issues after 18 months of designing
and testing hybrid parts, Wolfgang Ullrich, head of Audi’s motor
sport unit, said. “Weight is so intensely performance-killing
that it makes it really difficult,” Ullrich said.  Gruyere, Switzerland-based  Hope Racing  is risking a hybrid
in the top class. Its 40-kilo system that re-uses energy from
braking will cut gasoline consumption by 3 to 5 percent,
allowing it to make “two or three” fewer pit stops, team
director Benoit Morand said.  It’s unlikely to win the race because the team has fewer
resources, Morand said, adding its $6.5 million budget may be
about six times less than the biggest teams. Audi and Peugeot
officials declined to disclose costs.  Carmakers are speeding up development of electric and
hybrid systems as governments crack down on  greenhouse gases .
Peugeot unveiled the first diesel-electric car, a version of its
3008 crossover hatchback, last year. Audi is putting a hybrid Q5
SUV on sale this year. Toyota makes the Prius, the best-selling
vehicle in the class.  Dan Akerson, General Motors Co. chief executive officer,
told reporters at a briefing in  Washington  last December that
the Prius is a “geek mobile,” and that he “wouldn’t be caught
dead” in one, according to the  Associated Press .  ‘Mainstream, Cool’  “The image of hybrids is that they are niche,” Mike Tyndall, an automotive analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London .
“The efforts of both Peugeot and Audi at Le Mans are to
demonstrate that they are becoming mainstream, or even cool.”  In 2006, Audi became the first winner with a diesel-powered
car, helping to change its perception as “dirty and noisy” to
“quiet, efficient and fast,” according to Drayson.  “The next big thing is electric hybrids” at Le Mans,
Spurring said. “All the carmakers are looking at it,” adding
Toyota won a 24-hour race in Tokachi,  Japan  using a hybrid
sports car in 2007. Porsche AG followed in another endurance
event at Nurburg,  Germany  last year.  Sports Car Flop  A hybrid has flopped in the Le Mans sports car category
before. In 1998, James Weaver failed to qualify a Panoz Q9 after
batteries stacked on the passenger’s seat were rendered useless
by a broken shaft, Weaver said.  “I was lumbering around with this huge battery and no
extra power,” Weaver said, adding the car missed the cut-off to
qualify by 10 seconds.  Peugeot is likely to be extra cautious about introducing a
hybrid after last year’s event, Spurring said: all three of its
diesel cars suffered engine or mechanical failure. Television
pictures showed team officials with tears in their eyes as they
watched on video monitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  