-- 
Aussie Near Record High After Chinese Retail Sales, Consumer Prices Rise

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-04-15T02:11:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/australian-dollar-near-record-high-before-china-s-retail-sales-inflation.html
The Australian dollar traded 0.4
percent from a record high after reports showed  China ’s retail
sales and consumer prices rose last month, adding to signs the
region’s economic recovery is gaining momentum.  New Zealand ’s currency strengthened for a third day versus
the yen as the Chinese data helped spur demand for higher-
yielding assets. The Australian and New Zealand currencies also
advanced on speculation Federal Reserve policy makers will
downplay the impact of commodity prices on inflation and signal
the need to maintain record stimulus.  “Growth in the region is pretty solid,” said  Adam Carr , a
senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the
world’s largest interdealer broker. “The Aussie has had a
decent bounce, partly on expectations that today’s Chinese data
will be strong.”  Australia ’s dollar traded at $1.0542 as of 12:10 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0543 in  New York  yesterday, after climbing to
$1.0584 on April 8, the strongest since it was freely floated in
1983. The so-called Aussie advanced 0.2 percent to 88.21 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar was at 79.43 U.S. cents from 79.38
cents, after rising to 79.59 cents, the highest since Nov. 5.
The currency strengthened 0.3 percent to 66.46 yen.  China’s Reports  China’s retail sales rose 17.4 percent in March from a year
earlier and consumer prices increased 5.4 percent, government
data showed. Gross domestic product grew 9.7 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said.
China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New Zealand’s
second-biggest export destination.  Gold climbed to a record today as concern about quickening
inflation bolstered the allure of precious metals. The
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials gained for a second
day yesterday, rising 0.3 percent. Raw materials account for a
majority of exports from Australia and New Zealand.  Fed Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker said
yesterday the central bank’s method of exiting record monetary
stimulus by raising  interest rates  or selling assets isn’t
“settled.” Chicago Fed President Charles Evans speaks in New
York today and Kansas City President  Thomas Hoenig  will deliver
a speech in West Lafayette, Indiana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 