-- 
Axel Springer to Limit Acquisitions to Midsize Targets, Online Operators

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-04-14T13:33:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/axel-springer-to-limit-acquisitions-to-midsize-targets-online-operators.html
Axel Springer AG (SPR) , the publisher of
 Germany ’s most popular newspaper, will restrict itself to
“unspectacular” medium-sized acquisitions to expand without
piling up debt, Chief Executive Officer Mathias Doepfner said.  “Just because we’re in an extraordinarily solid position
financially, with barely any debt and unused credit lines,
doesn’t mean we’re tempted to spend,” Doepfner said today at
the annual shareholders meeting. “We’ll keep things in check
and continue step by step to make unspectacular medium-sized
investments, in line with our strategic priorities of
transforming the company in a digital world.”  Axel Springer, which owns Germany’s top-selling Bild
newspaper, and competitors such as  News Corp. (NWSA)  and Time Warner
Inc. are scrambling to follow readers online to win advertising
revenue or to persuade customers to pay for content that was
previously free. Berlin-based  Axel Springer ’s strategy is to
make money on content, advertising and classifieds, and it wants
digital sales to make up half of group revenue in seven years,
the CEO said today.  The Germany company bid for French property-classifieds
portal SeLoger.com last year and is completing the takeover
after gaining 98.7 percent control as of March 23. Axel Springer
paid 633 million euros ($913 million) for SeLoger, Chief
Financial Officer Lothar Lanz said at the meeting in Berlin.  Online marketing, content and classifieds contributed
24 percent of Axel Springer’s sales last year, up from 21
percent in 2009 and 2.1 percent in 2004, Doepfner said.  Website Acquisitions ‘Priority’  “Online is clearly the priority” for any purchases, the
CEO said. “But we won’t rule out bolt-on print acquisitions in
a regional market or in a particular market segment if an
interesting opportunity presents itself. Most important is that
we exercise price discipline.”  Axel Springer had net liquidity of 79.6 million euros at
the end of 2010 compared with net debt of 193 million euros a
year earlier, according to its  annual report . The company has a
secured credit line of 1.5 billion euros maturing in 2012, of
which 1 billion euros has been extended until 2013.  With the purchase of SeLoger, Axel Springer is hoping to
strengthen its position in the property-classifieds segment,
Doepfner said. The group’s equivalent to SeLoger in Germany is
Immonet.de, the second largest online real-estate player in the
country after  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s Scout group.  “The idea is to add eastern and western European markets
and that it can positively impact Immonet,” Doepfner said.  Investors today approved a record dividend of 4.80 euros a
share for 2010, up from 4.40 euros a year ago, as well as a
three-for-one split in its stock, intended to increase liquidity
and draw more investors. Shares in the company are 52 percent
owned by the Axel Springer Gesellschaft fuer Publizistik and
7 percent by Friede Springer, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Berlin at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  