-- 
Bank of Ireland to Outline Capital Plans After Loss Narrows

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-04-14T17:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/bank-of-ireland-2010-net-loss-narrows-to-609-million-euros.html
Bank of Ireland Plc said it will
outline plans to raise 5.2 billion euros ($7.5 billion) of
capital within weeks as the country’s biggest lender seeks to
avoid falling under state control.  The lender may hire Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG and Credit
Suisse AG to advise on the plan, Chief Executive Officer Richie Boucher told reporters in Dublin after the bank today posted a
narrower-than-estimated loss for 2010.  Ireland’s central bank last month ordered four lenders to
raise a combined 24 billion euros following a third round of
stress tests. Bank of Ireland, which is 36 percent government
owned, must raise 4.2 billion euros of equity and 1 billion
euros of contingent capital under the plan, which is aimed at
shoring up confidence in the country’s financial system.  The banks have been through the “stress test of all
time,”Boucher told reporters in Dublin. The tests included a
“very, very extreme downside case,” he said, adding that the
bank will be “highly capitalized” after the fundraising.  Bank of Ireland rose 1.1 percent to 27.9 euro cents at the
5:10 p.m. close of Dublin trading today.  The net loss narrowed to 609 million euros, half the 1.2
billion-euro median estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The bank had a pro-forma loss of 1.76 billion euros
in 2009, the Dublin-based company said in a statement.  ‘Difficult Liquidity Environment’  Trading for the first months of 2011 “remains challenging
due to higher funding costs, in particular the cost of customer
deposits and the continuing difficult liquidity environment,”
the bank said.  The lender said it expects to announce its fundraising
plans “in the coming weeks” and that Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  has “stated the group will be provided with time in
order to generate as much of the capital is possible from
private sources.”  Bank of Ireland made a loss of 2.24 billion euros in 2010
on loans it sold to the  National Asset Management Agency , the
nation’s so-called bad bank, and took a further 1.89 billion-
euro impairment charge on loans to customers, it said. Customer
deposits fell to 65 billion euros at the end of December from 85
billion euros a year earlier.  The country’s banks were ordered by regulators to cut their
loan-to-deposit ratios to 122.5 percent by the end of 2013. Bank
of Ireland, which said it will sell or run down over 30 billion
euros of assets to lower its loan-to-deposit ratio from 175
percent by the end of 2013, will be weaned off central bank
funding “well within that period,” Boucher said.  The bank borrowed 23 billion euros from the  European
Central Bank  at the end of last year and a further 8 billion
euros from the Irish central bank, Finance Director John O’Donovan said. Central bank exposure is currently “about the
same” as the end of last year, O’Donovan told reporters.  The bank said that 4.2 percent of its Irish mortgages were
at least three months in arrears at the end of December, up from
2.76 percent a year earlier.  “The trajectory of arrears is stabilizing, it’s still
going up but it’s stabilizing,” said Boucher. “We can’t see a
further spike” in arrears, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  