-- 
Turkey Names Basci, Architect of Cheap-Money Policy, to Run Central Bank

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-04-15T08:26:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/basci-new-policy-architect-named-turkish-central-bank-governor.html
Turkey  may stick to its policy of
matching low  interest rates  with higher bank  reserve
requirements  after Erdem Basci, an architect of the strategy,
was named central bank governor.  The main ISE 100 share index in Istanbul advanced and bond
yields fell after the appointment of the 44-year-old economist,
a school friend of Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan , the
country’s top economic policy maker. The decision was forecast
by 14 of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg last month.  Basci’s appointment “implies policy continuity at the
central bank and will be welcomed by market participants,”
Ahmet Akarli, London-based economist for Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said in an e-mail. “Basci has played a key role in
shaping the bank’s policies over the past few years,
particularly during the global financial crisis.”  The  central bank  is trying to restrain a boom in domestic
demand that’s drawing in imports and driving the current-account
deficit to record levels. Basci wrote the paper published on the
bank’s website on Dec. 11 that revealed the new policy of low
rates and higher reserve requirements, surprising investors and
prompting a decline in bonds as banks sold assets to meet the
extra commitments.  The benchmark share index rose 0.6 percent to 68,369.88 at
10:15 a.m. in Istanbul and yields on two-year lira-denominated
government debt fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 8.72 percent.  Current-Account Gap  Basci said in an interview in  Prague  on March 29 that the
bank’s main goal is to rein in the current-account deficit. The
cumulative gap for the 12 months through February was $54.8
billion, or about 7 percent of estimated gross domestic product,
the bank said April 11. It was the largest 12-month deficit on
record. The government’s medium-term plans forecast a gap of
$42.2 billion, or 5.4 percent of GDP, this year.  The central bank reaffirmed its adherence to the policy in
a March 23  statement , adding that new data or information may
lead to revisions. Basci, who has worked at the bank since 2003,
will chair his first monetary policy meeting on April 21.  “For markets, the combination of Basci and Babacan is
something of a dream team,” Tim Ash, chief emerging-market
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Economic Boom  Babacan has been a key figure in Turkish economic policy
since 2002, when the  Justice and Development Party  first took
office. In that time GDP growth has averaged about 5 percent a
year and income per head almost tripled to $10,043 in 2010,
according to the Treasury.  Appointing Basci is “good for the predictability of the
policy stance, good for accountability for prior actions,”
 Tevfik Aksoy , London-based head of emerging market economics for
the region at Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone interview.  The bank has cut interest rates by 75 basis points to 6.25
percent since Basci’s paper was issued in December. Lower rates
are designed to deter short-term capital inflows and weaken the
lira, while increases in the reserve requirements cap growth in
loans.  The  International Monetary Fund  said Turkish monetary
policy is “still accommodative” and the current-account gap
may expand to 8 percent of GDP this year, according to the World
Economic Outlook published April 11.  Inflation Challenge  Basci will inherit an inflation rate of 4 percent, the
lowest in four decades, and an economy that expanded 8.9 percent
last year, a rate he called “very rapid.” Inflation is likely
to accelerate for the rest of the year as higher global  oil
prices  feed into the economy, the central bank forecast on April
5. The bank is aiming for year-end inflation of 5.5 percent.  Basci was Erdogan’s preferred candidate for central bank
chief five years ago, ahead of outgoing Governor  Durmus Yilmaz ,
though his nomination was rejected by then-President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, according to news reports at the time.  Basci’s wife, like Yilmaz, wears a headscarf in public, and
upholders of Turkey’s secular constitution, such as Sezer, see
such Islamic attire as a symbol of Erdogan’s efforts to allow a
wider role for religion. Sezer also blocked the candidacy of
Adnan Buyukdeniz, an Islamic banker.  Abdullah Gul , a political
ally of Erdogan, replaced Sezer as president in 2007.  Basci, who attended  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore,
was a student at a private high school in Ankara at the same
time as Babacan, who is in charge of the Treasury and the
government’s economic policy. Their families ran businesses in
the Ulus suburb of the Turkish capital. Basci acted as Babacan’s
adviser in 2003 before he was appointed to the bank. He served
as acting governor for a month in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 