-- 
Birmingham City Owner Carson Yeung Increases Stake in Premier League Team

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-04-14T13:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/birmingham-city-owner-carson-yeung-increases-stake-in-premier-league-team.html
Birmingham City’s biggest
shareholder, Carson Yeung, increased his stake in the Premier
League soccer club to 24.9 percent, the team’s parent company
said in a statement to the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange.  Yeung acquired 315,000,000 shares in Birmingham
International Holdings in a private transaction for an
undisclosed amount from an “independent third party” through
his company Great Luck Management Ltd., the statement said.  The announcement comes as League Cup winner Birmingham’s
long-term financial structure is being examined by the Premier
League after auditors for the soccer team cast doubt over its
future.  On March 22 BIH completed a share sale, underwritten by
Kingston Financial Group, controlled by businesswoman Pollyanna
Chu, which raised HK$87 million ($11 million), or 12.4 percent
of the shares outstanding.  When Birmingham filed its accounts for the year ended June
30, 2010, the club said it needed to raise 24.7 million pounds
($40.3 million) to continue operating within its agreed banking
facilities.  Yeung loaned “an additional” 4 million pounds to the
team in March, which was intended “to quell recent media
reports raising financial uncertainty against the club which
came as a result of journalistic-induced scaremongering,”
acting chairman Peter Pannu said last month.  In an interview this week Chu, who has interests in the
Macau gaming industry, said she’s happy to help Yeung if the
team needs funding. She described the Birmingham City owner as a
friend of more than ten years.  Finance Concerns  Birmingham also needs to convince European soccer’s
governing body about its finances. It qualified for the Europa
League after beating Arsenal in the League Cup final in February
for its first major trophy in 48 years. UEFA’s club licensing
policy requires teams with questions about their accounts to
explain how they will continue to operate.  Birmingham, previously controlled by David and Ralph Gold
and  David Sullivan , was bought by Yeung in October 2009 in an
81.5 million-pound deal.  The team is 16th in the 20-team Premier League after 30
games. If it finishes in the bottom three, it would be relegated
to the second division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
6542 or  stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  