-- 
Blackstone’s Vanguard Health Said to Plan Initial Share Sale

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-04-14T16:07:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/blackstone-s-vanguard-health-said-to-plan-initial-share-sale.html
Vanguard Health Systems Inc., the
hospital operator controlled by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , is planning
an initial public offering, said two people with knowledge of
the preparations.  The Nashville, Tennessee-based company may submit an IPO
filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as early
as this month, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. Vanguard plans to
submit the filing without underwriters, the people said.  Blackstone, based in  New York , agreed in 2004 to buy a
majority equity stake in Vanguard for about $1.75 billion,
according to a company statement at the time. Vanguard was
formed in 1997 by its management and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Capital
Partners, the statement said. An April 8 filing with the SEC
showed Vanguard intends to exchange senior notes for registered
senior notes, a step that sometimes precedes an IPO.  Last month, HCA Holdings Inc., the hospital chain whose
owners include KKR & Co. and Bain Capital LLC, raised $3.79
billion in its IPO, the largest ever by a private equity-backed
company, according to Preqin Ltd. Companies owned by leveraged
buyout firms raised about $19.5 billion worldwide through IPOs
in the first quarter, more than half their total for all of
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg and London-based Preqin show.  Vanguard’s affiliates owned and managed 18 acute-care and
specialty hospitals in  San Antonio , the Phoenix and Chicago
areas, and Massachusetts, as of Dec. 31, the company said in a
Feb. 9 regulatory filing. This year, Vanguard also bought eight
hospitals in the Detroit area, it said.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 