-- 
Boehner Suggests He Needs Democrats to Pass Spending Measure

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-14T17:31:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/boehner-suggests-he-needs-democrats-to-pass-spending-measure.html
House Speaker  John Boehner 
suggested that Republicans will need Democratic votes to pass a
spending measure today to avoid a government shutdown by
financing federal agencies through Sept. 30.  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  offered scant help to
Boehner, saying she wasn’t “encouraging” her members to vote
one way or another and felt “no ownership” of a deal she
didn’t strike.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, defended the budget deal he
negotiated with President  Barack Obama  and Senate Democratic
Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  to cut $38.5 billion in spending
authority for the 2011 fiscal year, which ends in 5½ months.  “Anybody that doesn’t believe this money wouldn’t be spent
if we didn’t act is kidding themselves,” Boehner said when
asked about a Congressional Budget Office  estimate  that the
measure would cut the deficit by just $350 million this year.
“This is real money and these are real cuts,” he said.  Still, Boehner acknowledged that he will need the help of
Democrats to pass the measure. The budget office estimate
“caused some confusion” among Republicans seeking deep
spending cuts, he said.  “It was a bipartisan agreement to cut this spending and
while we had to drag” Democrats “kicking and screaming to the
table, we finally secured these budget cuts,” Boehner said. “I
believe that it will pass with a bipartisan majority.”  Pressure on Republicans  The stance by Pelosi of  California , whom Boehner replaced
as speaker in January after Republicans won a House majority,
put pressure on Republican leaders to find as many votes in
their party as they can to pass the measure.  Pelosi said she was undecided about how she would vote.  “I feel no ownership for that or any responsibility to
that except that we don’t want to shut down the government,”
she said.  “House Democrats were not part of that agreement” and
disagree with many of the spending cuts, Pelosi said, while
adding that they “do want to keep government open, so that will
be part of the equities weighed.”  Massachusetts Democrat  Barney Frank , who plans to vote
against the spending measure, said in an interview yesterday
that if Obama needs Democratic votes to pass the measure, the
president can call on enough individual lawmakers to secure the
support needed to make up for the loss of Republican votes.  Last month, 54 House Republicans voted against a three-week
stopgap spending bill, requiring Boehner to rely on as many as
30 Democrats to pass it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  