-- 
Boehner Seeks to Boost Support for Budget Deal Ahead of Vote

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-04-14T18:24:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/boehner-seeks-to-boost-support-for-budget-deal-ahead-of-vote.html
House Republicans are working to
shore up support for today’s vote on legislation to cut $38.5
billion in spending and avert a government shutdown.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio  Republican, suggested
to reporters he would need Democrats’ help to approve the
legislation. During a speech on the House floor, he urged his
members to support the deal.  “Is it perfect? No,” said Boehner of Ohio. “I’d be the
first one to admit that it’s flawed -- well, welcome to divided
government.”  The speaker told reporters that “some confusion” had been
caused among his members by a Congressional Budget Office  report 
that the spending plan would cut this year’s deficit by only
$350 million. Additional reductions would come in the next
fiscal year starting Oct. 1, and Boehner estimated the plan
would cut $315 billion over the next 10 years.  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  offered scant help,
saying she wasn’t “encouraging” her members to vote one way or
another and felt “no ownership” of a deal she didn’t strike.  Still, Pelosi of California said, Democrats “do want to
keep government open, so that will be part of the equities
weighed.”  Approval would send the bill to the Senate, where members
plan to vote later today to forward it to President  Barack Obama . A stopgap measure currently funding the government
expires tonight, and without action federal agencies would begin
to shut down.  Debt Limit  The votes would bring to a close the first major budget
fight between House Republicans and the administration, which
already are beginning their next dispute over the need to raise
the nation’s debt limit.  As part of the budget deal, lawmakers agreed to hold
separate votes on Republican-backed provisions to bar federal
funding for Planned Parenthood, which provides abortion and
contraceptive services, and to defund the administration’s
health-care overhaul. Both are likely to fail in the Senate.  Republicans were already unhappy with the compromise that
cut less than the $61 billion approved by the House in February.
The Republicans’ $61-billion measure would cut $9 billion from
this year’s $1.4 trillion deficit, the CBO estimated, with the
rest of the reduction to come in future years.  Last month, 54  House Republicans  voted against a three-week
stopgap spending bill, requiring Boehner to rely on as many as
30 Democrats to pass it.  NPR, Americorps  The legislation would implement the deal Obama and
congressional leaders reached just hours before the government’s
spending authority was set to expire April 8. Democrats beat
back many of the Republicans’ proposed cuts, securing funding
for  National Public Radio , the Americorps volunteer program,
public financing of presidential campaigns and other programs
that had been targeted for elimination.  Pell grants for college students, the  Peace Corps  and the
National Endowment for the Arts will receive much smaller cuts
than Republicans had sought.  The Environmental Protection Agency would be cut by $1.6
billion. Grants offered through the Clinton administration’s
“Cops” law enforcement program would drop by 17 percent. The
 National Institutes of Health  would be cut by $260 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  