-- 
Bonds Jury Agrees on Obstruction of Justice Conviction, Splits on Perjury

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-14T17:48:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/bonds-jury-agreed-on-obstruction-of-justice-conviction-split-on-perjury.html
Baseball player  Barry Bonds  was
found guilty of obstructing justice while avoiding a perjury
conviction after jurors couldn’t decide whether he knew he was
taking steroids, the panel’s foreman said.  Bonds, who holds the Major League Baseball record for most
career home runs with 762, was convicted yesterday of one of
four charges against him by an eight-woman, four-man federal
jury. Bonds, 46, was first indicted in 2007, the last year he
played for the  San Francisco Giants .  A mistrial was declared on three perjury counts after a
three-week trial. Jurors were unable to agree on whether Bonds
lied when he told a grand jury in 2003 that he didn’t knowingly
take steroids, and didn’t take human growth hormone or receive
injections by his trainer,  Greg Anderson .  “A positive test showed he used steroids but it did not
prove he knew it,” said the foreman, Fred, who like other
jurors gave only a first name as they spoke after the verdict
yesterday.  Bonds’s lawyers said yesterday in court they will ask U.S.
District Judge  Susan Illston  to set aside the conviction for
lack of evidence and request a new trial. The case was continued
to May 20. No sentencing date has been scheduled.  Bonds faces a maximum of 10 years in prison on the
obstruction conviction. Prosecutors said they will decide soon
whether to retry the former Giants left fielder on the perjury
charges.  Eleven of 12 jurors voted to convict Bonds of lying about
never receiving an injection from Anderson, the foreman said.  ‘Needed More’  Nyisha, the single holdout juror on the injection charge,
said she “needed more” evidence, while declining to go into
detail. On the steroids count, she said: “We did go back and
forth. But the question was, did Barry Bonds know that was
steroids?”  The panel would have liked to have heard from Anderson,
said another juror, Jessica. Anderson refused to testify at
trial and was jailed for contempt of court by Illston for the
duration of the proceeding.  “It would have shed light on things,” said Jessica. “But
he wasn’t there so we had to use what we had.”  Eight jurors wanted to acquit Bonds of lying when he said
he never knowingly took steroids and nine wanted to acquit him
for saying he didn’t take human growth hormone, said Steve, a
juror who is a 60-year-old resident of Antioch,  California .  The jury said the obstruction of justice conviction was for
Bonds’s statements to the grand jury when he was asked whether
his trainer ever gave him anything that “required a syringe to
inject yourself with.”  Yes or No  In a response of about 130 words, Bonds didn’t say yes or
no. He responded that he “only had one doctor touch me” and
didn’t talk baseball with his trainer or “get into other
people’s business,” and said that’s what kept his friendship
with Anderson going.  “I became a celebrity child with a famous father,” Bonds
told the grand jury, referring to his father, Bobby Bonds, a
three-time All-Star who played for eight teams including the
Giants and the  New York Yankees . “I just don’t get into other
people’s business because of my father’s situation, you see.  Bonds’s lawyers said he was truthful and told the grand
jury that he received performance-enhancing substances from
Anderson without knowing what they were because they were new at
the time and because Anderson told him one was flaxseed oil.  “The government has sought and at least for now” won
conviction against Bonds for telling “the grand jury that he
was a celebrity child and for saying he was friends with Greg
Anderson,” Allen Ruby, Bonds’s attorney, said in a news
conference outside the courthouse, with Bonds at his side.  ‘Nothing for Me’  “Nothing for me to celebrate,” the slugger said quietly,
responding to a question as the news conference ended. His
attorneys told Illston earlier they will seek to dismiss the
conviction and ask for a new trial.  Bonds, who broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home
runs in August 2007, was indicted in November of that year. He
was the first major league player to be charged in a years-long
federal probe of steroid use in professional sports. He didn’t
testify at trial and his lawyers didn’t put on any witnesses.  “It will be seen by most people as affirming that Bonds
was cheating and using steroids,” former Major League Baseball
Commissioner Fay Vincent said of yesterday’s verdict. “It
diminishes his standing among baseball fans and historians, and
it reduces his short-term prospects of getting into the Hall of
Fame.”  Robert Talbot, a University of San Francisco law Professor,
said no other athlete convicted at trial in the federal steroids
investigation had received jail time and it’s unlikely Bonds
will.  House Arrest, Probation  “Judges try to be consistent and so far the sentences in
these cases have not been severe at all, either house arrest or
probation,” Talbot said in a telephone interview.  Manny Ramirez , a 12-time All-Star who is 14th on the career
home run list, retired six days ago after baseball officials
told him of an unspecified doping-related “issue.”  Roger Clemens , a seven-time winner of the Cy Young Award as
the best pitcher in his league, faces charges he lied to
Congress in 2008 when he denied using performance-enhancing
drugs. He has pleaded not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  