-- 
Borders to Amend Bonuses, Seek Sale or Reorganization

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-14T22:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/borders-to-amend-bonus-plan-for-executives-seek-sale-or-reorganization.html
Borders Group Inc. (BGP)  needs to change
its executive bonus plan, a judge said, after a lawyer for
creditors said the bankrupt book seller wants to pay key
managers to stay while it considers a sale or reorganization.  Bruce Buechler, a lawyer for unsecured creditors, told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn that the bonus plan was revised
today so the five top executives, including Chief Executive
Officer Mike Edwards and Chief Financial Officer Scott Henry,
would be paid based on how much they recover for creditors under
a sale or restructuring by Aug. 15.  “As we look at running a sales process -- selling all the
debtors’ assets or infusing equity into the company instead of
just a stand-alone plan, we need management not just to be
there, but to be cheerleaders or affirmative spokespeople for
the company,” Buechler said at a court hearing in  Manhattan .  Glenn said the revised plan needs work and he told lawyers
to negotiate with the U.S. Trustee in the hall outside his
courtroom. The U.S. Trustee, a bankruptcy watchdog for the
 Justice Department , said the bonuses were premature since
Borders has only been in bankruptcy two months and hasn’t shown
how it will reorganize or pay unsecured creditors.  “If this business goes down the toilet bowl, there are a
lot of full or part-time employees who face the prospect of
going out of work,” Glenn said.  ‘Create Value’  “We look forward to meeting with the U.S. Trustee to
demonstrate to them that this proposed program is in the best
interest of Borders, its creditors and other stakeholders,”
Jeremy Fielding, a company spokesman, said in a statement. “Our
objective is to create value to benefit the creditors and all of
the company’s stakeholders, so that Borders can exit Chapter 11
in short order.”  Fielding declined to comment further on the progress of any
sales talks.  Borders, the second-largest book chain after  Barnes & Noble
Inc. (BKS) , filed for bankruptcy in February and has since begun
winding down about 225 stores. A bonus plan should be
implemented quickly, said John Dempsey, a partner at Mercer
Inc., a compensation consultant for Borders. The company’s
annual revenue upon leaving court protection may drop to $1.5
billion from its pre-bankruptcy level of about $2.3 billion,
according to court papers.  ‘Faster Track’  “Based on my experience, retailers have to move on a
faster track than other debtors in order to survive Chapter 11
and avoid a liquidation,” Dempsey said.  Buechler told Glenn that the revised plan for the top five
executives proposed giving them $4.9 million at most if they
return more than $95 million to unsecured creditors. They could
get $1.8 million if $73 million is recovered. The amounts apply
if a plan is confirmed or the company is sold by Aug. 15.  Glenn said Borders should include a scenario where less
than $73 million is recovered.  Borders said in court papers filed before today’s hearing
that bonuses for a broader group had been scaled back to a
maximum of $6.6 million for 15 executives, rather than $7.1
million for 17 executives, because a senior vice president and
vice president left in the 2 1/2 weeks since it filed its bonus
request.  “The more employees the debtors lose, the harder the
debtors’ senior management and director-level employees must
work to compensate,” Borders’s lawyers wrote.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 