-- 
Borg Seeks Nordic Accord on Capital as Nordea Threatens to Move

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-04-15T08:14:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/borg-seeks-nordic-accord-on-capital-as-nordea-threatens-to-move.html
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said he’ll look at a common Nordic solution for capital
standards after  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  signaled Sweden’s plans to
implement the strictest rules could make it leave Stockholm.  “We will have to look at what we can do in this area and
talk to one another to see how these companies are structured
and then we’ll solve it,” Borg said yesterday, when asked about
potentially lower capital requirements in other Nordic
countries. “It’s important that we find a good solution.”  Borg and other policy makers such as central bank Governor
Stefan Ingves have argued that the largest Nordic economy should
take a global lead in tightening capital requirements as
regulators across the world look for ways to prevent a re-run of
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Sweden  is
home to four of the Nordic region’s six biggest banks and its
bank industry is about four times the size of its economy.  Nordea Chairman Bjoern Wahlroos said Scandinavia’s biggest
bank has a responsibility to its shareholders to seek the best
capital environment, according to a report yesterday in Dagens
Industri’s monthly magazine Dimension. “We of course must take
into consideration should another Nordic country offer much
better or much worst rules,” he said.  Wahlroos, who is also chairman of Sampo Oyj, Nordea’s
largest shareholder, said the Helsinki-based company won’t raise
its stake in Nordea to more than 25 percent, according to the
magazine. His comments were confirmed by Maria Silander, a Sampo
spokeswoman.  Tougher, Faster   Shares in Nordea slipped 0.7 percent to 71.55 kronor
($11.55) at 10:06 a.m. in  Stockholm . The stock has lost 2.2
percent this year.  Nordea is the product of mergers between banks in  Finland ,
Norway, Sweden and  Denmark .  Borg wants to prevent future imbalances from Sweden’s
credit and property markets destabilizing the country’s economy.
Sweden’s banks are still recovering after their Baltic
operations got caught in the region’s 2009 property bubble.  Sweden wants its financial industry to follow stricter
standards than those set out by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , and to push the changes through earlier. The
Swedish Bankers’ Association has said it will fight rules that
undermine competitiveness, while Nordea Chief Executive Officer
Christian Clausen has called the plan “not realistic.”  ‘More Secure’  Banks should prepare for a 1 percentage point increase in
 capital requirements  every year “over the next few years,”
Borg said in March. The government in February sold $3 billion
worth of shares in Nordea, lowering its stake to 13.5 percent,
as part of a broader plan to cut debt and sell state assets.  “It is important that Swedish banks are strongly
capitalized,” Borg said in a speech yesterday. The government
will propose exact rules toward the end of the year or beginning
of next year, he said. “The idea is that Swedish banks should
be more secure than other banks.”  The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority said in July
all four major Swedish banks passed the EU stress tests with a
“comfortable margin.” The banks showed a core Tier 1 ratio in
the range of 8.9 percent to 10.3 percent at the end of the test
scenario, the group said in a statement.  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , the biggest bank in Latvia, Lithuania and
 Estonia , wrote down $2.4 billion in 2009 after the former Soviet
region suffered the European Union’s deepest economic slump. The
losses fueled a 22 percent drop in Sweden’s krona against the
euro from an August 2008 peak through a March 2009 low.  Basel Rules  Under the so-called Basel III rules, banks are required to
have a minimum core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, of 7 percent. Nordea has a core Tier-1 ratio of 10.3
percent, fourth-quarter results show. That compares with 13.8
percent at  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , 12.2 percent at SEB AB, and
13.9 percent at Swedbank.  Norway  has also signaled it wants its banks to live up to
stricter standards than those set abroad. The country’s
financial crisis commission proposed levying a financial
stability fee and asked for a review of taxes on bank profits
and salaries. In Denmark, the government’s decision to let
Amagerbanken A/S fail earlier this year set a precedent in the
European Union for depositor and senior bondholder losses.  “There are good reasons for the level suggested by the
Swedish authorities,” Bjoern Skogstad Aamo, the head of
Norway’s Financial Supervisory Authority, said in a March 14
interview. “I don’t have very different views.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  