-- 
BP Extends Rosneft Share Swap Deadline to Keep Deal Alive

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-04-14T17:06:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/bp-extends-rosneft-share-swap-deadline-to-keep-arctic-deal-alive.html
BP Plc (BP/)  won a one-month extension to
complete the $7.8 billion share swap with state-owned Russian
oil producer OAO Rosneft as it seeks to keep the Arctic oil
exploration deal alive.  BP and Rosneft moved back the deadline to May 16 from
today, the London-based company said in a statement. The deal
was held up after a legal challenge from BP’s billionaire
partners in TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil producer, who
claimed it breached their shareholder agreement.  “This gives a little more breathing space, but it doesn’t
really solve the difficulty with TNK,” said Iain Armstrong, an
analyst at broker Brewin Dolphin Ltd. in  London . “You can’t
afford to anger the oligarchs.”  BP needs the January share swap and exploration deal to
ensure access to Kara Sea exploration blocks in  Russia ’s Arctic,
which may contain as much as 100 billion barrels of oil. The
Russian partners in TNK-BP rejected a $27 billion buyout offer
from BP and Rosneft, a person with knowledge of the proposal
said yesterday.  Rosneft supported BP’s request to extend the deadline,
Rustam Kazharov, a spokesman for the Moscow-based company, said
by phone. Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  stepped down as
Rosneft’s chairman on April 11 after President  Dmitry Medvedev 
ordered government officials to leave the boards of companies in
industries they regulate.  BP Declines  BP fell 0.9 percent to 460.05 pence in London. Rosneft
retreated 3 percent to 244.95 rubles in Moscow, while TNK-BP
declined 0.7 percent to 91.97 rubles.  “BP intends to continue with the arbitration process to
obtain a final award on all outstanding issues,” it said in a
statement. “BP remains fully committed to TNK-BP as its primary
business vehicle in Russia and fully supports its strategy and
investment program”  BP’s billionaire partners in TNK-BP, represented by the AAR
group, halted the deal in a London court last month, claiming
that the venture has exclusive rights to negotiate on behalf of
BP in Russia. The injunction has been prolonged indefinitely by
the arbitration panel.  BP Offer  BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley , 55, told
shareholders today that he won’t offer his TNK-BP partners a
large holding in the company as that’s not in the interest of
investors.  BP has offered the partners participation in Arctic
projects, cash and international projects so that BP can proceed
with the Rosneft deal, Dudley said.  “Our Russian shareholders have obtained a temporary
injunction to block the process, they haven’t won the case
they’ve just postponed this,” he said. “With TNK-BP it’s not
personal, it’s always just business.”  The dispute has reignited tensions between BP and TNK less
than three years after Dudley, the former CEO of TNK-BP, decided
to flee Russia in 2008.  Mikhail Fridman , one of the four
billionaire owners of AAR, later took over as interim CEO.  “BP has never made a constructive proposal to turn the
Rosneft deal over to TNK-BP as our shareholder agreement
requires,”  Stan Polovets , CEO of AAR, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “AAR is not interested in the selective parts
of the deal that BP feels it can give up.”  TNK-BP, set up in 2003 and owned 50-50 by BP and AAR, made
BP the biggest foreign producer in Russia, which now accounts
for a quarter of BP’s production and a fifth of its reserves.  Dudley, who took the helm at BP in October following the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill, risks losing access to one of the
world’s largest untapped oil troves. After focusing on
exploration projects with greater potential for growth, Dudley
today faced shareholders at the first annual general meeting
since last year’s Macondo disaster.  BP, which owns a 1.3 percent in Rosneft, has been exploring
with the Russian company “offshore Sakhalin for over a decade
and engaging in Arctic studies,” it said today in the
statement.  Exxon, Shell  Rosneft may decide to work with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  or Royal
Dutch Shell Plc to explore the Arctic, according to Otkritie
Securities Ltd., a brokerage that met with Rosneft this week.  This year, Shell CEO  Peter Voser  said he’s interested in
projects with Rosneft, and Exxon agreed to help the company
explore the  Black Sea  in January.  If AAR’s court action stops the BP-Rosneft deal from going
through, it would be “less than helpful to TNK-BP’s future
prospects in Russia,” Lucy Haskins, an analyst at  Barclays
Capital  in London, wrote in a research note last week.  BP has sold more than $24 billion in assets since the Gulf
spill after taking a $41 billion provision for cleanup and legal
costs. It suspended the $10 billion annual dividend for the
first three quarters of 2010 to help shore up its balance sheet.  While Dudley said the Rosneft tie-up had nothing to do with
the spill, for BP the holding in Rosneft would be equivalent to
replacing almost all the reserves it had sold off to pay for it.  It was Dudley’s biggest deal since taking the top job.
Putin said in January that BP’s experience in the  Gulf of Mexico 
had made it the preferred partner for Arctic exploration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net 
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  