-- 
Commodity Price Swings Seen Threatening World Recovery, Needing Regulation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-14T09:54:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/brics-leaders-say-increasing-commodity-prices-pose-threat-to-global-growth.html
The leaders of Brazil, Russia,
 India ,  China  and South Africa said excessively volatile
commodity prices pose a threat to the global economy and called
for greater regulation of derivatives markets.  Volatility “poses new risks for the ongoing recovery of
the world economy,” the leaders said, according to a communique
from their summit in the Chinese resort of Sanya. The BRICS, as
the five are known, also called for greater vigilance over the
impact of the flow of capital from developed economies into
emerging markets and agreed on a plan to make more loans in
local currencies.  Rising food and fuel prices are pressuring importers such
as China and India to hold down prices for their 2.6 billion
people. Exporting countries such as Brazil, Russia and  South
Africa  are benefiting from the trade, yet are concerned that
over-reliance on resources will stifle diversification of their
economies, leaving them vulnerable should demand drop.  “The fiscal outlook for emerging economies is more
favorable, but this reflects in part the tailwinds of high asset
and commodity prices, low  interest rates  and strong capital
inflows,” the  International Monetary Fund  said in a report this
month. A “reversal could leave fiscal positions exposed.”  Soybeans, Oil  China is the world’s biggest importer of soybeans and
consumer of energy, depending on imported oil to fuel economic
growth. India, where hundreds of millions of people live in
poverty, has also expressed concern over rising food prices.  “Regulation of the  derivatives market  for commodities
should be accordingly strengthened to prevent activities capable
of destabilizing markets,” the document said.  Corn, coffee and cotton prices have all more than doubled
on global commodity futures markets in the past year, while
crude  oil prices  are up 42 percent in London. Wheat futures in
 Chicago  may rise to $8.60 a bushel by Dec. 31, 31 percent up
from this year’s low, Paris-based brokerage OTCex Group said
earlier this month. Corn may reach a record $10 a bushel, Alex Bos, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. said April 6.  This year China is forecast to import 57 million tons of
soybeans, or almost 60 percent of global trade in the animal-
feed and tofu ingredient.  Food Security  The BRICS communique called for greater cooperation on food
security to redress the lack of timely and reliable information
on supply and demand. The international community needs to work
together to increase production, increasing funding and
technological support to  developing countries  as part of
“establishing a more equitable and fair world.”  In a separate agreement, the heads of the development banks
of the five countries agreed on to work a plan to increase the
use of local currencies when making loans to each other.  “We talked about how to move faster to using national
currencies,” Medvedev said. “I just had a meeting with
 Brazil ’s president and we agreed to intensify work on a possible
switch. We could think through such a system with all BRICS
countries.”  The combined gross domestic product of the five so-called
BRICS nations will eclipse the  U.S. economy  by the end of 2014,
according to International Monetary Fund projections released
this week. The eurozone will be overtaken this year, the data
show. By 2016, the BRICS countries will have a combined GDP of
$21 trillion compared to a projection of $18.8 trillion for the
U.S., according to the IMF.  ‘Gold Rain’  Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov said that oil prices
over $100 a barrel are discouraging Russia from diversifying its
economy. Ivanov said the current price was unsustainable and
that  Russia ’s budget will fall into a deficit when it drops.  “When the gold rain is pouring on your head, you are not
motivated to diversify,” Ivanov said in an April 7 interview in
Miami. “I wouldn’t say I hate high oil and gas prices, but I am
not happy with them.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch said it expects crude to
decline at the end of this year as price rises curb demand.  Brent will average $94 a barrel in the fourth quarter,
analysts at the bank, led by New York-based Francisco Blanch,
said in a report earlier this week. That’s about 23 percent less
than the current price level.  Brent crude  advanced to more than $127 a barrel on  London ’s
ICE Futures exchange this week, the highest level since August
2008 and within about $20 of that year’s record price for Brent
of $147.50 a barrel.  IMF Overhaul  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and the other BRICS leaders
also called for “more attention to the risks of massive cross-
border capital flows,” and said the International Monetary Fund
should continue to look to overhaul the role of Special Drawing
Rights as an international reserve currency system.  “The governing structure of the international financial
institutions should reflect the changes in the world economy,
increasing the voice and representation of emerging economies
and developing countries,” the communique said.  Hu is joined at the Sanya summit by Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev , Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , South
African President Jacob Zuma and Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  