-- 
Bullish Peso Bets Jump 35% to $5 Billion as Exports Climb: Mexico Credit

-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-04-14T14:14:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/bullish-peso-bets-jump-35-to-5-billion-as-exports-climb-mexico-credit.html
Futures traders are boosting
bullish bets on the  Mexican peso  to an almost three-year high on
speculation rising exports will propel gains in the currency.  Wagers on the peso appreciating against the dollar
outnumbered bets on a decline by 119,062 contracts, near the
most since February 2008, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. Even as yields on Mexican peso bonds climbed
24 basis points this year, investors earned dollar-based returns
of 5.3 percent because of the currency’s gain, according to Bank
of America Corp. Emerging-market local government debt returned
4.7 percent during the same period.  The peso has advanced 4.6 percent this year as increasing
U.S. demand for automobiles and other exports fuels economic
growth. Latin America’s second-biggest economy may expand as
much as 5 percent this year after growing 5.5 percent in 2010,
the fastest in a decade, Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said.
The rebound in the U.S. helped drive Mexican exports to a record
$298 billion last year.  “The peso tends to perform well as the U.S. improves,”
Rogerio Oliveira, an emerging-markets strategist at Morgan
Stanley in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It seems
cheap on a long-term valuation. We are still bullish on the
peso.”  Futures traders have increased their bullish bets on the
peso by 35 percent since March, the most in six months. The $5
billion of so-called net longs accounted for 75 percent of open
contracts on the peso, the most among nine major currencies,
including the euro and the yen, tracked by Washington-based
CFTC. Wagers on the peso gaining outnumbered bets for a decline
by a record 125,334 in February 2008.  Yield Gap  Foreign investors boosted holdings of Mexican government
debt to 733.6 billion pesos ($62 billion), or 24 percent of the
total outstanding, from 14 percent a year earlier, according to
the central bank.  The average yield of  Mexico ’s bonds rose to 6.78 percent,
from 6.54 percent at the end of 2010, according to Bank of
America. Bonds due in 2024 yield 7.56 percent, or 365 basis
points more than similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The country’s exports rose 24 percent in the first two
months of 2011 to $50 billion, the best start to a year,
according to the statistics agency. Overseas shipments of
vehicles, Mexico’s largest export, rose 17.8 percent in March to
a record 192,783 units, the Automobile Industry Association said
yesterday. The U.S. buys 80 percent of Mexican exports.  “The peso has benefited from the upward recovery of the
U.S.,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency strategist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “You still get the peso relatively cheap to everyone
else.”  Lag Behind  The peso reached 11.7108 per dollar last week, the
strongest level since October 2008, before retreating to 11.7770
as of 10:07 a.m. New York time. The currency’s 11.9 percent gain
over the past two years is less than one-third of the advances
in the Brazilian real, the South African rand and the Colombian
peso, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso is 5.1
percent weaker than its average valuation of the past decade.  Investors are betting on more gains in the peso because
Mexico is less concerned than regional counterparts about
allowing its currency to rally, Morgan Stanley’s Oliveira said.  Cordero said on March 28 that the currency controls
implemented by other developing nations are ineffective and
create “distortions” in the economy.  ‘Not Uncomfortable’  While Mexico’s central bank has been buying up to $600
million a month through options since March 2010 to boost its
foreign reserves, Brazilian policy makers have made monthly
purchases of $8.1 billion this year to curb gains in the real.
 Brazil  also tripled a tax on foreign investors’ local bond
purchases in October and changed rules on taxes paid on foreign
loans three times since March 29.  “Mexico is one of the few emerging-market countries where
the central bank is not uncomfortable with the currency
appreciation,” Oliveira said. “We like the risk-reward of”
betting on the peso’s gain, he said.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened two basis points
today to 135, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 1 basis point yesterday to 99, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  ‘Quite Heavy’  Yields on the interbank rate futures contract due in August
held at 4.96 percent yesterday.  The increase in bullish peso wagers leaves the currency
vulnerable to swings in investor demand for higher-yielding
emerging-market assets, according to  Roberto Melzi , a strategist
at Barclays Plc in  New York .  “The peso position is quite heavy,” Melzi said in a
telephone interview. “We will see some adjustment.”  The peso will fall 0.6 percent to 11.875 per dollar by the
end of the year, according to the median forecast of 22 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. RBS predicts a gain of 2.6 percent to
11.5, while Morgan Stanley recommends clients bet the peso will
rise to 11.7. BNP Paribas predicts the peso will strengthen to
11 by Dec. 31.  The currency sank to a record low of 15.5892 per dollar in
March 2009 as a slump in the U.S. led to a 6.1 percent
contraction in the Mexican economy that year, the worst
recession since 1995.  U.S. Growth  Growth in the U.S. may accelerate to 3 percent this year
from 2.9 percent in 2010, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The 5.5 percent expansion in Mexico last year
compared with average 6.1 percent growth in Latin America,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “Mexico lagged the recovery cycle in other Latin American
countries,”  Diego Donadio , a Latin America strategist in  Sao
Paulo  at BNP, said in a telephone interview. “Now that the U.S.
is getting more traction in the cyclical recovery, investors are
more confident that the Mexican peso will perform as well. The
currency will catch up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  