-- 
California Begs Texas for Job-Creating Recipe With Growth Trading Places

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-14T20:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/california-begs-texas-for-job-recipe-with-growth-trading-places.html
When California Lieutenant Governor
Gavin Newsom begins meetings in Austin with Hardee’s hamburgers
chief Andrew Puzder, local Chamber of Commerce Chairman Bobby
Jenkins and  Texas  Governor Rick Perry, it’s because the most-
populous state lingers in a funk, even as the U.S. pulls out of
the deepest recession in half a century.  The world’s eighth-largest economy has lagged in job growth
since California-based lenders such as Countrywide Financial
Corp. led America into the housing bust. Unemployment in the
state is 12.2 percent, more than a third higher than the
national average. While signature industries such as technology,
trade and tourism have rebounded, construction and government
employment are weak or falling.  Newsom is one of two California Democrats in the talks
starting today on how the Lone Star State created 165,000 jobs
over the past three years, while  California , with the country’s
largest workforce, lost 1.15 million, according to the trip’s
organizer, Assemblyman Dan Logue, a Republican from Linda.  While Governor  Jerry Brown  replied “Hell, no,” when asked
whether Texas is a better state for business April 6, he’s
supporting the mission.  “Let’s get more jobs, more businesses,” Brown, a 73-year-
old Democrat, said April 8. “Some of our state legislators are
going to Texas to find out how they’re doing. Gavin Newsom’s
going with them. I’m waiting for his report, when he gets back,
and if he has any good ideas, I’m going to share them with
you.”  Holding Back Recovery  California is holding back the national recovery, said
Esmael Adibi, director of the  Anderson Center for Economic
Research  at Chapman University in Orange, near  Los Angeles . He
 estimates  the state may create as few as 130,000 jobs this year,
well below the 200,000 that its population would dictate as its
share of national employment growth.  The Golden State’s  unemployment rate  “is more intractable
than folks want to acknowledge,” said Austin Beutner, a former
investment banker who heads economic development for Los
Angeles, the nation’s second most-populous city. “I think we’ve
got a longer way to go than we might have thought two years
ago.”  Comerica Bank’s California Economic Activity Index, which
tracks nine factors such as employment and consumer spending,
fell in February, the company reported today. The index has been
little changed since July after rising 14 percent from its low
in March 2009. Comerica’s Texas index is at the highest level in
two years, and up 5 percent from the average for all of 2010,
according to a report April 13.  Public Job Cuts  California’s budget deficit raises the prospect of further
reductions among public workers. Brown, struggling to close a
$15.4 billion spending gap for the fiscal year starting July 1,
broke off negotiations with Republican lawmakers last month and
is on a statewide tour to win voter support for $11.3 billion in
proposed tax extensions.  Without that revenue, the state may have to “cut, slash
and burn” education, health-care, police and fire services,
Brown said April 8 at an elementary school in Riverside,
California. Reducing public-school spending in the same
proportion as other state departments would mean firing 99,000
teachers or eliminating two months of the school year, according
to the independent Legislative Analyst’s Office.  School Funding  School funding has changed since Californians passed
Proposition 13 in 1978, limiting increases in property-tax
assessments, Brown said. California eighth-grade students scored
below national averages in math and reading in a 2009 test
administered by the federally funded National Assessment of
Educational Progress. Texas students scored above average in
math and at the mean in reading.  The state lost 1,200 government jobs in February, the only
one of 11 categories to show a month-over-month decline,
according to the California  Employment Development Department .  Puzder, whose Carpinteria, California-based CKE Restaurants
Inc. is the parent of the Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s fast-food
chains, said in a telephone interview that he will tell
legislators that Texas is quicker to permit new business and has
fewer employment restrictions than California.  Puzder, 60, said he can get a new restaurant approved in
six weeks in Texas, compared with up to two years in his home
state. Employee scheduling is restricted by California laws that
prevent managers from spending more than half their time on non-
managerial tasks, he said.  Grants, Incentives  Carl Guardino, chief executive officer of the San Jose-
based Silicon Valley Leadership Group, a trade association,
who’s also attending the Texas meetings, will bring along a list
of California companies such as Santa Clara-based  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
and San Jose-based  SunPower Corp. (SPWRA) , a solar-products
manufacturer, that were encouraged to expand in Texas and other
states by grants and other incentives.  Guardino said he’ll recommend that California create a jobs
strategy run by a “high-ranking leader” in Brown’s
administration.  “Incentives are one tool in that toolkit, but a
comprehensive approach is much broader than any one element,”
Guardino said in an e-mail.  The Texas trip will include a private meeting today with
California officials including Newsom, the 43-year-old former
mayor of  San Francisco , and Perry, a 61-year-old Republican,
according to a press release from the California Assembly
Republican Caucus.  ‘Myth and Reality’  “There’s a myth and a reality about Texas and how
effective their economic strategy is,” Newsom’s spokesman,
Francisco Castillo, said in a telephone interview before the
visit. “The lieutenant governor was invited to participate in
an objective, fact-finding mission and he’s going to ask tough
questions.”  Twenty of California’s 58 counties have unemployment rates
of more than 15 percent, Newsom said at a press conference in
Austin today.  “In some respects, we waited for people to come knocking
on our doors, and you’ve been knocking on a lot of doors,”
Newsom said. “We rested on our laurels.”  Perry, who said March 7 that Republican control of every
Texas elective office statewide showed voters “don’t want to
see Texas be like California,” was conciliatory today.  “I don’t think Jerry Brown wants California to fail on his
watch,” Perry said at the meeting. “We need a strong
California in this country.”  California legislators will convene in the Texas Capitol
tomorrow to hear why businesses left their state. In addition to
Logue, the California delegation will include 10 Assembly
members, all but one a Republican.  Tax Structures  The legislators will compare Texas and California tax
structures. Texas collects no corporate income tax or corporate
capital-gains tax, while businesses in California must pay up to
8.8 percent in each, according to the caucus.  Property taxes  in
Texas represented 1.8 percent of home values in 2009, versus
0.74 percent in California and a national average of 1 percent,
according to the Washington-based Tax Foundation.  In Texas, where the unemployment rate was 8.2 percent in
February, legislators are wrestling with ways to fill a two-year
general-fund deficit projected to be at least $15 billion. The
state plans to use $3.2 billion from its main reserve fund in
the fiscal year that ends Aug. 31, something Perry originally
opposed.  Population Growth  California’s economy isn’t being helped by the slowest
population growth ever recorded for the state. The number of
residents climbed 10 percent between 2000 and 2010, to 37.3
million, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Inland counties
that captured much of that growth have unemployment higher than
the state average, according to the California Economic
Development Department.  “It’s a tale of two economies,” said  Stephen Levy ,
director of the Center for Continuing Study of the California
Economy, based in  Palo Alto . Counties with higher unemployment
are “constrained by the lack of housing recovery and the
beginnings of government layoffs,” he said.  The birthplace of subprime mortgages and million-dollar
tear-downs is also mired in the deepest real-estate slump since
the mid-1990s. An estimated 27,230 homes were sold in the state
in February, a 2.8 percent decline from the prior year and the
fewest since February 2008, according to San Diego-based
DataQuick Information Systems.  California’s median home-sale price of $244,000 has fallen
on a year-over-year basis for the past five months. It peaked in
early 2007 at $484,000, the company said.  Less Than Mortgages  Almost one-third of all homes in the state were worth less
than their mortgages in last year’s fourth quarter, according to
 Santa Ana , California-based  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)  That compares with 23
percent for the nation as a whole.  “You’ve got a significant number of homeowners and sellers
who are under water and they are trying to avoid going into
foreclosure and the process is very difficult,” Leslie
Appleton-Young, chief economist for the California Association
of Realtors, said in a telephone interview.  California’s housing weakness and budget battle obscure
signs of recovery. The state created 96,500 jobs in February,
according California’s development department.  One year after plunging  consumer confidence  pushed stocks
to a 12-year low, Silicon Valley companies added 12,300
positions last year, bringing the total back to 2004 levels,
according to a  study  by Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network
and Silicon Valley Community Foundation.  Technology Hiring  Technology companies, including social-networking startups,
are hiring.  Mountain View , California-based  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the
largest search-engine operator, is adding 6,000 jobs worldwide
this year, and Palo Alto-based Facebook Inc., the largest social
networking company, plans to boost its workforce by 50 percent.
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s largest technology business by market
value, increased its global headcount 36 percent to 46,600 as of
September.  “There’s great entrepreneurial spirit here,” said Howard
Marks, chairman and co-founder of Los Angeles-based Oaktree
Capital Management LP. “There are a lot of people willing to
work. We just have a big government fiscal problem.”  Investors from  China  and  Taiwan  are betting on the state,
according to Dominic Ng, 52, chairman and chief executive
officer of  East West Bancorp Inc. (EWBC) , based in Pasadena.  China-based Shenzhen New World Group Co. paid $63 million
in March 2010 for a bankrupt 469-room Marriott hotel in downtown
Los Angeles, with plans for as much as $13 million in
renovations. BYD Co., the Warren Buffett-backed Chinese maker of
cars, batteries and solar panels, decided last year to open its
U.S. headquarters in Los Angeles.  Chinese Investment  “We need to make a concerted effort in promoting that the
U.S. wants Chinese investment,” said Ng, in an interview in the
Los Angeles office of Bloomberg News. “If the government
doesn’t look at this incredible job machine, they aren’t paying
attention.”  At Gardena-based mattress retailer Sit ‘n Sleep, CEO Larry
Miller is expanding his 26-store chain and hiring again after
crimping spending in mid-2008. He said the market isn’t yet
growing, and he’s concerned about the impact of rising gasoline
prices. “The consumer doesn’t have the dollar,” Miller said.
“The person who was buying the $599 bed isn’t buying at all.”  Miller, 61, has used the recession to move into areas such
as  Santa Monica  and Costa Mesa that were too expensive in 2006
and 2007.  “We’re taking market share,” Miller said. “It’s up to us
to take a bigger slice out of a smaller pie.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  