-- 
Canada February New Motor Vehicle Sales Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-04-14T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/canada-february-new-motor-vehicle-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada 's new motor vehicles sales report for February
released by  Statistics Canada .  The number of new motor vehicles sold in February fell
0.6% to 130,843 units. Weaker truck sales drove the
decline.  Preliminary industry data indicate that the number of
new motor vehicles sold in March increased 2%.  February truck sales down while passenger car sales rise  Sales of trucks (which include minivans, sport-utility
vehicles, light and heavy trucks, vans and buses)
decreased 1.5% to 73,181 units in February, a retreat from
the gains in January. This marked the third decline in
five months.  Passenger car sales advanced 0.4%, partially offsetting
losses reported in January. Sales of overseas-built
passenger cars accounted for the increase in February,
rising 1.5% following two months of decline. Sales of
North American-built passenger cars edged down 0.2%.  Sales down in four provinces  The number of new motor vehicles sold decreased in four
provinces in February.  Sales of new motor vehicles fell 4.4% in  Quebec , the
fourth consecutive month of decline for this province.  Declines were also registered in  New Brunswick  (-6.9%),
Newfoundland and Labrador (-6.5%), and Saskatchewan 
(-5.9%)  Sales in Ontario increased 1.4%, adding to the gains
reported in January.  The region formed by British Columbia and the
territories reported a 3.0% rise in sales for new motor
vehicles, a second consecutive month of increased sales.  Note to readers  A new CANSIM table (079-0004: New motor vehicle sales,
Canada, provinces and territories, seasonally unadjusted,
annual), is now available.  Seasonally adjusted monthly figures for 2010 will be
revised in the fall 2011 to equal the sum of the
unadjusted estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  