-- 
Canada Dollar Declines Against Most Major Peers Amid European Debt Concern

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-04-14T21:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/canadian-dollar-declines-amid-mounting-concern-about-european-debt-crisis.html
Canada ’s dollar fell against most
of its major peers as concern mounted that Europe’s most
indebted nations may be forced to reorganize debt payments to
bondholders, damping demand for currencies linked to growth.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, erased losses
against its U.S. counterpart as the deficit debate in  Washington 
intensifies and the $14.29 trillion debt limit approaches in
May. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told Die Welt
newspaper in comments published today that Greece may need to
negotiate with creditors should an audit in June question its
ability to make debt repayments.  “We’d prefer to see the debt limit debate dealt with
sooner rather than later,” said  David Watt , senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in
Toronto. “It’s an infinitesimal possibility, but the U.S. could
go through a technical default in the next several months. Until
that’s removed you’re going to remain somewhat cautious.”  The loonie strengthened 0.1 percent to 96.11 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 5:20 p.m. in Toronto after it touched 96.70 cents, the
weakest level since April 5. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0410.  The Treasury Department estimated last week that the U.S.
debt limit will be reached by May 16. Congressional action is
required to raise the cap, though the Treasury said it can
probably stave off default until early July.  Greek Debt  Yields on two-year Greek notes climbed to 17 percent today
from as low as 6.62 percent in May 2010 after the bailout.  “Risk is just coming off, mostly due to  Europe ,” said
Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank
of Montreal. “All of a sudden the market is paying attention to
the fact that Greece and Portugal and some of the other
peripherals are still in a lot of trouble.”  Canadian factory sales fell three times faster than
economists predicted in February in a widespread decline led by
lower automobile production.  Sales fell 1.5 percent to C$47.1 billion ($48.8 billion),
the largest drop since May 2009,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted a 0.5
percent decrease, based on the median of 21 estimates.  In the U.S., more Americans unexpectedly filed first-time
claims for  unemployment insurance  last week, reflecting greater-
than-normal volatility at the end of the quarter.  Data Read  “The data released this morning were not influential in
any meaningful way,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at National  Bank of Canada  in Toronto. “The market is
comfortable being short U.S. Dollar.”  Canadian  government bonds  were little changed, with the
yield on the benchmark 10-year steady at 3.37 percent. The price
of the 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020 rose 1 cent to
C$101.05.  Canada’s central bank yesterday said exports may be curbed
by “headwinds” caused by strength in its currency, which has
appreciated 3.7 percent against the U.S. dollar this year. The
loonie may weaken to as much as 97.5 cents against the dollar,
Jespersen said in a telephone interview.  “The Bank of Canada’s slightly more dovish comments over
the last few days will take some of the momentum out of the
Canadian dollar over the short term,” he said. “I don’t think
they’ll be raising rates if the Canadian dollar is at these
levels in May or July.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  