-- 
Canada February Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-04-14T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/canada-february-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's manufacturing shipments report for February
released by Statistics Canada.  Manufacturing sales declined 1.5% (-$720 million) in
February to $47.1 billion, following a 4.4% gain in
January. While lower sales were widespread, the decrease
was mostly concentrated in the transportation equipment
industry in Central Canada.  Constant dollar manufacturing sales fell 2.3% in
February, following a 5.4% gain in January.  Lower sales were reported in 15 of 21 industries,
representing 71.0% of total manufacturing.  Sales declines largely focused in the transportation
equipment industry  Sales decreases were mostly concentrated in the motor
vehicle assembly, motor vehicle parts and the aerospace
product and parts industries.  Sales in the motor vehicle assembly industry fell 10.9%
to $3.7 billion in February, following a 26.1% gain in
January. The large rise in January reflected substantial
gains in production at some plants, following weather-
related slowdowns in December. Consistent with the drop in
February for motor vehicle assembly, sales in the motor
vehicle parts industry decreased 7.9%.  Production in the aerospace product and parts industry
was down 11.3% to $1.1 billion, reflecting lower activity
at several plants.  Sales fell 4.5% in the machinery industry to $2.5
billion. Despite the drop, sales in the industry have
advanced in 9 of the past 12 months.  Offsetting the declines, sales advanced 23.1% in the
miscellaneous manufacturing industry. Sales gains were
also posted in the petroleum and coal products industry
(+2.6%), reflecting both volume and price increases.  Central Canada accounted for most of the decrease  Most of the sales decrease was located in Central
Canada. Combined sales in Ontario and  Quebec  fell by $646
million in February.  In Ontario, sales were down 1.6% to $21.7 billion,
following a 5.6% increase in January. The decrease was
largely caused by an 11.3% drop in sales in the motor
vehicle assembly industry and an 8.2% decline in the motor
vehicle parts industry. A substantial 42.5% rise in
miscellaneous manufacturing and a 7.9% increase in the
petroleum and coal products industry reduced the size of
the provincial decrease.  Sales fell 2.5% in Quebec to $11.5 billion, the second
decline in five months. A 23.7% drop in production by the
aerospace product and parts industry was behind most of
the provincial decline. The wood product (-9.4%), chemical
(-5.3%) and machinery (-6.6%) industries also recorded
sales decreases. A 6.7% rise in sales reported by
petroleum and coal products manufacturers partly offset
the decline in Quebec.  Sales fell in both Newfoundland and Labrador (-20.0%)
and  New Brunswick  (-7.5%) in February. In both provinces,
lower sales by manufacturers in the non-durable goods
industries were largely responsible for the declines.  On the upside, sales increased 1.4% to $5.5 billion in
 Alberta . The advance mostly reflected increased activity
in the petroleum and coal products industry (+9.5%).  Inventory levels edge downward  Inventories held by manufacturers edged down 0.3% in
February to $61.6 billion, the first decrease in five
months. Declines in inventory levels were reported by
manufacturers in 10 of 21 industries, led by a 7.3%
decline in the petroleum and coal product industry. Lower
volumes of crude petroleum were reported by some
refineries. Transportation equipment (-2.3%) and food 
(-1.2%) also contributed to the overall decrease in
inventories held by manufacturers.  Higher inventory levels were reported by manufacturers
in the primary metal industry (+2.8%), reflecting
increases in price and volume. Inventories also rose in
the fabricated metal product (+2.0%), paper (+3.8%) and
wood product (+2.6%) industries.  The inventory-to-sales ratio increased from 1.29 in
January to 1.31 in February. Despite the advance, the
ratio has declined gradually over the past year.  Unfilled orders advance  Total unfilled orders advanced 0.4% to $52.7 billion in
February, the second consecutive increase following four
months of declines. Gains were posted in the machinery
(+4.9%), fabricated metal product (+3.0%) and primary
metal (+10.8%) industries.  Excluding the aerospace product and parts industry,
unfilled orders in the manufacturing sector rose 1.2%, the
largest increase since October 2010. In the aerospace
industry, orders declined 0.8% to $21.5 billion,
offsetting most of the overall advance.  A 4.7% decline in unfilled orders in the computer and
electronic products industry also partly offset the
overall rise in orders.  New orders decreased 2.6% to $47.3 billion in February.
The main contributors to the decline included the
aerospace product and parts and motor vehicle industries.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and
are expressed in current dollars unless otherwise
specified.  Statistics Canada  will be releasing revised monthly
manufacturing data on May 16 in accordance with standard
practices. Sales of goods manufactured, inventories, and
orders in current and constant dollars will be revised
back to January 2007 for unadjusted data and to January
2004 for seasonally adjusted data.  The revisions are based on three sources. The monthly
data were compared with the latest information available
from the Annual Survey of Manufactures and Logging (ASML).
Revisions were made to the monthly data to improve their
consistency with the ASML. Revisions were made based on
new information from respondents and the availability of
more up-to-date administrative data. The seasonal
adjustment parameters were also reviewed and updated.  The revised data will be available on CANSIM.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills,
clothing, leather and allied products, paper, printing and
related support activities, petroleum and coal products,
chemicals, and plastics and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components,
transportation equipment, furniture and related products
and miscellaneous manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the  aerospace industry  and shipbuilding industries,
the value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting
monthly sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change
in inventories of goods in process and finished products
manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will
contribute to future sales assuming that the orders are
not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the
current month or not. New orders are measured as the sum
of sales for the current month plus the change in unfilled
orders from the previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  