-- 
CFTC Proposal for Swaps Margin May Apply to Futures

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-04-18T12:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/cftc-s-proposal-to-change-futures-margin-system-may-kill-brokerage-model.html
(Corrects to remove references to interest income in first,
fourth, fifth, ninth and final paragraphs for story published
April 14.)  The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission may require margin changes in futures markets that
are being considered for new swaps clearing plans.  The CFTC has proposed divvying up margin payments of
individual swaps users at clearinghouses rather than allowing
accounts to be treated as one pool by banks representing
multiple customers. Futures markets now allow banks to pool all
their customer accounts together when settling a day’s margins.
The swaps plan may be used for futures margin, too, said CFTC
Commissioner  Scott O’Malia .  “It’s being considered,” he said in an interview
yesterday.  Futures brokerages such as Newedge USA LLC and  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MF)  invest excess collateral that they hold overnight
to earn interest on  U.S. Treasuries  and other investments. While
benchmark U.S. interest rates are between zero and 0.25 percent,
offering little earning opportunity now, higher-rate
environments can provide large earnings opportunities for
futures brokers.  MF Global, for instance, earned $1.77 billion in interest
income in the quarter ended March 31, 2007 when rates were 5.25
percent. MF Global’s interest income includes returns it earns
on investments it makes with its own capital, according to the
company.  Proposed Rule  The CFTC  proposed rule  states that customers of brokerages
such as Newedge or MF Global must have their margin treated on a
“gross basis” equal to the amount of cash to back trades that
would be required if the customer was a member of the
clearinghouse. A clearinghouse “would not be permitted to net
positions of different customers against one another,”
according to the rule.  The commission hasn’t issued a final rule on the margin
issue. Comments on the proposal were closed to public input
March 21.  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman at MF Global, and Emily
Ahearn, a spokeswoman for Newedge, didn’t immediately return
calls for comment.  As of Feb. 28, futures brokerages held $163.7 billion in
customer margin, according to  monthly reports  by the CFTC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 