-- 
Chavez Policy Sends Venezuelans on Cross-Border Cash Hunt

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-04-14T16:42:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/chavez-policy-sends-venezuelans-on-cross-border-exodus-for-cash.html
For Gustavo Posse, the easiest way
to get dollars these days involves a 403-mile drive from
 Valencia , in central Venezuela, to Cucuta in Colombia.  Posse, the owner of a medical clinic, made the drive last
month to get hard currency to pay for the surgical equipment he
was importing from the U.S. The 58-year-old businessman said he
asked the Venezuelan government to sell him dollars. The answer
was no.  “I have to change money here because in Venezuela it’s not
allowed,” Posse said in an interview at his hotel in Cucuta,
northeastern Colombia, last month. At home, “I apply for
official dollars for my business but they never approve it.”  Exchange houses in Colombian border towns like Cucuta have
become the only “liquid market” in trading of bolivars for
dollars after President  Hugo Chavez  banned  currency trading  last
May and required banks to use a state-run market, said Ricardo Hausmann, director of the Center for International Development
at  Harvard University .  “It’s a desperate situation for businesses, especially in
Venezuela where everything is imported,” said Juan Pablo Fuentes, Latin American economist at Moody’s Analytics in
Philadelphia. “These currency controls are like a game. The
government looks to fence you in and you are always looking to
find the exit.”  Riskiest Economy  For people like Posse, the exit is Cucuta, a town of
560,000 where  Simon Bolivar  formed a congress in 1821 that
sought to unify  South America  as one state following its
liberation from Spanish rule. Posse said he goes to Cucuta even
though he only gets about half the dollars for what his bolivars
are supposed to be worth, based on Chavez’s official exchange
rate.  Cucuta’s rate weakened to 8.30 bolivars per dollar today
from 8.19 bolivars on April 8, according to Javier Trillos, a
financial consultant at Comprador y Vendedor de Divisas
Italcambios Cucuta. The firm is unrelated to Caracas-based
Organizacion Italcambio CA.  The Venezuelan government offers 4.3 bolivars per dollar
and the central bank-run system offers 5.3 bolivars per dollar.
Trading at any other rate in the country is illegal. Still,
around 11 percent of imports are carried out using a black
market, according to Alejandro Grisanti of  Barclays Capital .  Black Market  Black market operations work by importers sending bolivars
to a trader via electronic transfer who in turn sends dollars to
a U.S. account. Smaller transactions also occur in cash.  The gap between the unofficial and official exchange rates
shows Chavez is overvaluing the bolivar given the state of the
Venezuelan economy, Bret Rosen, a Latin America debt strategist
with Standard Chartered Bank in  New York , said in a telephone
interview.  Venezuela was the last economy in Latin America to pull out
of the recession after the global financial crisis that started
in 2008 and its inflation rate of 27.4 percent in March was the
highest in the world among 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to buy Venezuelan dollar
bonds instead of U.S. treasuries was 1,009 basis points, or
10.09 percentage points today, the most of any developing nation
in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  Colombia ’s yield premium was 154 basis points. The
Colombian economy expanded at the fastest pace since 2007 in the
fourth quarter on rising consumer confidence and bank lending.  Healing Wounds  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  made healing wounds
with Venezuela key to his presidential campaign, calming
concerns he wouldn’t tolerate Chavez, the self-described
revolutionary socialist. Colombia’s exports to Venezuela fell 80
percent to $182 million in the first two months of this year
from $928 million in the same period in 2008 following several
spats between Chavez and Santos’ predecessor Alvaro Uribe,
according to the Colombian statistics agency.  A Venezuelan finance ministry official, who can’t be named
in accordance with government policy, declined to comment.
Messages to Santos’ spokeswoman weren’t answered.  About 375 miles from Colombia’s capital, Cucuta trades
about $5 million of bolivars a day, according to Carlos Luna,
president of the Association of Professional Moneychangers of
Norte de Santander, or Asocambios. The Cucuta  Chamber of
Commerce  has registered 285 exchange houses and many more exist,
Carlos Gamboa, an economist with the group, said in an
interview.  Chavez Shut Down  Chavez, who first imposed currency controls in 2003, shut
down the unregulated market last year in an attempt to slow
capital flight that reached $18.5 billion in 2010. Companies and
investors that were unable to get dollars from the government at
the official  exchange rate  used that market. Also known as the
parallel market, it allowed brokerages to swap bonds for
dollars.  The move reduced the supply of dollars available for
Venezuelans. The central bank money-changing system, Sitme,
traded an average of $33.8 million a day since it opened June 9.
Foreign-exchange trading was about $100 million a day before the
 capital controls , said  Russell Dallen , head trader for Caracas
capital markets at BBO Financial Services. The market limits a
company’s purchases to $50,000 a day.  The government left in place the  Foreign Exchange Board ,
known as Cadivi, which sells at 4.3 bolivars and supplied an
average of $119 million a day during the first quarter.  ‘Absurd’ System  “I don’t know of any country in the world that has a more
inefficient and absurd exchange rate regime,” Hausmann, who was
a Venezuelan planning minister from 1992 to 1993, said in a
telephone interview from Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Venezuela ’s
currency control system “generates uncontrolled inflation,
fiscal swings and periodic massive devaluations,” he said.  On the sidewalks of Parque Santander, Cucuta’s principal
square, signs seek to coax people to sell bolivars while vendors
working on commission hawk for exchange business.  David Pernia, a 32-year-old communications systems engineer
in western Venezuela, said he makes the 33-kilometer trip from
his home town of San Cristobal to Cucuta to change bolivars for
Colombian pesos to keep his business running.  “I always come here because it’s safe and legal,” Pernia
said.  About 20 to 40 Venezuelans visit each of Cucuta’s exchange
houses daily, Trillos of Italcambios estimates.  Venezuelans also bring bolivars out of the country to
counter rising inflation and an increasingly devalued bolivar,
Luna of Asocambios said.  Losing Patience  Posse said he exchanged more than 180,000 bolivars at the
rate of 224 Colombian pesos each. He converted the money into
dollars by wiring it to his son in Miami, who then used the cash
to buy about $20,000 on surgical machinery for Posse’s clinic.  Posse said the trips to Cucuta every two months have become
a chore and he’s considering selling his business in Venezuela.  “You ask for dollars from Cadivi and they don’t approve
them because that’s a monopoly,” said Posse, a Colombian
citizen. “If I could find a buyer for the business I would
already have returned to Colombia or joined my son in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  