-- 
Chelsea Wants Guus Hiddink to Replace Ancelotti, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-14T10:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/chelsea-wants-guus-hiddink-to-replace-ancelotti-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Hiddink’s Return?  Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich is ready to ditch manager
 Carlo Ancelotti  and replace him with the Blues former interim
boss Guus Hiddink, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Chelsea’s last chance of winning trophy this season ended
two days ago when it was eliminated from the Champions League by
 Manchester United , and Abramovich has lost confidence in club’s
Italian manager, the Mail said.  Hiddink, 64, impressed the Russian when he took charge of
the team for three months in 2009, the newspaper added. Hiddink
took Chelsea to the semifinals of the Champions League and led
it to an F.A. Cup triumph over Portsmouth. The Dutchman is
currently coaching  Turkey ’s national team.  No Deal  Newcastle manager Alan Pardew says reports of a deal to
sell Spanish defender Jose Enrique to Liverpool aren’t true, the
 Independent  reported.  “There’s definitely no deal between the clubs - 100
percent,” the newspaper quoted Pardew saying. “He’s under
contract here until next summer and we hope to open talks on a
new deal as soon as possible.”  Former Liverpool player and assistant manager Phil Thompson
said in an interview broadcast on Norwegian television last
weekend that a deal had already been done to take the player to
Anfield.  QPR’s Plans  Queens Park Rangers are preparing for the Premier League by
plotting the purchases of Andy Johnson and Jimmy Bullard, the
 Daily Mail  reported.  The west  London  team could secure promotion to the top
flight with victory over Derby County in its next game.  Johnson has a year left on his contract with Fulham.
Bullard is loan at Ipswich from Hull. His contract runs for
another two seasons.  Villa’s Preparation  Aston Villa  is ready to sell attacker Ashley Young for 25
million pounds ($41 million), the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Young, 25, has attracted interest from Liverpool, Tottenham
and Manchester United, the newspaper said.  Liverpool Consider PSG Defender  Liverpool will consider making a move for Paris Saint-
Germain defender Mamadou Sakho it fails to get Bolton’s Gary Cahill, the  Mirror  reported.  Manager Kenny Dalglish fears being priced out of a deal for
Cahill because  Manchester City  is also trying to by the
Englishman, the Mirror said.  Forlan Move  Sao Paulo  is close to acquiring Diego Forlan from Atletico
 Madrid , and is offering holding midfielder Casemiro in exchange
Radio Bandeirantes said on its website.  Forlan’s father, Pablo, played for Sao Paulo, and also
coached the team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
Or  tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 