-- 
Chile Peso Slides as Copper Fall, Oil Gain Weaken Terms of Trade

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-04-14T16:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/chile-peso-slides-as-copper-fall-oil-gain-weaken-terms-of-trade.html
Chile ’s peso weakened for the third
time in four days as higher  oil prices  and lower copper signaled
a reduction in the country’s trade surplus.  The peso fell 0.3 percent to 473.55 per  U.S. dollar  as
of 11:50 a.m.  New York  time. It earlier strengthened as much as
0.3 percent to 470.83 per U.S. dollar.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil for May delivery gained
0.6 percent even as copper futures slid for a fourth day,
dipping through $4.3 a pound on concern demand from China, the
biggest buyer of the metal, may ebb. The peso has gained 1.2
percent this month as the central bank raised its benchmark
interest rate by a half-point for a second straight month.  “Until yesterday, the market was very concerned about the
differential in rates because of the systematic rise in Chilean
 interest rates  and had ignored the deteriorating terms of
trade,” said Alejandro Araya, a trader at Banco Santander Chile
in Santiago. “The market has convinced itself that the dollar
should be below 470 pesos, but it’s not possible.”  Copper accounted for 53.5 percent of Chile’s exports in
March and oil was 11.5 percent of its imports, according to
central bank  data . Chile’s central bank has raised its benchmark
interest rate more than any other central bank tracked by
Bloomberg in the last six months.  Clyde Wardle , a foreign currency strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in New York changed his forecast for the Chilean
currency to 480 at the end of this year from 510.  “We are not turning outright bullish on the Chilean peso,
rather, just less bearish,” Wardle wrote today in a note to
clients.  China ’s efforts to switch growth from infrastructure to
consumption may cap commodity prices, he wrote, limiting gains
in the peso.  Foreign investors reduced bets against the peso in the
forwards market to $1.5 billion on April 12, the lowest in a
month, according to central bank data that shows Chilean banks’
dollar positions with foreign counterparties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  