-- 
China's $3 Trillion Reserves Show G-20 Task as Wen Resists Yuan Pressure

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-14T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/china-s-3-trillion-reserves-show-g-20-task-as-wen-resists-yuan-pressure.html
China ’s foreign-exchange reserves
exceeded $3 trillion for the first time, highlighting global
imbalances that Group of 20 finance chiefs aim to tackle at
meetings in  Washington .  China’s currency holdings, the world’s biggest, swelled by
$197 billion in the first quarter to $3.04 trillion, the central 
bank said yesterday. New loans were a more-than-estimated 679.4
billion yuan ($104 billion) in March, it said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s policy of controlling the currency,
along with trade surpluses and flows of capital into the
fastest-growing major economy, have boosted the reserves by $1
trillion in two years. G-20 finance chiefs are seeking to agree
on an early-warning system that can prevent the type of
imbalances in trade and financial patterns that contributed to
the 2007-09 crisis and recession.  “The continued substantial foreign-exchange reserve
accumulation by China is a reflection of global imbalances,”
said  David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist at Action
Economics who formerly worked for the U.S. Federal Reserve.
China continues to “resist the pressure for faster appreciation
of the yuan,” he said.  China will report first-quarter economic growth of 9.7
percent and March inflation of 5.4 percent, Jiang Guangce, a
partner and fund manager at Congrong Investment Management Co.,
said yesterday, citing market speculation. Consumer prices rose
5.3 percent or 5.4 percent last month, according to a Phoenix
Television report yesterday.  Those numbers, to be released today, would exceed
economists’ median forecasts for 9.4 percent growth and 5.2
percent inflation.  ‘Striking’ Increase  The currency holdings at the end of March compared with the
$2.98 trillion estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of five
economists and $2.85 trillion at the end of last year. M2 money
supply rose 16.6 percent in March from a year earlier, exceeding
analysts’ median estimate.  “Most striking at first sight is how fast the foreign-
exchange reserves are rising,” said  Mark Williams , a London-
based economist for Capital Economics Ltd. “Chinese officials
point to the first quarter’s trade deficit as evidence that
there is less need for the renminbi rise, but the scale of
reserve growth shows that the People’s Bank is still intervening
very actively to keep the renminbi down.”  Yesterday’s reports underscore the challenges for China’s
policy makers as they seek to stem inflation while at the same
time preventing the yuan from soaring.  Stronger Yuan  The yuan closed at 6.5315 per dollar in  Shanghai  yesterday,
about 4.5 percent higher than a year ago. By contrast,
 Singapore ’s currency has climbed 10 percent in that time,
according to Bloomberg data. That nation, which uses its
exchange rate as the main monetary policy tool, yesterday said
it will allow further appreciation after a greater-than-forecast
acceleration in growth last quarter.  Any slowing in the pace of gross domestic product growth
may help defuse risks of overheating and aid Wen’s campaign to
contain consumer prices. The peak year-on-year gain in GDP
growth during 2010 was 11.9 percent.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among
those who have said that excess savings in  Asia  contributed to
inflows of capital into the U.S. The investments helped hold
down American borrowing costs, fueling a record mortgage boom
that ended with a bust that sparked the global credit crisis.  Global Imbalances  At a February meeting in Paris, G-20 policy makers produced
a list of criteria to use as yardsticks for when dangerous
global imbalances are developing. The list included public debt
and fiscal deficits, private debt and savings rates, trade
balances and net investment-income flows and transfers.  Omitted at China’s behest were foreign-exchange reserves, a
sign of the international disparities in spending and saving. In
a signal that China may continue to resist the initiative, Li Yong, a vice finance minister, said guidelines could be used as
a “political tool” against his nation by the G-20.  Reserves are also affected by  exchange-rate  swings.
Strength in the euro against the dollar may have bolstered
China’s holdings in the first quarter, by boosting the dollar-
denominated value of assets held in the European currency.  Chinese officials are reining in lending to counter
inflation after a record expansion of credit in 2009 and 2010,
with the central bank boosting  interest rates  four times since
mid-October and raising banks’ reserve requirements.  “We will further improve the yuan formation mechanism and
increase yuan exchange-rate flexibility to eliminate monetary
conditions that fuel inflation,” Wen told China’s cabinet this
week.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Chris Anstey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  