-- 
China May Start Shale-Gas Production by 2015 to Meet Cleaner Fuel Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-14T04:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/china-may-start-shale-gas-production-by-2015-ministry-says-1-.html
China , the world’s biggest polluter,
may start producing shale gas within five years to meet rising
demand for cleaner-burning fuels.  Production of gas in shale rock may begin before the end of
2015, Che Changbo, deputy director of the Ministry of Land and
Resources’s oil and gas strategy center, said in an interview
after a conference in Beijing. The country has drilled more than
10 wells and signed several cooperation agreements with foreign
companies to develop the resource, according to Che.  China wants to triple the use of natural gas to about 10
percent of its energy consumption by 2020 as it cuts reliance on
more polluting coal. China has brought in foreign partners
including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to assess its
shale potential and acquired overseas shale-gas assets to gain
expertise in producing the hard-to-extract resource.  “We need to accelerate the verification of reserves,
improve technology and enhance the ability of manufacturing
equipment” needed to extract shale gas, Che said. “We should
expand cooperation with foreign companies to achieve all that.”  China’s state-owned energy companies have spent more than
$6 billion on North American shale-gas assets in the last three
months, six times as much as the whole of 2010. China National
Petroleum Corp., China Petrochemical Corp. and China National
Offshore Oil Corp. are currently leading the country’s shale-gas
projects, Che said.  Vast Reserves  China may have 26 trillion cubic meters, or about 920
trillion cubic feet, of potential shale-gas resources, according
to Che.  Deposits of shale gas in China are 12 times more than
conventional gas reserves in the nation, the U.S. Energy
Department said in a report on April 5.  Chinese shale-gas reserves that are “technically
recoverable” stood at 1,275 trillion cubic feet compared with
107 trillion in proven gas deposits in 2009, according to the
report. That’s more than 862 trillion cubic feet of reserves in
the U.S. and 19 percent of the world’s 6,622 trillion cubic feet.  “Once we start large-scale production, shale gas won’t be
an unconventional fuel for China anymore and it will play an
important role to supply China’s energy needs,” Che said.  China completed its first horizontal shale gas well after
11 months of drilling, according to a CNPC report in March.
Chuanqing Drilling Engineering Co., a unit of CNPC, conducted
the operation and no foreign venture partner was mentioned,
according to the report.  The country produced 800,000 metric tons of shale oil last
year, with Fushun in northeast China currently the nation’s
biggest shale-oil production base, Che said. Companies are
assessing shale-oil potential in provinces including  Inner
Mongolia , Xinjiang, Gansu and Shaanxi, he said.  Shale-oil production may rise to 1 million tons this year,
spurred by higher global crude prices, Che said.  -- Wang Ying  and Chua Baizhen in Beijing. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 