-- 
World-Record China Reserves Pass $3 Trillion in Policy Challenge for G-20

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-14T09:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/china-says-foreign-currency-reserves-rose-to-3-04-trillion-at-end-march.html
China ’s foreign-exchange reserves
exceeded $3 trillion for the first time and bank lending
accelerated, signaling an escalation in the global economic
imbalances that Group of 20 finance chiefs are trying to rein in.  China’s currency holdings, the world’s biggest, swelled by
$197 billion in the first quarter, the nation’s central bank
said on its website. A separate report showed new loans were a
more-than-estimated 679.4 billion yuan ($104 billion) in March.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s policy of restraining gains in the
yuan, along with trade surpluses and flows of capital into the
fastest-growing major economy have boosted the reserves by $1
trillion in two years. The G-20, gathering tonight in  Washington ,
is seeking to agree on an early warning system that can prevent
the type of imbalances in trade and financial patterns that
contributed to the 2007-09 global credit crisis.  “Most striking at first sight is how fast the foreign-
exchange reserves are rising,” said  Mark Williams , a London-
based economist for Capital Economics Ltd. “Chinese officials
point to the first quarter’s trade deficit as evidence that
there is less need for the renminbi rise, but the scale of
reserve growth shows that the People’s Bank is still intervening
very actively to keep the renminbi down.”  Exceeding Forecasts  The currency holdings at the end of March compared with the
$2.98 trillion estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of five
economists and $2.85 trillion at the end of last year. M2 money
supply rose 16.6 percent from a year earlier, exceeding
analysts’ median estimate.  Today’s reports underscore the challenges for China’s
policy makers as they seek to stem inflation while at the same
time preventing the yuan from soaring. Consumer prices rose 5.3
percent or 5.4 percent last month, the most since July 2008,
according to a Phoenix Television report in  Hong Kong  ahead of
government figures scheduled for release tomorrow.  The yuan was little changed today at 6.5339 per dollar,
about 4.5 percent higher than a year ago. By contrast,
 Singapore ’s currency has climbed 10 percent in that time. That
nation, which uses its exchange rate as the main monetary policy
tool, today said it will allow further appreciation after a
greater-than-forecast acceleration in growth last quarter.  GDP Growth  Government figures tomorrow may show China’s gross domestic
product expanded at a slower pace in the first three months of
the year, which may help defuse the risks of overheating and
help Wen’s campaign to contain consumer prices. The expansion
probably eased to 9.4 percent, according to the median estimate,
compared with a peak year-on-year gain of 11.9 percent last year.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among
those who have said that excess savings in  Asia  contributed to
inflows of capital into the U.S. The investments helped hold
down American borrowing costs, fueling a record mortgage boom
that ended with a bust that sparked the global credit crisis.  At a February meeting in Paris, G-20 policy makers produced
a list of criteria to use as yardsticks for when dangerous
global imbalances are developing. The list included public debt
and fiscal deficits, private debt and savings rates, trade
balances and net investment-income flows and transfers.  Omitted at China’s behest were foreign-exchange reserves,
a sign of the international disparities in spending and saving.
In a signal that China may continue to resist the initiative, Li Yong, a vice finance minister, said guidelines could be used as
a “political tool” against his nation by the G-20.  Euro’s Impact  Reserves are also affected by  exchange-rate  swings.
Strength in the euro against the dollar might have bolstered
China’s holdings in the first quarter, by boosting the value of
the dollar-denominated value of assets that are held in the
European currency.  Chinese officials are reining in lending to counter
inflation after a record expansion of credit in 2009 and 2010,
with the central bank boosting  interest rates  four times since
mid-October and raising banks’ reserve requirements.  “We will further improve the yuan formation mechanism and
increase yuan exchange-rate flexibility to eliminate monetary
conditions that fuel inflation,” Wen said in his speech to a
State Council meeting yesterday.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Chris Anstey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  