-- 
CICC Says Global Banks Too Bullish on China's Stock Market as Pimco Buys

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-15T09:40:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/cicc-says-global-banks-too-bullish-on-china-s-stock-market-as-pimco-buys.html
China ’s biggest investment bank is
turning “cautious” on the country’s stocks, just as six of its
overseas rivals and the manager of the largest mutual fund say
it’s time to buy.  China International Capital Corp. predicts slowing economic
and earnings growth will limit equity gains after the Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index rose 6.6 percent this year, the best
advance among major Asian indexes. The top-ranked provider of
China research in Asiamoney’s survey recommends “defensive”
companies including drugmakers and consumer staples producers.  “We’re turning cautious,” Hao Hong, the global equity
strategist at CICC, said in an April 13 interview in Shanghai.
“Economic growth is going to slow down in the coming months.”  CICC’s reduced outlook follows recommendations to boost
Chinese stock holdings in the past month from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Macquarie Group Ltd. and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , along with forecasts for further gains of at least
14 percent by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK) 
Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees $1.2 trillion,
said this week it has a “large overweight” position in China.  While the country’s shares have rallied for three straight
weeks on speculation that the People’s Bank of China is near the
end of its campaign to tighten monetary policy, Hong says
bullish investors may be disappointed.  Rate Bets  The Hang Seng gauge of Chinese shares listed in  Hong Kong ,
or H-shares, dropped 23 percent in the six months after the
central bank stopped raising rates in 2007, underperforming the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index by 14 percentage points. In 2004,
the H-share gauge rose about 3 percent after rate increases
ended, trailing the MSCI index by 8 percentage points.  The H-share index added 0.4 percent to 13,533.58 today.  “Consensus sees the beginning of the end of the interest-
rate hike cycle and thus is getting bullish,” Hong said in a
report sent to clients April 10. “The end of the cycle is not
necessarily bullish judging from the experiences of 2004 and
2007.”  Hong, a former analyst at Morgan Stanley and strategist at
Citigroup Inc., predicted in January 2010 that stocks would
retreat as the government reined in property speculation. The H-
share gauge dropped 10 percent in the first half while the
 Shanghai  Composite Index, comprising A and B shares traded on
the mainland, declined 27 percent. The Shanghai gauge gained 0.3
percent to 3,050.53 today.  In November 2010, Hong advised investors to refrain from
buying Chinese stocks after the biggest rally in 15 months. The
H-share gauge declined for four straight months.  Inflation Jump  China’s economy  grew a more-than-estimated 9.7 percent in
the first quarter and inflation accelerated in March to the
fastest pace since 2008, the National  Bureau  of Statistics said
at a briefing in Beijing today.  Consumer prices rose 5.4 percent from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau said. The median forecasts in Bloomberg News
surveys of economists were for growth of 9.4 percent and
inflation of 5.2 percent.  China has increased its benchmark lending rate by 1
percentage point to 6.31 percent since October and lifted banks’
reserve requirements three times this year to fight inflation
and curb real-estate speculation.  Policy makers will lift the key lending rate to 6.56
percent by year-end, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 20 economists on March 22. Besides monetary
tools, the government has deployed subsidies, state-food
reserves and the threat of price controls to counter inflation,
which Premier  Wen Jiabao  has described as a potential threat to
social stability in the nation of 1.3 billion people.  ‘Sustainable Rally’  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, boosted
its 12-month forecast for the Hang Seng index a day after the
central bank’s rate increase on April 5. HSBC,  Europe ’s largest
lender, increased its rating on China to “overweight,” while
Macquarie,  Australia ’s biggest investment bank, said investors
should lift holdings because the central bank is near the end of
raising borrowing costs.  Chinese stocks were upgraded to “overweight” from
“market weight” the previous week by analysts Helen Zhu and
Timothy Moe at Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets. They recommended banking and property shares and kept
their 12-month target of 16,500 for the H-share index.  Jun Ma , a
Hong Kong-based strategist at Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest
lender, said in a report distributed March 21 that Chinese
shares may climb about 25 percent.  Financials, Property  Maria Gordon, an emerging-market stock fund manager in
London at Pimco, said in an April 13 interview with Bloomberg
Television that financial and property stocks are attractive.
The $236 billion PIMCO Total Return Fund, managed by  Bill Gross ,
is the biggest mutual fund in the industry’s history.  Frank Li, the China strategist at JPMorgan, said stocks may
“seesaw” before a “sustainable rally” late in the third
quarter, according to e-mailed comments yesterday. HSBC’s  Garry Evans  and Credit Suisse’s Peggy Chan didn’t respond to phone and
e-mail requests for comment. Goldman Sachs’s Moe said he
couldn’t comment because was traveling.  Michael Kurtz , a
strategist at Macquarie, declined to comment.  “Growth will be stronger than market expectations,”
Deutsche Bank’s Ma said in a phone interview yesterday. “We’re
expecting a small re-rating of the market as the macro fears
recede.”  ‘Cheap’ Stocks  The MSCI China Index of mostly Hong Kong-listed China
stocks “is cheap,” Ma said. The gauge trades for 12 times
estimated earnings, compared with its historical average of 14.8,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The H-share measure is
valued at 11.1 times, compared with 11.6 for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index.  CICC’s Hong advised investors to cut holdings of companies
that rely on accelerating economic growth to boost earnings,
including raw-materials producers. Profits at China-listed
companies will rise about 19 percent in 2011, down from 40
percent last year, according to CICC estimates.  “It’s time to turn defensive,” Hong said.  --Michael Patterson, Zhang Shidong and Allen Wan. With
assistance from Irene Shen and Kristine Aquino. Editors: Allen
Wan, Reinie Booysen  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Michael
Patterson in  London  at +44-20-7073-3102 or
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ; Allen Wan in Shanghai at +86-21-
6104-3041 or  awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  