-- 
Citigroup Sued for $347 Million After Death of Indonesian Client in Branch

-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-04-14T09:35:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/citigroup-consumer-bank-sued-for-347-million-over-indonesian-client-death.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s consumer banking
unit, barred from adding clients to its  credit-card  and wealth
management services in  Indonesia  after fraud allegations and the
death of a card holder at a branch in Jakarta, was sued by the
dead man’s wife for as much as 3 trillion rupiah ($347 million).  Irzen Octa, 50, died on March 29 after he was “physically
abused” at the Citibank branch, according to a lawsuit filed by
his wife Esi Ronaldi in the central Jakarta district court today.
Octa had met with the bank’s debt collectors, disputing the
amount he owed on his credit card, according to the lawsuit.  Citigroup, which has operated in Indonesia since 1968,
faces further sanctions depending on the result of an
investigation by the Indonesian central bank into Octa’s death
and into allegations that a bank employee stole money from
clients. Indonesian lawmakers on April 8 recommended that
Citigroup’s New York headquarters take responsibility for the
incidents.  Citigroup spokesman Richard Tesvich said the bank hasn’t
received the lawsuit and it was inappropriate to comment on it
at this time.  “As we have stated previously, our internal investigation
has found no indication that Mr. Octa was physically harmed at
our offices,” he said. “We continue to cooperate fully with
the police investigation.”  Police Suspects  Octa’s death led Indonesian lawmakers to ask  Bank Indonesia 
to revise regulations on debt-collection practices, and the
police to probe if there was criminal behavior at the bank’s
local unit. Four people are suspected of being involved in the
death, Gatot Eddy Pramono, head of the South Jakarta Police
District, said on April 6.  Citigroup reported the alleged theft by Inong Malinda Dee,
a relationship manager who handled more than 200 accounts of
about 500 million rupiah each, to the police following a
complaint by a client on March 11.  The lender said last month it may invest as much as $2
billion in its Asian consumer banking unit in the next three
years as it taps the region’s growing middle class. Citigroup’s
Indonesian consumer bank had revenue of $354 million last year,
according to a presentation Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  gave last month.  The case is Esi Ronaldi v Citibank N.A. and Citibank N.A.
Indonesia, Indonesia in the Central Jakarta District Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  