-- 
EU Carbon Trade Needs Measures Beyond BlueNext’s Tracking

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-04-14T16:25:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/co2-trade-needs-measures-beyond-bluenext-safe-zone-traders-say.html
Trading in European Union carbon
permits may require further safeguards against theft and other
criminality even after BlueNext SA, the region’s largest spot
carbon exchange, begins tracking sales through previous owners.  Starting May 3, the bourse will allow the transfer only of
permits whose ownership history can be traced. Barclays Bank
Plc, GDF Suez SA, Enel SpA and Orbeo, the carbon trading venture
of Societe Generale SA and Rhodia SA have committed to maintain
the trade in spot permits in BlueNext’s “safe zone.”  “It’s an interesting and innovative development and I
welcome that,” Louis Redshaw, head of  emissions trading  at
 Barclays Capital , said in a phone interview yesterday. “It’s
the only action to help resolve the problem, but it’s not the
solution, as it only addresses a subset of the  spot market .”  ICE Futures  Europe , the biggest exchange for futures
permits, has yet to re-open its near-term market after Austria,
the  Czech Republic  and  Greece  reported thefts of permits that
may have ended up trading across exchanges. BlueNext closed its
spot market on Jan. 19 for 15 days because of the thefts and
traded volumes haven’t yet recovered to levels of last year.  About 11,000 factories and power stations must comply with
the European Union’s cap-and-trade program that requires them to
cover emissions with permits. Traders can buy permits on
exchanges or on over-the-counter markets. BlueNext’s system
won’t protect deals made off its exchange.  Tracking Difficulties  Tracking ownership of emissions permits previously traded
through brokers in bilateral deals, rather than via exchanges
may be difficult, Owen Lomas, a London-based consultant at Allen
& Overy LLP’s global climate change practice, said by e-mail.
These deals can include contractual agreements whereby ownership
and possession happen at different times, making it difficult
for BlueNext to track exact ownership of the permits, he said.  “My fear is the European Commission will view this as a
solution and ignore the wider reforms that are needed to
extinguish criminality in the market,” Redshaw said. “I
shouldn’t be required to send all sorts of information to
exchanges. That’s not how other markets work, but because
criminals have invaded the system, that’s the way it has to work
for this one.”  Even though the stolen allowances accounted for only 0.1
percent of the European Union average annual cap in the 2008-
2012 trading period, the attacks hurt the reputation of the
trading system and sparked criticism from some analysts that the
supervision of the system is not adequate.  ‘Suffered Extensively’  “There’s a risk that a lot more European Union Allowances
will be rejected than were actually stolen, just because
BlueNext can’t follow them all the way,” Alessandro Vitelli,
director of strategy at IDEAcarbon in London, said yesterday.  Thieves transferred more than 2 million allowances valued
at about 33 million euros ($48 million) at today’s prices from
accounts in carbon registries in  Austria , the Czech Republic and
Greece in January. The European Union halted the transfer of
allowances into trading accounts as countries tightened up
security measures.  “The spot market suffered extensively” from the thefts as
trading spot permits became too risky,  Francois-Xavier Saint Macary said in a telephone interview yesterday. He expects
traded volumes to “gradually recover”.  This year’s allocation of new permits and allowances from
national auctions will be enough “to bring initial liquidity,”
for spot trading while the system begins to track back ownership
of allowances that have been traded a number of times, he said.  The European Commission, which oversees the European
Trading Scheme, is due to propose new regulations for carbon
trading to restore confidence in the market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in  London  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  