-- 
Coeur D’Alene, Pan American Fall on Proposed Bolivia Changes

-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-04-14T22:36:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/coeur-d-alene-pan-american-fall-on-proposed-bolivia-changes-2-.html
Coeur d’Alene Mines Corp. (CDE)  and  Pan
American Silver Corp. (PAA)  shares plunged today after Bolivian
President  Evo Morales  announced plans to expropriate mines amid
protests for wage increases.  Coeur fell $2.68, or 7.9 percent, to $31.08 in New York
trading, the most since May 20. Pan American slumped C$3.69, or
9.3 percent, to C$35.89 in Toronto.  State mining company Comibol may rescind contracts with
companies including Coeur, Pan American and Glencore
International AG, La Paz-based newspaper  La Razon  reported
yesterday, citing Comibol President Hugo Miranda.  Since taking power in January 2006, Morales has seized gas
fields, oil refineries, pension funds, telecommunications
companies and Glencore’s tin smelter in a bid to increase state
control over Bolivia’s industry. Morales told reporters in  La
Paz  on April 12 that he plans to release a decree on May 1
overturning the privatization of state mining assets.  Coeur’s property rights are not the subject of
expropriation, company spokesman Tony Ebersole said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  “Our surface mining and silver production from San
Bartolome is under way now as usual,” Ebersole said.  Pan American spokeswoman Kettina Cordero said in a
telephone interview from Vancouver that the company hadn’t been
notified by the Bolivian government. Glencore spokesman  Simon Buerk  declined to comment.  Protesters battled police, blocked roads and surrounded
Morales’s residence in La Paz today as a  general strike  for
higher salaries entered its eighth day, Radio Panamericana
reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  