-- 
Companies Can Argue Systemic-Risk Designation, Treasury Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-14T02:41:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/companies-can-argue-systemic-risk-designation-treasury-says.html
Financial companies under
consideration for Federal Reserve oversight will get a chance to
convince a council of regulators they don’t warrant the extra
supervision, a U.S. Treasury Department official said.  “A company under consideration will have the opportunity
to submit written materials to the council on whether, in the
company’s view, it meets the standard for designation” as
systemically risky, Jeffrey Goldstein, undersecretary for
domestic finance, said in testimony prepared for a congressional
hearing today. The council’s decisions will ultimately be
subject to review by a judge, he said.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators charged with preventing a financial crisis, will
evaluate information submitted by the company before voting on
whether to subject it to heightened scrutiny, Goldstein said.
His prepared testimony before a House Financial Services
Committee panel was obtained by Bloomberg News.  U.S. bank-holding companies with more than $50 billion in
assets -- including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  -- will
automatically have increased supervision. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , a council member, said last month that regulators hope
to start designating some non-bank financial companies by
midyear.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is chairman of the
council, which also includes the chairmen of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  