-- 
Consumer Confidence in U.S. Rises Third Straight Week on Job-Market Gains

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-14T20:24:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-rises-for-a-third-week-bloomberg-index-shows.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
rose for a third straight week, indicating an improving job
market is shoring up Americans’ attitudes toward their finances
and the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus 43 in
the period to April 10, the best showing since the end of
February, following a minus 44.5 reading the prior week. Other
reports today showed surging fuel costs pushed wholesale prices
up last month and jobless claims unexpectedly climbed last week.  Employment picked up over the past two months, just in time
to help households maintain spending as higher grocery and fuel
bills strained budgets. Nonetheless, inflation has hurt buying
power, one reason why economists project purchases in the first
quarter grew at about half the pace as in the previous three
months.  The comfort index “has shown a little bit of stability and
that’s encouraging,” said Robert Brusca, president of Fact &
Opinion Economics in  New York , who correctly forecast the gain.
“There has been more job growth. The economy has gotten better.
The consumer got hit pretty hard on energy prices but after a
while they get used to it and it affects them less.”  A Labor Department report today showed claims for jobless
benefits increased by 27,000 to 412,000 in the week ended April
9, reflecting greater-than-normal volatility at the end of the
quarter. The increase in applications traditionally seen at the
beginning of a quarter was larger than usual this year, a Labor
Department spokesman said as the figures were released.  More Jobs  “Hiring will accelerate over the next few months,” said
 Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “This is a temporary blip and the labor
market will continue to heal.”  The producer-price index increased 0.7 percent in March,
another report from the Labor Department showed. So-called core
costs, which exclude volatile food and energy prices, rose 0.3
percent, exceeding the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Stocks rose, erasing an early slump, as the House approved
a spending bill that will avert a government shutdown. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed less than 0.1 percent to
1,314.52 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Treasury securities 
fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.50
percent from 3.46 percent late yesterday.  The latest results for the comfort survey reflected
improvements in all three subcomponents. The index of Americans’
views of the economy rose to minus 80.4 last week from minus
82.5 the prior week.  Comfort Breakdown  The measure of personal finances increased to minus 0.5
from minus 0.9, while the index of the buying climate climbed to
minus 48 from minus 50. The gauges on personal finances and
buying climate are the highest since February.  Figures from the Commerce Department yesterday reinforced
the results of the confidence survey that indicated Americans
are still spending even as fuel costs jump. The report showed
sales at retailers increased 0.4 percent in March, a ninth
consecutive gain, following a 1.1 percent advance the prior
month that was larger than previously estimated. Demand grew in
10 of 13 major categories.  “Customers may feel better about their employment
situation, but are uneasy due to higher fuel, food, clothing and
other costs, as well as geopolitical issues around the globe,”
Robert Hull, chief financial officer at Mooresville, North
Carolina-based Lowe’s Cos., the second-biggest U.S. home-
improvement retailer, said in an April 13 teleconference  Gasoline Prices  The average price of regular gasoline at the pump rose 11
cents to $3.77 a gallon in the week ended April 10, according to
AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization. It climbed to
$3.81 yesterday, the highest since September 2008.  The economy created 216,000 jobs in March, the most since
May, and the jobless rate fell to a two-year low of 8.8 percent,
Labor Department data showed April 1.  Reflecting the labor market outlook, the comfort gauges
improved last week for Americans with full- and part-time jobs,
as well as for those who were unemployed.  Consumer spending  from January through March probably
climbed at a 2 percent annual rate after growing at a 4 percent
rate in the previous three months, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg this month.  Today’s report on wholesale prices showed costs excluding
food and energy climbed 1.9 percent in the 12 months ended in
March, up from a 1.8 percent increase the prior month and the
biggest year-over-year gain since August 2009.  Raw-Material Costs  Growth in  China  and other emerging economies and a
weakening dollar are pushing up commodity costs, prompting
companies like  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  to boost prices.  “The recent and continued inflationary environment has
made it necessary to take prices up responsibly,” Gary Rodkin,
president and chief executive officer of the Omaha, Nebraska-
based company, said on a March 24 conference call. “Inflation
and the consumer mindset will continue to be challenging.”  Increases in raw-materials have opened a rift among Federal
Reserve policy makers between those that view the gains as
temporary and those that believe it will lead to a pickup in
inflation.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen 
and Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley
are among those who’ve said the economic expansion is still too
fragile, the  unemployment rate  is too high and that commodity
prices will probably have only a short-term influence on
inflation.  That’s put them at odds with  Charles Plosser , president of
the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia , and  Richard Fisher ,
his counterpart at the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas , who have
said the central bank should consider removing monetary stimulus
this year before inflation flares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  