-- 
Forecasters Split Over Extent of Northeast Cooling Through April

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-14T12:52:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/cooler-air-will-dominate-upper-great-plains-cwg-s-rogers-says.html
Forecasters are split over how much
cooling the U.S. Northeast may face at the end of April.  In his 11- to 15-day outlook,  Commodity Weather Group LLC’s 
 Matt Rogers  calls for temperatures to be near normal throughout
most of the Northeast, with only northern New York and New
England having the potential for cooler air.  MDA EarthSat Weather ’s forecast for the same time frame
calls for a high chance of cooling across the Northeast
extending as far south as coastal Virginia. MDA forecasters
believe changes in air pressure over the North Atlantic will
cause colder air to move south from  Canada .  “There is still plenty of modeling problems within this
period, keeping confidence on the lower side,” according to
MDA’s forecast.  Natural gas traders monitor forecasts to assess changes in
demand for the fuel, used in heating and power generation.
Commodity traders watch precipitation forecasts for their
potential impact on planting and crop yields.  According to Rogers, based in Bethesda, Maryland, the area
with the greatest potential for cooling in the April 24 to April
28 period is the northern U.S. from the Pacific Northwest to the
 Great Lakes  and as far south as Nebraska and northern  Texas . MDA
predicts this area will have seasonal weather for the time of
year.  Outlook for South  In his 6- to 10-day forecast, Rogers is calling for warmer-
than-normal weather to take hold across the southern U.S. and up
into the mid-Atlantic region, including Pennsylvania and
southern  New Jersey . The warmer air may retreat into Virginia
during the 11- to 15-day time period and become more pronounced
in the Southwest and  California .  MDA, in Gaithersburg, Maryland, shows a similar warming
pattern in the 6- to 10-day outlook. However, MDA omits the
Southeast from the region of warmer-than-normal weather in its
11- to 15-day forecast.  In its 30- to 60-day outlook, MDA calls for the eastern
U.S. to have a chance for seasonal weather in May while becoming
warmer than average in June.  New York’s average temperature in mid-to-late April is
about 54 degrees Fahrenheit (12 degrees Celsius), according to
 MDA  in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . The average temperature in St.
Louis is about 58 degrees; in Boston, 50; in Philadelphia, 55;
in Atlanta, 62; and in  Dallas , 66, according to MDA.  These temperatures produce low heating-degree-day values.
Heating degree days, calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees, are designed to show
energy demand. Higher values mean cooler weather and more energy
being used to heat homes and business.  Yesterday, the value in Central Park was 18, or 5 above
normal, according to the National Weather Service. In Boston it
was 19, or 1 above normal, and in Philadelphia it was 15 or 2
above normal.  The latest 6- to 10-day and 8- to 14-day outlooks from the
 U.S. Climate Prediction Center  show a high probability for
warming across the southern half of the U.S. from California to
 Florida  and up the East Coast into  New York  and Massachusetts
from April 19 to April 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  