-- 
Copper May Drop on China Credit-Tightening Concern, Survey Shows

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-04-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/copper-may-drop-on-china-credit-tightening-concern-survey-shows.html
Copper may fall on concern demand
will weaken as  China , the world’s biggest consumer of the metal,
tightens credit to restrain inflation, a survey showed.  Twelve of 20 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 60 percent, said prices will drop next week. Five
predicted a gain and three expected little change. Copper for
delivery in three months was down 4.3 percent for this week at
$9,447 a metric ton at 4 p.m. yesterday on the London Metal
Exchange.  China is likely to raise the reserve requirement ratio for
banks in the “near future,” the China Securities Journal said
yesterday. Figures due today will show consumer prices in the
country climbed 5.2 percent from a year earlier in March,
according to the median estimate from economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The government has a 4 percent target for 2011.  Copper “will probably trend downward next week as we get
closer to further tightening measures in China,” said  Charles Cooper , an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London. “We’ve
got Chinese stats out. On the back of that, we will probably see
expectations of lower base-metals prices.”  The Asian country has increased the ratio three times this
year to help curb inflation. China’s central bank has raised
 interest rates  four times since mid-October.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of April 8.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
63 of the past 132 weeks, or 48 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bearish: 12 Bullish: 5 Hold: 3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  