-- 
Credit Suisse’s CoCos Plan Opposed by Shareholder Group Ethos

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-04-14T11:08:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/credit-suisse-s-cocos-plan-opposed-by-shareholder-group-ethos.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s plan to
sell about $6.3 billion in contingent convertible bonds to
Middle East investors is being opposed by Ethos Foundation,
which says it will enable risky investment-banking operations.  Sale of the bonds, known as CoCos, aims to raise capital
“in particular for the trading operations in the investment
bank,”  Ethos , a Geneva-based foundation that advises more than
60 Swiss pension funds, said in an e-mailed statement today.  “These activities are very capital intensive and carry
risks that are not in line with the long-term interests of
Credit Suisse’s shareholders,” Dominique Biedermann, Ethos’s
executive director, said in the statement. “Without these
activities, the issuance of CoCos is not necessary.”  The Swiss government proposed requiring Credit Suisse and
larger rival UBS AG to hold capital equal to at least 19 percent
of their assets, weighted according to risk. The banks can use
CoCos, which automatically become equity when capital falls
below preset levels, to satisfy almost half the requirement
under the proposals.  “Credit Suisse finds it simply incomprehensible that Ethos
is not supporting these efforts to build a more stable financial
system,” the Zurich-based bank said in an e-mailed response to
Ethos’s statement. “The measures we are taking are in line with
the approach prescribed by the regulatory authorities, and we
are fully convinced that our measures are also in the interests
of our shareholders, since any other form of capital increase
would have a direct dilutive effect.”  CoCo Issues  Credit Suisse in February sold $2 billion of the bonds to
investors and agreed to sell a further $3.5 billion and 2.5
billion Swiss francs ($2.8 billion) in CoCos to Qatar Holding
LLC and the Olayan Group of  Saudi Arabia  no earlier than October
2013.  The bank will ask for shareholder approval at the annual
general meeting on April 29 to increase the amount of new shares
it can use to meet capital needs to 500 million from 100 million
previously. The existing authority for 100 million shares will
be used to support the $2 billion CoCo sale while 300 million
shares would be reserved for the CoCo issuance to Qatari and
Saudi Arabian investors and the rest would support any future
sales,  the bank said  last month.  Ethos promotes “the consideration of sustainable
development principles and corporate governance best practice,”
according to information on its website. The organization
advises investment funds and asset managers on how to vote at
annual meetings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  