-- 
Croatia Aims for Completion of EU Talks in June as Parties Unite

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-04-14T10:06:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/croatia-aims-for-completion-of-eu-talks-in-june-as-parties-unite.html
Croatia  moved closer to completing
talks with the European Union in June after opposition and
governing parties united to agree on structural changes needed
to become the bloc’s 28th member, said Vesna Pusic, head of the
parliamentary committee overseeing the talks.  Ruling party and opposition leaders met on April 8 for the
first time in more than a year to coordinate efforts to meet the
June goal, Pusic, leader of the opposition  Croatian People’s
Party , said late yesterday in an interview in Zagreb. Croatia
has been negotiating with the EU for five years to become the
second former Yugoslav republic to join the bloc after Slovenia.  “As far as June is concerned, the situation has in the
last few days returned from the brink of ‘no-go’ to a distinct
possibility,” Pusic said. “We still can’t say if it will
happen. But the fact that all the relevant political parties put
their joint weight behind the reforms could play a role in the
decision-making.”  Croatia, still struggling to end a two-year recession, has
in recent months stepped up efforts to overhaul its back-logged
judiciary and increase its independence. It also has to
eradicate corruption, including indicting former prime minister
and more than a dozen of former ruling party officials and
improve human rights protection.  EU Funds  Failure to complete the talks by June may delay the process
by a year, “which means we would miss out on receiving 2
billion euros ($2.9 billion) of EU funds that Croatia badly
needs,” Pusic said.  “We would also miss out on an opportunity to use the EU
 Cohesion Funds , and participate in budget discussion for the
period of 2014 to 2020,” she said. The Cohesion Fund finances
major projects in transport and environment, helping EU member
states reduce economic disparities and stabilize their
economies.  Last month the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm,
said Croatia needs to work harder to prosecute war-crime cases,
stem corruption and ensure the rights of minorities before it’s
ready to join the bloc. To complete the membership talks,
Croatia still has to complete reforms in two chapters, or policy
areas, including the judiciary and fundamental rights and
competition.  It’s “high time” accession talks with Croatia are
concluded, Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said today in
Brussels. Hungary currently holds the EU’s six-month rotating
presidency. British Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke said during
a visit to Zagreb yesterday he was “hugely impressed” by the
program of reforms in the judiciary, the key area Croatia needs
to improve.  Croatia also needs to conclude talks as soon as possible to
ensure general elections, which must happen by the end of the
year, don’t interfere with the process, Pusic said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story: Jasmina
Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  