-- 
Crude Gains, Heating Oil and Gasoline Decline: Oil Products

-- B y   R i c h a r d   S t u b b e
-- 
2011-04-14T20:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/crude-gains-heating-oil-and-gasoline-decline-oil-products.html
Crude oil advanced on reports that
 Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s largest oil reserves,
reduced output this month. Heating oil, gasoline and ethanol
declined as more Americans filed for first-time jobless benefits
last week than expected, adding to speculation that the economic
recovery may weaken.  Crude Oil  Crude oil for May delivery rose $1, or 0.9 percent, to
$108.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
up 18 percent this year and 26 percent in the past year.  Futures rose after John Sfakianakis, chief economist at
Riyadh-based  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR) , said Saudi Arabia cut
production by 300,000 barrels a day. Barclays Plc said Saudi
Arabia may be reducing production of its lighter oil blends
introduced in response to the slump in Libyan output.  “The news that the Saudis are cutting output should be
scaring the daylights out of people,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis .  Gasoline  Gasoline for May delivery declined 0.77 cent to $3.2347 a
gallon on the Nymex. Gasoline has increased 39 percent in a
year. Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 0.4 cent to $3.812 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its
website.  “That jump in jobless claims caused some people to
pause,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Heating Oil  Heating oil for May delivery dropped 1.38 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $3.189 a gallon. Heating oil has gained 42 percent
in a year.  Ethanol  Denatured ethanol for May delivery fell for the third
straight day, declining 1.9 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $2.639 a
gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade. Ethanol has increased 69
percent in the past year.  Refineries and Transport  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  shut a fluid catalytic cracker in the Girard
Point section of its Philadelphia refinery after a fire late
yesterday, according to Thomas Golembeski, a company spokesman.  BP Plc plans to flare gases at its Carson, California,
refinery starting April 18 through April 26, according to a
filing with regulators.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  restarted a crude unit yesterday at its
Port Arthur, Texas, refinery, Bill Day, a company spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  reported emissions after a leaking valve
caused flaring at its Robinson refinery in Illinois, according
to a state regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Stubbe in Houston at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at   dstets@bloomberg.net  