-- 
Crude Falls Near Lowest in Two Weeks as Gains on Gasoline Supplies Fade

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-04-14T12:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/crude-trades-near-lowest-in-two-weeks-as-gains-on-gasoline-supplies-fade.html
Oil slipped to trade near its
lowest in two weeks in  New York  on speculation that price gains
from the biggest drop in U.S. gasoline supplies in 12 years may
have been excessive.  Crude fell as much as 1.3 percent after a government report
showed initial jobless claims in the U.S. rose unexpectedly last
week. Futures advanced 0.8 percent yesterday after the Energy
Department said that gasoline stockpiles declined by 7 million
barrels last week to 209.7 million, the biggest drop since Oct.
9, 1998. On April 12 the  International Energy Agency  reported
signs of a “slowdown” in oil demand.  “The recovery will continue in the U.S. but at a sluggish
pace,” said  Sintje Diek , an analyst at HSH Nordbank AG in
Hamburg. “In the second half of the year we see a correction to
more fundamentally based price levels.”  Crude for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell as much as $1.34 to $105.77 a barrel and was at $106 in
electronic trading at 1:41 p.m. London time. Prices are up 23
percent from a year ago. Brent oil for May settlement traded at
$122.11 a barrel, down 77 cents, on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. The contract, which expires today, rose
$1.96, or 1.6 percent, to $122.88 yesterday. The more actively
traded June contract was 77 cents lower at $121.56 a barrel.  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $16.11 a
barrel to U.S. futures yesterday. The difference between front-
month contracts in London and New York surged to a record $19.54
on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa
and stockpiles climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for New York futures. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  Jobless Claims Rise  Applications for jobless benefits rose 27,000 in the week
ended April 9 to 412,000, the most in two months, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . Economists
projected claims would be little changed at 380,000, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Kuwait, OPEC’s fifth-biggest oil producer, resumed crude
exports today after an improvement in weather, said Mohammed al- Ajmi, spokesman for state-refiner Kuwait National Petroleum Co.
Port operations were suspended as a sandstorm covered the
country for the third time in as many weeks.  Total U.S. crude inventories rose 1.63 million barrels to
359.3 million last week, the Energy Department said. They were
forecast to increase 1 million barrels, the Bloomberg survey
shows. Cushing supplies gained 26,000 barrels to 41.9 million,
the highest level since at least 2004 when the department began
tracking stockpiles at the hub.  “The numbers are supportive for gasoline, but crude
inventories continue to increase,” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney.  Demand Destruction  Gasoline consumption rose the most in more than five
months, climbing 3.7 percent to 9.18 million barrels a day, the
Energy Department report showed.  “Despite the positive demand signal, the market remained
concerned over potential demand destruction due to rising retail
 gas prices ,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Melbourne , said in
an e-mailed note today.  Refineries operated at 81.4 percent of capacity, down 3
percentage points from the prior week. It was the lowest level
since February. A 0.45 percentage-point increase was forecast in
the Bloomberg news survey.  Libya  Talks  Libya’s opposition said it is discussing with allies the
possibility of borrowing $2 billion to import food, medicine,
fuel and possibly weapons to combat Muammar Qaddafi’s forces.
The Libyan conflict is the bloodiest in a wave of uprisings that
has toppled leaders in Egypt and Tunisia and spread to Algeria,
Bahrain,  Iran , Oman, Syria and Yemen.  Syrian activists reported disruptions to phone, Internet
and electricity connections in areas where protests have broken
out, after authorities vowed to crush what they called a
conspiracy against the regime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  