-- 
Debenhams Chief to Leave as Profit Gains, Dividend Restored

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-04-14T08:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/debenhams-chief-to-leave-as-profit-gains-dividend-restored-1-.html
Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s second-
largest department-store owner, said Chief Executive Officer Rob Templeman plans to leave in September after first-half earnings
rose 4.5 percent and the company restored its dividend.  So-called headline pretax profit increased to 129.2 million
pounds ($211 million) in the 26 weeks ended Feb. 26 from 123.6
million pounds a year earlier, the London-based retailer said in
a statement. That compares with the 126.4 million-pound average
estimate of nine analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Debenhams said
it intends to pay an interim dividend of 1 penny a share.  Templeman, 53, joined Debenhams as CEO in 2003, when
private equity firms CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Texas Pacific
Group bought the retailer. Deputy CEO Michael Sharp, 54, will
become head of Debenhams on Sept. 5, while Templeman will stay
as a consultant for as long as a year, the company said today.  The departing CEO “is a private-equity guy par excellence
and has been linked in the past with various new opportunities
in that field,”  Nick Bubb , a London-based analyst at Arden
Partners Plc, said today in an e-mail. “Investors are unlikely
to be too rattled, as his internal successor, Mike Sharp, has
been well groomed for the job.”  Debenhams rose as much as 1.8 percent to 68 pence and was
up 0.3 percent as of 9:55 a.m. in  London  trading. The stock has
declined 5.4 percent this year, in contrast to a gain of
8.9 percent at competitor  Next Plc. (NXT)  John Lewis Partnership Plc,
the largest department-store operator in the U.K., isn’t
publicly traded.  Open Future  Templeman said today on a conference call that he has no
plans following his retirement from Debenhams, and hasn’t
“given the future any thought at all.”  The CEO has refit the 167-store Debenhams chain, added
designer ranges such as Jonathan Saunders and installed self-
service order kiosks in the past year in response to declining
consumer spending in Britain. The chain also plans to extend
international delivery to 40 countries from seven currently.  U.K. retail sales dropped by a record in March as
accelerating inflation squeezed household finances and concerns
about employment prompted consumers to cut back, the British
Retail Consortium said on April 12.  Debenhams reported that first-half sales at outlets open at
least a year fell 1.5 percent, excluding value-added tax. Sales
since the start of the fiscal second half have been better than
at the end of the first, Templeman said.  Seeking Fashion  The CEO said he’s “cautious” about the development of
 consumer confidence . At the same time, customers still seem to
be seeking fashionable clothing, as sales of lower-priced goods
have declined more than middle-range products, he said.  “I don’t think people are buying cheap,” he said. “We’re
not recognizing some of the comments people are making about big
sales falls.”  Sharp has been deputy CEO since November 2008 and has been
at the retailer since 1985, working at the company’s
predecessor, The Burton Group, including roles at the Topman,
Principles and Racing Green divisions.  Debenhams defines headline pretax profit as earnings
excluding taxes and accounting for amortization on capitalized
bank fees and exceptional items. Debenhams also said that first-
half profit was boosted by lower  interest rates . Net income
increased to 91.5 million pounds from 80.1 million pounds a year
earlier, Debenhams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 