-- 
Debt Panel Co-Chair Calls Obama Plan ‘Solid,’ Urges Action

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-14T23:53:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/debt-panel-co-chairman-calls-obama-plan-solid-urges-action.html
President  Barack Obama  offered “a
solid, responsible plan” to rein in the U.S. budget deficit and
lawmakers must act with urgency to produce a framework for
legislation, said  Erskine Bowles , co-chairman of Obama’s debt
commission.  Bowles, who met with Obama along with co-chairman  Alan Simpson , a former Republican senator from  Wyoming , said the
proposal Obama outlined in a speech yesterday may help lawmakers
hammer out an agreement this year.  “Now’s the time for action,” Bowles, a Democrat who was
President  Bill Clinton ’s chief of staff, said after today’s
White House meeting. “This era of deficit denial has to end.
It’s over; this is the moment of truth.”  Simpson said that having multiple proposals -- from Obama,
from  House Republicans  and from a bipartisan group of six
senators who are still formulating a plan -- may lead to
consensus.  Obama’s proposal, which he outlined in a speech yesterday,
aims to reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over 12 years. He set
a target of reducing the annual U.S. deficit to 2.5 percent of
gross domestic product by 2015, compared with this year’s
projection of 10.9 percent of GDP. Bowles and Simpson last
December recommended cutting $3.8 trillion from the nation’s
cumulative deficit over a decade. Both plans call for a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases.  Republican Alternative  The Republican alternative -- a budget drawn up by
Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , chairman of the House
Budget Committee -- would cut $6.2 trillion over the next
decade, largely by scaling back Medicare and Medicaid, the
federal health-care programs for the elderly and the poor. It
also would cut individual and corporate income taxes.  In addition, three Republican and three Democratic senators
known as the Gang of Six have been working on their own proposal
for narrowing the budget shortfall.  In an interview with ABC News, Obama said that while there
are significant differences between his approach and Ryan’s,
they can be overcome.  “Here’s the thing that I think is good: Everybody now
agrees that the deficit has to be cut,” Obama said on ABC.
“The key from my perspective is making sure that it’s
balanced.”  Areas of Overlap  By finding areas of “overlap and agreement,” the process
of finding a compromise position can begin, he said.
Disagreements that can’t be resolved will be part of the 2012
presidential and congressional election campaigns.  “Some of it will be settled by the American people in the
election,” he said. “And I think that is how democracy should
work.”  Obama said yesterday that he wants to have an agreement on
a deficit-cutting framework by the end of June, and he
designated Vice President  Joe Biden  to negotiate with
congressional leaders from both parties.  Simpson, who served 18 years in the Senate, said he is
skeptical that the president’s deadline can be met. Trying to
set a date by which lawmakers will act is a “lost cause,” he
said. “It is just impossible to say.”  He said the next step is seeing what the group of senators
comes up with.  “The Gang of Six is a very crucially important factor in
this,” Simpson said.  Obama’s Plan  Obama said he wants to move rapidly on putting deficit-
cutting plans in place. He said any plan to trim federal debt
must reduce spending for a broad swath of government programs,
including defense, and include some increase in revenue through
taxes. Obama repeated his opposition to extending again the
Bush-era tax cuts for the top income brackets.  “We can’t exempt anybody from these efforts,” the
president said before his meeting with Simpson and Bowles.
“It’s not appropriate for us to ask for sacrifices from
everybody except for the 2 percent of Americans who are doing
best.”  Republican leaders already have rejected using tax
increases to cut the deficit.  “Raising taxes on the very people that we expect to invest
in our economy and create jobs is the wrong move,” House
Speaker John Boehnerof  Ohio  told reporters today.  Tax Debate  About a quarter of Obama’s deficit reduction comes from
increased revenue through taxes. Obama reiterated his opposition
to continuing the 2001 and 2003 tax rates for individuals making
more than $200,000 a year and married couples making more than
$250,000. Those rates are set to expire in 2012, when they would
rise to 39.6 percent from 35 percent.  White House budget chief  Jacob Lew  said Obama’s plan to
raise $1 trillion over 12 years through taxes won’t hit
individuals making less than $200,000 a year.  It’s “not necessary to have broad-based tax increases” to
achieve the president’s targets, Lew said at a White House
briefing.  Obama’s timeline sets up discussions about the nation’s
long-term fiscal challenges in parallel with a congressional
debate over raising the $14.29 trillion legal debt limit. The
Treasury Department projects that it will reach the limit on May
16, though it could use emergency measures to avoid default
until about July 8.  Default ‘Unthinkable’  Republican and Democratic congressional leaders agree with
the administration that “it would be unthinkable” for the U.S.
to default, Lew said. “Nobody should be playing chicken with
the debt limit,” he said.  In the interview with ABC, Obama said his 2006 Senate vote
against raising the debt limit was a “political” maneuver by a
new lawmaker.  “That was just an example of a new senator, you know,
making what is a political vote as opposed to doing what was
important for the country,” said Obama, who won election to the
Senate in 2004. “And I’m the first one to acknowledge it.”  For all the debate about the deficit in  Washington , bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is below the
average of 6.92 percent since 1980 and compares with the average
of 5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Ten-year note yields rose 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point to 3.49 percent at 4:04 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  