-- 
Deutsche Expands Nordic Focus as Bank Lands Biggest Merger Deal

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-14T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/deutsche-expands-nordic-focus-as-bank-lands-biggest-merger-deal.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , which won 2011’s
biggest Scandinavian corporate-finance deal when it led DuPont
Co.’s bid for Danisco A/S, is boosting its Nordic unit as the
pace of mergers in the region tops that of  Europe  and the U.S.  “The Nordic market is playing a more important role
relative to the rest of Europe,” said Jan Olsson, head of
Deutsche Bank’s Nordic investment banking division, in an
interview in  Stockholm .  Deutsche Bank is competing for mergers and acquisition
advisory fees against global peers, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , and local rivals such as  Sweden ’s SEB AB after the
Nordic market for announced takeovers rose 39 percent in 2010 to
$78 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Frankfurt-based company says the figure will keep growing,
prompting it to hire employees from  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) 
and SEB. Deutsche Bank opened its first office in Copenhagen
last year.  “Over the long run, being local and being a part of the
community is critical,” Olsson said in the April 11 interview.  Deutsche Bank set up a four-person currency team in
Stockholm last year. The company also started offering corporate
finance services at its Oslo branch, which until 2010 only
provided banking to the country’s shipping industry.  Copenhagen-based Danisco, the world’s largest maker of food
ingredients, hired Deutsche Bank in December to find a buyer
after the Danish company’s board deemed a bid by an entity it
hasn’t identified to be too low. DuPont bid 665 kroner ($106) a
share in January, valuing Danisco at 31.7 billion kroner and
making it this year’s biggest Nordic M&A takeover. The deal
still needs regulatory and shareholder approval.  Nordics Top Growth  In the first quarter, announced Nordic M&A deals doubled in
value to $25.4 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
value of European deals rose 19 percent to $261 billion in the
same period and U.S. deals increased 18 percent to $354 billion.  “We expect the Nordic M&A market to grow in 2011 and
2012,” said Michael Eriksen, a partner at the Copenhagen branch
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. “Company results are improving,
financing is becoming more available and trade investors as well
as private equity investors are coming out of the crisis with
strengthened balance sheets and cash and plans for
acquisitions.”  The Danisco transaction alone propelled Deutsche Bank to
rank as the Nordic region’s second-biggest dealmaker after New
York-based Goldman Sachs, which also advised DuPont in its bid.
Deutsche Bank placed sixth among merger advisers last year and
ranked 22nd in 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Attractive Targets’  “Recent deal flow exemplifies the trends we are seeing in
M&A: strong corporates poised to grow through acquisitions using
healthy balance sheets to acquire attractive targets,” said
Helena Svancar, head of Deutsche Bank’s Nordic M&A unit, in an
interview. “There are many such companies in the region.”  Deutsche Bank’s ambition to grow in Scandinavia may help it
reclaim the title of the region’s top dealmaker, which it held
in 2008 following the Carlsberg A/S and  Heineken NV (HEIA)  acquisition
of Scottish & Newcastle Plc. Deutsche Bank also was involved in
2005’s biggest Nordic deal, the private-equity buyout of phone
company TDC A/S.  The German bank says Scandinavia is poised for a surge in
mergers as sound corporate finances create some of the most
attractive opportunities to cash-heavy potential buyers.
Sweden’s  Alfa Laval AB (ALFA) , the world’s biggest maker of heat
exchangers, agreed in December to buy Denmark’s Aalborg
Industries Holding A/S for about $800 million in cash, while
Swedish bearing maker  SKF AB (SKFB)  bought U.S. Lincoln Industrial
Corp. in October for $1 billion in cash.  “Nordic corporates were very careful during the crisis and
that was the right strategy,” said Olsson. “They have healthy
balance sheets and that positions them well as both buyers and
sellers.”  Deutsche Bank has been involved in 109 Nordic deals worth a
combined $141 billion since 2002, according to Bloomberg data.
The bank,  Germany ’s largest, generated 61 percent of revenue
from  investment banking  in 2010, its earnings report shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  