-- 
Deutsche Bank Sold Mortgage-Linked ‘Pigs’ as Market Buckled, Lawmakers Say

-- B y   B o b   I v r y ,   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-04-14T00:42:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/deutsche-bank-sold-mortgage-linked-pigs-as-market-buckled-lawmakers-say.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , whose bets
against subprime mortgages helped it weather the financial
crisis, pressed to sell a $1.1 billion collateralized debt
obligation to clients in 2007 as the co-head of its CDO team
foresaw a market slump, a U.S. Senate panel found.  “Keep your fingers crossed but I think we will price this
just before the market falls off a cliff,” Michael Lamont, the
group’s co-head, said in a Feb. 8, 2007, e-mail about Deutsche
Bank’s Gemstone CDO VII Ltd., according to a report released
yesterday by the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. The
Frankfurt-based firm sold $700 million of the instruments, which
lost most of their value within 17 months.  The bi-partisan  panel , led by Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin ,
placed  Germany ’s biggest bank in a spotlight alongside  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , saying that the firms’ creation and sales of
mortgage-backed investments “illustrate a variety of troubling
and sometimes abusive practices.” The “case study” also
focuses on Greg Lippmann, Deutsche Bank’s then-top CDO trader,
who led its bets against subprime home loans and described some
Gemstone VII collateral as “pigs” and “crap.”  “The bank sold poor quality assets from its own inventory
to the CDO,” according to the report. Then “the bank
aggressively marketed the CDO securities to clients despite the
negative views of its most senior CDO trader, falling values,
and the deteriorating market.”  Internal Disagreements  CDOs package assets such as mortgage bonds and buyout loans
into new securities with varying risks.  Lamont, who now works at New York-based hedge fund  Seer
Capital Management LP , declined to comment. So did Lippmann, 42,
who left Deutsche Bank last year to start  LibreMax Capital LLC ,
an investment firm based in New York.  While Lippmann’s trades yielded a $1.5 billion total
return, the bank’s other executives long disagreed with his
assessments. The firm’s New York-based residential mortgage-
backed securities group and one of its  London  hedge funds
amassed home-loan positions that reached a market value of more
than $25 billion in 2007, the panel said. The company, led by
Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , 63, lost almost $4.5
billion on the mortgage-related investments that year after
Lippmann’s gains.  “There were divergent views within the bank about the U.S.
housing market,” Michele Allison, a spokeswoman for the
company, said in an e-mailed statement. “Moreover, the bank’s
views were fully communicated to the market through research
reports, industry events, trading-desk commentary and press
coverage.”  Biggest Trading Gain  Lippmann, whose bets against the housing market were also
described in  Michael Lewis ’s “The Big Short,” had repeatedly
tried to warn co-workers and clients in 2006 and 2007 about the
poor quality of the mortgage securities underlying many CDOs,
according to the report. The return on his bets against
mortgages “was the largest profit obtained from a single
position in Deutsche Bank history,” he told the subcommittee.  Disagreements among executives were common in firms across
 Wall Street  as the mortgage market began to unravel, said Edward J. Grebeck, chief executive officer of Tempus Advisors, a debt-
consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “I’m surprised the subcommittee’s report is focused only
on Deutsche Bank and Goldman,” he said. “You could investigate
any bank that put together structured products and look for
conflicts.”  Hearings  Levin and Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma , the panel’s top
Republican, held public hearings on the financial crisis last
year, examining regulatory failures, the collapse of Washington
Mutual Inc., the role of credit-rating firms in fueling bets on
high-risk debt and the business practices of New York-based
Goldman Sachs and rival investment banks.  Deutsche Bank underwrote 47 CDOs with a combined value of
$32 billion from 2004 to 2008, according to the subcommittee. It
made $4.7 million in fees from Gemstone VII, the report said.  The panel faulted the bank throughout Gemstone VII’s
creation and sale. Nearly a third of the mortgages backing the
CDOs were originated by three subprime lenders -- New Century
Financial Corp., Fremont General Corp. and Washington Mutual
Inc.’s Long Beach mortgage unit -- known for the poor
performance of their loans, the report said.  While Deutsche Bank had “the right to reject” securities
that were slated for Gemstone VII, Lippmann allowed bonds he
viewed as toxic to be included, according to the report. He told
the panel his responsibility was only to ensure that bonds
bought by the CDO were priced accurately based on current market
values, and an e-mail from him showed he sought to reduce the
valuation of one.  Demand for Debt  About $27 million of the CDO’s assets came from the bank’s
own inventory, including one bond that Lippmann referred to by
asking another trader in an instant message, “DOESNT THIS DEAL
BLOW,” according to the report.  “The way the politicians use these e-mails is to hang them
out as evidence that misconduct occurred, but there is in fact a
market for low-quality credit paper,” said  Roy Smith , a finance
professor at  New York  University’s Stern School of Business in
 Manhattan . “There has been for years, and the market is very
legitimate.”  After assets set aside for Gemstone VII dropped in value,
Abhayad Kamat, a member of the CDO group assembling the vehicle,
told a Deutsche Bank sales team to use valuations from the CDO
manager, Dallas-based HBK Capital Management, rather than from
the bank’s traders, the report found. HBK’s values were 1.1
percent higher.  ‘Significant Vintage Risk’  When a member of the sales group asked about the decision,
Kamat responded in an e-mail that the values “we got from
Jordan are too low,” referring to Jordan Milman, then a trader
on Lippmann’s team, according to the report. He emphasized that
the salespeople should identify HBK as the source of the
valuations, the report said.  Kamat didn’t return telephone messages seeking comment.  The Senate panel said that Lamont’s group prepared an
internal report listing risks to the bank from the deal that
cited the 88 percent concentration of the CDO’s portfolio in
2005 and 2006 residential bonds without highlighting the
“significant vintage risk” in disclosures to investors.  ‘A Lot Bumpier’  “E-mails reviewed by the subcommittee show that CDO
personnel at Deutsche Bank were well aware of the worsening CDO
market and were rushing to sell Gemstone 7 before the market
collapsed,” the report found. In a message on Feb. 20, 2007,
the day before Gemstone VII was priced, Lippmann told Lamont
that the CDO market was “going to get a lot bumpier very
soon.”  Lamont, in his earlier e-mail that month about keeping
“fingers crossed,” suggested turmoil may also present a buying
opportunity. A plunge, “as usual will likely find you well-
positioned to acquire new risk at a good price,” he wrote in
the message to HBK’s collateral manager, who had authority to
move assets in and out of the CDO. “We are all focused on
pricing as soon as possible.”  Deutsche Bank failed to sell $400 million of the CDO’s
slices. Buyers included  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) , based in Buffalo, New
York, and  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Wachovia Corp.,
Frankfurt-based  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , based
in London, according to the report. They lost “all or most of
their investments,” the subcommittee said. Wachovia is now part
of San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Ivry in New York at   bivry@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at +1-617-210-4625 or  gputka@bloomberg.net . 