-- 
DHL Reboots in U.S. After $9.6 Billion Bleed: Freight Markets

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/dhl-reboots-in-u-s-after-9-6-billion-bleed-freight-markets.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL Express unit
is rebuilding its U.S. operations around international shipments
after a $9.6 billion “disaster” in domestic deliveries.  After firing 15,000 people and closing 75 percent of its
outlets in 2008, DHL Express U.S. is expanding and may beat the
volume goal it set that year by 15,000 packages a day in 2011,
Chief Executive Officer Ian Clough said in an interview.  DHL Express abandoned efforts to challenge  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  for deliveries on their home turf.
It now handles only foreign shipments in the U.S., with sales of
about $1 billion a year moving goods such as  Dell Inc. (DELL)  computers
and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  books. Clough said that toehold in the
world’s biggest economy is pivotal for its global network.  “There are countries in the world where you might say
‘That’s not necessary,’” said Per-Ola Hellgren, an analyst with
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Mainz,  Germany , who recommends
buying Deutsche Post. “But the U.S. is still a must-have
country.”  Routes to and from the U.S. help the unit compete in a
global air-cargo market that the  International Air Transport
Association  trade group says will generate $68 billion in 2011.
That total, 15 percent more than the tally for 2007 before the
recession began, includes cargo flown in passenger jets.  DHL Express U.S. is investing $40 million in its Cincinnati
airport hub and improving service by delivering a majority of
packages by noon, Clough said. Bonn-based Deutsche Post doesn’t
disclose profit by country, said Bea Garcia, a spokeswoman.  Daily Volume  U.S. daily volume of as many as 115,000 international
packages exceeds a projection of 100,000 set in 2008 when DHL
Express dropped its domestic business, and is now growing at
more than 10 percent annually, Clough said in the interview.  That figure compares with a daily load of about 1.2 million
parcels before the pullback, which was partly driven by the
“massive weakening” in the global economy and mounting losses
after DHL Express cut U.S. rates in a bid to win market share,
Deutsche Post said in November 2008.  About 40 percent of DHL Express’s top 350 customers
worldwide are based in the U.S., making the import and export
service “very critical” to the parent company’s global
operations, Clough said. Deutsche Post is the world’s third-
largest package-delivery company, after UPS and FedEx.  “International is the core strength of DHL,” said Clough,
44, who has been with the company for 18 years and became CEO of
the unit in 2009. “It’s the part of the business that we grew
from. We turned ourselves back to our roots.”  Buying Airborne  DHL Express jumped into domestic U.S. deliveries after
buying assets of Seattle-based Airborne Inc. in 2003 to gain a
U.S. network and a vehicle fleet. The 2008 restructuring after
that push cost 7.5 billion euros (about $9.6 billion at the
time), including the Airborne deal, and contributed to the
parent company’s lone annual loss since going public in 2000,
Deutsche Post has said.  Buying Airborne to take on UPS and FedEx in the U.S. was a
“disaster,” Deutsche Post CEO Frank Appel said last month. DHL
Express’s U.S. market share in 2008 was 5 percent, compared with
a combined 82 percent for UPS and FedEx, according to SJ
Consulting Group in Sewickley,  Pennsylvania .  “It was the wrong decision to have entered the U.S. with a
poor business concept to begin with,” said Hellgren, the
Landesbank analyst. “Since they had gotten in there and started
to bleed, there really was no alternative” to leaving.  Deutsche Post didn’t go far enough, said Andre Mulder, an
Amsterdam-based analyst with Kepler Capital Markets. DHL Express
should have left the U.S. entirely, because keeping the
operation remains a drag on its global business, said Mulder,
who also recommends buying Deutsche Post.  ‘Say Goodbye’  The company could “say goodbye to that without having any
negative effect on the client base,” Mulder said.  Deutsche Post advanced 28 percent through yesterday from
Nov. 10, 2008, when it announced the U.S. pullback. FedEx gained
41 percent and UPS climbed 35 percent in the same period as the
economic recovery buoys package and freight shipping demand.  DHL Express is Deutsche Post’s smallest unit, with about a
fifth of revenue. Counting mail, freight, forwarding and supply-
chain services, Deutsche Post’s 2010 sales of 51.5 billion euros
topped UPS’s $49.5 billion and FedEx’s $34.7 billion.  ‘Tickled Pink’  UPS and FedEx are “tickled pink” not to have DHL as a
domestic rival, said  Kevin Sterling , a Richmond, Virginia-based
analyst with BB&T Capital Markets. DHL entered the U.S. with
rates lower than those of UPS and FedEx, forcing those companies
to reduce theirs to compete, Sterling said in an interview.  “They’re getting that pricing now,” said Sterling, who
recommends buying Atlanta-based UPS and FedEx. “A big part of
that was the recession, but also I think it’s because DHL has
pulled out of the market.”  UPS’s average revenue per domestic package was $8.20 in
2004, the first full year after DHL Express bought Airborne, and
that figure rose to $8.85 for 2010.  Norman Black , a spokesman for UPS, declined to comment
about competition with DHL Express.  FedEx is “seeing gains in our international business as a
result of DHL’s limited presence in the  United States ,” Jess Bunn, a spokesman, said in an e-mail. “When you take the United
States out of a global network, it creates a lot of issues in
terms of the value that a company can bring to its customers.”  DHL Express’s U.S. unit won’t try again to compete with UPS
and FedEx in the immediate future, Clough said. With about 6,000
people, 2,500 trucks and vans, and about 30 nightly departures
at Cincinnati, the division has shrunk to about the same size it
was before buying Airborne.  Cincinnati Hub  Investing in Cincinnati to add gates and technology to
speed scanning and sorting is “paying for itself,” Clough
said. More of those processes were done manually, at greater
expense, at DHL Express’s former U.S. hub at a shuttered Air
Force base in nearby Wilmington,  Ohio , he said.  To boost customer loyalty and win new accounts, DHL Express
requires all workers to participate in three- or five-day
training programs on customs paperwork and other international
shipping documents, Clough said.  With fewer packages to move and loads that are entirely
international, drivers also are now able to deliver 70 percent
of packages before noon, Clough said.  “All international shippers get better and earlier
delivery than before,” he said.  While ceding domestic deliveries in the U.S. dented
Deutsche Post’s claim to “worldwide hegemony,” the new focus
on international-only shipments ensures that DHL Express keeps a
global network, said Hellgren, the Landesbank analyst.  “They lost 7.5 billion euros in the U.S., and it’s still
not a profitable business,” he said. “But you can live with a
break-even business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net  or
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 