-- 
DRB, Gefung, Guocoland, Ramunia, UEM: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-04-14T00:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/drb-gefung-guocoland-ramunia-uem-malaysia-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and share prices are from the most recent close.
Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,535.59 yesterday.  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)  : The automotives assembler will
help conduct hire purchase inspections on vehicles for the
Malaysian government, according to an exchange filing. DRB
increased 4 percent to 2.33 ringgit.
[bn:WBTKR=GFHB:MK]   Gefung Holdings Bhd. (GFHB)  : The marble and granite
products maker revised terms of a planned par value reduction of
its shares and accompanying rights issue to raise funds to
recapitalize the company, according to an exchange filing.
Gefung last traded on April 8, falling 2.7 percent to 18 sen.  [bn:WBTKR=GUOL:MK]   Guocoland (Malaysia) Bhd. [] (GUOL MK): The property developer
reported a narrower third-quarter loss of 3.6 million ringgit
from 5.6 million ringgit a year earlier, according to an
exchange filing. Guocoland climbed 0.8 percent to 1.30 ringgit.  Ramunia Holdings Bhd. (RH)  : The Malaysian oil and gas
services provider said it signed an agreement with SEW
Infrastructure Ltd. to bid jointly bid for contracts in  India .
The partnership is for an initial two years, it said in a Kuala
Lumpur exchange filing. Ramunia rose 3.3 percent to 63.5 sen.  UEM Land Holdings Bhd. (ULHB)  : The real estate developer
said its joint venture was appointed by the Johor state
government to provide management and maintenance services for
the first phase of Kota Iskandar. The project includes offices
for the regional government and chief minister as well as a
state assembly building, UEM said in a statement. The stock rose
1.1 percent to 2.78 ringgit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen in Singapore at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  