-- 
Dubai Shares Rise Fifth Day on Political Stability, Earnings Expectations

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-14T12:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/dubai-shares-rise-a-fifth-day-on-quarterly-earnings-outlook-emaar-gains.html
Dubai shares rose to the highest
since January on bets quarterly earnings will beat expectations
and as investors turned to assets in the emirate, which has been
spared protests that toppled two North Africa governments.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
tower, advanced a third day and  Union Properties PJSC (UPP) , Dubai’s
third-largest real-estate developer by market value, soared 15
percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 1.4 percent to 1,622.58
at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai, the highest since Jan. 26,
bringing the gain for the week to 4.3 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s index
rose 0.7 percent and the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  climbed 0.1
percent.  “Selected companies in the  United Arab Emirates  are
expected to report strong first-quarter numbers,” said Ziad Dabbas, a financial analyst at  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) ,
the U.A.E.’s second-largest lender by assets. “Dubai is looked
at as a place with political stability, unlike most of the rest
of the region, and that encourages investors.”  Emaar, the company with the heaviest weighting on Dubai’s
index, may report a 26 percent increase in first-quarter profit
to 961.5 million dirhams ($262 million), according to the
average estimate of two analysts on Bloomberg. First-quarter net
income at Union Properties may surge almost seven-fold to 335
million dirhams when earnings are announced in the first week of
May, according to an EFG-Hermes Holding SAE estimate.  Emaar rose 1.2 percent to 3.36 dirhams, the highest since
Jan. 27. Union Properties soared the most since January 2008 to
37.8 fils.  Safe Haven  Dubai, on the brink of a debt default in 2009, is emerging
as the closest thing to a safe haven in the Middle East and
North Africa as violence erupted in countries such as Libya and
Bahrain. Families from  Tunisia ,  Egypt  and elsewhere are moving
to the more politically stable emirate, attracted by its liberal
lifestyle, schools and housing, now cheaper after the credit
crisis cut prices by more than half. In the  Persian Gulf ,
protests have already reached Bahrain, Oman and the eastern
province of  Saudi Arabia  this year.  “Optimism that Dubai’s market will secure an upgrade at
MSCI Inc. to emerging market status,” also helped push up
shares, National Bank of Abu Dhabi’s Dabbas said.  MSCI Upgrade  The U.A.E. and Qatar are seeking to secure an upgrade from
frontier markets status at MSCI, which will revalue its
assessment in June, according to its website. The so-called
delivery-versus-payment system, an MSCI requirement for emerging
market status, will start April 28 in the U.A.E. after Qatar
introduced the system this week.  Crude oil for May delivery rose as much as 0.5 percent to
$107.6 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The six
nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council supply about a fifth of
the world’s oil.  Bahrain’s BB All Share Index increased 0.7 percent.
Kuwait’s measure and Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  rose 0.3 percent.
Qatar’s gauge slipped 0.4 percent. Saudi Arabia’s market was
closed for the weekend.  Delivery versus payment is a securities industry procedure
in which payment for a security must be made when the security
is delivered. The payment is typically made to a bank, which in
turn pays for the security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  