-- 
Duke Builds Largest Storage System With Xtreme at Wind Farm

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-04-14T17:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/duke-building-largest-storage-system-with-xtreme-at-wind-farm.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , a U.S. utility
that operates 986 megawatts of wind-energy capacity, selected
Xtreme Power Inc. to design and install the world’s largest
power-storage system linked to a wind farm.  The 36-megawatt storage system is expected to cost $44
million and will go into operation in the third quarter of 2012,
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke said in an e-mailed
statement.  The system will retain power generated when demand is low
and can be tapped when electricity consumption is highest or the
wind is not blowing. It will make the 153-megawatt Notrees wind
farm in west Texas a more reliable source of energy, according
to Greg Wolf, president of Duke Energy Renewables.  Storage technology will “help our wind projects, and
potentially down the road solar projects, interact with the
grid, making sure that any of the potential negatives from an
intermittent wind resource or a peak solar resource can be
managed,” Wolf said in an interview.  Xtreme Power manufactures dry-cell battery systems for use
with wind farms and solar projects, which cannot consistently
deliver electricity.  Carlos Coe, the Kyle, Texas-based company’s CEO, said
storage is beginning to catch on with renewable energy
developers. The Notrees project will be the largest storage
system in use with a wind project, and more are in the pipeline.  More Projects Planned  “We have a few projects of this size awaiting to be
announced later this year or into next year that are related to
either renewable integration on a large-scale or renewable
integration under challenging transmission and distribution
circumstances,” he said in an interview.  “We are seeing increasing use of storage alongside
renewable assets, particularly toward the latter half of 2010 to
now, and in areas where the grid system is more constrained and
isolated, such as  Hawaii ,” said Shu Sun, energy storage analyst
at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London .  A 30-megawatt wind project in Hawaii went into operation in
March using a 15-megawatt storage system from Xtreme.  Duke won in November 2009 a $22 million U.S. Energy
Department grant for a large-scale battery storage system at the
Notrees project.  Electricity from Notrees is sold to Bentonville, Arkansas-
based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  