-- 
Dunelm Group Says Sales Rise 9.4% as New Superstores Open

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-04-14T15:48:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/dunelm-group-says-sales-rise-9-4-as-new-superstores-open-1-.html
Dunelm Group Plc (DNLM) , the operator of
Dunelm Mill home-furnishings stores, posted a 9.4 percent
increase in revenue in the fiscal third quarter as the retailer
opened new stores to boost sales in a “challenging” market.  Total sales in the 13 weeks ended April 2 advanced to 139
million pounds ($227.2 million), the Leicester, England-based
company said in a Regulatory News Service statement today. Sales
at stores open more than a year fell 1.3 percent in the period,
in line with the fiscal year to date.  Two new superstores “opened strongly” during the quarter,
with 10 further outlets contractually committed, the company
said. Dunelm is adding stores as the British market struggles in
the aftermath of the worst recession since World War II. U.K.
retail sales fell by a record in March as accelerating inflation
and concerns about employment prompted consumers to cut back,
the British Retail Consortium said April 12.  “Although we expect the consumer environment to remain
very challenging, we are confident of delivering further
growth” as the company introduces new and refitted stores,
Chief Executive Officer Nick Wharton said in today’s statement.  Dunelm rose 1.4 percent to 446.20 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London trading, valuing the company at 899 million
pounds.  Gross margins increased about 150 basis points in the
period, reflecting the “pass-through” of cost-price increases
and “strong margin management” in the January sale, the
company said. Cost price pressures are likely to continue in the
coming months, Dunelm said, with the “strong” gross margin
increases of recent years unlikely to be maintained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  