-- 
ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for April (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 
2011-04-14T08:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-april-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s April monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 7 April 2011 to
increase the key ECB  interest rates  by 25 basis points, after
maintaining them unchanged for almost two years at historically
low levels. The adjustment of the current very accommodative
monetary policy stance is warranted in the light of upside risks
to price stability identified in the economic analysis. While
the monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace of
monetary expansion is still moderate, monetary liquidity remains
ample and may facilitate the accommodation of price pressures.
All in all, it is essential that the recent price developments
do not give rise to broad-based inflationary pressures over the
medium term. The Governing Council’s decision will contribute to
keeping inflation expectations in the euro area firmly anchored
in line with the aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but
close to, 2% over the medium term. Such anchoring is a
prerequisite for monetary policy to contribute to economic
growth in the euro area. At the same time, interest rates across
the entire maturity spectrum remain low. Thus, the stance of
monetary policy remains accommodative and thereby continues to
lend considerable support to economic activity and  job creation .
Recent economic data confirm that the underlying momentum of
economic activity continues to be positive, with uncertainty
remaining elevated. The Governing Council will continue to
monitor very closely all developments with respect to upside
risks to price stability.  As stated on previous occasions, the provision of liquidity and
the allotment modes for refinancing operations will also be
adjusted when appropriate, taking into account the fact that all
the non-standard measures taken during the period of acute
financial market tensions are, by construction, temporary in
nature. Accordingly, the Governing Council will continue to
monitor all developments over the period ahead very closely.  With regard to the economic analysis, following the 0.3%
quarter-on-quarter increase in euro area real GDP in the fourth
quarter of 2010, recent statistical releases and survey-based
indicators point towards a continued positive underlying
momentum of economic activity in the euro area in early 2011.
Euro area exports should be supported by the ongoing recovery in
the world economy. At the same time, taking into account the
relatively high level of business confidence in the euro area,
private sector domestic demand should increasingly contribute to
economic growth, benefiting from the accommodative monetary
policy stance and the measures adopted to improve
the ﻿functioning of the financial system. However, the recovery
in activity is expected to be dampened somewhat by the process
of balance sheet adjustment in various sectors. In the Governing
Council’s assessment, the risks to this economic outlook remain
broadly balanced in an environment of elevated uncertainty. On
the one hand, global trade may continue to grow more rapidly
than expected, thereby supporting euro area exports. Moreover,
continued strong business confidence could provide more support
to domestic economic activity in the euro area than currently
expected. On the other hand, downside risks relate to the
ongoing tensions in some segments of the financial markets that
may potentially spill over to the euro area real economy.
Downside risks also relate to further increases in energy prices,
in particular in view of ongoing geopolitical tensions, and to
protectionist pressures and the possibility of a disorderly
correction of global imbalances. Finally, there are potential
risks stemming from the economic impact on the euro area and
elsewhere of the recent natural and nuclear disaster in  Japan .  With regard to price developments, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 2.6% in March 2011, according to Eurostat’s flash
estimate, after 2.4% in February. The increase in inflation
rates in early 2011 largely reflects higher commodity prices.
Pressure stemming from the sharp increases in energy and food
prices is also discernible in the earlier stages of the
production process. It is of paramount importance that the rise
in HICP inflation does not lead to second-round effects in price
and wage-setting behaviour and thereby give rise to broad-based
inflationary pressures over the medium term. Inflation
expectations must remain firmly anchored in line with the
Governing Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates below,
but close to, 2% over the medium term.  Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments remain
on the upside. They relate, in particular, to higher than
assumed increases in energy prices, not least owing to ongoing
political tensions in North Africa and the Middle East. More
generally, strong economic growth in emerging markets, supported
by ample liquidity at the global level, may further fuel
commodity price rises. Moreover, increases in indirect taxes and
administered prices may be greater than currently assumed, owing
to the need for fiscal consolidation in the coming years.
Finally, risks also relate to stronger than expected domestic
price pressures in the context of the ongoing recovery in
activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual growth rate of M3
increased to 2.0% in February 2011, from 1.5% in January.
Looking through the recent volatility in broad money growth
owing to special factors, M3 growth has continued to edge up
over recent ﻿months. The annual growth rate of loans to the
private sector also increased further to 2.6% in February, from
2.4% in the previous month. Hence, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion is gradually picking up, but remains moderate.
At the same time, monetary liquidity accumulated prior to the
period of financial market tensions remains ample and may
facilitate the accommodation of price pressures in the euro area.
Looking at M3 components, annual M1 growth moderated further to
2.9% in February 2011, while the growth of other short-term
deposits and marketable instruments increased. This rebalancing
within M3 reflects the impact of the recent steepening of the
yield curve on the remuneration of different monetary assets.
However, this steeper yield curve also implies a dampening
impact on overall M3 growth, as it reduces the attractiveness of
monetary assets compared with more highly remunerated longer-
term instruments outside M3.  On the counterpart side, a further rise in the annual growth
rate of bank loans to the private sector in February is due in
part to a further slight strengthening in the growth of loans to
non-financial corporations, which rose to 0.6% in February,
after 0.5% in January. The growth of loans to households was
3.0% in February, compared with 3.1% in January. Overall, in
early 2011 the positive flow of lending to the non-financial
private sector has become more broadly based across the
household and non-financial corporation sectors.  The latest data confirm that banks have expanded their lending
to the private sector further, while at the same time the
overall size of their balance sheets has remained broadly
unchanged. It is important that banks continue to expand the
provision of credit to the private sector in an environment of
increasing demand. To address this challenge, where necessary,
it is essential for banks to retain earnings, to turn to the
market to strengthen further their capital bases or to take full
advantage of government support measures for recapitalisation.
In particular, banks that currently have limited access to
market financing urgently need to increase their capital and
their efficiency.  To sum up, the Governing Council decided to increase the key ECB
interest rates by 25 basis points. The adjustment of the current
very accommodative monetary policy stance is warranted in the
light of upside risks to  price stability  identified in the
economic analysis. A cross-check with the signals from the
monetary analysis indicates that while the underlying pace of
monetary expansion is still moderate, monetary liquidity remains
ample and may facilitate the accommodation of price pressures.
All in all, it is essential ﻿that the recent price developments
do not give rise to broad-based inflationary pressures over the
medium term. The Governing Council’s decision will contribute to
keeping inflation expectations in the euro area firmly anchored
in line with the aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but
close to, 2% over the medium term. Such anchoring is a
prerequisite for monetary policy to contribute to economic
growth in the euro area. At the same time, interest rates across
the entire maturity spectrum remain low. Thus, the stance of
monetary policy remains accommodative and thereby continues to
lend considerable support to economic activity and job creation.
Recent economic data confirm that the underlying momentum of
economic activity continues to be positive, with uncertainty
remaining elevated. The Governing Council will continue to
monitor very closely all developments with respect to upside
risks to price stability.  Turning to fiscal policies, it is essential that all governments
achieve the consolidation targets for 2011 that they have
announced. Moreover, the announcement of fully specified
consolidation measures for 2012 and beyond would help to
convince the general public and market participants that the
corrective policies will be sustained. Strengthened confidence
in the sustainability of public finances is key, as this will
reduce interest rate risk premia and improve the conditions for
sound and sustainable growth.  At the same time, it is crucial that substantial and far-
reaching structural reforms be urgently implemented in the euro
area to strengthen its growth potential, competitiveness and
flexibility. In the case of product markets, policies that
enhance competition and innovation should, in particular, be
further pursued to speed up restructuring and to facilitate
advances in productivity. On the  labour market , the priorities
must be to enhance wage flexibility and incentives to work, and
to remove labour market rigidities.  Finally, the Governing Council is of the view that the package
of six legislative proposals on economic governance, adopted by
the European Council at its summit on 24-25 March 2011, goes
some way to improving economic and budgetary surveillance in the
euro area. However, in the view of the Governing Council, the
proposals fall short of the necessary quantum leap in the
surveillance of the euro area which is needed to ensure the
smooth functioning of Economic and Monetary Union. Therefore,
the Governing Council, in line with the ECB’s opinion of 17
February 2011 on these proposals, urges the ECOFIN Council, the
European Parliament and the Commission to agree, in the context
of their “trialogue”, on more stringent requirements, more
automaticity in the procedures and a ﻿clearer focus on the most
vulnerable countries with losses in competitiveness. All this
would help to ensure that the new framework is effective in the
long run.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains two articles. The
first article discusses the risks and challenges to fiscal
sustainability in the euro area. The second article describes
the main results of two surveys of households and firms
concerning their use of euro banknotes. ̀  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Budapest at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  