-- 
Nailings, Dreamlike Landscapes, Brancusi, Arp: N.Y. Uptown Art

-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/mechanized-dancer-dreamy-landscapes-brancusi-versus-arp-n-y-uptown-art.html
There’s no tutu for the
terpsichorean in Guenther Uecker’s show at  Manhattan ’s  L&M Arts .  “New York Dancer I” wears a cape of nails and spins to
the rhythm of an electric motor. By stepping on a red button,
visitors make the dancer whirl in a noisy blur.  Nails are a recurrent motif in  “The Early Years” 
exhibition, which displays work from the 1950s through the
1970s.  “The nails represent on the one hand a defense, like
ruffled hair, like a hedgehog curling up into a ball, but on the
other hand tenderness,” Uecker, 81, said in an interview with
curator Hans Ulrich Obrist published in the exhibition catalog.  In “White Bird,” nails are arranged in the shape of a
flying bird. The canvas of “Diagonal Division” is divided in
half by a stripe filled with nails. With this simple, beautiful
creation and its play of nail shadows, different lines appear as
you change your point of view.  “Sand Mill” departs from nails for something Uecker has
said is derived from agriculture: a circle of sand with a post
in the center to which strings are attached. A small motor makes
the strings draw and then erase trails in the sand. An
accompanying video shows Uecker, dressed in white, installing
the piece.  “He took sandbags all the way from  Germany ,” said Leila
Saadai, exhibitions director of L&M Arts.  Prices for works for sale range from $400,000 to $500,000.
“Guenther Uecker: The Early Years” runs through April 16 at 45
E. 78th St. Information: +1-212-861-0020;
 http://www.lmgallery.com   Black-and-White Landscapes  Keith de Lellis , who has been buying Italian photography
since the late 1990s, recalled his frequent trips to Emilia
Romagna, in the north, to expand his collection.  Some of the finds are displayed at his  gallery  on Madison
Avenue in the new show “Paesaggio: Postwar Italian Landscape
Photography.”  They reflect an explosion of amateur photography between
the 1950s and 1980s in the wake of fascism. Images of trees,
roads, boats and fields share a common aesthetic: high contrast,
black and white with little gray, and interaction between man
and nature.  “These pictures can be both beautiful and hauntingly
dramatic and sad,” de Lellis said, maybe referring to the
poetic image of a young man riding a bicycle on a snowy road, or
to that of a companionless child running on a hill.  An eclipse captured by Stanislao Farri has been sold. But
the artist’s beautiful 1965 photograph of a little boy fishing
in the lake of Mantera is available for $5,000, as is one of de
Lellis’s favorites, the 1958 “Siena: Piazza del Campo” by
Antonio Amaduzzi.  Prices range from $3,500 to $7,500. “Paesaggio: Postwar
Italian Landscape Photography” runs through May 26 at 1045
Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-327-1482;
 http://www.keithdelellisgallery.com   Absolute Balance  Arp and Brancusi vie for attention at  Mitchell-Innes & Nash 
gallery.  Arp’s sculptures are numerous and “grew spontaneously
beneath his hands,” John Tancock, senior vice president of
Sotheby’s Impressionist and modern-art department, wrote in the
exhibition catalog. Brancusi, on the other hand, “created
precious objects and spoke of beauty as ‘absolute balance.’”  The latter phrase comes to mind looking at the highly
polished bronze Brancusi sculptures “Prometheus” and “The
Newborn (version I).”  The rest of the works on view are by Arp, including a
painted wood relief, a white marble reproduction of a man
without a cheek, a winged being and a stylized mermaid.  Four works are for sale at prices ranging from $225,000 to
$2,500,000. “Arp/Brancusi” runs through May 6 at 1018 Madison
Ave. Information: +1-212-744-7400;  http://www.miandn.com   (Lili Rosboch writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 