-- 
Hedge Funds With Short Lockups Win Investors, Survey Finds

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-04-14T12:19:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/hedge-funds-with-shorter-lockups-winning-investors-goldman-says.html
Investors are turning to hedge
funds such as Caxton Associates LLC that don’t have restrictions
on withdrawals when making new commitments, according to a new
survey of fund clients.  Hedge-fund customers plan to allocate 90 percent of new
investments in 2011 to firms that agree not to tie up money for
more than one year, according to a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
survey released today. Funds that rely on longer lockup periods
so they can buy illiquid assets such as distressed debt will
have a harder time attracting cash, said  David Solomon , co-head
of capital introductions at the New York-based bank.  “Investors have more choices of liquidity terms than they
did before the financial crisis,” Solomon said in an interview.
“Consequently, hedge funds with less liquid terms are pursuing
a diminishing pool of capital.”  The demand for short lockups is a legacy of the 2008
financial crisis, when some hedge funds restricted withdrawals
to avoid having to sell assets at a loss. Investors pulled a
record $154.4 billion from hedge funds in 2008, according to
data from Hedge Fund Research Inc. of  Chicago .  Caxton, a New York-based hedge fund with $11 billion in
assets, places no limits on how long clients must keep their
initial investment with the firm. It has also eliminated gates,
or restrictions on subsequent withdrawals, even though the firm
had never imposed such provisions.  Some hedge funds used gates during the financial crisis to
prevent investors from withdrawing money.  Liquidity Preferred  While clients want fewer barriers to pulling money, the
perception that hedge funds can provide better returns than
other investments means the industry will continue to grow, the
Goldman Sachs survey found. Pension funds, endowments and
sovereign wealth funds surveyed by the firm expect the
industry’s assets to increase 14 percent this year to almost
$2.1 trillion.  Managers who pursue the most liquid strategies, such as
those using computers to predict trends in futures prices and
funds that buy and sell stocks, will be among the most popular
this year, Goldman Sachs found. Investors plan to withdraw money
from fund categories including credit, multistrategy and
convertible arbitrage, the survey said.  Hedge funds raised a record $34.9 billion in February,
according to estimates by BarclayHedge Ltd. Funds betting that
stocks will rise took in the biggest share at $8.5 billion,
followed by commodity trading advisers, which raised $7.5
billion, the Fairfield, Iowa-based research firm said.  Fewer Funds Selected  Investors are taking longer to scrutinize hedge funds and
making fewer allocations, said Marc Gilly, who runs the capital
introductions unit with Solomon.  Most investors meet with more than 100 hedge-fund managers
each year. Only about three to five of those managers get money,
a process that can take as long as six months and requires about
four interviews, Goldman Sachs said. Investors made about 15
allocations a year before the hedge-fund industry had widespread
losses in 2008, Gilly said.  “The bar is coming up very rapidly because of the
institutionalization of the process,” he said. “Investors
don’t have to invest and they want to wait as long as they
can.”  Hedge funds on average gained 9.8 percent last year and 2.2
percent this year through March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Newedge Commodity Trading Advisor Index, which
tracks the category of futures funds that investors told Goldman
Sachs they plan to allocate money to this year, fell 1.2 percent
through March.  Lower Fees  It was the worst performing quarter for the Newedge index
since the final three months of 2009, as some CTA and managed
futures funds were hurt by a quick shift in  currency markets 
after the earthquake struck  Japan  in March.  In contrast, strategies that investors said they planned to
shun have risen in 2011. Credit-arbitrage funds rose 3.6 percent
on average in the first quarter and multistrategy funds
increased 2.9 percent, according to Bloomberg data. Goldman
Sachs’s survey, taken in January, gathered information from 545
investors managing more than $1.1 trillion of assets.  About 40 percent of investors said they would lock money up
with a hedge fund for longer than a year if the firm agreed to
lower its fees, with pension funds and endowments the most eager
to negotiate discounts. Hedge funds typically charge investors 2
percent of assets under management to cover costs and 20 percent
of any profits.  Premium for Lockup  A lockup of three years doesn’t make economic sense unless
the hedge fund is producing returns that exceed less restrictive
investments by about 1.3 percentage points a year, according to
a 2009 study by Emanuel Derman, head of risk management at
 Prisma Capital Partners . Investors should earn about 0.8
percentage point more a year for agreeing to a two-year lockup,
Derman’s research found.  Prisma is a fund of funds, which charges fees to pick
hedge-fund managers for investors.  “If the underlying strategy invests in illiquid
investments, it makes a lot of sense to have a lockup,” Derman,
who’s also a professor at  Columbia University  in  New York , said
in an interview. “What you want to avoid is instances in which
the manager has a long lockup for no apparent reason.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  