-- 
Canada Stocks Fall on Jobless Data; Research In Motion Slides

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-04-14T20:38:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/medoro-resources-shamaran-petroleum-canada-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks fell for the third
time this week as U.S. initial jobless claims topped forecasts
and concern over European debt intensified.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  declined 2.2 percent,
leading energy shares lower.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  retreated
2.3 percent after reviewers from the Wall Street Journal, New
York Times and Wired criticized its PlayBook tablet computer.
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest gold producer, rose 2.2
percent as precious metals gained.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index slipped 11.84
point points, or 0.1 percent, to 13,821.80.  “Over in  Europe , we’ve seen spreads widen on the bonds,
and people are wondering if there will be restructuring of
debt,” said Jeffrey Bradacs, a Toronto-based senior investment
analyst for a team at Manulife Asset Management that oversees
C$1.7 billion ($1.8 billion). “Some people seeing the risk of
that are pulling back” from equities and commodities.  The index lost 2.6 percent this week through yesterday
after four straight weekly gains. Oil and copper stocks have
declined after the  International Monetary Fund  cut its growth
forecast for the U.S. and investors speculated China may raise
further tighten credit.  Die Welt today quoted German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  as saying  Greece  may need to renegotiate its debt
burden if an audit in June raises doubt on its ability to pay
creditors. Greek bond yields climbed to the highest since 1998
and the cost to insure against defaults on Greek government debt
increased to a record.  U.S. Claims  In the U.S., 412,000 people filed first-time jobless claims
last week, the Labor Department said in  Washington . The figure
exceeded all 49 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Canadian factory sales retreated 1.5 percent in February,
Statistics  Canada  said. Economists had forecast a decrease of
0.5 percent, according to the median of 21 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Canadian Natural dropped 2.2 percent to C$42.59 for a
fourth-straight loss.  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , which
produces oil in  Colombia , declined 2 percent to C$27.88.
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , an oil and gas producer with operations in
 North America , the  North Sea  and  Indonesia , decreased 0.8
percent to C$22.18.  Gold advanced and silver rallied the most this year as the
 U.S. dollar  retreated to a 16-month low against a basket of
world currencies.  Gold Attraction  “People, when they look around the globe, with the concern
in Europe and concern with the U.S. dollar and its deficit, are
attracted to gold,” Bradacs said.  Barrick increased 2.2 percent to C$51.26.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) ,
the world’s second-largest gold producer by market value,
climbed 2.3 percent to C$51.86.  Nautilus Minerals Inc. (NUS) , which explores for gold and copper
on the ocean floor, surged 10 percent to C$3.24 after jumping 18
percent yesterday. Nautilus said it has formed a joint venture
with Bremen, Germany-based shipping company Harren & Partner to
operate a vessel that will serve as Nautilus’s operational base.  Banro Corp. (BAA) , which explores for gold in  Africa , soared 19
percent, the most since June 2009, to C$2.79 after saying
construction of its Twangiza mine in the Democratic Republic of
Congo remains on schedule. The shares had tumbled 41 percent
this year through yesterday.  Bolivian Mine  Pan American Silver Corp. (PAA) , which produces silver and base
metals in Latin America, sank 9.3 percent to C$35.89 after
Nicolas Fernandez, a spokesman for  Bolivia ’s state mining
company, said the country will expropriate mines privatized by
previous governments. The shares’ tumble was the biggest in a
day since August 2009.  Teck Resources Inc., Canada’s largest base-metals and coal
producer, fell 1.5 percent to C$50.14 as copper dropped after
the  China  Securities Journal said the country is likely to raise
 reserve requirements  for banks in the “near future.” Teck
shares have declined seven straight days, the longest streak
since January 2009.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd., the country’s second-largest
publicly traded copper producer, lost 1.9 percent to C$119.06,
extending its weekly drop to 13 percent.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer by market value, decreased 1.1 percent to
C$53.88. Wheat futures retreated for a fourth day as
meteorologists forecast rain for drought-stricken  Kansas .  RIM, Canada’s largest technology company, retreated 2.3
percent to C$51.57. David Pogue of the New York Times called the
first version of the PlayBook “half-baked,” while Mike Isaac
of Wired said it has “serious gaps in key areas like app
selection and Flash stability.”  Shaw Communications Inc. (SJR/B) , the country’s biggest cable and
satellite television provider by subscribers, dropped 2.4
percent to C$19.32 after slumping 3.7 percent yesterday. The
company reported second-quarter sales yesterday that trailed
analyst estimates. At least five analysts reduced their share-
price estimates on Shaw today.  To contact the reporter on this story;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 