-- 
Egyptian Resorts Falls to Lowest in 5 Years After Land Rescinded

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-14T14:23:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/egyptian-resorts-falls-to-lowest-in-5-years-after-land-rescinded.html
Egyptian Resorts Co. (EGTS)  dropped to the
lowest level in almost five years after a government agency
rescinded its preliminary approval to sell 20 million square
meters of land to the property developer on the Red Sea.  The shares plunged 7.8 percent to 1.06 Egyptian pounds, the
lowest level since August 2006, at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo,
valuing the company at 1.1 billion pounds ($185 million). The
shares have lost 48 percent this year.  “The expected  cash flow  from that land has been taken away
so the company is in need of coming up with a new strategy of
acquiring additional land in areas other than Sahl Hasheesh in
order to survive,” said Rehab Taha, equity analyst at Cairo-
based Prime Securities SAE.  Egypt ’s Tourism Development Authority retracted its
preliminary approval, Egyptian Resorts said today in a
regulatory filing. The company plans to appeal the decision
because it was made “without prior notice or legal
justification and the company was not given an opportunity to
rectify any mistakes” that the authority may have noted,
according to a separate filing by Egyptian Resorts today.  The land is the subject of a lawsuit due to be heard at a
Cairo court on April 26 because it was not sold at a public
auction. Egyptian Resorts has invested $12.9 million in the
land, including $7.6 million in payments for the purchase,
representing 27 percent of the agreed purchase price, it said.  Second Phase  Prior to today’s decision, Egyptian Resorts’ land bank was
made up of 32 million square meters in Sahl Hasheesh, south of
the resort town of Hurghada, that it agreed to purchase from the
government starting in 1995 over three phases. The company
bought 5 million square meters in 1995 for $1 per square meter.
The second-phase purchase was of 7 million square meters.  Abu Bakr Makhlouf, Egyptian Resorts’ investor relations
manager, did not respond to two calls and a text message to his
mobile phone.  The company, which hasn’t sold a plot since 2008, develops
the land with infrastructure such as water, electricity and
communication links, and sells it to sub-developers in the
hospitality or in the second-home business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  