-- 
Egypt Officials Push U.S. Businesses for ‘Strategic’ Investment

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-04-14T23:33:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/egypt-officials-push-u-s-businesses-for-strategic-investment.html
Egypt ’s finance minister and its
minister of planning appealed to U.S. businesses to invest in
their country, warning that strategic U.S. interests are at
stake if the transition to democracy fails.  “This is not about aid, this is not about assistance, this
is about strategic interests,” said Fayza Mohamed Aboulnaga,
the minister of planning and international cooperation, speaking
yesterday at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington.  Aboulnaga and Finance Minister Samir Mohamed Radwan have
spent two days in Washington meeting with administration
officials and members of Congress to appeal for debt
forgiveness, they said. They also talked with the  World Bank  and
the  International Monetary Fund .  Egypt faces mounting demands, a young population impatient
for jobs that pay well, and a burgeoning deficit that the
officials projected will hit $8 billion by June 30, the end of
the country’s fiscal year.  To those who would rather “wait and see” whether to
invest in Egypt, Aboulnaga said such a stance “could lead to
irreversible consequences that will cost everybody a lot more
than anybody can think if, God forbid, insecurity and
instability prevail in Egypt and then, subsequently, in the
region.”  Egypt would like the U.S. to forgive $3.6 billion in debt,
the principal of which has been “paid over and over,”
Aboulnaga said. Egypt is simply paying “interest upon interest
upon interest,” she said.  Interim Government  Since President  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted in February by
popular protest, Egypt is being run by an interim government,
supervised by the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, until
elections in September.  Egypt’s temporary leadership has focused on building a
democracy and confronting economic challenges, Aboulnaga said.  Egypt plans to work on infrastructure, the development of
small and medium-sized businesses, and “mega national
projects” to spur economic growth and create jobs, Radwan said.  Aboulnaga said one of those “mega national projects”
would create “development corridors” that stretch across
Egypt, spur economic development and involve shifting 9 million
people to the western part of the country.  “These could become Hong Kongs in Egypt,” Radwan said.  Radwan said Egypt’s goal was to spur the nation’s
investment rate from its current 17 percent to closer to 23
percent or 25 percent.  “The idea is there, the vision is there. What we need is
partnership,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  