-- 
Leighton Tumbles Most in Two Years After Loss Forecast, Capital Raising

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-04-14T07:40:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/leighton-tumbles-most-in-two-years-on-full-year-loss-forecast-share-sale.html
Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) ,  Australia ’s
biggest builder, plunged the most in more than two years in
Sydney trading after forecasting a full-year loss and raising
A$757 million ($797 million) by selling new shares at a
discount.  The company tumbled 12 percent to A$24.93 at the 4:10 p.m.
market close in Sydney, the biggest decline since November 2008,
as it resumed trading following a five-day suspension.  Leighton, 54 percent owned by Hochtief AG, sold new shares
at A$22.50 apiece after forecasting A$907 million in write backs
and impairments in the year ending June because of project-cost
overruns and charges at its Middle East venture. Chief Executive
Officer  David Stewart  has also flagged changes to bidding
procedures and possible asset sales.  Hochtief,  Germany ’s largest builder, took up its full
entitlement in the share sale, according to a statement today.
Investors were offered one new share for every nine held.  Leighton expects a net loss of A$427 million in the year
ending June, compared with an earlier forecast for a profit, it
said in an April 11 statement. The company has suffered delays
and cost overruns while building the Brisbane Airport Link road
and a desalination plant in Victoria state.  Hochtief, based in Essen, Germany, said April 11 that
pretax profit may fall 50 percent this year because of losses at
Leighton. Chief Executive Officer Herbert Luetkestratkoetter
also resigned this week as Madrid-based Actividades de
Construccion & Servicios SA works to build a controlling stake
in the company.  The German builder has tumbled 14 percent in Frankfurt
trading since issuing a profit warning on April 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  