-- 
Eisai’s Perampanel Didn’t Significantly Reduce Epileptic Seizures in Study

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-04-14T07:44:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/eisai-s-perampanel-didn-t-significantly-reduce-epileptic-seizures-in-study.html
Eisai Co.’s experimental epilepsy
drug didn’t cut seizure rates significantly more than a placebo
in patients who didn’t improve on previous treatments, a
researcher said at the  American Academy of Neurology  meeting.  While the study failed to find a definitive benefit for its
two main goals, a third analysis favored by U.S. regulators
showed patients had 26 percent to 35 percent fewer seizures over
28 days on perampanel, compared with 21 percent in those on a
placebo, said Jacqueline French, director of the clinical trials
consortium at  New York University ’s epilepsy center.  The Eisai-funded study, from the last of three stages
usually needed for U.S. approval, included patients who failed
to respond to as many as a dozen drugs and had few treatment
alternatives, French said in a news conference on April 12 at
the neurology meeting in Honolulu. Patients received the drug or
placebo on top of existing therapy. The results should be enough
to win approval from the  Food and Drug Administration , she said.  “There was already a positive trial at lower doses,” said
French, the study’s lead researcher. The FDA and the  European
Medicines Agency  will “look at the entirety of the data,” she
said. “They won’t have a problem approving the drug with data
that’s available.”  Regional Difference  The benefits were most significant for patients from the
U.S. and  Canada , while those from Latin America weren’t helped,
she said. Additional research is needed to determine why there
was such a regional difference, she said.  Eisai fell 1.5 percent to 2,966 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The shares have risen 0.9
percent this year, compared with a 5.8 percent drop in the
benchmark Topix index.  When researchers considered the results of everyone
assigned to take the drug, a so-called intent-to-treat analysis,
the patients taking perampanel had fewer seizures and were more
likely to have halved their seizure rates than those given a
placebo. The differences between the groups were too small to be
considered significant, and they may have stemmed from chance,
the study found.  The data paint a “mixed picture,” said Stephen Barker, an
equities analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. in  Tokyo , who
rates Eisai a “sell.”  Under U.S. standards, the 12 milligram dosage was effective
in both the double-blind and in the maintenance phase of the
trials, while the 8 milligram dosage wasn’t proven to be better
than placebo in the maintenance phase, Barker said in an e-mail.
Under the European guidelines neither dose was proven, at a high
level of confidence, to be better than placebo.  ‘Disappointment’  “In the Latin American arm of the study, perampanel was
not shown to be better than placebo,” Barker said. “I would
consider this to be something of a disappointment, and raises
the risks in my mind that this drug may not get approval.”  About 50 million people worldwide have  epilepsy , a chronic
disorder of the brain where abnormal activity of the neurons
causes seizures. Pinpointing the specific reason an individual
develops the disease is often difficult.  Eisai has said it plans to file for approval of perampanel
in the U.S. and  Europe  by mid-year. The Tokyo-based drugmaker,
which fired 20 percent of its U.S. workforce in the past two
months, is looking for novel medicines to replace dwindling
sales of Aricept, its best-selling medicine for  Alzheimer’s
disease  that lost patent protection in November.  Among the side effects were dizziness, tiredness,
irritability, headaches and falls, according to the study.  Perampanel blocks receptors present in neurons that
transmit signals stimulated by glutamate within the brain. The
overactive receptors are believed to be involved in diseases
marked by excess signaling within the brain, including epilepsy,
movement disorders, pain and some psychiatric conditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  