-- 
Telefonica May Reduce Workforce in Spain by 20% Amid Latin American Push

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-04-14T15:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/telefonica-may-cut-workforce-in-spain-by-20-amid-latin-america-push.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  may cut its workforce
in  Spain  by about 20 percent within the next three years as the
country’s former phone monopoly targets growth in Latin America
to make up for declining sales in its home market.  Telefonica, which employs about 35,000 people in Spain,
faces a “difficult” macro-economic environment and “increased
competitive pressure,” the company said in a presentation on
its website today. Madrid-based Telefonica, which is cutting 6
percent of management positions, said it will link pay and
benefits more to employees’ productivity rather than the
 consumer price index .  The operator is betting on higher dividends and Latin
America’s rapid growth to win back investors discouraged by the
Spanish government’s austerity measures and the highest
 unemployment rate  in the euro region. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Cesar Alierta raised his bid three times last
year to convince  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  to sell its part of
their venture that controlled Brazilian wireless operator  Vivo
Participacoes SA. (VIVO4)   “The potential cut in workforce of up to 20 percent is
greater than we expected and the move to realign salaries to
productivity and away from CPI is encouraging,” Guy Peddy, an
analyst at Macquarie Securities in London, said by e-mail today.
“The aim to sustain margins is also more robust than we
expected.”  Shareholder Returns  Telefonica said it aims to defend the operating margin
before depreciation and amortization in Spain while capturing
market growth opportunities “in a profitable way.” The company
will continue to raise returns for shareholders in the years to
come as it benefits from higher revenue in Latin America, said
Alierta.  “I want shareholders to sleep very well,” Alierta said.
“Shareholders’ remuneration can only go up. I see no problems
in achieving our dividend commitments.”  The phone company will soon start negotiating with unions
over job cuts in its Spanish operations, Guillermo Ansaldo, head
of the company in Spain, said today in  London .  Most cuts will be in the wireline business, and those
aren’t included in the group’s earnings guidance for the next
three years, Ansaldo said.  The company said it plans to reduce debt to between 2 and
2.5 times operating income before depreciation and amortization
from 2.5 times in 2010.  Asset Sales  Telefonica’s revenue in Spain from fixed and mobile
broadband and  information technology  services will climb
significantly in the short term, Ansaldo said. “Mobile
broadband is exploding,” he told investors.  Europe ’s second-largest phone company said today it may
reap about 600 million euros from the sale of Spanish non-core
assets in information technology and real estate over the next
three years.  The company yesterday forecast revenue growth of at least 1
percent annually through 2013 and budgeted as much as 27 billion
euros ($39 billion) in spending as part of its Latin American
push. The company aims to reach more than 340 million users in
2013.  Telefonica’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Latin
America Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete said today he sees further
growth opportunities in mobile and fixed-line operations in
 Brazil . He said the company is in a “comfortable” position to
meet the target of as much as 2.7 billion euros in savings
within four years from combining operations in Brazil.  The operator faced “challenges” in  Mexico  last year and
predicted the business in the country will recover and gain
momentum starting in the second half of 2011, Alvarez-Pallete
said.  Latin American Growth  Last year’s investments in Latin America will boost the
company’s sales over the next few years, Alierta said.  Fourth-quarter revenue from the region soared 20 percent
from a year earlier to 7.6 billion euros, accounting for 46
percent of total sales. Revenue from Spain dropped 7.5 percent
to 4.7 billion euros in the period.  “Latin America has the highest growth perspective, but
Telefonica also faces tough competition” from rivals such as
America Movil SAB, said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage about 1.1
billion euros at Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg.  Telefonica shares dropped for a fourth day this week,
slipping 1.1 percent to 17.81 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close in
 Madrid .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  