-- 
Helius Completes Funding $99 Million Power Plant Using Waste From Whisky

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-04-14T14:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/helius-completes-funding-99-million-power-plant-using-waste-from-whisky.html
Rabobank Group acquired an equity
stake in a 60.5 million-pound ($99 million) Scottish project
that will use waste from malt whisky to generate electricity for
9,000 homes.  The Dutch financial services group has almost 45 percent of
the venture in Rothes, northern  Scotland , according to its
developer,  Helius Energy Plc. (HEGY)  That transaction completes funding
for the facility that’s set to be operational in 2013, London-
based Helius said today in a statement.  Helius, a developer of biomass energy plants, will hold a
50 percent stake, plus one share. The company already obtained a
non-recourse loan of 42.4 million pounds with Lloyds TSB Bank
Plc and the Royal Bank of Scotland. That loan accounts for 70
percent of the project’s cost and matures in 14 years --
covering two years of construction and 12 of operation, Helius
Chief Financial Officer Alan Lyons said today by telephone.  “We see this as quite a significant deal in the market,”
Lyons said. “It underlines that the U.K. banking market is open
for business for renewable energy and is definitely able to fund
biomass projects,” he said.  Rabobank’s stake in the project’s company, Helius Corde
Ltd., may be worth about 9.3 million pounds, according to the
financing structure outlined in the statement.  The Combination of Rothes Distillers Ltd., a joint venture
of seven distillery companies, holds 5.3 percent in Helius
Corde. Together Helius and Rothes Distillers have invested 8.8
million pounds in the project.  Rabobank, which acquired 44.7 percent minus one share
through Rabo Project Equity BV, declined to comment on its level
of investment when contacted by e-mail.  Draff, Pot Ale Syrup  The project will use draff, the wet barley byproduct from
whisky making, and burn it in a boiler with wood to raise steam
that drives a turbine producing electricity. It will generate
7.2 megawatts of clean power. The pot ale syrup, another whisky
byproduct, can be used in cattle feed.  In addition Helius started speaking with debt providers
about loans for a 100-megawatt biomass plant it’s planning to
build in Bristol,  England . That project at a consented site in
Avonmouth would cost about 300 million pounds and Helius would
seek a similar debt portion of about 70 percent, Lyons said. It
expects financial close late this year or early 2012, he said.
The plant would burn woodchips to produce electricity.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 