-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall Amid Concern on Inflation, Monetary Tightening

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-14T21:30:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/emerging-market-stocks-fall-amid-concern-on-inflation-monetary-tightening.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, while
currencies strengthened, as speculation increased that central
banks will boost  interest rates  to fight inflation.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.3 percent to
1,182.21, with almost four stocks declining for every three that
rose.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.3 percent
before government reports tomorrow that may show economic growth
slowed and inflation accelerated.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index dropped
0.3 percent. Poland’s zloty strengthened 0.4 percent against the
euro after a report yesterday showed inflation reached a two-
year high.  China’s first-quarter gross domestic product growth slowed
to 9.4 percent from 11.9 percent a year earlier, while inflation
accelerated to 5.2 percent, the highest level since July 2008,
according to the median estimates of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Singapore said today it will allow more gains in the
currency to combat inflation, while central bank policy makers
in  Poland  signaled further rate increases.  “Inflation remains a key concern, and there may be
additional tightening in China,” said Lim Chang Gue, a fund
manager in Seoul at Samsung Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $29 billion.  The MSCI emerging-market index has climbed 2.7 percent this
year, trailing a 4.4 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of
advanced-country shares, as record food prices and surging oil
prompted central banks in developing nations including Brazil,
 Russia ,  India  and China to lift borrowing costs. The emerging-
market gauge is valued at 11.6 times estimated earnings, down
from 13 times a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank Capital  The Shanghai Composite slipped from a five-month high.
China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co., the nation’s
biggest developers, fell more than 1.4 percent after Moody’s
Investors Service cut its outlook for the property industry.  China Construction Bank Corp. retreated 1.3 percent in  Hong
Kong . Chinese lenders may have to raise about 860 billion yuan
($131 billion) of stock over six years to meet stricter capital
rules, according to estimates from the industry regulator, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid 1.6 percent, the lowest level
since March 23, as mining companies including OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel dropped on lower metals prices. Poland’s WIG20 Index
slipped 0.6 percent as KGHM Polska Miedz SA, the copper producer
with the biggest European mine output, declined 1.5 percent.  Polish Rates  Poland’s annual inflation rate accelerated to 4.3 percent
in March, the highest in more than two years, the Warsaw-based
statistics office said yesterday. An interest-rate increase in
May would be “justified,” PAP newswire cited Anna Zielinska- Glebocka, a policy maker, as saying after the report. The
central bank will “need to act,” Jan Winiecki, also a member
of the rate-setting board, told TVN CNBC television in an
interview.  Brazilian stocks fell for a fifth day, the longest losing
streak in five months, as homebuilders slid after Gafisa SA and
MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA reported a decline in first-
quarter sales.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell 2 basis pointS to 258, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX
CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps for emerging  Europe , the
Middle East and Africa rose 3 basis points to 187, according to
data provider CMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  