-- 
TVA to Spend as Much as $5 Billion to Resolve Carbon Violations in U.S.

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-04-14T21:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/tennessee-valley-authority-to-spend-up-to-5-bln-on-pollution.html
The  Tennessee Valley Authority 
agreed to close 18 coal-fired generators and install as much as
$5 billion in pollution controls to resolve alleged Clean Air
Act violations in  Alabama , Kentucky and Tennessee.  The settlement with the Environmental Protection Agency and
the states requires TVA to install equipment targeting nitrogen
oxides and sulfur dioxide, which create acid rain, the TVA said
today in a statement. The authority, created in 1933 by
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt , will invest $350 million in
clean-energy projects and pay $10 million in civil penalties.  The TVA, which owns 59 coal-burning units, said it will
replace the units with low- or zero-emitting sources, including
renewable energy, natural gas and nuclear. The government-owned
company, faulted by environmental groups for operating old and
polluting plants, said it aims to become a top U.S. provider of
cleaner energy by 2020.  “These units are among the first built by TVA and have
served us well over the years,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Kilgore said in a statement. “But as times change, TVA must
adapt to meet future challenges.”  Bruce Nilles, head of energy programs at the San Francisco-
based  Sierra Club , said the agreement is “by far the largest
coal-retirement settlement in the nation’s history.”  “ Tennessee  and the surrounding region have been getting
hammered by the pollution from TVA’s coal plants for more than
half a century,” Nilles said in an interview. The generators
are, on average, 47 years old, exceeding their intended life
span of 30 years to 40 years, he said.  ‘Drive Up Bills’  Representative John Duncan, a Tennessee Republican, said
the agreement will increase energy costs for consumers.  “The EPA has gone power mad,” he said in a statement.
“I’m disappointed that TVA caved in to these demands. This
settlement will drive up utility bills for people in Tennessee
and the surrounding states and hurt poor and lower income people
the most.”  Representative Ed Whitfield, a  Kentucky  Republican and
chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s energy and
power panel, said the agreement reflects the efforts of
environmental groups to dictate policy.  “Today’s announcement is a prime example of what is wrong
with national environmental policy in the U.S., it’s being
determined by privately settled lawsuits and monetary payoffs
with absolutely no input from elected representatives,” he said
in a statement. “We intend for this to stop.”  Whitfield said he’s concerned that the agreement will boost
electricity costs for consumers, jeopardize jobs and add to the
TVA’s already heavy debt load.  Low Bills  Kilgore said the agreement is in line with TVA’s goals to
“keep bills low, keep our service reliability high and further
improve  air quality  as we modernize the TVA power system.”  The retirements will help reduce discharges of sulfur
dioxide by 97 percent from 1977 levels and cut emissions of
nitrogen oxides, which contribute to smog, by 95 percent from
1995 levels, according to the utility.  By the end of 2017, the Knoxville, Tennessee-based TVA said
it will have shut or retired about 2,700 megawatts of its 17,000
megawatts of coal-fired capacity. The coal plants generate about
two-thirds of the TVA’s electricity, according to its  website .  EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson praised the agreement.  “We don’t have anything against coal, but we have to
reduce the pollution that comes from coal,” Jackson told
reporters today on a conference call.  Health Benefits  The EPA said the settlement with the TVA, which was  created 
to bring electricity to the rural U.S. south, will generate
almost $27 billion in annual health benefits and “significantly
reduce” particulate matter and carbon dioxide, a primary
greenhouse gas blamed for  climate change .  “This agreement will save lives and prevent billions of
dollars in health costs,” Jackson said. “Investments in
pollution control equipment will keep hundreds of thousands of
tons of harmful pollutants out of the air we breathe.”  The TVA agreed to spend $240 million on energy efficiency
initiatives and $40 million to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions
through renewable projects such as hybrid electric charging
stations,’’ according to the EPA.  The utility also will spend $8 million for a clean diesel
and electric vehicle project for public transportation systems,
the EPA said.  The settlement resolves legal challenges from groups
including the  Sierra Club  as well as  North Carolina , Tennessee,
Alabama and Kentucky. All of TVA’s 11 coal-fired plants were
accused of violating the federal  Clean Air Act .  The Sierra Club’s Nilles said he’s disappointed that the
TVA hasn’t committed to developing more wind and solar energy.  “We will push them on this,” he said. “They are a public
agency so there will have to be public input.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in  Washington  at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at  