-- 
Fukushima Radiation Leaks Will Continue Through June, Tokyo Electric Says

-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 
2011-04-14T12:52:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/tepco-said-to-estimate-three-months-needed-to-stabilize-fukushima-reactors.html
Tokyo Electric  Power Co. estimates
the fight to stabilize its crippled Fukushima reactors will last
through June, leaving them vulnerable to more aftershocks and
radiation leaks, a person briefed on the utility’s plan said.  Engineers at Tokyo Electric rejected a proposal to flood
reactors at the damaged plant, which could lower temperatures in
days rather than months, according to the person, who asked not
to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak to the
media. Instead, the utility is pumping in water and venting off
steam, a method called “feed and bleed.”  Since the magnitude-9 quake and tsunami hit the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi station on March 11, there have been hundreds of
aftershocks, including one this week that disabled the plant’s
power and cooling systems for almost an hour. As the crisis
drags on, there’s the risk of new accidents, said Pierre Zaleski, a former member of the French Atomic Energy Commission.  “The major problem is these aftershocks,” said Zaleski,
executive director at the Center for Geopolitics of Energy and
 Raw Materials  at the University Paris Dauphine. “You never know
if there are more aftershocks and containment may fail --maybe
not completely -- but these structures have been weakened.”  Tokyo Electric is reluctant to flood its reactors because
the move might generate bad publicity, the person said. Flooding
would increase the amount of contaminated water that gets into
the ocean and also raise the possibility of more hydrogen
explosions inside the containment, the person said.  Heat Blocks Decommissioning  Workers can’t start the process of decommissioning the
plant’s four crippled reactors until temperatures and pressure
have been brought down. Cleaning up the disaster, which has
forced the evacuation of hundreds of thousands of people living
within 20 kilometers (12 miles) of the plant, could take decades
and cost more than 1 trillion yen ($12 billion).  The primary danger at the plant is reactor No. 1, where
temperatures and pressure are still high and the water level is
low, the person said. Water levels inside the core of the
reactor dropped yesterday, according to data released by Tokyo
Electric, leaving 1.65 meters of fuel rods exposed to air, where
they can heat up and melt, releasing radiation into the pressure
vessel.  While Tokyo Electric’s plan for ending the crisis says
getting exposed fuel rods covered with water again is one
measure of stabilization, according to the person briefed on the
document, the utility’s data shows pumping efforts have failed
to raise the water level more than 20 centimeters in the 35 days
since the disaster started.  Low Water Levels  The failure to raise water levels is part of the reason
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  this
week called the situation “static,” rather than stable.
“Significant additional problems” could still occur at the
plant, he said at a hearing of the Senate Environment and Public
Works Committee on April 12.  A make-shift combination of fire hoses and pumps being used
to cool the reactor isn’t providing enough water, according to
the person. Temperatures that measured 204.5 degrees Celsius
(400 degrees Fahrenheit) inside the vessel yesterday, or twice
boiling point, cause the water to turn into steam, creating a
sauna-like cooling system that’s less effective, the person
said.  Flooding the space between the pressure vessel and the
surrounding containment could bring temperatures down in days
rather than months, according to the person.  Generators Move Uphill  Tokyo Electric said today it will move backup generators
for the plant to higher ground away from the sea to ensure
cooling systems aren’t disrupted by future tsunamis. They will
be placed 20 meters (66 feet) above  sea level , double the
current height, according to the company.  The utility also said it discovered uranium in soil sampled
at the power station. The levels of uranium-234, uranium-235 and
uranium-238 are almost identical to those found in nature, and
it is unlikely the uranium came from reactor fuel, Junichi Matsumoto, a spokesman for Tokyo Electric, told reporters at a
news conference in Tokyo today.  While Tokyo Electric hasn’t announced a time line for
resolving the crisis, the person said the utility drafted an
internal document two weeks ago called the “Tepco
Short/Medium/Long Range Recovery Plan” that aims to have the
reactors stabilized by the end of June.  Tokyo Electric President Masataka Shimizu, speaking
publically this week for only the second time since the disaster
started, said a schedule for dealing with the crisis “will be
presented soon.”  U.S., French Support  Shimizu spoke to reporters a day after a magnitude-6.6
temblor disrupted power at Fukushima for 50 minutes, setting
back efforts to cool reactors at a plant already weakened by
explosions and last month’s quake and tsunami.  “We’re studying a variety of ways to resolve the crisis
and getting support from the U.S. and  France ,” Naoyuki
Matsumoto, a Tokyo-based spokesman for the utility, said
yesterday. He declined to comment on specific measures being
considered.  Decision-makers at the utility are walking a tightrope
between risks, said  David Lochbaum , a nuclear safety engineer at
the Union of Concerned Scientists in Washington D.C. Although
flooding could cause weakened containment structures to break, a
slower process also has drawbacks, he said.  “They’re getting back to a situation where they have more
control,” he said, referring to progress that’s been made in
restoring roads and power to the plant. “The downside is that a
surprise or a curveball could cause things to get worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Clenfield in  Tokyo  at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  