-- 
Erdem Basci, Cheap-Money Proponent, Is Named to Head Turkey's Central Bank

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-04-14T16:50:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/erdem-basci-cheap-money-proponent-is-named-to-head-turkey-s-central-bank.html
Erdem Basci, who helped design the
Turkish central bank’s policy of cheap money and curbs on
lending, was chosen as its next governor.  The announcement was confirmed by the presidency’s press
bureau today by telephone. The appointment, which followed an
hour-long meeting between President  Abdullah Gul  and Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , was predicted by 14 of 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month.  Basci, 44, a school friend of Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan , has worked at the bank since 2003. His paper, published
on the bank’s website on Dec. 11, revealed the latest policy of
low rates and higher  reserve requirements , surprising investors
and prompting a decline in bonds as banks sold assets to meet
the extra commitments. The central bank reaffirmed its adherence
to the policy in a March 23  statement , adding that new data or
information may lead to revisions. Basci will chair his first
monetary policy meeting on April 21.  “Basci is very well known and respected as an experienced
policy maker and the fact that he was proposed for the job
before means he ticks the boxes as far as the government is
concerned,” Tim Ash, chief emerging-market economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a telephone interview. “For
markets, the combination of Basci and Babacan is something of a
dream team.”  Economic Policy  Babacan has been a key figure in Turkish economic policy
since 2002, when the  Justice and Development Party  first took
office. In that time, the main ISE National-100 share index more
than quadrupled in dollar terms, outperforming the MSCI Emerging
Market Index, and gross domestic product per person almost
tripled, to $10,043 in 2010, according to the Treasury.  The share and bond markets in Istanbul were closed when the
decision was announced. The lira was little changed at 1.5199
per dollar at 6:58 p.m. local time.  Appointing Basci is “good for the predictability of the
policy stance, good for accountability for prior actions,”
 Tevfik Aksoy , London-based head of CEEMEA economics for Morgan
Stanley, said in a telephone interview. “It also shows that the
prime minister supported Mr. Babacan’s choice.”  The bank’s main tasks this year will be to narrow the
current-account gap and pare loan growth, Basci said in an
interview in Prague March 29. The deficit more than doubled in
February from a year earlier, widening to $6.1 billion in a 14th
straight month of increases, the central bank said April 11.  The bank has cut  interest rates  by 75 basis points to 6.25
percent since December to help slow capital inflows while
increasing reserve requirements to cap growth in loans.  Inflation Rate  Basci will inherit an inflation rate of 4 percent, the
lowest in four decades, and an economy that expanded 8.9 percent
last year, a rate he called “very rapid.” Inflation is likely
to accelerate for the rest of the year as higher global  oil
prices  feed into the economy, the central bank forecast on April
5. The bank is aiming for year-end inflation of 5.5 percent.  Basci was Erdogan’s preferred candidate for central bank
chief five years ago, ahead of outgoing Governor  Durmus Yilmaz ,
though Basci’s nomination was rejected by then-President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, according to news reports at the time.  Basci’s wife, like Yilmaz’s, wears an Islamic-style
headscarf that upholders of  Turkey ’s secular constitution, such
as Sezer, see as a symbol of Erdogan’s efforts to allow a wider
role for religion. Sezer also blocked the candidacy of Adnan Buyukdeniz, an Islamic banker. Abdullah Gul, a political ally of
Erdogan, replaced Sezer in 2007.  Basci, who studied at  Johns Hopkins University  in
Baltimore, was a student at a private high school in Ankara at
the same time as Babacan, who is in charge of the Treasury and
the government’s economic policy. Their families ran businesses
in the Ulus suburb of the Turkish capital. Basci acted as
Babacan’s adviser in 2003 before he was appointed to the bank.
He served as acting governor for a month in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 