-- 
Merkel Faces Nuclear Exit Bill as States Step Up Pressure

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-04-15T15:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/merkel-faces-nuclear-exit-bill-as-german-states-exert-pressure.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  faced a
bid by members of the upper house of parliament to force her to
abandon nuclear power as she tried to rally German state leaders
behind an overhaul of energy policy.  The main opposition  Social Democratic Party  put a bill to
the upper house in Berlin today calling for the immediate
closure of eight reactors and all 17 nuclear plants to be shut
within about a decade. The opposition holds a majority in the
upper house, the Bundesrat, where states are represented.  The bill, which will now go to committee for further
deliberation, steps up the pressure on Merkel to speed the exit
from atomic power as she works on an unprecedented shift in the
energy mix driving  Europe ’s biggest economy that ministers say
might cost as much as 2 billion euros ($2.9 billion) a year.  “The government has to show that they can switch the
country’s energy supply and there just aren’t that many
options,” said Bernhard Jeggle, an analyst with Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart. “They’ll be placing the focus
on renewable energy sources, an expansion of the electricity
grid, energy savings and flexible fossil  power plants .”  E.ON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s two biggest nuclear plant
operators, are among the worst performers this year on the 30-
member benchmark  DAX index. (DAX)  E.ON fell 0.5 percent to 22.32 euros
at the close of Frankfurt trading, while RWE declined 1.1
percent to 46.14 euros.  Emission Permits  Carbon dioxide emission permits for December rose 1.8
percent to 17.09 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . They have risen about 20 percent this year.  Anti-nuclear activists called a demonstration outside the
Chancellery as Merkel, Economy Minister Rainer Bruederle and
Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen met with Germany’s 16
state prime ministers to try and get them on board after last
month ordering a 90-day reassessment of nuclear power as workers
fought a meltdown at  Japan ’s Fukushima plant.  “We all want to get out of nuclear power and switch to
renewable energy as quickly as possible,” Merkel told reporters
after the talks.  Erwin Sellering , Social Democratic premier of
Merkel’s home state of Mecklenburg Western-Pomerania, said there
was disagreement about how quickly to exit nuclear, with some
members of Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  favoring a date of 2035
over the SPD’s preferred timescale of 2022 at the latest.  Merkel, whose government last year pushed through plans to
prolong the  running time  of reactors by an average of 12 years,
aims to overhaul the nuclear law as part of the revamped  energy
policy  to put to Cabinet on June 6, she said.  Offshore Wind  The coalition aims to expand offshore wind parks and build
more gas plants to plug a potential gap in power generation that
would follow a retreat from nuclear, according to a government
paper. Merkel’s Cabinet backed plans two days ago to allow
utilities to pump  greenhouse gases  underground via technology
known as  carbon capture  and storage.  The shift away from nuclear power could cost between 1
billion euros and 2 billion euros per year, depending on the
pace of the transition, Bruederle said on Deutschlandfunk radio.  Speaking before the meeting, Lower Saxony Prime Minister
David McAllister, who is also a board member of Volkswagen AG,
said the federal and state governments would discuss planning
issues that have blocked development of power grids capable of
carrying the electricity generated by renewable energies such as
new wind parks.  Power Grid   “Whoever says yes to building up renewable energies has to
also say yes to building a new power grid,” McAllister, a
member of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said on ARD
television. “We have to take the people with us better than we
have in the past.”  Merkel imposed a moratorium on March 14 on the planned
nuclear extension, then ordered the seven oldest plants idled
pending industry-wide safety checks. Polls suggest the public
want her to go further.  Nineteen percent of 1,000 respondents to a poll for N24
television yesterday said that nuclear plants should operate
beyond 2020, while 76 percent said they should shut earlier. Of
those, 31 percent wanted reactors closed down immediately.  The  Social Democrats , who introduced a law to close all
reactors by about 2022 when in coalition government with the
anti-nuclear Greens, are urging a return to that timetable in
their Bundesrat bill. Submitted by six SPD-led states including
Berlin and Hamburg, the draft also calls for the seven oldest
plants as well as the Kruemmel reactor to remain closed.  Latest Poll  Public sentiment is meanwhile drifting away from Merkel’s
bloc. Merkel’s CDU and its Free Democratic coalition partner
trail the Social Democrats and Greens by 38 percent to 50
percent, an FG Wahlen poll for ZDF television showed today. The
gap has widened to 12 percentage points from 8 points last month
as the Greens soared to a record 23 percent backing.  In switching  Germany ’s energy mix, Merkel must balance
voter concern at reactor safety with the need to burden
consumers with at least some of the costs of the transition.  Germans will agree to paying more for their electricity if
they are convinced it is safer, said Jeggle of LBBW. “But if
the government doesn’t handle this transformation properly and
show that they’re keeping costs in checks for all that consumers
are funding, then the energy policy won’t come out of it
unscathed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  