-- 
EU’s Energy-Efficiency Plans May Weaken Carbon Price, BNEF Says in Report

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-14T08:52:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/eu-s-energy-efficiency-plans-may-weaken-carbon-price-bnef-says-in-report.html
The price of discharging carbon-
dioxide by companies in the European Union’s emissions trading
system may fall if the bloc’s policies lead to “dramatic”
 energy efficiency  gains, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  Emissions in the EU cap-and-trade program, including more
than 11,000 utilities and manufacturing companies, could drop by
as much as 43 percent in 2020 compared with the current goal of
a 21 percent cut from 2005 levels should the EU increase the use
of renewable energy and boost energy efficiency by 20 percent,
Ecofys and Climate Strategies consulting groups said in a report
published in Brussels yesterday.  The scenario shown in that report could be “very bearish”
for the price of EU carbon permits, analysts at BNEF in London
said in an e-mailed statement. The European emissions program,
known as the ETS, imposes pollution limits on companies
including  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG and
 Italy ’s biggest utility  Enel SpA (ENEL) , allowing those that emit less
than their quota to sell surplus permits. One permit gives the
right to discharge one ton of CO2.  “The final impact will mostly depend on the knock-on
effects to the EU ETS power demand,” BNEF said. “The key
industrial sectors covered by the EU ETS are already close to
their maximum efficiency levels, so most of the emissions
reduction in the EU ETS would have to arise from reduced power
consumption from commercial and residential sectors.”  The cap-and-trade program is the cornerstone of the EU plan
to fight  climate change  and meet its internal commitment to cut
overall emissions by 20 percent by 2020 compared with 1990
levels. While the bloc is on course to meet the binding goals to
reduce emissions and to increase the use of renewable energy, it
lags behind on political pledges to boost energy efficiency.  ‘On Other Hand’  “If on the other hand, the energy efficiency plan only
manages to reduce the heating fuel demand within buildings
instead of power consumption, and puts more electric vehicles on
our roads, the impact on the EU ETS could be much more
limited,” BNEF said.  EU permits for delivery in December gained 0.2 percent to
16.68 euros as of 8:24 a.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London . They have risen 17 percent this year.  The European Commission, the EU executive arm, said in an
analysis earlier this year that the bloc may cut  greenhouse
gases  25 percent domestically by 2020 compared with 1990 as long
as it steps up energy-saving efforts.  To avoid a carbon price drop when new efficiency measures
become binding, the EU could decide to withhold an unspecified
number of permits in the next trading period from 2013 to 2020,
the commission said in a policy paper published last month.  Building such a reserve, which according to the EU would be
created from the pool of allowances to be auctioned to companies
by member-states, would need backing from national governments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  