-- 
Hospira, Fresenius Intensify Effort With FDA to Restock Leukemia Medicine

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-04-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/leukemia-patients-will-get-imported-drugs-during-u-s-shortage.html
Hospira Inc. (HSP) ,  Fresenius SE (FRE)  and
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH are racing to restore U.S. supplies of
a leukemia drug while regulators look to imports to meet patient
demand.  The  Food and Drug Administration  is working with the three
companies to restore manufacturing levels for the medicine,
cytarabine, and has found an overseas drugmaker willing to
temporarily import the injections, Shelly Burgess, an agency
spokeswoman, said yesterday. She declined to name the company
because the product hasn’t been approved.  Difficulties obtaining the drug’s main ingredient and
preventing crystals of dried medicine from forming in vials have
 limited the availability  of cytarabine since last year. The drug
is a “critical component” of treatment for patients with acute
myeloid leukemia and acute lymphocytic leukemia, according to
the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society in  White Plains ,  New York .  “Without it, most patients die,”  Louis DeGennaro , the
organization’s chief mission officer, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “There’s really no substitute for
cytarabine in those chemotherapy regimes.”  Acute myeloid leukemia  causes aggressive growth of certain
white blood cells in bone marrow. The  American Cancer Society 
 estimated  that the disease was diagnosed in 12,330 patients last
year and led to 8,950 deaths. An estimated 5,330 people were
diagnosed last year with acute lymphocytic leukemia, which
affects a different type of white blood cell.  Manufacturing Priority  Hospira re-entered the market in March after fixing the
crystallization issue and has made the manufacture of cytarabine
a priority ahead of other products, Daniel Rosenberg, a
spokesman for the  Lake Forest , Illinois-based company, said in a
telephone interview. Hospira controlled about one-third of the
market before the shortage and aims to supply more patients as
production increases “in the next weeks and months,” he said.  The APP Pharmaceuticals division of  Bad Homburg , Germany-
based Fresenius  plans to resume  distribution of cytarabine vials
next week, Debra Lynn Ross, a company spokeswoman, said
yesterday in an e-mail. Earlier batches were recalled because of
customer complaints over crystals forming in the vials.  Bedford Labs, a division of closely held Boehringer in
Ingelheim,  Germany , plans to release 82,000 vials in the next
few weeks, said Jason Kurtz, a company spokesman. The company
provided more than half of the cytarabine on the market at the
end of last year and exhausted its supply when competitors faced
delays, Kurtz said. Bedford hasn’t seen any issues with
crystallization or ingredient supply, he said.  Seeking Importer  The FDA began looking for a company to import the medicine
when the shortage worsened in January. It took longer than usual
to find a company willing to import the drug, the FDA’s Burgess
said.  “If all goes as planned this will be continuing to improve
with resolution anticipated soon,” she said in an e-mail. “We
do finally have a firm willing and able to do the importation,
and we are proceeding with this since we believe it’s important
to have a back-up.”  The agency  temporarily allowed  APP to import the anesthesia
drug propofol last year when there was a shortage. Imported
products are reviewed to assure safety, effectiveness and
quality, Burgess said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 