-- 
Europe Jet Fuel Stockpiles Plunge to Lowest in Two Years

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-04-14T15:51:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/europe-jet-fuel-stockpiles-plunge-to-lowest-in-two-years-1-.html
Jet fuel stockpiles in independent
storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp,  Europe ’s oil-trading
hub, plunged to the lowest level in more than two years,
according to data by PJK International BV.  Jet fuel inventories dropped 12 percent to 598,000 metric
tons in the week to today, according to PJK, a researcher based
in Oosterhout, the Netherlands. The fuel sank for a fifth week
to the lowest level since Dec. 4, 2008. Supplies arrived from
 India  and the United Arab Emirates.  “We had product coming in, not going into storage,”
Patrick Kulsen, commercial director at PJK, said by phone. “The
forward curve is almost flat so you can’t profit from contango
storage play.”  Contango is a situation where prices for later delivery are
more expensive than current levels. That means traders and
refiners can profit by storing products, waiting for higher
prices later. The reverse is known as backwardation.  Gasoil inventories dropped 8.6 percent to 2.66 million tons
as the fuel, which includes heating oil and diesel, was sent to
 Benin ,  Egypt  and  Saudi Arabia , according to PJK. Supplies
arrived from  Russia  and the U.S.  Gasoline stockpiles decreased 7.4 percent to 812,000 tons,
the lowest level since Jan. 20, according to PJK data. The motor
fuel left the ARA-area for  Mexico ,  Nigeria  and the U.S. and
supplies arrived from Denmark, France, Russia and Sweden.  Naphtha, used in gasoline and petrochemicals production,
rose by 1,000 tons to 57,000 tons in the week on cargoes from
Italy and Russia, PJK data showed.  Fuel oil fell for a second week to 726,000 tons, the lowest
level since March 3, the data showed. Supplies arrived from
 Finland ,  Lithuania , Russia and the U.S. Fuel oil is used to
power ships and to generate electricity.  The following table shows the weekly inventory changes in
thousands of tons for gasoline, naphtha,  fuel oil  and jet fuel
in independent storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  