-- 
Eurostar Says Royal-Wedding Fever Lures French to London as Britons Depart

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-04-14T13:48:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/eurostar-says-royal-wedding-fever-lures-french-as-britons-depart.html
Britain’s royal wedding will lure
thousands of French tourists to  London  this month as similar
numbers of U.K. natives head in the opposite direction, Channel
Tunnel train operator Eurostar Group Ltd. said today.  The wedding of  Prince William , the future British king, to
 Kate Middleton  in London on April 29 has prompted a surge in
bookings on Eurostar’s trains from Paris, Chief Executive
Officer Nicolas Petrovic said today in an interview.  “It was a bit of a gamble, trying to get republicans to
enjoy a royal wedding, but we invested in advertisements in
 France  and it worked very well,” Petrovic said. “We have several
thousand people coming to enjoy London and the festivities.”
Many Belgians are likewise travelling from Brussels, he said.  Trains are also crammed in the opposite direction as
thousands of Britons elect to leave the nuptials behind and take
advantage of public holidays for the wedding, Easter and May Day
to enjoy an extended stay in continental  Europe , Petrovic said.  “I wouldn’t want to get into trouble with the royal family,
but our trains are absolutely packed the other way as well,” the
41-year-old Frenchman said. “We have seats available but people
have booked more in advance than usual to take advantage of the
holidays and combinations that can be used to take time off.”  Eurostar posted underlying passenger growth of “a bit below
6 percent” in the first quarter, Petrovic said, excluding the
impact of snowfalls and a closed line in  Belgium  in the year-
earlier period. Revenue rose 11 percent to 178 million pounds
($291 million), with unadjusted passenger numbers up 7.5 percent
to 2.15 million, the Paris-based company said in a statement.  Business-Class Overhaul  Eurostar is revamping its  business-class service  for the
first time in five years as executive travel increases.  A menu designed by three-star Michelin chef Alain Roux will
be introduced tomorrow and the premium lounge at Brussels Midi
station is undergoing an upgrade, while applications allowing
users of iPhones and Android devices to download Eurostar
tickets to their mobile phones will go live this summer.  The train operator has also introduced a premium-economy
service in response to demand for less-costly business tickets
during the recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  