-- 
European Stocks Decline for Third Day in Four; Reckitt Tumbles

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-14T16:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/european-stock-index-futures-fall-bhp-billiton-bp-roche-may-be-active.html
European stocks declined for the
third time in four days as yields on Portuguese and Greek
government bonds surged to records amid concern the countries
may have to reschedule debt payments.  Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl dropped 2.7 percent as people
familiar with the situation said the lender is considering a
share sale to boost capital.  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) , the
maker of Nurofen painkillers, tumbled the most since 2003 after
Chief Executive Officer Bart Becht announced his retirement.
 Danone (BN)  rose 2 percent as sales beat analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index retreated 0.5 percent
to 277.01 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge has
declined 1.7 percent so far this week as  Japan  raised its alert
level on the stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant and
Alcoa Inc. began the U.S. earnings season with sales that missed
analysts’ estimates. Google Inc. is scheduled to report first-
quarter results after the close of New York markets today.  “There’s a risk there might be a restructuring of the
Greek debt and the market is afraid of that,” said Martin Huefner, chief economist at Assenagon GmbH in Munich, which has
more than $4.7 billion in client assets. “The beginning of the
earnings season was not really good. You have to be a very lucky
guy to invest in stocks now.”  Greek Stocks  Greece’s ASE Index lost 2.8 percent as the yield on the
nation’s 10-year bond climbed above 13 percent for the first
time since at least 1998 after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told Die Welt newspaper that the Mediterranean country
may need to restructure its debt. The cost of insuring Greek
government debt rose 7 basis points to a record 1,068, according
to CMA prices for credit-default swaps.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , Alpha Bank SA, Piraeus Bank SA
and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA all lost more than 5 percent.  Portuguese 10-year yields added 14 basis points to 8.88
percent, the highest since at least 1997, while two-year note
yields were 26 basis points higher at 9.31 percent.  In the U.S., more Americans unexpectedly filed first-time
claims for  unemployment insurance  last week, reflecting greater-
than-normal volatility at the end of the quarter.  Applications for jobless benefits rose 27,000 in the week
ended April 9 to 412,000, the most in two months, Labor
Department figures showed. Economists projected claims would be
little changed at 380,000, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. Inflation  Another Labor Department report today showed the producer-
price index climbed 0.7 percent from the prior month, less than
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The so-
called core measure, which excludes volatile food and energy
costs, increased 0.3 percent, more than projected.  China ’s March consumer price index may rise 5.3 percent to
5.4 percent, Phoenix TV reported on its website today, citing a
person it didn’t identify. New loans for March totaled 680
billion yuan ($104 billion) and M2 money supply growth was 16.6
percent, it reported.  “There’s a lot of headwinds at the moment,”  Garry Evans ,
a strategist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in  Hong Kong , said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “The oil price is the
obvious one and that’s starting to affect  consumer confidence 
but less obviously it’s going to affect corporate margins so I
think corporate profits aren’t going to be as good as people
forecast.”  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets, except Ireland and Iceland. The U.K.’s  FTSE
100 Index (UKX)  slid 0.8 percent. France’s CAC 40 lost 0.9 percent,
while Germany’s DAX declined 0.4 percent.  Banca Popolare di Milano retreated 2.7 percent to 2.71
euros, the biggest drop this month. The lender will consider a
rights offer at a board meeting next week after the Bank of
Italy asked the country’s oldest cooperative lender to boost
capital, two people familiar with the situation said.  Banking shares posted the worst performance among 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600 today, falling 1.5 percent.
 Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s largest bank, slid 2.3 percent to
8.31 euros, while HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest bank,
dropped 1.3 percent to 653.3 pence.  Reckitt Benckiser sank 7.5 percent to 3,115 pence, the
largest decline in eight years. The world’s biggest maker of
household cleaners said Bart will retire as chief executive, to
be replaced by Rakesh Kapoor. Producers of personal and
household goods declined for a sixth day in seven, dropping 0.7
percent.  PGS Falls  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA (PGS)  tumbled 6.1 percent to 83.10
kroner, the biggest decline in five months. The world’s third-
largest surveyor of oil and natural-gas fields said earnings
were hurt by lower data licensing, higher fuel costs and unrest
in North Africa.  Henderson Group Plc (HGG)  slid 4.7 percent to 160.7 pence, the
biggest decline in almost seven months, as private equity firm
Hellman & Friedman sold its remaining stake of 49.8 million
shares in the  fund manager .  Danone advanced 2 percent to 47.76 euros as the world’s
biggest yogurt maker reported first-quarter sales that beat
analysts’ estimates, helped by the acquisition of Russia’s OAO
Unimilk. Pro-forma revenue including Unimilk and excluding
divestments and currency changes increased 8.5 percent, the
company said. The median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for so-called like-for-like sales to increase
6.9 percent.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food company, climbed 1.3
percent to 53.25 Swiss francs, the biggest gain in three weeks.  Sulzer AG (SUN)  jumped 3.5 percent to 148.7 francs for the best
performance in the Stoxx 600. The Swiss engineering company said
first-quarter orders rose 12 percent to 918 million francs
($1.03 billion).  Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM)  gained 2.1 percent to 360 pence after the
U.K. fund manager focusing on emerging markets said assets under
management increased 7.7 percent in the fiscal third quarter to
$50.3 billion as clients added cash and markets rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  