-- 
Vitol Buys Jet Fuel in Europe; Conoco Buys Diesel: Oil Products

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-04-14T16:59:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/european-gasoline-falls-gasoil-premium-declines-oil-products.html
Vitol Group and ConocoPhillips
bought jet fuel and diesel cargoes, respectively, in northwest
 Europe . The distillates market is “currently oversupplied,”
according to JBC Energy GmbH.  Gasoil futures prices fell. Gasoline declined for a second
day. The fuel’s crack, or premium to  Brent crude , narrowed.  Light Products  Eurobob gasoline for loading in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp
traded from $1,100 to $1,114 a metric ton, according to a survey
of traders and brokers monitoring the Argus Bulletin Board. That
compares with yesterday’s deals from $1,111 to $1,119 a ton.  Gunvor International BV was the main seller. Mercuria
Energy Trading SA was the biggest buyer. Ethanol is added to the
Eurobob grade to make finished motor fuel. The trades are
typically for 1,000 tons or 2,000 tons.  Gasoline’s crack decreased to $8 a barrel from $8.25
yesterday, according to PVM Oil Associates Ltd., an oil and
refined-products broker in  London .  Naphtha’s discount to Brent widened to $6.21 a barrel from
$5.80 yesterday, according to PVM. Naphtha is used in gasoline
and petrochemicals production.  Middle Distillates  ConocoPhillips bought a cargo of ultra-low sulfur diesel
from Royal Dutch Shell Plc at a $26-a-ton premium to May ICE
gasoil, priced for delivery to Bremen in  Germany , according to a
survey of brokers and traders monitoring the Platts pricing
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. That compares with
a deal yesterday at $35 above the gasoil contract, priced for
delivery to  Turkey .  Ultra-low sulfur diesel barges traded at premiums of $14.50
and $15 a ton to May ICE gasoil, the survey showed. That
compares with trades yesterday at premiums of $13 to $14 a ton.  Vitol bought a  jet-fuel  cargo from BP Plc at a premium of
$96 a ton to May ICE gasoil, priced for delivery to the port of
 Le Havre  in  France , according to the survey of Platts.  Morgan Stanley purchased a barge lot of the fuel from Air
France-KLM at $83 a ton above the gasoil contract. That’s in
line with yesterday’s trade.  Gasoil for May declined 0.5 percent to $1,009.50 a ton as
of 4:54 p.m. local time on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London. Brent for May decreased 0.3 percent to $122.51 a barrel.  Gasoil’s premium to Brent, a measure of refining
profitability, fell to $13.32 a barrel compared with $13.83 at
4:30 p.m. London time yesterday, according to ICE.  Gasoil barges traded at discounts of $6 and $7 a ton to May
ICE gasoil, the survey showed. That compares with yesterday’s
trades from $6 to $8 below the futures contract.  “The middle distillate market is currently oversupplied,
with high exports from the U.S. and high retail prices coupled
with a slowdown in the economic recovery,” Vienna-based JBC
Energy said today in a note. Distillates are a group of fuels
including diesel and gasoil.  “The recent backwardation of the ICE gasoil contract which
prompted traders to sell from storage helped to create an
overhang in the diesel market,” according to the note.
Backwardation is a term used when prices for later delivery are
cheaper than current. The reverse is known as contango.  Residues  High-sulfur  fuel oil  barges traded at $638 to $640 a ton,
the survey of Platts showed. That’s in line with yesterday’s
trades. Fuel oil is used to power ships and generate
electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  