-- 
European Officials Reject Idea Greek Restructuring Is Imminent

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-04-14T18:06:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/european-officials-reject-idea-greek-restructuring-is-imminent.html
European officials rejected
speculation  Greece  is nearing a restructuring of its debt,
arguing the country will be able to meet budget goals a year
after it was bailed out.  “There is no discussion about debt restructuring, none
whatsoever,” French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  told
reporters today in Washington, where she is chairing meetings of
Group of 20 finance chiefs.  Greek and Portugese bonds led a slump in securities from
 Europe ’s most indebted nations today on concern that some may be
forced to restructure their debts. The declines, which pushed
yields on Greek and Portuguese 10-year bonds to euro-era
records, came after German Finance Minister Wolfgang Shaeuble
said Greece may need to renegotiate its debt burden if a June
audit questions the country’s ability to repay creditors.  “We should not jump the gun,” European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television today in Washington. “We don’t see
that restructuring is a solution to the Greek problems. The
constant talk about restructuring is not helping Europe overcome
its crisis, it’s not helping Greece overcome its challenges.”  Standard & Poor’s  head of European sovereign ratings,
 Moritz Kraemer , said today the risk of a rescheduling of
Greece’s debt has risen. The cost of insuring that debt for five
years rose as many as 42 basis points to a record 1,102,
according to CMA prices for credit-default swaps, signaling
there’s a 60 percent chance of default within five years.  Economic Contraction  The Greek government predicts spending cuts will shrink the
economy by 3 percent in 2011, the third annual contraction. EU
forecasts show debt peaking at 159.4 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012.  “Greece has done very substantial reforms already,” Rehn
said. “There are difficulties, yes, we are very aware of that,
but we have to now first analyze what is the situation, what is
the need to reform the program, if needed.”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn today told Bloomberg Television’s “In Business”
with Margaret Brennan that the Greek government had been “very
bold” amid a “difficult program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in  Washington  at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
Rainer Buergin in Washington at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costello at 
 Kcostello@bloomberg.net  