-- 
Evergrande Gains for Second Day on Better Sales Outlook

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-14T09:04:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/evergrande-gains-for-second-day-on-better-sales-outlook-1-.html
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) ,
China’s second-largest developer by sales volume, rose for a
second day, posting its biggest two-day gain in six months after
saying March sales jumped 50 percent.  Evergrande climbed 9.4 percent to HK$5.48 at the 4 p.m.
close in  Hong Kong . The stock surged 18 percent over two days,
the most since Oct. 13.  The company’s contracted sales rose 50 percent in March to
5.5 billion yuan ($842 million) from last year, and more than
doubled to 20 billion yuan in the first quarter, said Vice
President Lai Lixin at a April 12 press conference in Hong Kong,
according to a  transcript  posted on the company’s site.
Evergrande planned to start selling homes in five projects in
April and about 10 in May, the company said.  “With the company’s good sales in the first quarter and
more projects upcoming, investors believe it might achieve the
annual sales target by September or October,” said Johnson Hu,
a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK Securities
Research Pte, with an “outperform” rating on Evergrande.  Chinese developers are defying government efforts to keep
housing affordable and curb surging prices.  China  Vanke Co., the
country’s biggest developer by market and sales value, said last
week March sales rose 48 percent from a year earlier.  Soho China Ltd., the biggest developer in Beijing’s central
business district, rose 2.2 percent to HK$6.98, the highest
since 2008.  Property Measures  The Chinese government has intensified efforts to curb
speculation after prices gained for 19 consecutive months to
December and climbed in 68 of the 70 cities it monitored in the
first two months of the year.  “Currently, we don’t see the likelihood that the
government will issue further curbs,” said Evergrande Chief
Executive Officer Xia Haijun said at the briefing this week.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on April 13 in a  cabinet meeting 
that the country faces challenges including rising property
prices in many cities despite shrinking real estate
transactions. About 40 Chinese cities last month said they will
cap new  home prices  below annual economic and disposable per-
capita income growth or keep it steady in responding to central
government measures to keep housing gains in check.  The government raised the minimum down payment for second-
home purchases this year and levied taxes on residences in
Shanghai and Chongqing. Beijing and Guangzhou imposed
restrictions on housing purchases in February. The central bank
also raised  interest rates  twice this year.  The current round of interest rate hike will not have a big
impact on the company’s cost, Xia said.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Beijing at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  