-- 
FASB, IASB Delay Global Accounting Rules on Leasing, Insurance

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-04-14T17:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/fasb-iasb-delay-global-accounting-rules-on-leasing-insurance.html
U.S. and international accounting
groups pushed back a June target for reaching global accounting
standards on leasing, revenue recognition, financial instruments
and insurance.  A delay of “a few more months” is needed as the Financial
Accounting Standards Board and International Accounting
Standards Board respond to feedback on drafts of the proposals,
FASB Chairman Leslie Seidman and IASB Chairman David Tweedie
said on a  podcast  summarizing a meeting of the two groups that
ended today.  June “was always intended to be a target, not a deadline,
and we always said that achieving the target was subject to the
nature and extent of the feedback that we got on each of the
exposure documents,” Seidman said, according to a  transcript  of
the podcast. “At this point on each of the exposure documents
we have received significant and very constructive feedback and
we are in the process of working through those issues. The
quality of the standards remains of the utmost importance.”  FASB, based in Norwalk,  Connecticut , is working to
reconcile global accounting standards with the London-based
IASB. Aligning the two systems may help investors and regulators
better compare companies’ financial statements around the world.  More than half of respondents to a PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP  survey  released last month expected at least a moderate
impact from each of the leasing, revenue recognition and
financial instruments projects. About 43 percent of respondents
thought the recent standard-setting pace was too fast, according
to the survey of 1,400 professionals, including chief financial
officers and chief accounting officers.  The IASB and FASB expect to publish a convergence report
“in the next few days” that will give plans for completing
work on the projects, Seidman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 