-- 
Fed's Kocherlakota Says He Doesn’t See Many Signs of Inflation Pressures

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-04-14T15:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/fed-s-kocherlakota-says-consumer-education-aids-monetary-policy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said that while inflation
pressures are currently “very low,” the central bank will
eventually need to raise rates and sell assets.  “Core inflation is a much better signal of where inflation
is going to go in the future,” Kocherlakota said in response to
audience questions after a speech today in Helena, Montana.
“There’s really not much signs of inflationary pressures
building up.”  Policy makers on the  Federal Open Market Committee  are
divided over inflation risks. Regional bank presidents such as
 Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and Richmond’s Jeffrey Lacker
say the central bank may need to raise rates this year, while
Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen and Federal Reserve Bank of New
York President William C. Dudley have suggested rates may have
to stay low for longer.  “If the  Federal Reserve  does its job, you should not
expect high inflation rates over the next decade,” Fed Governor
Elizabeth Duke said today, responding to audience questions
after a speech in Washington. Raising  interest rates  to combat
surging commodity costs would not be an appropriate response
right now, she said.  “The thing to remember is that in 2008  oil prices  went to
$150 a gallon, the price of gas went over $4 and then over time
it came down just as much,” Duke said. “It would not be
helpful if monetary policy reacted to every move in a very
volatile price.”  ‘Large Increases’  Kocherlakota said the recent increase in inflation has been
driven by “relatively large increases in food and energy
prices.”  “Those kind of increases tend to be historically
transitory, they don’t translate into a persistent rise in
measures of inflation,” Kocherlakota said after his speech at
the  Montana  Club.  Higher gasoline prices are more likely to slow growth than
to stoke inflation throughout the economy, he said.  “When we start to see that increase, that’s a time when
you have to start to think about okay, inflation pressure is
going up,” he said in response to audience questions. Gasoline
prices reached $3.81 a gallon yesterday, the highest since
September 2008, according to the American Automobile
Association.  Kocherlakota, 47, has led the Minneapolis Fed since October
2009 and is former chairman of the economics department at the
University of Minnesota.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Helena, Montana at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  