-- 
FHA’s Ryan Says Mortgage Down Payment Rule Could Restrict Credit

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-04-14T19:26:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/fha-s-ryan-says-mortgage-down-payment-rule-could-restrict-credit.html
U.S. regulators “must be mindful
of the trade-off” between borrower equity and access to credit
as they consider new rules for mortgage risk-retention, Acting
Federal Housing Administration Commissioner Bob Ryan said.  Higher down payments won’t necessarily reduce  default risk 
and could keep creditworthy consumers from buying homes, Ryan
said at a House Financial Services subcommittee hearing on
mortgage risk retention.  “This definition has the potential to create false-
positive situations,” Ryan told lawmakers.  The Financial Services capital markets panel is reviewing a
proposal calling on homebuyers to have a 20 percent down payment
and unblemished credit to qualify for so-called qualified
residential mortgages that would be exempt from regulations
requiring lenders and securitizers to retain a stake.  The Department of Housing and Urban Development, FHA’s
parent, and five other federal agencies are seeking comment on a
rule mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act that would require lenders
and securitizers to keep a 5 percent stake in loans they sell.  Lawmakers crafted the risk-retention rule with the stated
goal of discouraging the originate-to-sell incentives that led
to a flood of poorly underwritten subprime loans before the 2008
financial crisis. The measure could affect all asset-backed
securities, including bonds backed by credit-card balances, auto
loans, commercial real estate and student debt.  Many factors can predict loan performance, Ryan said,
pointing to his agency’s track record. FHA-insured loans with a
5 percent down payment from borrowers with poor credit perform
“significantly worse” than low down-payment loans to those
with better credit, he said.  Broad Opposition  The mortgage exemption as written is opposed by a broad
coalition of affordable-housing advocates, consumer watchdogs,
real estate agents, banks and home builders. The groups say the
plan would unfairly restrict credit and put homeownership out of
reach for responsible borrowers. They want regulators to shrink
the size of the down payment.  “Well-underwritten low down payment home loans have been a
significant and safe part of the mortgage finance system for
decades,” the coalition said in a study criticizing the draft
rule. Rather than discouraging bad lending, the proposal
“penalizes qualified, low-risk borrowers.”  The report was issued by the Center for Responsible
Lending, the Community Mortgage Banking Project, the  Mortgage
Bankers Association , the Mortgage Insurance Companies of
America, the  National Association of Home Builders  and the
National Association of Realtors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 