-- 
Football Show Scores With Non-Sports Fans; Medieval Fantasy: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-04-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/football-show-scores-with-non-sports-fans-medieval-fantasy-tv.html
  HBO ’s swords and sorcery epic,
“ Game of Thrones ,” can be as silly as the fossilized dragon
eggs featured in the 10-part series. Even so, this medieval
fantasy casts quite a spell.  Fans of George R.R. Martin’s books -- they are legion and
fierce -- will be delighted with the big-budget production, even
as they quibble over minutiae. Those with little affection for
the genre’s pretensions (“I don’t trust a raven to carry these
words!”) should leave the intricate genealogies and invented
linguistics to the diehards.  “Game of Thrones” can be enjoyed as little more than a
better written, more lavish version of the joust-fests popular
on the Starz channel.  In the ancient land of Westeros, seven “houses,” or
clans, coexist under the uneasy peace of King Robert Baratheon’s
rule. At the king’s side, reluctantly, is the head of another
house, Lord Eddard Stark (Sean Bean), a Tony Soprano in wolfskin
and chain mail. Rivalries, blood feuds and retribution threaten
the stability of the kingdom.  Just as each mob family of “The Sopranos” had internal
power grabs and lusty intrigue, so too the Houses of Stark,
Baratheon and Lannister.  ‘White Walkers’  Aside from a haunting opening scene, in which ghostly
creatures known as White Walkers brutally waylay a band of
scouts, “Game of Thrones” has precious few supernatural
elements. Six hours into the story the Walkers had yet to
return.  Despite their obvious debt to all things Tolkien, creators
David Benioff and D.B. Weiss update the genre in ways the old
Oxford don wouldn’t have dared.  The king’s brother has his chest shaved by a shirtless
boyfriend. A flaxen-haired queen is tutored in the art of
lovemaking by her nubile maidservant. Lord Petyr
“Littlefinger” Baelish runs an establishment that might as
well be called Ye Olde Bada Bing. Such surprises go a long way
to offset tiresome spans of exposition.  To name just a few standouts in the fine cast: young Maisie
Williams, playing a sword-wielding tomboy; Jon Snow as a
nobleman’s illegitimate son; and, best of all, Peter Dinklage as
a cynical “imp” whose strength and intellect are ignored at
larger men’s peril.  “Game of Thrones” airs Sundays on HBO at 9 p.m.  New York 
time. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Friday Night Lights’  “ Friday Night Lights ,” which is starting its fifth and
final year on NBC, is going out a winner.  “You love the game of football,” coach Eric Taylor (Kyle
Chandler) tells a reluctant recruit in the season premiere.
“You just don’t know it yet.”  Those words would make a terrific advertising campaign for
a brilliant series that never achieved the crossover success it
deserved despite much trying. (Season Five episodes were
previewed on DirecTV.)  The opening episode introduces Hastings Ruckle (Grey
Damon), a free-spirited basketball player who dismisses football
as violent. Ruckle is eventually won over by Taylor’s passion
for the game.  Most impressive about “Friday Night Lights” is its
capacity to enthrall even the least sports-minded viewer.  Smart Women  For a show set in the high-testosterone world of Texas
high-school football, it boasts one of the strongest, smartest
collection of female characters on TV, including the remarkable
Connie Britton as the coach’s guidance-counselor wife and Jurnee
Smollett as the quarterback’s convention-bucking girlfriend.  True, too many of the show’s actors seem older, more
evolved, than the classmates you’ll remember. And with an
exception or two, the plots give short shrift to the outcasts
who must be lurking somewhere on campus.  But just about every episode of “Friday Night Lights”
scores an emotional touchdown, or makes a glorious effort.  “Friday Night Lights” airs Fridays on NBC at 8 p.m. New
York time. Rating: ****  TWX US <Equity> CN
CMCSA US <Equity> CN
DTV US <Equity> CN  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 