-- 
Foreclosure Filings in U.S. Drop to Three-Year Low After Paperwork Delays

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/foreclosure-filings-in-u-s-drop-to-three-year-low-after-paperwork-delays.html
Foreclosure filings in the U.S.
fell in the first quarter to the lowest level in three years as
lenders worked through their backlog of flawed paperwork related
to home seizures, according to  RealtyTrac Inc .  A total of 681,153 U.S. properties received default,
auction or repossession notices in the three months through
March, down 15 percent from the fourth quarter and 27 percent
from a year earlier, the Irvine, California-based data seller
said today in a report. Delays from the documentation scandal
accounted for the low tally, the smallest since the first
quarter of 2008, RealtyTrac said.  “It may take another quarter to work itself out,”  Rick Sharga , the company’s senior vice president, said in a telephone
interview. The extended crisis means “a longer period of high
foreclosures, and that portends a longer downturn in housing,”
which may not end until 2015, he said.  Seven states had record year-over-year declines in filings
during the first quarter, with drops of 68 percent in Maryland,
65 percent in  Connecticut , 62 percent in both Florida and
Massachusetts, 44 percent in  New Jersey , 42 percent in Oregon
and 36 percent in Indiana, Daren Blomquist, RealtyTrac’s
marketing director, said in an e-mail. All but Oregon are so-
called judicial states that put state courts in charge of
overseeing foreclosures.  An agreement with regulators announced yesterday requires
the 14 largest U.S. mortgage servicers to identify and pay back
homeowners who lost money from mishandled foreclosures or loans.
The banks that are party to the settlement, which outlines the
first penalties related to the scandal, didn’t admit or deny
findings of faulty mortgage processing.  ‘Fair and Orderly’  “Our enforcement actions are intended to fix what is
broken, identify and compensate borrowers who suffered financial
harm, and ensure a fair and orderly mortgage servicing process
going forward,”  John Walsh , acting comptroller of the currency,
said in a written statement.  Officials from the  Justice Department , the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and 10 state attorneys general met
with banks yesterday, the second such meeting to negotiate a
global settlement. The group is discussing potential fines and
whether servicers should be required to reduce the principal on
some home loans.  One in every 191 U.S. households received a foreclosure
notice in the first quarter, RealtyTrac said.  Default notices fell 17 percent from the previous three
months and 35 percent from a year earlier, while auction notices
dropped 19 percent and 27 percent, respectively.  Home Seizures Decline  The number of homes seized by lenders totaled 215,046, a
decline of 6 percent from the fourth quarter and 17 percent from
the first three months of 2010. In states where courts do not
supervise foreclosures, home seizures increased 9 percent from
the previous quarter.  Nevada had the highest rate of filings per household, with
one in every 35 getting a notice. Arizona ranked second at one
in 60, and  California  was third at one in 80, RealtyTrac said.  Utah, Idaho, Georgia,  Michigan ,  Florida , Colorado and
 Illinois  also ranked among the states with the 10 highest rates.  California had the most filings in the quarter at 168,543,
almost 25 percent of the U.S. total. Florida was second with
58,322 and Arizona third with 46,047.  Georgia, Michigan,  Texas , Illinois, Nevada, Ohio and
Colorado rounded out the top 10, according to RealtyTrac, which
sells default data from more than 2,200 counties representing 90
percent of the U.S. population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  