-- 
FrontPoint, Galleon, JPMorgan, Wells Fargo in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-04-14T12:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/frontpoint-galleon-jpmorgan-wells-fargo-bgc-in-court-news.html
Ex-FrontPoint Partners LLC
portfolio manager Chip Skowron joined those accused in a U.S.
crackdown on insider trading of  hedge funds  when he was charged
with conspiracy, securities fraud and obstruction.  Skowron, 41, of Greenwich,  Connecticut , surrendered
yesterday to agents at the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s  New
York  office, said James Margolin, an FBI spokesman. Information
Skowron obtained from an insider about hepatitis C drug trials
enabled FrontPoint to avoid more than $30 million in losses,
prosecutors said.  Skowron was linked to the case brought in November by U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission against Dr. Yves Benhamou, an expert in
hepatitis drugs and a former adviser for Human Genome Sciences
Inc., prosecutors said. He pleaded guilty April 11 to federal
charges and is cooperating with the U.S., prosecutors said.  “This case is also an example of insider trading gone
global,” Bharara said at a news conference yesterday. “The
alleged trail of cash and trade of information took the
defendants from Manhattan to Milan and from Boston to
Barcelona,” he said. “When Dr. Skowron needed information, Dr.
Benhamou was always on call, helping Skowron and his hedge fund
illegally benefit to the tune of $30 million.”  Benhamou acted as a paid consultant to hedge funds while
also working as an adviser to HGSI and serving on its steering
committee for trials of Albuferon, a hepatitis treatment, the
U.S. said.  Skowron appeared briefly yesterday before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Ronald Ellis, who agreed to release him on $6 million bond
secured by his Connecticut home and the signatures of three
financially responsible people. He declined to speak to
reporters as he left the courthouse.  “Dr. Skowron intends to plead not guilty,” his lawyer
James Benjamin Jr. said in a statement. “We look forward to
responding to the allegations more fully in court at the
appropriate time.”  The SEC yesterday separately accused Skowron of insider
trading. Six hedge funds previously named as defendants in the
case agreed to settle and pay more than $33 million in
disgorgement and interest, without admitting or denying
wrongdoing, the SEC said.  FrontPoint, which manages several hedge funds, closed its
health-care funds last year because of the probe. It was
subsequently spun off from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in February.  Skowron, whose employment contract at FrontPoint was
terminated in December, was previously an analyst at hedge funds
Millennium Partners LLC in New York and SAC Capital Advisors LLC
in Stamford, Connecticut, according to FrontPoint’s marketing
documents dated September.  FrontPoint yesterday said in an investor letter that it had
entered into a settlement with the SEC and that the payment
won’t have any financial impact on the fund.  “The alleged conduct of the former portfolio manager is
completely contrary to FrontPoint’s principles and represents a
clear violation of FrontPoint’s policy against insider
trading,” the hedge fund said yesterday in the letter.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment. Steve Bruce, a FrontPoint spokesman,
declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-MAG-997, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Och-Ziff’s Fancy Sues Lawyers Over Failed Singapore Deal  Zain Fancy, the former head of Och-Ziff Capital Management
Group LLC’s Asian real estate unit, sued the lawyer who acted
for him in several Singapore deals after the collapse of a home
purchase in the city state.  Fancy, who has sued hedge fund manager Och-Ziff for unfair
dismissal, asked Singapore’s High Court to assess the damages
he’s owed by law firm Tan Peng Chin LLC and its head of real
estate Gwendoline Ong after his agreement to buy a bungalow for
S$18.5 million ($14.7 million) in June was terminated in August.
A closed hearing is scheduled for April 15.  The Singapore law firm has countersued to cap its liability
to the forfeited deposit of S$184,600, “reasonable” legal
costs and any difference to the property’s value in August. Ong
has also asked the court to remove her as a defendant in the
lawsuit, which was intended to embarrass her personally,
according to court papers. Fancy has indicated he’s seeking
damages including a S$10 million difference with the house’s
current valuation, according to Ong’s filing.  Tan Peng Chin, managing director of the law firm, declined
to comment, as did Alvin Yeo, who’s representing Fancy.  The cases are Tan Peng Chin LLC v Zain Asif Fancy OS68/2011
and Zain Asif Fancy v Tan Peng Chin LLC S117/2011 in the
Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  American Sues Travelport, Orbitz as Ticket Dispute Expands  American Airlines sued Travelport Ltd. to stop what it
called anticompetitive behavior and retaliation against the
carrier for a push to use its own technology to distribute fares
and schedules to travel agents.  The legal action expands a dispute between  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
American and global distribution systems that historically have
compiled fare and schedule data from various airlines and
distributed them to travel agents. American wants to bypass
those companies, including units of Travelport and Sabre
Holdings Corp., and substitute its proprietary technology.  “Travelport, Orbitz and other industry participants have
undertaken attacks against American that have been swift and
punitive,” said the lawsuit, which was filed April 12 in
federal court in Fort Worth, Texas.  The lawsuit against Travelport and its  Orbitz Worldwide
Inc. (OWW)  affiliate seeks triple the airline’s actual damages as well
as punitive damages to be determined at trial. More than $2.7
billion in sales were booked through Travelport’s global
distribution systems in the past year, the lawsuit said.
American had $16.8 billion in passenger revenue in 2010.  American said on April 4 it reached a tentative agreement
with Expedia Inc. that would allow the online travel agency and
its Hotwire unit to immediately resume selling the airline’s
tickets, resolving a dispute that started in December. American
remains in talks with Sabre after the two earlier agreed to
freeze a lawsuit over the matter.  The case is American Airlines Inc. vs Travelport Ltd,
Travelport LP and Orbitz Worldwide LLC, 4-11-cv-00244-Y,
Northern District of Texas (Fort Worth).  For more, click here.  LaBarge Sued by Shareholder Over $340 Million Ducommun Bid  LaBarge Inc. (LB) , the electronics-manufacturing services
company being bought by aerospace component maker  Ducommun Inc. (DCO) ,
was sued by a shareholder who contends the $340 million offer is
too low.  LaBarge is worth more than the $19.25-a-share bid partly
because of the value of future contracts, Barry Borodkin said in
a Delaware Chancery Court complaint filed in Wilmington.
Borodkin said he owns 25,000 LaBarge shares.  The price “fails to reflect the substantial value” of
anticipated work on United Technology Corp.’s Sikorsky Black
Hawk helicopter,  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s Tomahawk cruise missile and
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s aerial-refueling tanker, Borodkin claimed.  Ducommun, based in Carson,  California , said in a statement
April 4 it would acquire St. Louis-based LaBarge to add new
customers and markets. Ducommun reported sales of $408.4 million
last year, compared with LaBarge’s fiscal 2010 revenue of $289.3
million.  “It is LaBarge’s practice not to comment on pending
litigation,” said Colleen Clements, a company spokeswoman, in
an e-mailed message.  The case is Borodkin v. LaBarge, CA6368, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here. For the latest lawsuits news,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  Galleon’s Schutte Won’t Say Whether Funds Are Competitive  Richard “Rick” Schutte, the former president of hedge-
fund company Galleon Group LLC, sparred with a prosecutor over
the nature of competition, pressure and investor expectations at
the insider-trading trial of Raj Rajaratnam.  After testifying for two days in Manhattan federal court on
behalf of Rajaratnam, his ex-boss, Schutte, once Galleon’s head
of research, began fielding questions yesterday from Assistant
U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , who asked him whether the hedge-fund
industry is competitive.  “I’m not going to say whether it’s highly or lowly”
competitive, Schutte answered. He was also noncommittal when
Brodsky asked about the pressure to perform well at Galleon.  “I don’t know what you mean by pressure,” Schutte said.  Asked if Galleon investors would be content with an annual
profit of 20 percent, a combative Schutte said, “I can’t speak
to what investors would be happy with.”  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of gaining $63.8 million
from tips leaked by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders.
He denies wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on research.  The cross-examination followed two days of questioning by
defense lawyer Michael Starr, who had Schutte review analyst
reports, news accounts, internal firm e-mails and other
documents designed to show that Rajaratnam’s trades were based
on Galleon research, not inside information.  During about 10 hours of direct testimony, Schutte sought
to support the defense case that Rajaratnam’s trades were
lawful. Prosecutors had claimed, for example, that Rajaratnam
possessed inside information that  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  would
acquire Starent Networks Corp.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Tobacco Industry Owes Millions for Care, Hospitals Say  Tobacco companies cost Missouri hospitals millions of
dollars to care for patients with smoking-related illnesses who
can’t pay their medical bills, a lawyer said in closing
arguments of a lawsuit.  The city of St. Louis, along with more than 40 area
hospitals, sued  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.,
Lorillard Tobacco Co. and other cigarette makers, claiming they
manipulated the nicotine content in cigarettes and
misrepresented the health effects of smoking.  The tobacco companies “sell their defective products here
and they take their money back to  North Carolina , Virginia or
wherever,” Kenneth Brostron, a lawyer for the hospitals, said
yesterday in St. Louis. “They are responsible for what they did
and it’s about time they take responsibility.”  The industry’s actions boosted the amount spent on
“unreimbursed and uncompensated tobacco-related health care,”
the hospitals said in court papers. The tobacco companies deny
any responsibility for patient care costs at the hospitals or
any financial losses by the hospitals. The suit, which doesn’t
include patients as plaintiffs, went to trial in January.  “Mr. Brostron wants to punish companies for making
perfectly legal cigarettes,” Andrew McGaan, lawyer for
Reynolds, told the jury yesterday. “Even after this lawsuit was
filed, some hospitals sold cigarettes in their gift shops.
Should they be penalized?” he asked,  Attorneys for other defendants will give closing arguments
today.  The case is the third such health-care cost-recovery claim
to reach trial, according to regulatory filings by Altria. The
industry won the first, in  Ohio , in 1999. The second initially
resulted in a $17.8 million award for a health insurer by a New
York jury in 2001. That was reversed on appeal in 2004.  The case is City of St. Louis v. American Tobacco Co., CV
982-09652-01, Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri.  For more, click here.  TCF Appeals Court’s Refusal to Stop Limits on Swipe Fees  TCF National Bank appealed a lower-court decision rejecting
its request to block forthcoming federal rules limiting the
amount of money the largest U.S. banks can collect for debit-
card transactions.  TCF, a unit of  TCF Financial Corp. (TCB) , sued  Federal Reserve 
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and the Fed’s Board of Governors in
October, challenging the legislation included in last year’s
Dodd-Frank financial regulation overhaul bill. TCF claims the
rules, which aren’t final, are unconstitutional.  U.S. District Judge Lawrence L. Piersol, in Sioux Falls,
 South Dakota , on April 4 denied TCF’s request for a preliminary
injunction, while rejecting the defendants request to throw out
the suit.  TCF filed its notice April 12.  The case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-cv-04149,
U.S. District Court, District of South Dakota (Sioux Falls).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  DirectBuy Accord Opposed by Attorneys General of 37 States  DirectBuy Holdings Inc.’s nationwide settlement of a class
action over its sales practices drew opposition from attorneys
general in 37 states, who said the agreement offers no real
benefit to consumers.  The deal settles a lawsuit brought by members in 2009
accusing the consumer club of marking up the supplier and
manufacturer’s prices they paid. DirectBuy agreed in December to
provide as much as $55 million in free memberships to class
members. The settlement’s value to consumers is vastly
overstated, Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said in
court papers filed April 12 in U.S. District Court in
Connecticut.  “The proposed settlement is, in essence, a sales vehicle
for defendants designed to drive current and former customers
into membership renewal contracts,” Jepsen said in the filing
on behalf of 37 states, the  District of Columbia  and Puerto
Rico. “The proposed settlement cloaks the limited-time ‘free’
memberships and reduced-price membership extensions as having
value to absent class members.”  DirectBuy, based in Merrillville, Indiana, didn’t admit any
wrongdoing in the agreement, which was granted preliminary
approval in December by U.S. Magistrate Judge William Garfinkel.
The company is owned by Miami-based Trivest Partners LP, a
private equity firm which purchased it for an undisclosed amount
in November 2007.  The settlement is fair, DirectBuy said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  A settlement hearing is scheduled for May 10 before U.S.
District Judge Janet C. Hall, according to the statement.  Jeffrey S. Nobel, an attorney for the plaintiffs and the
settlement class, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment.  The case is Christopher Wilson v. DirectBuy Inc., 09-00590,
U.S. District Court District of Connecticut.  For more, click here.  Banks Must Pay Victims of Botched Foreclosures, Regulators Say  The 14 largest U.S. mortgage servicers must pay back
homeowners for losses from foreclosures or loans that were
mishandled in the wake of the housing collapse, according to a
consent decree released yesterday.  The agreement between the servicers and U.S. regulators
imposes more substantial penalties than early reports of the
deal indicated. It could also help the U.S.  Justice Department 
determine the size and scope of any future fines for the flawed
practices, regulators said.  The banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , agreed in the settlement to conduct a review of all loans
that went into foreclosure in 2009 and 2010. They also agreed to
improve their foreclosure, loan modification and refinancing
procedures by hiring staff, upgrading document-tracking systems,
assigning a single point of contact for each borrower and
policing lawyers and vendors.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal
Reserve, Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. released the consent decrees in  Washington .  Regulators took action against the companies for “unsafe
and unsound” practices, said acting Comptroller of the Currency
John Walsh, who called the settlement “comprehensive.”  “Our enforcement actions are intended to fix what is
broken, identify and compensate borrowers who suffered financial
harm, and ensure a fair and orderly mortgage servicing process
going forward,” Walsh said in a written statement.  The sanctions are the first to arise from state and federal
investigations into mortgage servicers’ lapses in foreclosure
procedures. Unprepared for the record number of loan
delinquencies brought by subprime loans and the collapse of
housing prices, servicers relied on inexperienced workers who
failed to track paperwork or improperly signed legal documents.  The banks didn’t admit or deny regulators’ findings,
according to the orders.  Under the consent decree, banks must hire outside
consultants to identify borrowers who improperly lost their
homes, failed to get loans rewritten or were forced into court
in 2009 and 2010 because of mistakes made by mortgage servicers
or their vendors.  Banks must determine the financial injury to borrowers and,
within the next six months, submit a plan for reimbursing them,
according to the decrees.  In addition to JPMorgan and Wells Fargo,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the GMAC unit of Ally Financial Inc.,
Aurora Bank FSB, EverBank Financial Corp.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
OneWest,  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
Sovereign Bank,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , and US Bancorp also signed
consent agreements with regulators.  For more, click here.  BGC, Tullett Settle U.K. Broker-Poaching Damages Lawsuit  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)  settled the damages portion of a lawsuit
filed by inter-dealer brokerage competitor  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR) 
over BGC’s poaching of traders.  The firms settled at a hearing in  London  yesterday, one
month into a trial. Tullett lawyer Daniel Oudkerk told the judge
the agreement was confidential and terms wouldn’t be disclosed.
BGC lawyer Andrew Hochhauser said he had nothing to add.  Tullett, based in London, sued BGC in 2009 claiming Anthony
Verrier, BGC’s executive managing director, spent tens of
millions of pounds to convince the heads of various Tullett
trading desks to breach their contracts by getting colleagues to
defect. A year ago Justice Raymond Jack ruled against New York-
based BGC and ordered a second trial on damages.  “This could have been a very, very unpleasant action,”
Jack said at yesterday’s hearing.  Ronnie Fox, and employment lawyer at Fox Lawyers in London,
said that while it was good the parties reached a settlement,
he’s disappointed not to know the figure.  “A great many lawyers and people in the financial services
sector have been watching this case,” said Fox, who isn’t
involved in the case. “The initial judgment against BGC was
extremely damning, so I’m sure a substantial figure is
involved.”  Tullett sought to recoup lost profits, legal fees, “wasted
management time,” the cost of steps “to safeguard its
interests” and the gardening-leave pay to 10 brokers who were
prevented from working while the lawsuit was going on, Oudkerk
said at a hearing last month.  BGC spokesman Richard Oldworth said he couldn’t immediately
comment. Tullett spokesman Nigel Szembel didn’t immediately
respond to a message seeking comment.  The case is: Tullett Prebon Plc v. BGC Brokers LP,
HQ09X01241, High Court (London).  JPMorgan Wins Dismissal of Ex-Deutsche Bank Executive’s Suit  JPMorgan Chase & Co. didn’t violate law or breach a
contract when it fired the Australian head of its corporate
derivatives marketing in 2008, after he objected to changes in
the job, a judge ruled.  Colin Keays sued JPMorgan, claiming the bank lured him from
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2005 and then deceived him and breached his
contract by limiting him to dealing only with JPMorgan clients.
He had sought more than A$6 million ($6.3 million) for his
expected pay to January 2018, when he would be 60 years of age.  JPMorgan, the second biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, had the
right, under its contract with Keays, to fire him by giving him
three months notice or pay in lieu of the notice,  Australia 
Federal Court Judge Robert Buchanan wrote in a 34-page ruling
released yesterday. The bank abided by the terms of the
contract, the judge said.  “Mr. Keays was under no obligation to accept the position
at JPM,” Buchanan wrote. “When he did so it was on the terms
which he had negotiated” and that included “dealing with the
possibility that his employment might come to an end,” the
judge said.  Keays declined to comment after yesterday’s verdict.  The case is Colin Keays v. J.P.Morgan Administrative
Services Australia Ltd. (P)NSD1375/2008. Federal Court of
Australia (Sydney).  For more, click here.  FDIC Settles Dispute Over Failed Bank Executive Documents  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. settled a lawsuit filed
by a law firm representing former executives at four failed
banks, who said they need access to bank files and records to
defend against possible fraud claims.  A federal court in Atlanta dismissed April 12 McKenna Long
& Aldridge LLP’s lawsuit against the FDIC after both parties
requested the case be closed. McKenna Long sued in November
after the FDIC demanded the law firm return records it received
from its clients before the banks collapsed.  “I think the FDIC understands it is reasonable for bank
officers and directors to have some access to documents,” said
David L. Balser of McKenna Long in Atlanta. He declined to say
in an interview how the suit was resolved.  The FDIC has a pending complaint against Bryan Cave LLP,
alleging the St. Louis-based law firm broke federal privacy laws
and Kansas trade secret laws by acquiring bank files while
representing executives at Hillcrest Bank in Overland Park,
Kansas. A federal judge in Atlanta is considering whether to end
the case without a trial.  The FDIC said the records sent to Bryan Cave’s Atlanta
office included customer information, as well as financial
statements, business plans, and “confidential information
relating to the FDIC’s regulatory activities,” according to
court papers.  McKenna Long represents executives from four banks that
failed last year: Darby Bank & Trust Co. in Vidalia, Georgia;
McIntosh Commercial Bank in Carrollton, Georgia; Northwest Bank
& Trust in Acworth, Georgia; and K Bank in Randallstown,
Maryland. As part of that representation, the firm said it
received copies of board and committee minutes, commercial loan
files, and reports prepared by the bank executives.  Balser said the FDIC has not filed any lawsuits against his
clients.  McKenna Long turned three boxes of materials over to the
court shortly after asking for a ruling that the firm must have
access to the materials. On Feb. 17, U.S. District Judge Richard
Story ordered the documents released to the FDIC. He ruled that
McKenna Long could access the documents in order to create an
index, according to court records.  FDIC spokesman David Barr declined to comment on the
matter.  The cases are McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP v. FDIC, 10-
cv-3779, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia
(Atlanta) and FDIC v. Bryan Cave LLP, 10-cv-03666, Northern
District of Georgia (Atlanta).  Massey Ex-Employee Pleads Guilty to Making False Statements  A former foreman at the  Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  coal mine in  West
Virginia  where 29 workers died in an explosion last year pleaded
guilty to a federal charge of making false statements to U.S.
agents.  Thomas Harrah also pleaded guilty yesterday to a U.S.
charge that he misrepresented himself as a certified foreman,
qualified to conduct examinations of mining equipment. Harrah
failed the test required to be certified as a foreman and used a
false certification number to sign off on reports at the Upper
Big Branch mine, the U.S. said.  “I signed the fire boss book knowing I didn’t have a
certificate or nothing,” Harrah told U.S. District Judge Irene
Berger yesterday in Beckley, West Virginia.  The fire boss inspects equipment before a shift and is
required to be certified under federal mining regulations. When
federal agents investigating the explosion “came to my house
and talked about this situation, I lied,” Harrah said.  The allegations against Harrah, filed March 22, resulted
from the continuing federal investigation into the causes of the
Upper Big Branch explosion, according to the Justice Department.
Harrah wasn’t employed by Massey at the time of the April 5,
2010, blast, the company said.  “When Mr. Harrah was caught having forged the
certification he left before we could terminate his employment,
which we intended to do,”  Shane Harvey , Massey general counsel,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  “It appears that Mr. Harrah forged the certification
because he was unable to pass the test” required, Harvey said.
“We have no tolerance for such behavior and are thankful that
no one was hurt as a result of Mr. Harrah’s conduct.”  Judge Berger set sentencing for Aug. 11. Harrah faces up to
10 years in prison and a $500,000 fine, according to
prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Harrah, 5:11-cr-00082, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of West Virginia (Beckley).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 