-- 
G-20 Faces Need to Heed Criticism as Stronger IMF Voice Sought

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-04-14T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/g-20-faces-need-to-heed-criticism-as-stronger-imf-voice-sought.html
Group of 20  governments may need to
accept rebukes from the  International Monetary Fund  if their
plan to strengthen the power of the lender is to succeed.  G-20 finance chiefs meeting today in Washington are relying
on IMF expertise to single out countries whose policies threaten
global growth. History suggests it may still be ignored, hurting
the IMF’s ability to force policy changes and ward off financial
turmoil.  In the last six months, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  brushed off a call to revise U.K. spending cuts if his
economy falters and Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  dismissed
criticism of Brazil’s fiscal stance as “stupid.” Meanwhile, G-
20 members China and  Argentina  are among those that have
suppressed IMF studies of their economies or refused to submit
to them in the first place.  “The IMF has no tool to guarantee its surveillance is
effective,” said Agnes Belaisch, a former IMF economist and now
London-based strategist at  Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd .,
which oversees $100 billion. “Giving it such a tool while
keeping it a public institution means governments would need to
forego their self interests for the global good. Dream on.”  Central Bankers  The G-20’s finance ministers and central bankers convene
after meetings in  South Korea  last year concluded with the IMF
being asked to start assessing whether individual economic
policies’ are consistent with one another.  The  187-country  institution has also submitted proposals to
fortify the international monetary system and is working with
the Financial Stability Board, the Switzerland-based body that
seeks to coordinate financial rules, on spotting countries at
risk.  Even as its relevance grows, with $130 billion of loans to
countries from  Greece  to  Pakistan  and more than $400 billion at
hand for new aid, the IMF may face an uphill task if it wants to
have the last word.  An internal audit published in February concluded the Fund
struggles to challenge the views of large developed economies
which dominate its board and are responsible for most of its
financing. A separate report for the French government the same
month said that the institution’s “lack of teeth” means its
advice is often “ineffective.”  “When you have a meeting of ministers, governors, they all
ask from an intellectual point of view for early warnings,” IMF
Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn said in February. “But
when you come with some early warnings concerning one specific
country, you’re just kicked out of the room.”  More Receptive  For the moment, governments are pledging to be more
receptive.  France , the current chair of the G-20, wants to give
the IMF more oversight power on countries’ balance of payments
and reserves, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said March 31.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said March 30 that
the U.S. would “support giving the IMF a greater capacity to
help influence the policy choices made by the major economies,”
such as by giving it more independence to publish its views.  The track record suggests some nations still dislike the
counsel. In January, Mantega sought an audience with IMF chief
Strauss-Kahn after rejecting as “totally wrong” the fund’s
conclusion that  Brazil ’s fiscal situation is worsening and may
miss government targets.  Two months earlier, Osborne said he would stick with plans
to eliminate the record budget deficit within four years after
Ajai Chopra, the IMF’s mission chief to the U.K., said the
“pace of fiscal consolidation may need to be adapted” if the
economy falters, even though the Fund endorsed Osborne’s plan.  Pushed Back  Some G-20 members have also pushed back against the IMF’s
so-called Article IV consultations, in which the Fund’s
economists visit a country about once a year and produce a
lengthy report on its economy. A disagreement over exchange rate
policy meant no report for China was completed in 2007 and a
2008 staff report never reached the board.  In 2009, the IMF dropped the phrase “fundamental
misalignment” to describe certain exchange rates in a bid to
improve cooperation with members states. That year, the board
discussed a  China ’s Article IV for the first time in three
years.  Argentina, where lawmakers have blamed the IMF for helping
create a crisis that caused a record $95 billion debt default in
2001, was last assessed in 2006. Brazil, also a G-20 member,
doesn’t allow the IMF to publish its study.  To be sure, IMF advice still carries a stigma in some
countries, especially in  Asia  where it was criticized for
imposing austerity measures on countries from South Korea to
 Indonesia  during the crisis of the late 1990s.  Overly Influenced  The February study by the IMF’s Independent Evaluation
Group on the Fund’s performance in the run-up to the credit
crisis describes an institution whose economists were overly
influenced by rich nations such as the U.K. and the U.S. Some
“large advanced economies,” excluding the U.S., even put
“explicit pressure to tone down critical messages.”  “Despite its short-comings, its inefficiencies, its
history, I think it still does great work,” said  Tim Adams , a
former U.S. Treasury undersecretary and now managing director at
the Lindsey Group, an investment consulting firm based in
Fairfax, Virginia. “If it didn’t exist I think we’d create it
and we ought to do the best we can to try to adhere by what they
say.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  