-- 
Geithner Says Financial Markets Showing Confidence in U.S. Fiscal Position

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-14T13:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/geithner-says-financial-markets-showing-confidence-in-u-s-fiscal-position.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said financial markets have “confidence” in U.S.
government finances as politicians seek to narrow a record
 budget deficit .  There is “a lot of confidence in markets that the American
political system will be able to get our fiscal path in a
sustainable position,” Geithner said today at an event in
 Washington  sponsored by the Bertelsmann Foundation.  “If you look at what we pay to borrow, the world basically
believes that our problems are more manageable, our system will
solve it,” he said. “But we want to make sure that we’re
earning that confidence every day.”  Bond yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the
government was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even
though Treasury Department data show that the amount of
marketable debt outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from
$4.34 trillion in mid 2007.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was at
3.43 percent as of 9:07 a.m. today in  New York , below the
average of 7 percent since 1980 and compared with the average of
5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  President Barack Obama yesterday proposed cutting $4
trillion in cumulative deficits within 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases, setting the
stage for a fight with congressional Republicans over the
nation’s priorities. Obama called for ending the Bush-era tax
cuts for the wealthiest Americans, which are set to expire in
2012.  Five-Year Projection  Over the next five years, the administration forecasts the
government will amass deficits totaling of $3.8 trillion; over
the decade, the cumulative deficits would rise to $7.2 trillion.
With today’s proposal, Obama is going beyond the fiscal 2012
budget he presented on Feb. 14, which forecast cutting the
deficit by $1.1 trillion over a decade.  The Treasury Department estimated last week that the debt
limit of $14.29 trillion will be reached by May 16.
Congressional action is required to raise the cap, though the
Treasury said it can probably stave off default until early
July.  Geithner also said the U.S. has room to raise taxes without
hurting the economy because its revenue makes up a much smaller
percentage of economic growth than those in other advanced
economies.  “We have the capacity, with very modest changes in  tax
reform ” to improve the country’s fiscal position without
hurting future growth, Geithner said. The changes the Obama
administration is seeking pose “no plausible risk” to how the
economy grows, he said.  Geithner said at an event in Washington that he did not
expect any “enthusiasm” for a U.S. value-added tax.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  