-- 
Gensler Says Regulators Should Set Small Group of Systemic Firms

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-04-14T17:24:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/gensler-says-regulators-should-set-small-group-of-systemic-firms.html
The number of financial firms
federal regulators deem systemically important should be kept
small, a member of the council identifying the firms said.  Gary Gensler , the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, said the Dodd-Frank Act requires regulators to limit
the number of firms getting the designation. The Financial
Stability Oversight Council is labeling the financial firms that
may face more stringent oversight and capital requirements.  “I think it’s the clear intent of Congress that this is a
small group that is surely systemically relevant,” Gensler said
today at a House Financial Services subcommittee.  The council, created in response to the credit crisis that
led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., can
recommend that the  Federal Reserve  strengthen rules to reduce
risk at financial companies. The regulators are likely to decide
by this summer which, if any, money managers, mutual funds,
 hedge funds , private-equity firms, insurers and other companies
deserve more monitoring.  U.S. bank-holding companies with more than $50 billion in
assets -- including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  -- automatically
face increased supervision. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , a
council member, said last month that regulators hope to start
designating non-bank firms by midyear.  Lawmakers today pressed regulators for more information --
and transparency -- on the metrics, procedures and timeline for
designating firms.  In the Dark  Representative Randy Neugebauer, a Texas Republican, said
the council’s process for identifying the firms has left both
lawmakers and companies in the dark.  “I’m extremely disappointed that we didn’t come out with
specific criteria that the group is working on and have people
comment on that,” said Neugebauer, who leads the Financial
Services investigations subcommittee. “That quite honestly is
not transparent to me.”  The council, which requires a two-thirds vote of its
members to designate an institution, will evaluate information
submitted by companies before voting whether to include them,
said Jeffrey Goldstein, the Treasury Department’s undersecretary
for domestic finance.  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner is chairman of the
council, which also includes the chairmen of the Fed, the CFTC,
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  ‘Too Big to Fail’  Republicans and Democrats continued to disagree over how
the market would perceive firms with systemic designations.
Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama
Republican, said the designation would label firms as “too big
to fail.”  “The moral hazard implications of these designations and
this power cannot be overstated,” Bachus said.  Representative  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts, the
committee’s top Democrat and co-sponsor of the law that created
the council, said lobbying by non-banks, as disclosed on the
websites of the banking regulators, proves that the designation
would be more onerous than beneficial in the marketplace.  “We believe very strongly it was very clear that being
designated is more of a burden than a license,” Frank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  