-- 
Ghana Ex-First Lady to Challenge President Mills in Primary

-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-04-14T18:06:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/ghana-s-ex-first-lady-to-challenge-mills-in-presidential-primary.html
Nana Konadu Agyeman-Rawlings, wife
of  Ghana ’s former President Jerry Rawlings, will challenge
incumbent President John Atta Mills in a July primary to become
the ruling party’s candidate in the 2012 presidential election,
Kofi Adams, a spokesman for the Rawlings, said.  “The level of apathy in the party is high,” Adams said in
an interview today.  The challenge from Agyeman-Rawlings, 62, whose husband
stepped down in 2001 after two decades leading the world’s
second-biggest cocoa producer, will complicate the re-election
efforts of 66-year-old Mills, said Aboramapah Mensah, a program
officer with the Accra-based  Ghana Center for Democratic
Development .  “She will command a lot of followers,” Mensah said in an
interview from Accra. “Though Mills enjoys the incumbent’s
advantage and will be able to tour the country to rally his
supporters, the former president’s family also commands strong
support.”  Mills, a member of the  National Democratic Congress  party
founded by Rawlings, was vice president under the former leader
from 1997 to 2001. Mills lost presidential elections in 2000 and
2004 to John Kufuor of the  New Patriotic Party  before beating
the NPP’s Nana Akufo-Addo in 2008 in a runoff decided by less
than 1 percent of the vote.  Corruption  If elected, Agyekum-Rawlings will seek to prosecute
corruption in the country’s oil industry and may try to
renegotiate a $1.5 billion agreement with  South Korea ’s STX
Corp. to build 30,000 houses for the country’s security
services, Adams said.  Koku Anyidoho, a spokesman for Mills, declined to comment
when contacted on his mobile phone.  Rawlings may tap latent support for her husband within the
party as well as utilize her  31 December Women’s Movement , which
operates agricultural projects and nursery schools across the
country, to challenge Mills, Mensah said. The organization has 1
million dues-paying members of voting age, according to its
website.  The NDC will choose its candidate for the December 2012
presidential poll on July 8 at a party congress, where about
1,000 party officials will choose the nominee, Mensah said.  Agyeman-Rawlings’s bid shows “there is a strong feeling”
that Mills “hasn’t been able to give the leadership that was
expected,” said Gabby Asare Otchere-Darko, a policy adviser to
the NPP’s Akufo-Addo, who will run again for president in 2012.
“Whether he manages to sail through the storm, I think the
damage will be difficult to repair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   abarden@bloomberg.net . 