-- 
Glaxo Plans to Sell Alli Diet Pill, 18 Other Consumer Brands

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-04-14T18:42:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/glaxosmithkline-says-alli-diet-pill-among-brands-it-s-selling.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  said its Alli
diet pill and Lactacyd soap are among 19 consumer health-care
assets the U.K. drugmaker plans to sell this year as it focuses
the unit on “priority brands.”  Abtei vitamins, FiberChoice diet supplements and the Nytol
sleep aid also will be divested, said Glaxo, based near  London ,
in an e-mailed  statement  today.  “They are good products, most of them,” Navid Malik, a
drug-industry analyst at Matrix Corporate Capital in London,
said in a telephone interview. “It should be easy to find a
home for them.”  The U.K.’s largest drugmaker said it wants its consumer
health unit to focus on “fast-growing” brands such as
Sensodyne toothpaste and the pain reliever Panadol. Glaxo hired
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to manage the sale, which was announced
Feb. 3, a person with direct knowledge of the process said March
24. It could reap as much as 2 billion pounds ($3.3 billion), a
second person said at the time.  Alli, Abtei and the other products for sale “have strong
heritage and good prospects” while Glaxo “has lacked
sufficient critical mass in some product categories and certain
brands have lacked focus due to other global priorities,” the
drugmaker said in today’s statement.  500 Million Pounds  The brands, mainly sold in Europe and the U.S., account for
about 500 million pounds, or 10 percent, of Glaxo’s total
revenue from consumer products. The drugmaker said it will start
communicating with interested parties over the next few weeks.
Glaxo confirmed that it aims to divest the products by late
2011, depending on interest from potential buyers.  Other drugmakers are shedding consumer-health assets they
deem too small. French rival  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) , based in Paris,
is seeking a buyer for its U.S. dermatology business in a
transaction that may fetch as much as 300 million euros ($434
million), two people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday.  The Alli diet pill contains orlistat, a chemical that
blocks the intestines from absorbing fat when taken as many as
three times a day with meals. Orlistat has been linked to
reports of liver injury, prompting consumer advocacy groups to
demand its removal from the market. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  announced new warnings on the pill’s label last
year.  Public Citizen   Public Citizen, a Washington-based consumer advocacy group,
today filed a petition with the FDA, asking the regulator to
remove Alli from the market. The group said the products are
associated with 47 cases of acute pancreatitis and 73 cases of
kidney stones.  "Alli is safe and effective when used as directed," Glaxo
said today in an e-mailed statement. More than 40 million people
have taken orlistat, including 10 million who have used Alli,
and the drug’s safety has been established in studies involving
more than 30,000 patients, the company said.  Sales of the over-the-counter weight-loss pill were 203
million pounds in 2009, the last year Glaxo reported revenue for
individual consumer products. The company in February said sales
of Alli in both the U.S. and  Europe  were lower in 2010. It
didn’t elaborate.  Glaxo isn’t disappointed with its performance, David
Mawdsley, a Glaxo spokesman, said in a telephone interview
today.  Alli’s Success  Alli “has been one of the most successful over-the-counter
switches ever,” he said, referring to the shift from a
prescription-only medicine to one available without seeing a
doctor. The sale of the products, Alli included, “is all about
focusing on brands and categories where we have most depth and
can be a market leader.”  Glaxo’s decision to shed Alli came as “a surprise” to
Matrix Corporate Capital’s Malik.  “I would have thought that might have been part of core
business going forward, but clearly not,” Malik said. “It’s a
bit of a disappointment.”  Glaxo plans to return funds it will raise from the sale of
the brands to shareholders through further share buybacks or
“another vehicle like a special dividend,” Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Witty  said in a Feb. 3 presentation to analysts.  The sale “is an example of our commitment to focus on
realizing value and enhancing returns to shareholders,” the 46-
year-old CEO said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  