-- 
Glencore to Raise Up to $11 Billion From IPO, Terms Show

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-04-14T05:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/glencore-to-raise-as-much-as-8-8-billion-in-london-listing-afr-reports.html
Glencore International AG, the
Swiss commodities trader, plans to sell as much as $11 billion
in shares in its initial public offering in London and  Hong Kong ,
implying a market value of $55 billion to $60 billion.  A primary listing on the London Stock Exchange may raise
between $6.8 billion and $8.8 billion and a secondary listing on
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange may raise $2.2 billion, according
to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News. Pricing of the
shares in the Baar, Switzerland-based company may be announced
around May 4.  Glencore is selling the shares in the biggest IPO this year
as stock markets recover and after strength in commodity prices
propelled a tripling in profits at mining companies including
Rio Tinto Group.  China , the world’s largest metal consumer, will
continue to drive demand as its builds cities and infrastructure.  “Commodity prices are really quite healthy versus
historical averages,” Ric Ronge, who helps manage the
equivalent of $1.3 billion at Pengana Global Resources Fund in
 Melbourne , said by phone. “They have been a private run company
and made a truck-load of money and you’d have to think that
these guys would have more market intelligence than most. We’ll
definitely have a look and see what the price is.”  Glencore will use the proceeds to fund expansion and
acquisitions, according to the term sheet. The offering includes
an overallotment option, known as the greenshoe, of 10 percent
of the offer. That may increase the total sale to $12.1 billion.  Goldman Wary  The offering comes after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. urged a
retreat from commodities and IPO investors shun the U.K. market.
The risks of investing in commodities outweigh potential gains,
dropping its recommendation to buy a basket of raw materials
including crude oil, copper, cotton and platinum, Goldman said
this week. Three companies have shelved plans for a  London  IPO
this month as  Europe ’s debt woes and a nuclear crisis in  Japan 
sap investor demand.  “I wouldn’t completely rule out participating, but I can’t
say that I’m naturally drawn to the business because of my
perception that commodities trading is unpredictable,”  Ian Henderson , who manages $10 billion of natural-resources stocks
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by telephone. “It’s obviously
extremely well run and presumably with a little bit more
firepower the company can succeed in growing its market share.”  Kazzinc Acquisition  Commodities, which jumped 20 percent last year, slumped the
most in four weeks on April 12 as Japan’s nuclear crisis raised
investor concern the global economic recovery will slow. This
year’s 16 percent advance in the S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials is helping to drive up inflation, spurring central
banks to consider higher  interest rates  that may hamper growth.  About $5 billion will be allocated to capital expenditure
over the next three years and $2.2 billion will be used to
increase its stake in Kazzinc, according to the term sheet.
Glencore currently owns a 50.7 percent stake in Kazzinc, which
mines zinc, lead, copper and precious metals, according to
Glencore’s website.  Glencore, which changed its name from Marc Rich & Co. after
management bought out former fugitive U.S. financier Marc Rich
in 1994, will end more than three decades of operating as a
closely held partnership in the IPO.  Profit Boost  Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, who has been with
the trader since 1984 and CEO for nine years, is set to benefit
from the share sale along with other executives of the company,
which is owned by senior management. Blackstone Group LP paid
its founders  Stephen Schwarzman  and  Peter G. Peterson  $2.33
billion after its IPO in June 2007, which raised $4 billion.  An increase in prices for metals including copper, aluminum
and nickel helped boost Glencore’s profit 39 percent to $3.8
billion in 2010. Sales rose to $145 billion from $106.4 billion,
ranking the company behind Vitol Group, which reported revenue
of $195 billion.  The sale of new shares will give Glencore “firepower” to
buy assets, the Financial Times reported April 11, citing an
interview with Glasenberg who said there’d be “good value” in
a merger with Zug, Switzerland-based  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , in which it
owns a 34 percent stake.  It also owns 8.8 percent of United Co. Rusal, the largest
aluminum producer, 74 percent of  Katanga Mining Ltd. (KAT)  and 71
percent of Australian nickel miner Minara Resources Ltd. It
holds stakes in Century Aluminum Co. and Nyrstar NV, the world’s
biggest zinc producer.  Glencore employs 2,000 people at trading units across 40
countries and more than 50,000 people at its industrial
operations, its  website  shows.  Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley
will manage the IPO as global coordinators, the terms sheet said.
Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas, Societe
Generale SA and UBS AG may be named bookrunners, two people with
knowledge of the sale said March 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net 
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  