-- 
Glencore IPO Helps Bonds as Convertible Holders Double Money

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-04-14T16:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/glencore-ipo-boosts-bonds-as-convertible-holders-double-money.html
Glencore International AG’s initial
public offering is positive for bondholders, especially in its
convertible bond because they will almost double their money,
according to analysts at  RBC Capital Markets .  Glencore in December 2009 sold $2.2 billion of 5 percent
notes due 2014 that become convertible into stock when the Baar,
Switzerland-based commodities trader sells shares. They were
sold to strategic investors at an implied company valuation of
about $35 billion which has now increased to as much as $60
billion, said Miriam Hehir at the London securities unit of
 Canada ’s biggest bank.  “Glencore’s IPO is good news for all debt holders but a
particularly good payday for the strategic investors holding
Glencore’s convertible bond,” said Hehir. “They will almost
double their money in a timeframe of 17 months.”  Glencore will raise as much as $11 billion by going public,
ending more than three decades as a closely held partnership, it
said today in a statement. It plans to use the cash to fund
expansion and acquisitions as commodities, which jumped 20
percent last year, help to drive up inflation.  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said today
he sees “good value” in combining the company with  Xstrata
Plc (XTA) , the Zug, Switzerland-based miner that’s 34 percent held by
Glencore, though “this is not a decision for today.”  “We continue to see a combination of Glencore and Xstrata
as a very likely outcome in the next 12 months and would expect
equity to be the dominant funding currency,” said RBC’s Hehir.
Glencore holds a 34 percent stake in Xstrata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  