-- 
MGM Resorts Founder Kirk Kerkorian to Step Down From Board

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-04-14T20:39:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/mgm-resorts-founder-kerkorian-will-step-down-from-board-of-casino-company.html
Billionaire Kirk Kerkorian will
step down in June from the board of  MGM Resorts International (MGM) ,
the casino company he founded, to become a senior adviser and
its first director emeritus.  Kerkorian, 93, MGM Resorts’ biggest shareholder through his
Tracinda Corp., said in an interview that his 27 percent stake
is ably represented by the board, including Tracinda executives
Dan Taylor and Anthony Mandekic, and by Jim Murren, chairman and
chief executive officer of the Las Vegas-based resort operator.  “I’m the founder of it. I just didn’t care to keep going
back to meetings,” Kerkorian said in an interview at his office
in Beverly Hills,  California . The board meetings “got to be
very lengthy.”  Kerkorian, a soft-spoken and slightly built former boxer
and pilot, said although his hearing and eyesight have
deteriorated, he exercises daily “to stay healthy.” An
incessant dealmaker, over the decades he’s traded major stakes
in casinos, airlines, automobile companies and film studios. He
continues to work in the office daily.  “I do stay busy,” he said. “I like new challenges.”
Kerkorian built MGM Resorts into the biggest casino operator on
the  Las Vegas Strip  through acquisitions and new construction.
The company said yesterday it will gain 51 percent control over
its joint venture in Macau, the world’s biggest casino market,
in a deal that includes an initial public offering in  Hong Kong 
of some shares held by partner  Pansy Ho .  Kerkorian said he prefers a more strategic, advisory role,
adding he will continue his conversations with Murren, 49, “at
least three to four times a week.”  No Board Vote  “I think the world of management, and they’re coming out
with some real good news,” Kerkorian said, referring to the
Macau deal and others he didn’t specify. Murren “is doing a
great job. He’s young, enthusiastic and has a lot of energy.”  After his term expires in June, Kerkorian will retain a
“standing invitation” to attend board and executive committee
meetings, MGM Resorts said in a statement. He won’t hold a vote
on the board.  “We’ve gone into and through and out of the recession, and
he’s immensely proud of how we’ve navigated through that and he
feels like this is the right time,” Murren said in an
interview. “He’s never backed down from any fight, and the
right time would not have been in 2008 or 2009 or even 2010.”  Kerkorian arrived in  Las Vegas  in the 1940s. His first
venture in the gaming business was a stake in the Dunes Hotel in
1955, according to the company. Since 2000, he has expanded MGM
by acquiring Mirage Resorts and Mandalay Resort Group.  Periodic Inquiries  Tracinda said in January it receives periodic inquiries
about its stake in the casino company and may explore potential
transactions.  “We love the MGM investment,” Tracinda’s Taylor said in
an interview. “Jim and his team are doing a fantastic job, and
we think there’s lots of opportunities still to come in this
investment.”  MGM Resorts rose 24 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $13.94 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have declined 6.1 percent this year.  MGM Resorts owns 10 properties on the Strip including the
CityCenter venture with  Dubai World . The company also owns
casinos elsewhere in  Nevada  and in Mississippi and  Michigan ,
joint ventures in  New Jersey  and  Illinois , and has a hospitality
management and development unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in  Los Angeles  at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  