-- 
Goldman Sachs Misses Out on Glencore's $11 Billion Initial Public Offering

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-04-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/goldman-sachs-misses-out-on-glencore-s-11-billion-initial-public-offering.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  missed out
on arranging Glencore International AG’s initial public
offering, which may be the world’s largest this year.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
will manage the IPO in London and  Hong Kong , which may raise as
much as $11 billion. All nine banks together will earn as much
as $250 million in fees, excluding the so-called incentive fees,
according to New York-based consulting firm Freeman & Co.  New York-based Goldman Sachs missed out because it doesn’t
have a long-term relationship with the commodities trader, said
a person with knowledge of the situation, who declined to be
identified because the details are private. Goldman didn’t
manage the 10 largest Glencore mergers and acquisitions, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The way to contribute to a deal like this” is to develop
relationships with clients over many years, said Scott Moeller,
a professor at Cass Business School in London and a former
investment banker. “Everyone has known for a long time that
Glencore will go public. You have to make sure you are on board
with them and you need to be connected and make the effort over
the long term and not just on your reputation.”  A spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in London declined to
comment. A call made to Glencore’s spokesman outside of normal
business hours wasn’t immediately answered.  ‘Quid Pro Quo’  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  are joint bookrunners
for the IPO along with the three lead banks, according to a
statement yesterday.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  UBS
AG (UBSN)  were appointed co-bookrunners and Liberum Capital Ltd. as a
syndicate member.  “They are giving back the rewards of people who have
helped them in the past either officially or unofficially,”
Moeller said. “It’s a quid pro quo.”  Goldman Sachs ranks first in managing global share sales
this year followed by Bank of America and Morgan Stanley,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Even including
Glencore, it will remain in the top position. Goldman ranked
third last year.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Deutsche Bank AG weren’t selected
to manage Glencore’s IPO because of a conflict of interest given
their role as corporate broker of  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , according to the
data company Hemscott Plc. Glencore owns a 34 percent stake in
Xstrata, and Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg
said yesterday he sees “good value” in combining the firms.  League Tables  Analysts from the two banks still attended a briefing held
by Glencore before the IPO, along with the nine banks now
managing the sale, said two people with knowledge of the matter
on March 2.  Investment banks normally use the league-table credit to
win future assignments. Banks that underwrite equity sales in
the U.K. and Hong Kong receive fees averaging 2.5 percent of the
amount raised, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Glencore may be valued at as much as $67.1 billion before
the IPO, UBS said in a research note sent to investors after the
commodities trader announced the sale. Bank of America valued
Glencore at as much as $70 billion, it said in a report sent to
potential investors on the same day.  Goldman Sachs said on April 11 the risks of investing in
commodities outweigh potential gains, dropping its
recommendation to buy a basket of raw materials including crude
oil, copper, cotton and platinum. Glencore announced its IPO
plan on April 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  