-- 
Gold May Gain on Inflation Concern, Weaker Dollar, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-04-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/gold-may-gain-on-inflation-concern-weaker-dollar-survey-shows.html
Gold, which reached a record this
week, may gain as a weaker dollar and concern inflation will
accelerate spur demand for the metal as an alternative
investment, a survey found.  Fourteen of 18 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 78 percent, said bullion will rise next week.
Three predicted lower prices and one was neutral. Gold for June
delivery was down 0.3 percent for this week at $1,470 an ounce
by 11 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York . Futures reached a
record $1,478 on April 11.  The dollar yesterday touched a 16-month low against six
major currencies on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will lag
behind the  European Central Bank  in raising  interest rates . Data
today may show European and Chinese inflation quickened last
month. Concerns about  Japan ’s nuclear disaster, fighting in
Libya and European debt helped gold reach a record.  A weaker dollar “is broadening the appeal of precious
metals as an alternative investment,” said Marc Ground, an
analyst at Standard Bank Plc in Johannesburg. “The threat of
rising inflation is also front of mind for many investors.”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of April 8.  The weekly gold survey that started almost seven years ago
has forecast prices accurately in 205 of 358 weeks, or 57
percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 14 Bearish: 3 Neutral: 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 