-- 
Justice Department Must Decide Whether Goldman Violated Laws, Levin Says

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-04-14T22:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/goldman-sachs-charges-up-to-justice-department-levin-says.html
The U.S. Justice Department and
regulators will have to determine whether employees and
executives of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  violated any laws when
they traded securities tied to the housing market and testified
to Congress about the transactions, Senator  Carl Levin  said.  The Michigan Democrat, who released the findings of a two-
year inquiry into the 2008 financial crisis yesterday, said
today in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart with  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller ” that he wanted to send
the report to federal prosecutors and the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Lawmakers don’t have the authority to
declare whether the activities were illegal, he said.  “That is not for Congress to determine whether or not a
crime was committed or whether or not he violated the security
laws,” Levin said, referring to Goldman Sachs Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein . “That is for the  Justice Department 
and that is for the SEC to make those determinations.”  Levin, who is chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations, said he also wants to forward all of the
testimony that Goldman Sachs executives gave before his panel so
the Justice Department can determine whether any statements
constitute perjury.  “We’re not going to make the determination as to whether
or not he committed perjury,” Levin said, after explaining that
he thought Blankfein “attempted to mislead the Congress and I
believe they did mislead their clients in very significant
ways.”  ‘Truthful and Accurate’  In a statement, Goldman Sachs denied that it had misled
anyone about its activities. “The testimony we gave was
truthful and accurate and this is confirmed by the
subcommittee’s own report,” Goldman Sachs spokesman Lucas van Praag said yesterday.  Levin doesn’t have the power on his own to formally refer
the report’s allegations to federal authorities. The
subcommittee has a process for making such referrals that
requires Levin to obtain the support of the senior Republican on
the panel,  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma .  Levin is going to recommend that the subcommittee make
formal referrals, though he has not done it yet, staff members
said.  Coburn Statement  Coburn issued a statement today saying committee members
have yet to decide whether to make formal referrals.  “There has been a lot of speculation about the nature of
any possible referrals that may result from our financial crisis
investigation,” Coburn said. “At this point, no final
decisions have been made regarding this issue.”  The 640-page report issued yesterday by the subcommittee
found that Goldman Sachs peddled mortgage-related securities to
its clients while failing to disclose that the firm had bet that
those instruments would lose value.  The report also said the firm acted against its clients’
interests by attempting to profit more generally from the
housing-market decline.  During a subcommittee hearing last year, Blankfein
testified that Goldman Sachs never bet against its clients for
its own profit.  The bipartisan report also examined the role of credit-
rating firms in the meltdown, lax oversight by  Washington 
regulators and the drop in lending standards that fueled the
mortgage bubble and ultimately caused hundreds of  bank failures .  -- With assistance from Phil Mattingly in Washington. Editors:
Lawrence Roberts, Maura Reynolds  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  