-- 
Gold Fields May Bid for Iamgold’s Minority Stakes in Its Ghana Gold Mines

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-04-14T15:54:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/gold-fields-interested-in-buying-iamgold-s-tarkwa-damang-minority-stakes.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the world’s
fourth-largest producer of the metal, may bid for stakes in the
company’s Tarkwa and Damang mines in  Ghana  held by  Iamgold Corp. (IMG)   “We’re best placed to give a sensible offer,” Nick Holland, chief executive officer at Johannesburg-based Gold
Fields, said today at a press conference in the city.  Gold Fields operates the mines and owns 71.1 percent, while
Iamgold owns 18.9 percent. Iamgold, based in Toronto, said today
it intends to sell its stakes in the  gold mines  by the end of
June and said in February it plans to become the operator and
majority owner of all its assets.  “We understand the assets incredibly well,” Holland said.
“It would be a logical outcome if we were able to acquire those
stakes.”  Tarkwa produces about 362,000 ounces a year and Damang
about 117,000 ounces. The Ghanaian government owns 10 percent of
each of the mines, as required under the nation’s laws.  Iamgold plans to move forward with a sale this quarter, Bob Tait, Iamgold’s vice president of  investor relations , said in a
presentation today at the Denver Gold Group European Gold Forum
in Zurich.  “We are going to sell that and we intend to do that by the
end of the second quarter,” Tait said. “We want to take the
proceeds from that and reinvest in our core operations in the
brownfield operations going forward, or new projects yet to
come.”  Laura Young, an Iamgold spokeswoman, declined to comment
further, citing company policy.  Iamgold Plans  Shareholders may gain if Iamgold sells its stakes in the
mines in Ghana and uses the funds “in our operating
properties,” Chief Executive Officer Steve Letwin told
investors on Feb. 25. Letwin became CEO in November.  Gold Fields is increasing its stake in Peruvian unit Gold
Fields La Cima S.A.A. with a bid for the 8 percent it doesn’t
already own closing April 20, Holland said. The unit owns the
Cerro Corona gold and copper mine, which produces about 400,000
gold-equivalent ounces a year. A full takeover would give Gold
Fields access to an extra 1 million ounces of “long-life and
low-cost” reserves and an additional 76,000 ounces of gold-
equivalent production a year, the company said March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 