-- 
Goldman Traders Tried to Manipulate Derivatives Market in '07, Report Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-04-14T02:09:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/goldman-traders-tried-to-manipulate-market-in-2007-report-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  mortgage
traders tried to manipulate prices of derivatives linked to
subprime home loans in May 2007 for their own benefit, according
to a U.S. Senate report.  Company documents show traders led by Michael J. Swenson
sought to encourage a “short squeeze” by putting artificially
low prices on derivatives that would gain in value as mortgage
securities fell, according to the report yesterday by the
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. The idea, abandoned
after market conditions worsened, was to drive holders of such
credit-default swaps to sell and help Goldman Sachs traders buy
at reduced prices, according to the report.  “We began to encourage this squeeze, with plans of getting
very short again,” Deeb Salem, a trader in the structured
product group, said in a 2007 self-evaluation excerpted in the
report. Swenson, Salem’s supervisor, sent e-mails in May 2007
urging traders to offer prices that will “cause maximum pain”
and “have people totally demoralized.” In interviews with the
committee, Salem and Swenson denied attempting a short squeeze,
the report said.  Salem “claimed that he had wrongly worded his self-
evaluation,” the report said. “He said that reading his self-
evaluation as a description of an intended short squeeze put too
much emphasis on ‘words.’”  The subcommittee cited the episode as an example of how
Goldman Sachs traders placed the firm’s interests ahead of its
clients’ as the value of mortgage-linked investments tumbled in
2007. The subcommittee, led by Senator Carl M. Levin, a Michigan
Democrat and  Tom Coburn , Republican of  Oklahoma , has called on
regulators to craft strict bans on proprietary trading and
conflicts of interest to keep the problems from recurring.  ‘Poor Quality Investments’  “Conflicts of interests related to proprietary investments
led Goldman to conceal its adverse financial interests from
potential investors, sell investors poor quality investments,
and place its financial interests before those of its clients,”
according to the subcommittee.  Goldman Sachs traders abandoned the short-squeeze attempt
after discovering on June 7, 2007, that two Bear Stearns Cos.
hedge funds that specialized in subprime-mortgage investments
were collapsing. Salem e-mailed Swenson and another colleague to
suggest trying to buy short positions, known as “protection,”
on collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, from hedge fund
Magnetar Capital LLC, according to the subcommittee’s report.  “We need to go to magnetar and see if we can buy a bunch
of cdo protection… Can tell them we have a protection buyer, who
is looking to get into this trade now that spreads have
tightened back in.”  ‘Great Idea’  Swenson expressed “no concerns about the proposed
deception” and responded to Salem that it was a “great idea,”
according to the report.  The report comes almost a year after the committee spent
more than 10 hours grilling Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman Sachs’s
chairman and chief executive officer, and six current and former
employees in one of the most hostile political showdowns in the
aftermath of the financial crisis.  That hearing happened 12 days after the Securities and
Exchange Commission sued New York-based Goldman Sachs for fraud
in a case that the firm settled for $550 million in July.  In an effort to address questions raised by the SEC lawsuit
and the subcommittee, Blankfein convened a committee of Goldman
Sachs executives to review the firm’s practices. In January, the
firm published 39 recommendations aimed at better managing
conflicts and client relationships, as well as governance and
employee training.  Citigroup, Merrill Lynch  Goldman Sachs disagrees with “many of the conclusions” in
the report and cited the business standards committee as
evidence that “we take seriously the issues explored by the
subcommittee,” the firm said in a statement released by Lucas van Praag, a company spokesman.  As rivals including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Merrill Lynch & Co.
posted losses on mortgage-related investments during 2007,
Goldman Sachs reported record earnings that benefited from the
firm’s negative view of the subprime-mortgage market.  Blankfein and other executives at the firm have said that
its traders placed “short” bets, which profited when prices of
mortgage-linked securities fell, to hedge against losses. He
also said in last year’s hearing that Goldman Sachs was acting
as a “market maker” in selling CDOs and other mortgage-backed
investments to clients as the company’s own traders were betting
against them.  ‘Massive Short’  “We didn’t have a massive short against the housing
market, and we certainly did not bet against our clients,”
Blankfein, 56, who received a record $67.9 million bonus for his
performance in 2007, told the subcommittee last year. “Rather,
we believe that we managed our risk as our shareholders and our
regulators would expect.”  The subcommittee said that documents uncovered in its two-
year investigation of the financial crisis show that Goldman
Sachs’s mortgage traders did have a large short position during
2007 and the sales team aggressively sought clients to buy CDOs
that the traders expected would decline in value.  One executive “instructed Goldman personnel not to provide
written information to investors about how Goldman was valuing”
a CDO called Timberwolf, according to the report, “and its
sales force offered no additional assistance to potential
investors trying to evaluate the 4,500 underlying assets.”  Joshua S. Birnbaum, who ran a unit called the ABX Trading
Desk, said in an October 2007 internal presentation that a short
position established by the structured product group after the
collapse of two Bear Stearns  hedge funds  was “not a hedge”
against CDOs and residential mortgage-backed securities, or
RMBS, owned by the firm, the report said.  ‘Not a Hedge’  “By June, all retained CDO and RMBS positions were
identified already hedged,” the presentation said. “In other
words, the shorts were not a hedge.”  The subcommittee’s report describes four CDOs that the firm
created and sold in an effort to reduce Goldman Sachs’s exposure
to subprime-mortgage risk. It describes Goldman Sachs as having
given misleading descriptions of some of the CDOs and in some
cases seeking out buyers who were inexperienced with them.  The report also says that the mortgage desk reversed its
view on how it marked derivatives values based on its position
in the market. Clients with short positions complained that
Goldman Sachs was undervaluing those bets during the squeeze
attempt. After the traders abandoned that strategy in June 2007
and increased their wagers against the mortgage market, other
clients complained the firm was overvaluing the short positions.  “Once it began buying CDS shorts, the SPG Desk immediately
changed its CDS short valuations and began increasing their
value,” the report said. “Clients with long positions began to
complain that the marks were too high, and internal Goldman
business units also raised questions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 