-- 
Goldman Sachs Credit-Default Swaps Jump as Levin Claims Bank Duped Clients

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-04-14T21:33:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/goldman-sachs-credit-default-swaps-jump-as-levin-claims-bank-duped-clients.html
The cost to protect debt issued by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  jumped to the highest level in almost a
month after the chairman of the Senate panel that investigated
the financial crisis said the bank misled clients and Congress
about investments in securities tied to mortgages.  Credit-default swaps on the U.S. bank that makes the most
revenue from trading climbed 4.2 basis points to 115.5 basis
points, according to data provider CMA. That’s the highest level
since 118.1 basis points on March 17.  Senator  Carl Levin  said he wants the  Justice Department  and
the Securities and Exchange Commission to examine whether
Goldman Sachs violated the law by misleading clients who bought
collateralized debt obligations without knowing the firm was
betting they would fall in value.  “In my judgment, Goldman clearly misled their clients and
they misled the Congress,” Levin said at a media briefing
yesterday where he and Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma
Republican, discussed a 640-page report from the Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations.  In a statement, the New York-based bank denied that it had
misled anyone about its activities. “The testimony we gave was
truthful and accurate and this is confirmed by the
subcommittee’s own report,” Goldman Sachs spokesman Lucas van Praag said.  Credit-default swaps on other major U.S. banks also rose,
with contracts on Morgan Stanley adding 3.6 basis points to
140.6 and those on JPMorgan Chase & Co. climbing 2.8 basis
points to 74.5, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Corporate Bonds  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Contracts on Citigroup Inc. increased 1.5 basis points to
120.9, and those on Wells Fargo & Co. added 1.2 basis points to
79.4. Default swaps on Bank of America Corp. climbed 2.7 basis
points to 132.5, the data show.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell for the first time in four days as the House approved
a spending bill to avert a government shutdown.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.4 basis point to a
mid-price of 94.6 basis points as of 4:56 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. It’s risen
from 93.6 at the end of last week. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  