-- 
Goldman Sued by Recruiter Over Deutsche Bank Hire in Poland

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-14T16:31:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/goldman-sued-by-recruiter-over-deutsche-bank-hire-in-poland-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s U.K.
unit was sued by an executive search firm in  London  that said it
wasn’t paid after recruiting a banker from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in
Poland.  Cazar Search Ltd. , which says it specializes in hiring
investment bankers across  Europe , introduced Mirek Urbanski at
Deutsche Bank in Warsaw to Goldman Sachs. When he was later
hired, the search firm didn’t receive a fee and was told it
wasn’t entitled to one, according to the lawsuit filed in
February in London which became public this week.  Cazar had an agreement with Goldman to recruit candidates
in exchange for a fee of 30 percent of their compensation, as
much as 100,000 pounds ($163,000) for revenue-generating
divisions, and 125,000 pounds for investment banking and non-
revenue-generating divisions, according to the lawsuit.  “Although the claimant does not know Mr. Urbanski’s
compensation, it is likely that it is sufficiently high that the
fee will be 100,000 pounds,” Cazar said in the suit.  A Goldman Sachs spokeswoman declined to comment. Urbanski
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  In a similar case, settled confidentially last year,
executive-search firm Hogarth Davies Lloyd sued Nomura Holdings
Inc. over fees for recruiting  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
bankers after it collapsed in late 2008. In that case, the firm
sought as much as 35.1 million pounds.  ‘Key Players’  Cazar was instructed in August 2009 by Halil Emecen and
Leon Ceder, of Goldman’s fixed income, currency and commodities
division to identify “key players” in Poland, Hungary, the
 Czech Republic  and Slovakia, “particularly at Deutsche Bank,”
according to the lawsuit.  The firm says it was told by Goldman after Urbanski met
with Ceder that the interview process was put on hold. It later
found out that Urbanski was hired by Goldman in July last year
in its securities department to expand operations in Eastern
Europe.  Ross Nolan of Cazar Search said in the suit he was told
they weren’t entitled to a fee. They had previously placed four
employees with the New York-based bank.  The case is Cazar Search Ltd. v. Goldman Sachs
International, case no. 11-535,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s
Bench Division (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  