-- 
Goldman Sachs’s Special Situations Unit Produced 9% of Firm's 2007 Revenue

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-04-14T02:23:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/goldman-sachs-s-special-situations-unit-produced-9-of-firm-s-2007-revenue.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Special
Situations Group, a secretive unit that invests the firm’s own
money, generated 9 percent of companywide revenue in 2007, an
internal document shows.  The group, known as SSG, produced $4.1 billion that year,
and $3.79 billion in 2006, then 10 percent of the firm’s total,
according to a document prepared for a managing director meeting
on Jan. 10, 2008. In both years, the unit contributed the most
revenue to the firm’s biggest division, generating more than
currency and interest-rate trading combined, it shows.  The document, released yesterday by the U.S. Senate’s
 Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations , reveals SSG’s
importance to the bank’s revenue before the financial crisis. In
January, New York-based Goldman Sachs stopped including SSG’s
results within fixed-income, currencies and commodities, known
as FICC, and moved it into a new reporting segment called
investing and lending that includes other proprietary
investments.  While SSG includes some lending activities, the business is
better known for buying distressed debt and other assets in
hopes of profiting from a rebound or bankruptcy restructuring.
Goldman Sachs executives have argued its activities should be
exempted from a ban on proprietary investing that Congress
included last year in the Dodd-Frank financial-regulatory act.  ‘Lending Business’  The “predominant part” of that business “is actually a
lending business,” David A. Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief
financial officer, told analysts on an Oct. 19 conference call.  The Senate subcommittee, led by Michigan Democrat Carl M. Levin and Oklahoma Republican Thomas Coburn, recommended in a
report yesterday that exemptions for any bank “should be
strictly limited in the implementing regulations to activities
that serve clients or reduce risk.”  The January 2008 document estimated that revenue for SSG
was going to drop 15 percent to $3.5 billion that year, which
would have still made it the largest contributor within FICC. A
breakdown of the actual revenue produced by FICC units in 2008
wasn’t included.  Lucas van Praag, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in  New York ,
declined to comment on information in the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 