-- 
Google Profit Misses Estimates on Hiring, Marketing Costs; Shares Decline

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-14T21:42:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/google-s-profit-misses-estimates-as-employee-costs-climb-shares-decline.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the largest Internet-
search company, reported profit that missed estimates after
spending more on hiring and marketing amid mounting competition
with Facebook Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  The shares fell 5.2 percent.  First-quarter net income climbed 18 percent to $2.3
billion, or $7.04 a share, from $1.96 billion, or $6.06, a year
earlier, the company said on  its website  today. Profit excluding
some items was $8.08 a share, below the average $8.12 analyst
estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Larry Page, who became chief executive officer last week,
is using a hiring spree to go after display ads and the mobile
market. Google announced plans in January to add 6,000 employees
this year and raise nonexecutive salaries 10 percent. At the
same time, he’s defending Google against regulatory scrutiny in
the U.S. and  Europe  for its grip on the search industry.  “You have to ask, ‘Are they going to be spending
efficiently or are they going to be wasting money wantonly?’”
said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in New York,
who has a “hold” rating on the shares. “ Larry Page  has made
it clear that he is returning the company to investment mode and
he is chasing after big opportunities.”  Stock Falls  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , declined $30.21
to $548.30 in late trading. The shares, down 2.6 percent this
year, had risen $2.23 to $578.51 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  Excluding revenue passed on to partner sites, sales rose 29
percent to $6.54 billion, topping the $6.32 billion average of
estimates. Still, that growth was dwarfed by a 54 percent jump
in operating expenses.  “Business is doing really well from a top-line
perspective,” said Heath Terry, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
Inc. in  New York . The question is whether investing in new
areas, such as mobile services, social networking and display
ads, will lead to “permanently depressed margins,” he said.  The company is relying on its Android operating system and
last year’s acquisition of AdMob Inc. to tackle the mobile
market, putting it in closer competition with Apple. Meanwhile,
Google is increasingly squaring off against Facebook in display
advertising -- the banners and videos that appear on websites.  Google had 26,316 employees at the end of the first
quarter, up 7.9 percent from 24,400 in December. Research and
development costs rose 50 percent from a year earlier, while
sales and marketing climbed 69 percent.  Antitrust Review?  The company faces deepening challenges on the regulatory
front. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is weighing a broad
antitrust probe, people familiar with the matter said this
month. Also, the European Commission and Texas Attorney General
 Greg Abbott  have begun investigations into whether Google is
skewing its search results to favor its own businesses over
competitors’ websites.  Page, a Google co-founder, took the reins from  Eric Schmidt , who became executive chairman and is now focusing on
external affairs and government relations.  “We’ve really hit the ground running,” Page, 38, said
today on a conference call. “I’m tremendously excited about all
of the things that lay before us as a company.”  In his first week on the job, Page promoted seven of his
managers to senior executive positions, including  Andy Rubin ,
who heads up mobile efforts, and Vic Gundotra, who is in charge
of social initiatives, according to a person briefed on the
changes. The executives will report directly to Page, the person
said.  Page’s changes are designed to streamline engineering and
product development, placing a single manager in charge of each
product group, said Chris Gaither, a company spokesman. Page
said in January that the company needs to maintain its pace as
Google becomes larger.  “Google’s decision-making process has slowed over the
years,” said  Jordan Rohan , an analyst at Stifel, Nicolaus & Co.
in New York. He recommends buying the stock, which he doesn’t
own himself. “He’s trying to attack that decision paralysis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  