-- 
Greek, Portuguese Yields Surge to Record as Schaeuble Raises Restructuring

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-04-14T16:15:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/greek-portuguese-yield-reach-a-record-on-schaeuble-restructuring-comments.html
Greek and Portuguese bonds led a
slump in the securities of  Europe ’s most indebted nations amid
mounting investor concern that some may be forced to restructure
their debts.  The declines pushed the yields on Greek and Portuguese 10-
year bonds to euro-era records after German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that Greece may need to renegotiate its
debt burden if an audit in June questions its ability to pay
creditors.  Standard & Poor’s  head of European sovereign ratings,
 Moritz Kraemer , said the risk of such an event has risen. Greek
two-year yields climbed the most since January 27.  “Schaeuble’s comments bring the prospect of restructuring
back onto the table,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “It gives the market plenty of time to fret. If we have
to wait until June, there’s the prospect of event risk in the
future, which leaves the market open to speculation and spread-
widening.”  The yield on 10-year Greek debt jumped 36 basis points to
13.27 percent as of 4:38 p.m. in London, the highest since at
least 1998 when Bloomberg began collecting the data. The two-
year note yield surged as much as 103 basis points to 17.96
percent.  Portuguese 10-year yields added 14 basis points to 8.88
percent, after reaching 8.89 percent, the most since at least
1997. Two-year note yields were 26 basis points higher at 9.31
percent.  Schaeuble told  Germany ’s Die Welt  newspaper  that Greece may
have to restructure because creditors can’t be forced to take
losses until Europe’s permanent rescue system for the euro
starts up in mid-2013.  Restructure not ‘Inevitable’  Speaking on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” S&P’s
Kraemer said “I’m not saying restructuring is inevitable, but
the risk is more likely. The base case is still that they would
not restructure.”  Such an event could involve imposing losses of between 50
percent and 70 percent on investors, he said.  The cost of insuring Greek government debt rose 42 basis
points to a record 1,102, according to CMA prices for credit-
default swaps, signaling there’s a 60 percent chance the country
will default within five years.  “That  Greece  may have no other alternative but to
restructure in order to get itself back on the sustainable debt
path is probably the worst kept secret,” said Greg Venizelos, a
credit strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London.  Crisis ‘Ring-Fenced’  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said today in a Bloomberg Television interview with
Sarh Eisen that a restructuring is “no solution” to the debt
problems faced by Greece, and it is neither reasonable nor
necessary.  Speaking earlier at an event in  Washington , Rehn said he is
“quite confident” the financial aid being negotiated for
 Portugal  will result in the debt crisis being “ring-fenced.”
The package should be in place “in a matter of weeks,” he
said.  Yields on 10-year Spanish debt rose nine basis points to
5.32 percent, while the yield on Irish securities of a similar
maturity jumped 25 basis points to 9.34 percent.  Fitch Ratings today affirmed Ireland’s credit rating at
BBB+ and removed them from ratings watch negative, while
maintain the outlook as negative.  Benchmark Italian debt also slipped after it sold 6.9
billion euros of bonds maturing in 2016 and 2023, pushing the
10-year yield up three basis points to 4.72 percent.  Worst Performing Debt  Portuguese debt is the worst performer this year among the
euro-region nations, according to indexes compiled by the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg. It has handed investors a 10.6 percent loss, while
Greek bonds have lost 1.5 percent and German  government bonds 
are 2.7 percent lower. Spanish debt has returned 2.8 percent and
Irish securities 0.4 percent.  German bonds gained as investors sought the relative safety
of debt issued by Europe’s largest economy, and the nation’s
government announced new economic forecasts. The German economy
will grow 2.6 percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2012, Economy
Minister Rainer Bruederle said.  Unemployment will decline below 3 million on average this
year, while inflation will average 2.4 percent, falling to 1.9
percent in 2012, the government said in its report released in
Berlin today.  The  European Central Bank  said in its monthly policy
statement today that it will monitor upside inflation risks
“very closely” after raising  interest rates  last week for the
first time in almost three years.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond was little changed
at 3.43 percent, after earlier reaching 3.38 percent, the lowest
since April 5. The two-year note yield was at 1.86 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 