-- 
Greece to Unveil Austerity Measures to Meet Deficit Goals

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-04-14T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/greece-to-unveil-new-austerity-measures-to-meet-deficit-goals.html
Greece  will announce measures
today to meet its deficit-reduction goals after the country’s
bond yields hit new highs amid talk it may restructure its debt.  The government’s medium term-fiscal policy plan will detail
more than 22 billion euros ($31.9 billion) of deficit-reduction
measures through 2014, most of them in spending cuts, according
to Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou . The government is
also expected to unveil plans to raise 15 billion euros by 2013
through state-asset sales.  Greece came close to defaulting on its debt last year,
requiring a 110 billion-euro bailout from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund , after it emerged that the country
had underreported the size of a  budget deficit  that reached 15.4
percent of gross domestic product in 2009. The extra yield
investors demand to hold 10-year Greek debt instead of benchmark
German bunds widened 37 basis points to a record 985 basis
points yesterday after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece may have to renegotiate its debt burden.  “There is no question of restructuring,” Greek government
spokesman  George Petalotis  said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “What the government has to do, and it is the most
serious job, so serious that it casts aside any other scenario,
is to set goals and stick to them. And that’s what we’re doing
with this national strategic plan.”  The measures are aimed at meeting a target, agreed with the
EU and IMF as a condition for the bailout, to cut the deficit to
less than 3 percent of GDP by 2014 and a self-imposed goal of
cutting the shortfall below 1 percent by 2015. The government is
still aiming for a deficit of 7.4 percent of GDP this year, even
as first-quarter revenue missed the target by 1.4 billion euros.  Deficit Revision  Papaconstantinou acknowledged in an April 1 interview that
Greece’s 2010 deficit may be more than the government’s initial
9.4 percent projection. The figure, currently under review by EU
statistics agency Eurostat, may be revised to above 10 percent,
the Kathimerini newspaper reported on March 29.  Greece’s Public Debt Service Management Agency will today
announce the amount of 13-week treasury bills it will sell next
week. Greece has continued to hold regular T-bill auctions even
as it remains frozen out of international bond markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 