-- 
Greece May Need Debt Restructuring After June, Schaeuble Tells Die Welt

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-04-14T07:28:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/greece-might-need-debt-restructuring-after-june-schaeuble-tells-die-welt.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said  Greece  may have to seek debt restructuring if an
audit in June questions its ability to pay creditors, Die Welt
reported, citing an interview.  Greece would have to negotiate to ease its debt burden
since creditors can’t be forced to take losses until  Europe ’s
permanent rescue system for the euro starts up in mid-2013, the
Berlin-based newspaper  cited  Schaeuble as saying in comments
published today.  “We will have to do something” if the review by the
 International Monetary Fund  and European authorities in June
raises doubts about Greece’s “debt sustainability,” Schaeuble
was quoted as saying. “Then, further measures will have to be
taken.”  The comments echo Schaueble’s remarks at a meeting of
finance ministers in  Hungary  last week. He told reporters April
9 that loan relief granted in March may be inadequate to restore
Greece’s financial health, even as the officials ruled out debt
restructuring.  Yields on two-year Greek notes climbed to 17 percent today
from as low as 6.62 percent in May 2010 after the bailout. The
cost of insuring Greek sovereign debt closed yesterday at a
record 1,054 basis points, according to CMA prices for credit-
default swaps. The level implies there’s a 60 percent
probability the nation will default within five years.  European Union leaders have agreed that creditors have to
share the risk on new bond issues starting 2013, Schaeuble was
quoted as saying. “Until then, however, debt restructuring
would be possible on a voluntary basis.”  With Greece dependent on last year’s bailout, Schaeuble is
raising doubts about the country’s ability to avoid debt
restructuring as it seeks to restore economic growth while
slashing the  budget deficit .  A finance ministry spokesman confirmed Schaueble's remarks 
to Die Welt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  