-- 
Groupo Aeromexico Said to Raise $288 Million in Initial Public Offering

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-04-14T03:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/grupo-aeromexico-said-to-raise-288-2-million-in-share-offering-in-mexico.html
Grupo Aeromexico SAB,  Mexico ’s
largest airline by passengers, raised 3.4 billion pesos ($288.2
million) in an initial public offering today, according to two
people with knowledge of the operation.  The airline sold about 109 million shares before the
overallotment option known as the greenshoe and priced the
shares at 31 pesos each, the lower end of the forecast range,
the people said. The company had set a price range of 30 pesos
to 34 pesos a share and planned to sell as much as 114 million
shares, according to the prospectus filed with Mexico’s stock
exchange. The total raised will rise to about 3.9 billion pesos
if underwriters exercise their option to buy shares, according
to the people.  The Mexico City-based airline will leverage its market
position to expand the business after competitor Cia. Mexicana
de Aviacion filed for bankruptcy last year, said Sergio Mendez,
who helps manage 80.5 billion pesos in assets as chief
investment officer at pension fund Afore XXI. The airline is
pledging to increase its fleet of commercial aircraft and add
routes.  “The stability that Aeromexico has exemplified sets it
apart,” said Mendez, speaking in a telephone interview from
Mexico City before the stock was priced. “It has advantages
including dominance in the market and strength in its corporate
governance.”  Aeromexico said it will benefit from natural growth in
Latin America’s “underserved” air travel sector, according to
the prospectus.  Air traffic in the region may climb at an annual rate of
6.9 percent through 2029, according to Boeing Co.’s Current
Market Outlook  report . The size of the Mexican commercial
aircraft fleet tumbled to 273 in December from 324 in 2009,
according to the Communication and Transportation  Ministry .  Aeromexico transported 11.6 million people in Mexico and
abroad last year. It had 36.2 percent of the country’s domestic
market in the period, the prospectus showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  