-- 
ICBC’s Jiang Says China Economic Growth to Curtail Bad Loans

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-15T10:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/icbc-s-jiang-says-china-s-growth-to-keep-driving-down-bad-loans.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the world’s largest lender by market value, said its
bad-loan ratio is dropping and ruled out a deterioration in
asset quality from property and local-government lending.  “If the economy is growing, the financial sector is bound
to do well,” Chairman  Jiang Jianqing  said in a Bloomberg TV
interview in Sanya in southern China’s Hainan province
yesterday. “The challenges we face in areas such as real estate
and local government financing vehicles will all be solved.
Chinese banks’ asset quality won’t deteriorate.”  Jiang’s comments are a rebuttal to Fitch Ratings, which
said this week that it’s “not inconceivable” bad debts in
China could rise to 30 percent of the total. The government has
cracked down on lending to local governments and stepped up
efforts to cool property prices after banks advanced a record
17.5 trillion yuan ($2.7 trillion) of  loans  last year.  ICBC’s advances will climb 13.2 percent to 14.2 percent
this year, Jiang reiterated yesterday. That’s the slowest pace
in three years as banks heed a government call to restrain
credit growth. The lender will also avoid  selling shares  in the
next two years and fund credit by using capital more efficiently
and boosting retained earnings, he said, without elaborating.  “Investors hope for higher profit growth and they want
higher dividend payouts. At the same time, they don’t want you
to go to them for any more fundraising,” he said. “They want
the horse to fly without feeding it.”  Shares of ICBC rose 0.5 percent in Hong Kong to close at
HK$6.54 today, extending this year’s gains to 13 percent.  Double HSBC’s Profit  Net income  at ICBC rose 28 percent last year to 165 billion
yuan, securing its position as the world’s most profitable bank
for a third year. The profit was almost double that of  HSBC
Holdings Plc , Europe’s largest bank.  ICBC’s non-performing loan ratio dropped in the first
quarter, Jiang said. The government may report today the economy
expanded 9.4 percent in the period from a year earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 25 economists.  The People’s Bank of China has  raised interest rates  four
times since October and pushed up the ratio of deposits banks
must set aside as  reserves  to the highest in at least two
decades for the biggest lenders.  China’s cabinet said April 13 that rising property prices
and  inflation  expectations are key concerns as the nation
wrestles with the aftermath of a two-year credit boom.  Jiang said he expects further increases in the reserve
ratio and interest rates if inflation worsens. China’s consumer
prices may have climbed 5.2 percent in March, the most since
July 2008, a Bloomberg  survey  showed.  Loan Defaults  While Chinese banks’ total non-performing loan ratio was
1.1 percent at the end of 2010, a more stringent classification
of credit to local governments would put that at almost 6
percent, Fitch said April 12.  ICBC’s bad loans accounted for 1.08 percent of its total
advances at the end of December, the lowest among the nation’s
five  biggest lenders , according to the banks’ annual reports.
Loans to local governments dropped to 515.1 billion yuan from
649.6 billion yuan at the end of December, ICBC said in March.
About 1.93 billion yuan in such loans had gone bad, it said at
that time.  ICBC has reduced the revenue contribution of its lending
and deposit business to 60 percent from 78 percent over the past
eight years, Jiang said. The bank cut its  dividend payout  ratio
to 39 percent in 2010 from 55 percent in 2007. It has spent 225
billion yuan on dividends since listing in 2006, Jiang said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  