-- 
Iceland President Defends Pre-Crisis Tours Promoting Bank Model

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-14T11:20:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/iceland-president-defends-pre-crisis-tours-promoting-bank-model.html
Iceland ’s President Olafur R. Grimsson defended his efforts to promote the island’s banking
model in the years that led up to the crisis, arguing it was his
duty to talk up an industry that was creating jobs.  “It’s always the mandate of the President to support the
economy of the country and those three banks were the biggest
companies,” he said in an April 12 interview in Copenhagen,
before speaking at the  Institute for Corporate Governance  about
lessons from the crisis. “They were providing thousands of
young Icelanders with job opportunities, both in Iceland and in
other parts of the world.”  The former executives of Iceland’s biggest banks, which
collapsed in 2008 after amassing debts more than 10 times the
size of the economy, are now being probed for financial crimes
that prosecutors allege spurred the economic meltdown. Grimsson,
67, in a  May 2005 speech  attributed the banking growth to the
nation’s “business culture” and a tendency to “challenge
prevailing theories taught in respected business schools.”  Now, Grimsson says “it would have been strange if the
president during those years hadn’t participated in promoting
the biggest companies of Iceland.” The island’s financial
industry employed 4.3 percent of the country’s workforce in
2006, or 7,300 people, Statistics Iceland data show. The
industry accounted for 5.1 percent of workers in 2008, the
office estimates.  Icelandic Defender  The President in February blocked government efforts to
settle foreign depositor claims stemming from Landsbanki Islands
hf, once the country’s second-biggest lender, arguing taxpayers
shouldn’t cover losses from mismanaged private banks. That
triggered a referendum, in which 59.7 percent of voters on April
9 rejected a government accord with the U.K. and  Netherlands .  According to Hannes Holmsteinn Gissurarson, a professor of
political science at the  University of Iceland , the President’s
recent performance is in character.  “He certainly overdid his strong support for the Icelandic
businessmen,” Gissurarson said in an interview today. “They
were regular visitors at the President’s residence before the
collapse. But then Olafur realized after the collapse
that he had to regain his popularity and this he did by using
his rhetorical skills to become the best spokesman for Icelandic
interests.”  The depositor dispute will now be settled at the  European
Free Trade Association ’s court in  Luxembourg , where proceedings
are likely to take about a year, Finance Minister Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said on April 10.  Rating Downgrade?  Moody’s Investors Service on Feb. 23 warned that failure to
resolve the depositor dispute, known as Icesave, would trigger a
rating downgrade to junk. Fitch Ratings Ltd. has ranked
Iceland’s debt non-investment grade since Grimsson’s January
2010 veto of an earlier depositor accord. The companies said
Iceland will face difficulties tapping international debt
markets unless the depositor claims are resolved.  Grimsson blames the rating firms for misleading Iceland’s
policy makers before the crisis by giving the banks high credit
grades. He says he toured the world praising Iceland’s lenders
“especially since they were given very positive remarks by
international rating authorities.”  ‘Abysmal’  In an April 11 Bloomberg Television interview, he called
Moody’s track record on assessing Iceland's credit risk 
“abysmal.”  Iceland’s Special Investigative Commission, which last
April published about 3,000 pages of findings on the causes of
the banking crisis, said Grimsson’s role in the meltdown was
“especially interesting,” according to the report.  “It cannot be avoided probing the Office of the President
especially in this regard, due to his servitude to the voyage
and the individuals in the forefront,” the report concluded.
Grimsson bears “moral responsibility for the theatrical play,”
according to the report. He “forcefully drew a beautified,
arrogant and nationalistic picture of the superiority of
Icelanders, based on old heritage. It’s noteworthy that some of
the qualities that the President thought were admirable were
exactly the characteristics that eventually led to their and the
nation’s demise.”  Grimsson said his support of the industry was also based on
assessments by Iceland’s  Financial Supervisory Authority . The
Special Investigative Commission has since found the regulator
failed to monitor the banks appropriately.  ‘Warning Signs’  “Although there were a number of warning signs, the
regulatory authorities and the international rating agencies
continued to give the banks very good remarks,” Grimsson said.
“Like my colleague heads of states promote the biggest
companies of their countries, it has for a long time been part
of the presidency of Iceland,” he said. “In previous decades
it was primarily the fishing industry and agricultural companies
but 10 years ago the banks became the biggest companies.”  Moody’s, which rated Iceland’s sovereign debt Aaa until
five months before its financial sector collapsed in October
2008, said in an April 2006 report written by analyst Joan Feldbaum-Vidra that concerns “of risks that may accompany
increased leverage in the economy” have “recently been
exaggerated.”  Grimsson, who became president in 1996, is now touring the
world promoting Iceland’s geothermal knowhow, which he in a Jan.
28 interview in Davos,  Switzerland , called “a very important
global mission for Iceland.”  Financial Crimes  Olafur Hauksson, Iceland’s special prosecutor, has
investigated 112 cases relating to the banking crisis. The
 Supreme Court  on March 24 sentenced brokers at failed Kaupthing
Bank hf, once Iceland’s biggest lender, to six months in jail
after finding they manipulated bond deals. The Reykjavik
District Court on April 7 sentenced Baldur Gudlaugsson, a former
permanent secretary at the  Finance Ministry , to two years in
jail for  insider trading  with Landsbanki shares. Haukur Thor Haraldsson, a former manager with Landsbanki, was indicted for
illegally transferring money from a subsidiary to his personal
account.  The full investigation of financial crimes that led to
Iceland’s banking collapse will be completed by 2014, Hauksson
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net 
Omar Valdimarsson in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  