-- 
ICM Management Said to Be in Talks for Control of Hollywood Talent Agency

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-14T21:20:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/icm-management-said-in-talks-to-buy-control-of-hollywood-agency.html
Talent agents at International
Creative Management are in talks to acquire control of the
company from major shareholder  Rizvi Traverse Management LLC ,
two people with knowledge of the discussion said.  ICM, which counts  Al Pacino  and Robert Duvall as clients,
may raise money from top executives and other sources to reduce
Rizvi’s stake, said the people, who sought anonymity because the
discussions are confidential. The talks are at an early stage
and an agreement may not be reached, they said.  Management of the 36-year-old agency would use the equity
to reward and retain top agents, one person said. Chairman Jeff Berg, President Chris Silbermann and other agents already hold
some stock, said one of the people. Rizvi wouldn’t entirely exit
its stake, they said.  Michelle Suess, spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based ICM,
declined to comment. Justin Dini, an outside press contact for
Rizvi, couldn’t immediately comment.  Rizvi, a private equity firm, also holds stakes in  Playboy
Enterprises Inc. (PLA)  and Summit Entertainment LLC, maker of the
“Twilight” vampire movies, according to the firm’s website.  The company gained control of ICM in a pair of transactions
in 2005 and 2006 when it invested $75 million and backed a debt-
and-equity transaction with Merrill Lynch & Co. that provided
the agency with $100 million. ICM used some of the money to
acquire the Broder Webb Chervin Silbermann agency.  ICM says on its website the firm’s TV practice helped
assemble ABC’s “Dancing with the Stars,” CBS’s “Two and a
Half Men” and Fox’s “House.” The website Deadline Hollywood
reported the talks earlier today.  The agency’s client roster includes comedian  Jay Leno ,  Jon Hamm  of the TV show “Mad Men” and David Duchovny of
“Californication.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  