-- 
High Floors in Top Midtown Manhattan Office Towers Are More Than 99% Taken

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-04-14T20:08:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/high-floors-in-top-midtown-manhattan-office-towers-are-more-than-99-taken.html
Offices above the 25th floor in the
highest quality midtown Manhattan buildings are more than 99
percent taken as high-end tenants drive the leasing recovery,
according to  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)   Availability for all Midtown offices was 12.3 percent at
the end of the first quarter, down from 14.6 percent a year ago,
executives from the world’s biggest commercial property
brokerage said today at a press briefing. Demand is strongest at
the most upscale towers, while more space remains available at
lower-quality buildings, said John Maher, an executive vice
president at the Los Angeles-based company.  “Performance of properties will be uneven for about the
next number of quarters, and probably for the next couple of
years,” he said. “Not all tenants have to panic, depending on
what segment of the market they’re in, and not all landlords
should just assume the market is going to go through the roof.”  There were 13 leases for $100 a square foot or more in the
first quarter in midtown  Manhattan , the largest and priciest
U.S. office market, compared with 19 for all of last year, CB
Richard Ellis reported. There were 106 such deals in 2007 and
105 in 2008, before the credit crisis caused office demand to
seize up.  Top Towers  Midtown’s top towers have an availability rate of 7.3
percent, with most vacancies being on lower floors, versus 13.4
percent for other office buildings, according to CB Richard
Ellis. Availability -- offices already vacant plus those
expected to be open in the next 12 months -- rose at the
remaining Midtown buildings in the first quarter, while it fell
for top towers.  Midtown’s top office buildings are defined as those CB
Richard Ellis believes have the greatest ability to command
rents of at least $100 a square foot on their higher floors.  Rising demand in Midtown is limiting choices for tenants
seeking large blocks of space, Maher said. Twenty-five companies
are looking for offices of 250,000 square feet (23,000 square
meters) or more, and only nine such spaces are available, he
said. Buildings with that much contiguous space include 3
Columbus Circle near Central Park, with 666,400 square feet
available, according to CB Richard Ellis data.  Eleven Times Square, a joint project of SJP Properties and
a unit of Prudential Financial Inc., has 650,600 square feet
available. The tower at 685 Third Ave., which drugmaker  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  sold to retirement-plan provider TIAA-CREF last year, has a
vacancy of 585,000 square feet, accounting for most of the
building. The Empire State Building has 383,700 square feet
open, according to CB Richard Ellis.  Limited Choices  Choices may be even more limited for tenants seeking large
amounts of office space, said Paul Myers, a CB Richard Ellis
executive vice president.  “Some of these blocks don’t make sense for a 250,000-
square-foot tenant,” he said. Floors may be too small and space
may not be contiguous, Myers said. “There may be only two or
three that make sense for a large tenant.”  Demand for big blocks of space is likely to trigger
construction, stagnant since the beginning of the recession,
according to Maher and Myers.  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  management
said in January that it is in “active dialogue” with potential
anchor tenants for a tower it plans to build at 250 West 55th
St., which has been on hold since 2009.  A lack of space also should drive tenants who historically
wanted locations only in Midtown to instead consider  lower
Manhattan , where 4.4 million square feet of offices are being
built at the  World Trade Center site , Maher and Myers said.  Rents sought by all Midtown office landlords rose to $58.14
a square foot, a 4.9 percent gain. Downtown rents increased 1.3
percent to $39.33 a foot, and the availability rate in Lower
Manhattan was 13.2 percent, compared with 13.5 percent a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  