-- 
IMF’s Shinohara Says Bank of Japan May Need to Ease Further After Quake

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-04-14T04:17:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/imf-s-shinohara-says-boj-may-need-to-ease-more-if-quake-s-damage-prolonged.html
The  Bank of Japan  may need to
provide more monetary stimulus if power shortages, supply chain
disruptions and the nuclear crisis after the quake are prolonged,
the International Monetary Fund’s No. 3 official said.  “The risks to the economic outlook are firmly to the
downside,”  Naoyuki Shinohara , deputy managing director at the
IMF, said in an interview at his office in  Washington  yesterday.
The Bank of  Japan  needs to continue to take flexible action and
more easing “may become necessary depending on the situation,”
he said.  Japan’s economy may shrink 3 percent this quarter in the
wake of the March 11 record temblor, before expanding in the
second half, according to the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey in the past week. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said this week the bank will take appropriate policy
steps as needed, after boosting liquidity injections last month.  Shinohara, 58, said the central bank shouldn’t directly buy
bonds from the government, a measure advocated by some ruling
and opposition party politicians as a way to issue debt to fund
 disaster relief  without increasing bonds in the market.  “The Japanese market has the ability to absorb additional
bonds that may be sold to finance reconstruction efforts,” said
Shinohara, who directed Japan’s currency policy as the vice
finance minister of international affairs from July 2007 to July
2009. “There’s no need for the BOJ to take on the risk” of
hurting its credibility, he said.  BOJ Underwriting  Government bond underwriting by the BOJ is forbidden by law
except with the approval of parliament. Shirakawa has said
taking that step would hurt the market’s trust in the yen, and
cabinet members in Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government have
also said they would be opposed to the measure.  After the disaster in northeastern Japan, the central bank
doubled to 10 trillion yen ($120 billion) a fund to provide cash
to markets by buying assets such as corporate debt and exchange-
traded funds. Last week, it also unveiled a 1 trillion yen, one-
year loan program to banks aimed at getting funds to companies
hit by the quake and tsunami.  Shinohara said bond yields could rise if the Japanese
government fails to offer a solid plan to reduce its debt in the
medium-term. Benchmark 10-year Japanese government bond yields
around 1.3 percent help finance a public debt burden about twice
the size of the economy.  Bond Yields  “For the time being, the Japanese market could absorb
bonds that may be sold to finance reconstruction efforts,”
Shinohara said. “But, the important thing is to map out a
medium-term fiscal consolidation program once the total cost for
reconstruction becomes clearer. If not, it’s obvious that it may
affect bond yields eventually.”  The IMF cut on April 11 the 2011 growth forecast for Japan
to 1.4 percent from 1.6 percent. The projection for next year
was raised to 2.1 percent from 1.8 percent.  “There’s very high amount of uncertainty surrounding
Japan’s economy” in the aftermath of the quake, said Shinohara.  Last month’s magnitude-9 earthquake left more than 28,000
dead or missing, according to Japan’s  National Police Agency .
The government last month estimated the damage by the disaster
may swell to as much as 25 trillion yen.  The quake and ensuing tsunami crippled the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co., causing
radiation leaks and power shortages in eastern Japan. Government
officials this week raised the severity level of the accident to
the same level as the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  Kan plans to unveil what he says may be the first of
multiple supplementary budgets this month. Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters on April 7 that the first
budget may be 4 trillion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  