-- 
Independent Windsor Yet to Back Gillard’s Australia Carbon Emissions Plan

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-04-14T00:52:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/independent-windsor-yet-to-back-gillard-s-australia-carbon-emissions-plan.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard ’s plan to tax  carbon emissions  may be in doubt after a
key independent lawmaker  Tony Windsor  said he wouldn’t guarantee
its passage in Parliament.  Gillard needs the support of Windsor and three non-party
lawmakers to pass legislation through the  House of
Representatives , the lower house. Windsor said today he may not
support the plan that will fix a price for carbon over a three-
year to five-year period starting in July 2012.  “The prime minister doesn’t have the numbers,” Windsor
said in an interview with Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio.
“You can never guarantee something before it gets through a
minority parliament.”  Gillard, who formed a minority government after the August
2010 election delivered the closest result in 70 years, will
release details of her plan in the middle of this year. That
will include the level of the fixed price, compensation to
households and businesses and funding for clean energy projects.  The government is settling on a price of A$20 ($21) a
metric ton, meaning electricity costs may rise about 10 percent,
or A$2.70 a week, and gas prices increase 8 percent, or A$1.40 a
week, the West Australian newspaper reported today, without
saying whether it obtained the information.  Households will share a A$5.5 billion compensation package
for the higher cost of living, the newspaper said. Permits under
the European Union’s carbon trading system for December 2011
delivery closed at 16.64 euros ($24) a ton yesterday.  Consultation Process  “We are in an intensive consultative process to get the
design of carbon pricing right,” Gillard told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “More than 50 percent of its
revenue will go to assisting households, but we are continuing
to consult on the details.”  Gillard’s Labor government wants to reduce greenhouse
emissions at least 5 percent in 2020 in  Australia , the world’s
biggest coal exporter. It has also set a target of generating 20
percent of the nation’s energy from renewable sources like wind
and solar by 2020.  The government, whose two-party preferred support fell to
an eight-year low of 45 percent in a Newspoll survey published
in the Australian newspaper on April 5, also needs backing from
the Greens party, which will control the upper house Senate from
July.  The Greens and independents Windsor and Rob Oakeshott are
part of a multiparty climate change committee that is helping
formulate the carbon strategy.  The opposition Liberal-National coalition doesn’t back the
climate plan, with leader  Tony Abbott  calling the levy a
“wallet cleaner.”  Treasury estimates a A$30 per ton carbon price would cost
households an extra A$863 per year, the opposition said, citing
documents released under a freedom-of information request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  