-- 
Intermune Ex-CEO Harkonen Sentenced to Home Confinement in Fraud Case

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-14T23:29:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/intermune-ex-ceo-harkonen-given-home-confinement-over-2002-press-release.html
W. Scott Harkonen,  Intermune Inc. (ITMN) ’s
former chief executive officer, was sentenced to six months of
home confinement and fined $20,000 for his role in disseminating
misleading information about the drug Actimmune for the
treatment of lung disease, the  Justice Department  said today.  Harkonen was convicted by a federal jury of  wire fraud  in
September 2009 after a three-week trial. A physician, the ex-
Intermune CEO was accused of crafting a deceptive press release
in 2002 to boost sales of Actimmune, prosecutors said. U.S.
District Judge Marilyn Patel also sentenced Harkonen to three
years’ probation at a hearing yesterday.  The government had sought a 10-year prison sentence, said
Mark Haddad, Harkonen’s attorney. Patel “found that the
government had no evidence whatsoever that the press release had
caused any loss or any harm to anyone,” he said in a telephone
interview. Harkonen plans to appeal his conviction, Haddad said.  Intermune marketed Actimmune as a safe, effective treatment
for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, or IPF, a fatal  lung disease ,
though the drug wasn’t approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, prosecutors said. The press release, which said
the drug reduced deaths by 70 percent in patients with mild to
moderate IPF, was false and misleading, they alleged.  Intermune, which made Actimmune to treat rare bone and
immune disorders, agreed in 2006 to pay $36.9 million to settle
U.S. claims it illegally marketed the drug for unapproved uses
and caused false claims for reimbursement from government health
programs. While doctors are free to prescribe any drug to treat
illnesses regardless of FDA approvals, drugmakers are prohibited
from promoting medicines for unapproved uses.  ‘Patient Health’  “Executives like Dr. Harkonen, who -- without regard for
patient health or safety -- engage in criminal conduct on behalf
of their companies, will not be permitted to carry out this
conduct with impunity,” Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney
General for the office of consumer protection litigation Maame
Ewusi-Mensah Frimpong said in a statement on the agency’s web
site.  Harkonen, who resigned from Intermune in 2003, had denied
wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Harkonen, 08-164, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  