-- 
Irish Central Bank Says Debt Concerns Could Pose Growth Threat

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-04-14T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/irish-central-bank-says-debt-concerns-could-pose-growth-threat.html
Ireland’s central bank said
investor concerns that euro-region governments may struggle to
lower their budget deficits and restore fiscal health could pose
a threat to economic growth.  “Some financial-market tensions have eased, with interbank
lending and money-market rates showing signs of normalization,”
the Dublin-based central bank led by  Patrick Honohan  said in its
quarterly report published today. “Concentrated sovereign-debt
concerns remain, however, and pose a lingering risk to growth
were they to intensify and become more widespread.”  European leaders are battling to restore investor
confidence after Portugal last week became the third euro-area
state after Greece and Ireland to seek external aid. While the
 European Central Bank  on April 7 raised its benchmark interest
rate to fight inflation, it maintained its emergency program of
providing lenders with unlimited liquidity.  With governments from Ireland to  Spain  cutting spending to
lower budget gaps, the 17-nation euro-region economy has relied
on  Germany  to drive growth. The  International Monetary Fund  said
on April 11 it expects German gross domestic product to increase
2.5 percent this year, with the euro region seen expanding 1.6
percent. Irish GDP may rise 0.5 percent, it said.  “Ongoing weakness in the debt-laden peripheral countries
contrasts with a steady underlying expansion in core euro-area
economies,” the Irish central bank said. Risks to the euro-area
growth outlook “appear broadly balanced but uncertainty remains
at a high level.”  The central bank also said that euro-region growth “should
gradually rebalance toward domestic demand over the course of
this year,” while exports will maintain momentum and continue
to drive the region’s expansion. It also echoed remarks by ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , saying that there are “upside
risks” to the inflation outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  