-- 
Iron Mountain CEO Brennan Steps Down, Will Be Replaced by Chairman Reese

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-04-14T20:41:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/iron-mountain-ceo-brennan-steps-down-will-be-replaced-by-chairman-reese.html
Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM) , the document-
storage company under pressure from investors to make strategic
changes, said Chief Executive Officer and President Bob Brennan
stepped down.  Chairman Richard Reese will also take on the CEO role, the
company said today in a statement. Reese had served as Iron
Mountain’s CEO from 1981 to 2008 and has been chairman since
1995. Brennan, who had been CEO since 2008, also left the board.  “As we move forward with the execution of our business
plan, Bob and the board agreed that the time is right to make
this transition,” Kent Dauten, the Boston-based company’s lead
director, said in the statement. “We are confident that
Richard’s deep operational expertise and knowledge of our
business will be instrumental to our success.”  New York  hedge fund Elliott Management Corp. last month
called for a review of Iron Mountain’s strategy, saying the
company’s effort to expand its international and digital
businesses hasn’t generated enough returns. Iron Mountain
provides business storage and maintains documents including
records, electronic files, medical data and e-mail.  “Today’s action suggests to us further strategic changes
are likely to be announced over the near term,” wrote Evan Mann, an analyst at New York-based debt research firm Gimme
Credit LLC, in a note to investors.  Iron Mountain rose $1.65, or 5 percent, to $34.61 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading. The shares have
gained 32 percent since March 9, the day before Elliott called
for a review.  REIT Conversion  Less than two weeks after the request from Elliott, which
nominated four candidates for the board last month, Iron
Mountain on March 23 adopted a so-called poison pill provision
making it more difficult for investors to take control of the
company. On April 4, Elliott released a letter to the board
demanding directors “change course.”  The firm asked for a review of the storage company’s
strategy, operations and capital and also wants Iron Mountain to
consider converting into a real-estate investment trust, which
must pass on at least 90 percent of its annual taxable profit to
shareholders through dividends.  The hedge fund, which owns less than 5 percent of Iron
Mountain, says the changes it is suggesting would cause the
stock to more than double to $77, helped by business
improvements and tax savings.  “We’re supportive of the management change they made,”
said Ken Charles Feinberg, co-portfolio manager at Davis
Selected Advisers LP in New York, which has a 21 percent stake
in Iron Mountain. “That’s quite a response from a company.”  Brennan came to the company with a digital-technology
background and “an agenda to grow that business,” Feinberg
said in an interview. “If the returns are poor when you grow a
business, it’s the wrong thing to do for shareholders.”  Feinberg said earlier this month that his firm would be
“likely” to support Elliott’s nominees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  