-- 
Isovoltaic Cancels $548 Million Solar IPO, Blames Europe Market Conditions

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-04-14T17:09:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/isovoltaic-cancels-548-million-solar-initial-offer-blaming-european-marke.html
Isovoltaic AG, the world’s biggest
maker of backsheets for solar modules, canceled its 378 million-
euro ($548 million) initial public offering in Vienna, blaming
“recent developments in the European IPO market.”  The managers halted the deal on behalf of the company and
Austrian industrialist Stanislaus Turnauer, who was set to sell
45 percent of his stake, Lebring, Austria-based Isovoltaic said in
a statement today.  The manufacturer of protective backing for solar panels
joined U.K. vacuum-pumps maker Edwards Group Plc, Indian
billionaire Gautam Thapar’s BILT Paper Plc and Internet-payment
provider Skrill Group Plc that deferred London IPOs this month,
citing a lack of investor demand. That’s the biggest monthly
number since November 2007, when three IPOs were pulled in the
financial center, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Isovoltaic had tried to sell equity as solar stocks rallied
after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  knocked out
cooling systems at a Tokyo Electric Power Co. reactor.  China ,  India ,  Germany  and Britain said they’d review the
events before moving forward with new atomic power stations,
stirring speculation that they may provide more incentives for
solar, wind and geothermal energy.  Turnauer’s sale would have been the biggest European IPO
for a solar-power company since June 2008.  The joint global coordinators and bookrunners on the deal
were  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Isovoltaic’s book was to close today and shares had been
intended to start trading in Vienna tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  