-- 
Isovoltaic Cancels IPO as Debt Woes Trump Solar Share Rally

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-04-15T11:12:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/isovoltaic-cancels-548-million-ipo-as-debt-woes-trump-solar-japan-rally.html
Isovoltaic AG, the biggest maker of
solar-module backsheets, canceled its 378 million-euro ($548
million) share sale as Europe’s debt woes sap investor demand
for clean energy that had swelled during  Japan ’s nuclear crisis.  Isovoltaic blamed “recent developments in the European IPO
market” for halting the deal in Vienna, in a statement
yesterday. The sale of a 45 percent stake owned by Austrian
industrialist Stanislaus Turnauer would have been the biggest
European IPO for a solar-power company since June 2008.  The Lebring, Austria-based manufacturer of protective
backing for solar panels joined U.K. vacuum-pumps maker Edwards
Group Plc, Indian billionaire Gautam Thapar’s BILT Paper Plc,
Internet-payment provider Skrill Group Plc and  Russia ’s biggest
mobile-phone retailer Euroset Holding NV that deferred London
IPOs this month citing a lack of investor demand, as concern
about corporate debt eroded interest in new issues.  The three IPOs yanked in  Europe ’s financial center gave
April the biggest monthly total since December 2006, when eight
were pulled, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Isovoltaic had tried to sell equity as solar stocks rallied
after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan knocked out
cooling systems at a Tokyo Electric Power Co. reactor. The 37-
member Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index rose 13 percent from
the day of the quake through the end of the month, as the Euro
Stoxx 50 index was little changed in the period.  China ,  India ,  Germany  and Britain said they’d review the
events before moving forward with new atomic power stations,
stirring speculation that they may provide more incentives for
solar, wind and geothermal energy.  Scan Energy, T-Solar  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  were joint global coordinators
and bookrunners for the sale. Isovoltaic’s book was to close
yesterday and shares had been intended to start trading in
Vienna today.  Three European solar IPOS were shelved in the last 17
months. Denmark’s Scan Energy A/S postponed its 158 million-euro
sale in Frankfurt in December 2009 and  Spain ’s Grupo T-Solar
Global SA and Renovalia Energy SA in April and May dropped IPOs
to raise an estimated 280 million euros and 153 million euros,
respectively.  Largest Since SMA  Isovoltaic would have been the largest since Germany’s SMA
Solar Technology AG, also a maker of solar-power components,
raised 362 million euros in June 2008.  Five smaller companies have held IPOs in Europe since
SMA’s, raising a total of about $120 million from initial
offerings in  Frankfurt , Istanbul, Paris, Zurich and Milan. That
compares with 16 solar IPOs in  Asia  and two in the U.S. in the
same time period, according to Bloomberg data.  Isovoltaic makes backsheets, which protect the backside of
photovoltaic cells of a solar module from damage by weather,
ultraviolet light, humidity, chemical substances and mechanical
damages, according to the company. Backsheets also insulate the
environment from the electrical voltage generated. Isovoltaic
estimates that backsheets make up about 4 percent to 7 percent
of the cost of a solar panel, or module.  “It’s a small component of the total panel cost, but
extremely important, and switching suppliers often invalidates a
module maker’s certifications,” said Jenny Chase, head of solar
research at New Energy Finance.  The company supplies six of the 10 biggest solar-module
makers including Suntech Power Holdings Co.,  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) 
and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and has held talks with three of the other
four, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Rossegger said on April 4.  Isovoltaic had revenue of 120.7 million euros last year, 68
percent of which was generated in Asia, according to regulatory
filings. The company had net income of 24.8 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  