-- 
Israel’s Fischer Says U.S. Deficits Cause for Concern

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-04-14T19:46:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/israel-s-fischer-says-u-s-deficits-cause-for-concern-1-.html
A slow-growing  U.S. economy  weighed
down by deficits would alter the global financial landscape,
Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  said.  “We worry about the question about whether the U.S. is
going to get its house in order,” Fischer said at a conference
today in Washington. “You cannot continue to run deficits on
the scale we’ve seen in the last couple of years.”  Without the U.S. economy growing at 3 percent to 3.5
percent annually, “the world economy is a very different
place,” Fischer said. “It’s very nice to talk about the rise
of  China , but the financial markets there are totally different.
In this regard the U.S. is the essential nation and so you
worry.”  Fischer was in  Washington  for the semi-annual meetings of
the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank . Central
bankers and finance ministers from the Group of 20 nations, also
meeting in Washington, will discuss the lopsided flows of trade
and investment that played a role in the global financial
crisis.  Israel recovered from the recession faster than many
developed economies, with growth accelerating to 7.7 percent in
the last quarter of 2010 and exports rising 10.4 percent.
Fischer raised the benchmark interest rate by a half point at
the end of March, the biggest increase in five years, after
inflation accelerated past the government’s 3 percent ceiling
for a second month.  Currency Purchases  The Bank of Israel has been buying foreign currency since
March 2008 in an effort to moderate shekel gains and help
exporters compete. During this period, reserves have more than
doubled, rising to a record $74.5 billion at the end of March.  Asked about the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe , Fischer
said “the euro itself looks very likely to survive” and “very
few countries are thinking that they’ll leave” the European
Union, he said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  proposed cutting $4 trillion in
cumulative deficits within 12 years through a combination of
spending cuts and tax increases, setting the stage for a fight
with congressional Republicans over the nation’s priorities.
Obama called for ending the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans, which are set to expire in 2012.  Over the next five years, the administration forecasts the
government will amass deficits totaling $3.8 trillion; over the
decade, the cumulative deficits would rise to $7.2 trillion.
Obama is going beyond the fiscal 2012 budget he presented on
Feb. 14, which forecast cutting the deficit by $1.1 trillion
over a decade.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was at
3.49 percent as of 3:42 p.m. today in  New York , below the
average of 7 percent since 1980 and compared with the average of
5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski at in Washington or
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  