-- 
Japan’s Bonds Complete Weekly Gain as Yen, China Concerns Weigh on Stocks

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-04-15T06:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/japan-bonds-may-follow-treasuries-lower-as-inflation-signs-cut-debt-demand.html
Japan ’s bonds completed the first
weekly advance in a month as the yen’s gain and losses in stocks
boosted demand for the safety of government debt.  Bond futures gained for a third day as data showed  China ’s
consumer prices rose more than expected, stoking concern  Asia ’s
largest economy will take more measures to tame growth. Ten-year
yields were near the lowest in a week after Economy Minister
 Kaoru Yosano  said raising taxes is an option for funding
reconstruction from last month’s record earthquake.  “The yen’s weakening trend against the dollar is
reversing, and domestic stocks are falling, supporting bonds,”
said Makoto Noji, a senior debt and foreign-exchange strategist
in  Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due in March 2021 was
unchanged at 1.28 percent at 3:15 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
price was 100.175 yen.  The yield earlier touched 1.27 percent, the lowest since
April 5, and has declined four basis points this week. Futures
on 10-year bonds for June delivery gained 0.02 to 139.10 at the
Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The yen rose to as high as 83.16 per dollar today from
83.50 yesterday, when it touched 82.96, the strongest since
March 31, while the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.7 percent. A
stronger yen reduces the value of overseas income at Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  China’s Growth  China’s economy  grew 9.7 percent in the first quarter while
consumer prices increased 5.4 percent in March from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau in Beijing said today. The median
forecasts in Bloomberg surveys of economists were for economic
growth of 9.4 percent and inflation of 5.2 percent.  Demand for debt was tempered on speculation more bonds will
need to be sold to pay for reconstruction after last month’s
disaster that the government estimates may have caused 25
trillion yen ($300 billion) in damages.  “Movement in bonds has been limited due to the short-term
negative outlook for the economy and bond issuance concern,”
said Akio Kato, team leader for Japanese debt in Tokyo at
Kokusai Asset Management Co., which runs the $32 billion Global
Sovereign Open fund.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has said the government will put
together more than one extra budget for rebuilding, starting
with a proposed 4 trillion yen initial package.  “We have to issue bonds at the beginning as we can’t
increase taxes immediately and, even if we could, we can’t
collect money right away,” Vice Finance Minister Mitsuru Sakurai told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. Japan should consider
a new tax to help pay for the recovery, said Makoto Iokibe, the
chief of a government advisory panel on disaster reconstruction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 