-- 
Japan's Economy to Expand Next Quarter in Quake Recovery, Shirakawa Says

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-04-14T19:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/japan-s-economy-to-expand-next-quarter-in-quake-recovery-shirakawa-says.html
Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the economy will expand next quarter as it
recovers from the nation’s worst earthquake.  “Most private economists believe that Japan’s GDP growth
rate will turn positive again in the third quarter of 2011
onward,” Shirakawa said today in a speech at the  Council on
Foreign Relations  in  New York . “The most important thing for a
central bank during a crisis is to ensure the stability of
settlement systems and financial markets.”  The magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11 left
more than 28,000 dead or missing, according to Japan’s  National
Police Agency . The estimated damage from the tsunami and
earthquake will amount to 3 percent to 5 percent of nominal
gross domestic product, or 16 trillion yen ($192 billion) to 25
trillion yen, Shirakawa said, affirming government estimates
made last month.  Japan’s economy may shrink 3 percent in the current quarter
after the temblor, before expanding in the second half,
according to the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey collected in the past week.  Group of Seven finance ministers and central bankers meet
in Washington tonight for the first time since uniting to sell
yen on March 18, after avoiding such action for more than a
decade. The G-7 agreed four weeks ago to counter a soaring yen
after its rise to the highest level against the dollar since
World War II threatened Japan’s ability to recover from the
country’s record earthquake.  Currency Markets  Increased  risk aversion , a mass unwinding of leveraged
investments known as carry trades and the breaching of pre-set
technical levels in the foreign exchange market caused the
“abrupt appreciation” of the Japanese currency, Shirakawa, 61,
said. Speculation that Japanese investors were repatriating
funds was “unfounded,” he said.  Following the earthquake, the central bank injected a
record amount of emergency cash into the banking system and
doubled its program of buying assets from  government bonds  to
exchange-traded funds to 10 trillion yen on March 14.  The  Bank of Japan  increased its purchases of “riskier
assets” including corporate bonds to prevent a “deterioration
of business sentiment or excessive increase in risk aversion,”
said Shirakawa, who has served as governor of the central bank
since 2008.  Growth Estimates  On April 7 it unveiled a 1 trillion yen, one-year loan
program to banks aimed at getting funds to companies hit by the
quake and tsunami. It also held the benchmark overnight rate at
a range of zero to 0.1 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  on April 11 cut the 2011
growth forecast for Japan to 1.4 percent from 1.6 percent. The
forecast for next year was raised to 2.1 percent from 1.8
percent.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said on April 5 that Japan’s GDP growth may be reduced by as
much as 0.6 percentage point in the first quarter and up to 1.4
percentage points in the second in the aftermath of the quake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  