-- 
Japanese Stocks Rise for Second Day; Chemical Makers Jump on Production

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-04-14T07:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/japanese-stocks-rise-for-second-day-chemical-makers-advance.html
Japanese stocks rose for a second
day as chemical makers advanced following a report Shin-Etsu
Chemical Co. will resume operation at its factory after last
month’s record earthquake and tsunami.  Shin-Etsu, a maker of synthetic resins, gained 2 percent
after the Jiji News said the company will start production of
silicon wafers at its Fukushima factory by the end of this month.
 Toshiba Corp. (6502) ,  Japan ’s biggest maker of nuclear reactors,
climbed 2 percent as company President Norio Sasaki said it may
beat its profit forecast.  Isuzu Motors Ltd. (7202) , Japan’s largest
maker of light-duty trucks, surged 6.2 percent, even after it
denied a report that Volkswagen AG is considering taking a stake
in the company.  “A sense of ease spread as companies’ effort will likely
help them restart production earlier than people thought,” said
Yasuhiko Hirakawa, a  fund manager  at Tokyo-based DIAM, which
manages the equivalent of $55 billion. “As more companies are
restarting production, people started to be able to make a
level-headed judgment on earnings recovery. Bottom of corporate
earnings will likely be in this quarter or the next quarter.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  rose 0.1 percent to 9,653.92 at the 3 p.m.
close in  Tokyo . The broader Topix index gained 0.3 percent to
846.72, with more than three times as many stocks advancing as
falling. The Topix has lost 9 percent from March 10, the day
before the earthquake and tsunami that devastated Japan’s
northeast coast and crippled a Tokyo Electric Power Co. plant in
Fukushima.  Restarting Production  Shin-Etsu Chemical increased 2 percent to 4,275 yen and was
the biggest contributor to the Nikkei’s gain. The company plans
to resume production of silicon wafers by the end of this month
at a factory damaged by the March 11 earthquake, according to
the Jiji News.  Chemical makers  Tosoh Corp. (4042)  and  Nitto Denko Corp. (6988)  also
advanced. Tosoh jumped 4.7 percent to 289 yen, while Nitto Denko
climbed 3.7 percent to 4,305 yen. The industry group that
includes the chemical makers was the second-biggest contributor
to the Topix’s advance.  Daihatsu Motor Co. extended yesterday’s advance, rising 2.4
percent to 1,152 yen after the automaker said before the market
closed yesterday that it will restart its Osaka and Kyoto plants
on April 18, resuming production at all its factories.  Toshiba increased 2 percent to 404 yen. Net income for the
year ended March 31 may exceed Toshiba’s January estimate,
President Sasaki told reporters today in Tokyo, declining to
elaborate. Sasaki also said last month’s earthquake and tsunami,
which forced manufacturers including Toshiba to shutter
factories due to shortages of parts and electricity, will have a
limited impact on earnings for the fiscal year just ended.  Isuzu Motors surged 6.2 percent to 310 yen, the second-
biggest gain in the Nikkei, even after Volkswagen AG said it
won’t decide soon on whether to take a stake in Japan’s largest
maker of light trucks, responding to  Germany ’s Manager Magazin
that reported Volkswagen’s possible purchase of Isuzu shares.
Isuza denied the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 