-- 
Japan's Noda Says He Will Call for Continued Currency Cooperation at G-7

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-04-14T22:49:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/japan-s-noda-says-he-will-call-for-continued-currency-cooperation-at-g-7.html
Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he will call for continued cooperation on currencies
at a meeting of Group of Seven officials today in  Washington .  “We are going to call for cooperation when necessary,
while closely monitoring the  currency market ,” Noda said at a
press conference.  The yen was at 83.49 to the dollar at 5:27 p.m. in  New York 
from 83.84 yen late yesterday.  The Group of Seven nations last month jointly intervened in
foreign-exchange markets for the first time in more than a
decade to stem the rise of the yen after the earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan . The combined yen sales were an attempt to
limit the damage a strong Japanese currency would have on the
nation’s economy in the aftermath of the magnitude-9 earthquake,
the worst on record.  G-7 members hadn’t entered the market together since
September 2000, when they sought to buoy the euro as it tumbled
in its second year of existence.  Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty today said the joint
action last month had a “positive effect.”  Noda also said while the disaster poses risks, the Japanese
economy and financial markets remain resilient. He also said
Japan will seek fiscal consolidation in the medium- to long-
term.  Quake Damage  The catastrophe killed more than 13,000 people, knocked out
factories and triggered a nuclear crisis. The government last
month estimated the damage by the disaster may swell to as much
as 25 trillion yen ($300 billion).  Separately,  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said
the economy will expand in the third quarter as it recovers from
the disaster.  The central bank’s most important function is to maintain
stability in aftermath of the crisis, and it will continue to
take whatever measures are needed, Shirakawa said today in a
speech at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York.  To contact the report on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  