-- 
Japanese Nuclear Workers’ Blood Should Be Saved to Help in Exposure Cure

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-04-14T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/japanese-nuclear-workers-blood-should-be-saved-to-aid-in-exposure-cure.html
Stem cells should be collected from
the blood of workers at the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant in case of accidental exposure to radiation, five Japanese
scientists wrote in the medical journal  The Lancet .  Rapidly dividing cells such as intestinal tract and those
essential for fertility are the most vulnerable to radiation,
said the researchers, including Tetsuya Tanimoto of the  Japanese
Foundation for Cancer Research  and Shuichi Taniguchi of  Tokyo ’s
Toranomon Hospital, in a letter published today by the journal.
Damage to bone marrow can be remedied with cell transplants,
they said.  Storing the workers’ blood would make transplants easier
because the body will recognize and accept its own cells. That
eliminates the needs for drugs that suppress the immune system,
which might make a patient vulnerable to infections, the
scientists said.  “Such an approach would be the industry’s best defense”
in the event of a major accident, Tanimoto and colleagues said.
“The most important mission is to save the nuclear workers’
lives and to protect local communities.”  About 107 transplant teams are standing by to handle the
cells, the scientists wrote, citing a  March 29 statement  from
the Japanese Society for Haematopoietic Cell Transplantation.
More than 50 hospitals in  Europe  have agreed to assist if
needed, Tanimoto and colleagues wrote.  The approach can only help those with damaged bone marrow,
and wouldn’t help radiation victims with injured
gastrointestinal tracts or lungs, the scientists said.  Crippled Reactors  Tokyo Electric Power Co. estimates the fight to stabilize
its crippled Fukushima reactors will last through June, leaving
them vulnerable to more aftershocks and radiation leaks, a
person briefed on the utility’s plan said. The person asked not
to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak to the
media.  Workers can’t start the process of decommissioning the
plant’s four crippled reactors until temperatures and pressure
have been brought down. Cleaning up the disaster, which has
forced the evacuation of hundreds of thousands of people living
within 20 kilometers (12 miles) of the plant, could take decades
and cost more than 1 trillion yen ($12 billion).  “The danger of a future accidental  radiation exposure  is
not passed,” the Japanese researchers wrote in The Lancet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  