-- 
Jefferies Pays $2 Million to Resolve Finra Auction-Rate Disclosure Claims

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-04-14T16:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/jefferies-pays-2-million-to-resolve-finra-auction-rate-disclosure-claims.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  agreed to pay
about $2 million to resolve Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority claims that three employees failed to disclose
conflicts of interest while selling auction-rate securities.  Brokers for New York-based Jefferies bought and sold ARS
for eight customers from August 2007 through March 2008 without
telling them about additional compensation they would earn,
Finra said today in a statement. The brokers also didn’t tell
the clients they could have purchased comparable or similar
securities with higher yields, the brokerage regulator said.  “In exercising discretion over customers’ accounts,
Jefferies was obligated to ensure that its customers were aware
of material facts about the transactions,” Finra enforcement
chief Brad Bennett said in the statement.  Jefferies will pay a $1.5 million fine and return $425,000
in fees and commissions that weren’t disclosed to customers,
Finra said. Two former Jefferies brokers were also sanctioned.
Anthony Russo agreed to a $20,000 fine and five-day suspension,
and Robert D’Addario got a 10-day suspension and a $25,000 fine.  Finra also filed a complaint against a third Jefferies
broker, Richard Morrison, for his role in the matter, according
to the statement.  “We are pleased to have reached an agreement with Finra
and to have this matter behind us,” Jefferies spokesman  Tom Tarrant  said in a statement.  Russo and D’Addario, who no longer work at Jefferies,
didn’t admit or deny the allegations in settling the claims,
Finra said. David Spears, an attorney for Russo, and Richard
Weinberg, D’Addario’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return phone
calls today. Morrison declined to comment.  Voluntary Buyback  In December 2008, Jefferies spent about $68 million in a
partial voluntary buyback of ARS held in retail accounts. The
company agreed to repurchase additional securities held in
retail accounts as part of today’s settlement, Finra said.  Jefferies began repaying customers in July 2008 for
commissions it received on ARS that froze, remitting about
$868,000 as of October 2010.  Federal and state regulators have sanctioned several banks
for selling auction-rate securities as safe, cash-like
investments. Banks managing auctions abandoned the $330 billion
market in February 2008, stranding thousands of investors who
could no longer unload the securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  