-- 
U.S. Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Jump, Reflecting Quarter-End Volatility

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-14T12:52:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/jobless-claims-in-u-s-jumped-reflecting-quarter-end-volatility.html
More Americans unexpectedly filed
first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  last week,
reflecting greater-than-normal volatility at the end of the
quarter.  Applications for jobless benefits rose 27,000 in the week
ended April 9 to 412,000, the most in two months, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. Economists
projected claims would be little changed at 380,000, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The increase
in claims traditionally seen at the end of a quarter was larger
than usual this year, a Labor Department spokesman said as the
figures were released to the press.  The labor market is showing signs of strengthening as
payrolls increase, which may help sustain gains in  consumer
spending . Unemployment that has fallen four consecutive months
supports the view of Federal Reserve policy makers that the job
market is showing signs of healing.  “Hiring will accelerate over the next few months,” said
 Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “This is a temporary blip and the labor
market will continue to heal.”  The number of people continuing to collect jobless benefits
declined by 58,000 in the week ended April 2 to 3.68 million,
the fewest since September 2008. The continuing claims figure
does not include the number of workers receiving extended
benefits under federal programs.  Quarter-End Volatility  States often see a jump in claims between quarters as they
review the number of workers receiving extended benefits, the
Labor Department spokesman said. Anyone receiving such benefits
who has also received some pay during the period are asked to
file an initial claim, the spokesman said.  Another Labor Department report today showed the producer-
 price index  climbed 0.7 percent from the prior month, less than
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The so-
called core measure, which excludes volatile food and energy
costs, increased 0.3 percent, more than projected.  Stock-index futures extended earlier declines on the
unexpected increase in jobless claims. The contract on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June fell 0.6 percent to
1,300.8 at 8:49 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  rose,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 3.43
percent from 3.46 percent late yesterday.  Estimates for first-time claims ranged from 370,000 to
395,000 in the Bloomberg survey of 49 economists. The Labor
Department initially reported the prior week’s applications at
382,000.  The four-week moving average, a less volatile measure, rose
to 395,750 from 390,250.  Benefit Rolls  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments increased by about
40,100 to 4.31 million in the week ended March 26.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the national jobless rate, fell to 2.9
percent in the week ended April 2 from 3 percent the prior week.  Thirty-two states and territories reported an increase in
claims, while 21 had a decrease.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  The unemployment rate in the U.S. unexpectedly fell to a
two-year low of 8.8 percent in March as employers created more
jobs than forecast, the Labor Department said April 1. Payrolls
rose by 216,000 after a 194,000 gain in February.  As employment picks up, consumers have the resources to
increase spending, encouraging companies to hire more workers.  Employment ‘Improving’  “The job market in the U.S. is improving,” Jenny Lin,
senior U.S. economist for  Ford Motor Co. (F) , said on an April 1
conference call. “Consumer conditions are improving. Given the
improving economic fundamentals, we feel comfortable at this
time for the full-year industry sales, including medium and
heavy trucks, to be in the range of 13 million to 13.5 million-
unit range in 2011.”  The Fed yesterday said that the economy expanded at a
“moderate” pace across much of the U.S. in February and March,
led by manufacturing, with labor markets showing improvements in
most regions.  “Most districts reported that labor market conditions were
generally stronger than in their last reports,” the Fed said in
its Beige Book report in Washington. “Wage pressures were
reported to be mostly contained.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  