-- 
JPMorgan Pushes Microchip Cards to Rich Clients in Race With Wells Fargo

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-04-14T21:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/jpmorgan-pushes-chip-cards-to-wealthy-in-race-with-wells-fargo.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, said it plans to win the race
against rival  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  to bring microchip-embedded
credit cards to the wealthiest consumers.  “Absolutely, we would beat Wells Fargo to market,” David
Porter, general manager for Chase Card Services, said in an
interview yesterday, after Wells Fargo announced its plan to
distribute chip cards later this year.  Both banks are courting U.S. clients who have encountered
problems using their cards while traveling abroad. The EMV-chip
technology, which is more secure than the magnetic-stripe that
stores account data on U.S.-issued cards, has become a standard
in  Europe  and much of the rest of the world. The chip cards may
boost transaction revenue and help JPMorgan lure affluent
customers from rivals such as  American Express Co. (AXP) , Porter said.  “Clearly there are customers at American Express that we
would hope could benefit from this technology,” Porter said.
“And we obviously pick up more transactions” as some kiosks
and vendors won’t take Chase cards with only a magnetic stripe,
Porter said.  Almost 10 million U.S. consumers experienced credit-card
acceptance problems abroad in 2008, costing about $4 billion in
lost transactions for merchants and $447 million in revenue for
card issuers, according to a 2009 study by Aite Group, a Boston-
based research firm.  ‘We Welcome Competition’  Wells Fargo said yesterday it planned to be the first major
U.S. bank to deploy  Visa Inc. (V)  credit cards with EMV-chip
technology. The San Francisco-based lender plans to invite
15,000 customers to use the cards, beginning in the middle of
this year. The pilot program will include frequent travelers
such as private-banking clients and college students, the
company said.  “We welcome competition and believe it’s good for the
marketplace,” Lisa Westermann, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mail. “Our first priority is helping our
customers succeed.”  Joanna Lambert, a spokeswoman for New York-based American
Express, didn’t comment.  JPMorgan will first offer the card exclusively to affluent
customers. Clients with a JPMorgan Palladium credit card, which
has a $595 annual fee, will receive a chip card by June, the
company said.  “Initially, we are targeting the technology to our
highest-spend clients,” Porter said. “Months after that we
will issue the card to Chase-branded products.”  ‘Makes Sense’  Issuing chip cards to affluent travelers “makes sense” as
new U.S. regulations, including pending caps on debit-card
transaction fees, threaten to crimp bank revenue, according to
John T. Williams, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Every transaction is vital,” Williams wrote today in a
note to clients. “Losing a cross-border sale at the point of
sale because a card format is incompatible is just not
acceptable.”  The U.S. is among the last developed nations whose payment
systems rely primarily on cards with magnetic stripes and
haven’t yet adopted EMV. Standards for the technology are
managed by EMVCo, which was formed in 1999 by Europay
International,  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , based in Purchase,  New York , and
San Francisco-based Visa. AmEx, the biggest U.S. credit-card
issuer by purchases, is also an EMVCo member.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  