-- 
Kenneth Marsh Pleads Guilty to Securities Fraud in Gryphon Stock-Tip Case

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-04-14T17:43:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/kenneth-marsh-will-plead-guilty-in-fraud-case-lawyer-tells-u-s-judge.html
Kenneth Marsh, who ran Gryphon
Holdings Inc., pleaded guilty to charges that he misled
investors into paying fees for phony stock tips and investment
advice.  Marsh, 44, pleaded guilty today to one count of  securities
fraud  before U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein in  Brooklyn ,  New
York . Marsh faces a prison sentence of as long as 14 years under
federal sentencing guidelines, said Assistant U.S. Attorney
Roger Burlingame.  Agreeing with a statement read by Weinstein, Marsh admitted
that he “put false statements into the marketplace in order to
induce potential customers of Gryphon to subscribe to the $99
introductory price of Gryphon.”  Marsh is the 17th of 18 defendants, including members of
Gryphon’s sales force, to plead guilty. Baldwin Anderson, a
sales representative, plans to go to trial, his lawyer, Michael
Padden, told the judge earlier today at a court conference.  Alan Futerfas, Marsh’s lawyer, declined to comment after
the sentencing.  Marsh was charged in April 2010. He has been in jail since
November, after he was accused by prosecutors of engaging in
conduct similar to the actions that led his arrest and he was
unable to raise the additional bail required.  Marsh was also sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  SEC Lawsuit  Gryphon charged clients as little as $99 and as much as
$250,000 for access to its investment recommendations, according
to the SEC’s lawsuit. Clients often lost money on trades
suggested by Gryphon, the SEC said.  Gryphon’s employees lied about their credentials, falsely
claiming to oversee billion-dollar  hedge funds  from offices on
 Wall Street  and in London and Sydney, prosecutors said. The shop
was run from a strip mall in the New York borough of  Staten
Island , they said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  