-- 
Kentucky Refuses to Issue License to 2008 Derby-Winning Trainer Dutrow

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/kentucky-refuses-to-issue-license-to-2008-derby-winning-trainer-dutrow.html
Richard Dutrow Jr., the trainer of
2008  Kentucky Derby  and Preakness Stakes winner Big Brown, was
denied a license to operate in  Kentucky  three weeks before the
first race in thoroughbred horse racing’s Triple Crown.  The  Kentucky Horse Racing Commission ’s License Review
Committee yesterday issued its unanimous decision to refuse
Dutrow a license in 2011 because of “conduct that is against
the best interest of horse racing.” The trainer will appeal to
the whole commission, his attorney said in a statement.  “Mr. Dutrow has shown a consistent disregard for the rules
of racing,” said Lisa Underwood, commission executive director,
in a statement. “We have a duty to protect the betting public,
owners, jockeys and others involved in Kentucky’s signature
industry.”  Dutrow has been cited for rules violations 64 times at 15
tracks in nine states, said Ed Martin, president of the
 Association of Racing Commissioners International , in a letter
requesting a review of the trainer, according to the Louisville
Courier-Journal.  Dutrow was training four horses listed as early nominees
for the  137th Kentucky Derby , scheduled for May 7 at Churchill
Downs in Louisville, Kentucky.  In making its decision, the committee cited
misrepresentation of information in the license application and
attempts to commit fraud “in connection with the racing or
breeding of a horse or pari-mutuel wagering.”  The committee’s “determination was based upon a
misunderstanding of the underlying facts,” Gerard Romski,
Dutrow’s attorney, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We’re confident that when all of the material facts come
to light, his Kentucky license will be reinstated,” Romski
said.  The  New York State Racing and Wagering Board  has ordered
Dutrow to explain why his license shouldn’t be revoked. He was
suspended for 90 days after hypodermic needles were found in his
barn and one of his winning horses tested positive for a banned
painkiller. A hearing is scheduled next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  