-- 
Kenyan Minister Ruto to Return to Cabinet After Graft Charges Were Dropped

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-14T11:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/kenyan-minister-ruto-to-return-to-cabinet-after-graft-charges-were-dropped.html
Kenyan lawmaker William Ruto will
resume his duties as higher education minister after he was
acquitted of corruption charges, a government spokesman said.  “Once you’ve been cleared and there is no other reason why
you should be stepping aside, then you automatically resume your
office,”  Alfred Mutua  told reporters in Nairobi, the capital,
today. Ruto “will return” to the position within the next few
days, Mutua said in an interview.  The minister, who also has been accused by the
 International Criminal Court  of responsibility for crimes
against humanity during post-election violence in 2008, was
suspended from Cabinet in October pending the conclusion of the
graft case.  Nairobi Chief Magistrate Gilbert Mutembei dismissed the
case against Ruto on April 12, K24 television station reported.
The charges stemmed from the sale of land in the Ngong Forest
Sanctuary to the state-owned Kenyan Pipeline Co., in which Ruto
allegedly received an irregular payment.  Ruto, 44, is among six Kenyans accused of responsibility
for crimes such as murder and forced displacement during clashes
after a disputed December 2007 election that killed 1,500
people.  Two months of fighting abated after Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki agreed to share power with then-opposition leader  Raila Odinga , who was named prime minister.  The Hague-based court will begin hearings in September to
decide whether the suspects, including Kenyan Finance Minister
 Uhuru Kenyatta , who also serves as deputy prime minister, will
stand trial or have the proposed charges dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 