-- 
National Express Back on M&A Block as Investor Queries Strategy

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-04-14T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/national-express-back-on-m-a-block-as-investor-queries-strategy.html
National Express Group Plc (NEX) , the
U.K. travel company that fended off three takeover bids in 2009,
faces pressure from its biggest shareholder to switch strategy
after struggling to win government contracts and lift earnings.  Elliott Advisors Ltd., which said this week it’s seeking to
overthrow the National Express board, wants the company to adopt
a new growth plan, wring value from a Spanish unit that delivers
a quarter of sales and evaluate a merger with  Stagecoach Group
Plc (SGC)  or  FirstGroup Plc (FGP) , a person familiar with the campaign said.  National Express’s train business has been cut to a single
route after it last month failed to make the shortlist to retain
a London commuter franchise, leaving it focused on buses in
Britain,  Spain  and the U.S. The stock is unchanged this year
after a 30 percent jump in 2010, when it rebounded from near-
collapse following the loss of the marquee East Coast rail unit.  “National Express needs something to drive the business,
but if you look at their units it’s hard to see where that will
come from,” said Karl Burns, an analyst at Shore Capital in
Liverpool with a “hold” rating on the stock. “The shares
haven’t done much and people have factored in the recovery.”  Elliott holds 17.5 percent of National Express stock and
said April 12 that its campaign for a boardroom shuffle is
backed by Jorge Cosmen, National Express’s second-biggest
investor with a 17.4 percent holding after taking a stake
through the sale of his Madrid-based Alsa bus business in 2005.  Investor Briefing  The unit of New York-based hedge fund Elliott Associates
will brief investors on its plans in  London  today, spokeswoman
Jenny Davey said, declining to comment further.  National Express Chairman John Devaney, who joined the
London-based company in April 2009 and was in charge when it
spurned approaches from CVC Capital Partners Ltd., Stagecoach
and FirstGroup, could be one casualty of a shakeout.  Devaney, who also helped recruit Chief Executive Officer
Dean Finch, said in a statement on April 4 that he has written
to investors asking them to reject three board appointments to
be proposed by Elliott at their  annual meeting  on May 10. He
said that the nominees should instead take part in a wider
appointment process that the company has already instigated.  Elliott will press for a board better aligned to  National
Express ’s assets, according to the person familiar with its
plans, who wouldn’t be named because the demands aren’t public.  In addition to the Spanish business, the company gets 22
percent of sales from a North American school-bus unit, but has
only one non-British board member, the person said.  Rail Exit  In the U.K., National Express is no longer a “multimodal”
transport operator, being effectively out of rail after it was
ejected from the bidding for the Greater Anglia franchise that
serves London Liverpool Street station, according to the person.  The loss leaves National Express with only C2C, a franchise
that operates a  single line  from the town of Southend, at a time
when U.K. rail assets are attracting takeover approaches.  Deutsche Bahn AG last year bought Arriva Plc for 1.6
billion pounds ($2.6 billion), giving it the CrossCountry and
Welsh franchises. The German company already owned Chiltern
Trains, London Overground and the top U.K. rail-cargo company.  Paris-based SNCF,  Europe ’s biggest rail company, made a
failed approach for Arriva via its Keolis SA division and is
bidding to run the main London-Scotland West Coast route, while
Dutch operator NV Nederlandse Spoorwegen is the running for the
Greater Anglia franchise on which National Express lost out.  U.S. Ambitions  Elliott also wants to press for expansion into U.S. markets
beyond schools, mirroring Stagecoach, with its long-distance
Megabus brand, and FirstGroup, which owns Greyhound Lines Inc.
and East-Coast commuter service BoltBus, the person said.  Chairman Devaney, 65 in June, said in his statement that
National Express is “now a high-quality business” on a “sound
financial footing” and well positioned for “long-term
growth.”  That’s after the company raised 360 million pounds from a
share sale to pay off debt in December 2009 after rejecting bids
that had been supported by the Cosmen family.  Rebecca Mitchell, an external spokeswoman for National
Express, said that the company had no further comment.  National Express has a market value of 1.29 billion pounds
and a share price that’s 4.2 times earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, Bloomberg data shows.  That’s less than the price-to-earnings ratio of 5.6 at
Perth, Scotland-based Stagecoach, owner of South West Trains,
Britain’s busiest rail franchise, but higher than the 2 times at
Aberdeen-based FirstGroup, which runs trains to western  England .  Elliott reckons public-transport companies should have
multiples reflecting a steady  cash flow , the person said, like
airport operators such as Fraport AG, owner of  Frankfurt ’s main
hub, and Aeroports de Paris, which trade at 6.5 times earnings.  “Management consider, and I agree with them, that they
have done a pretty good job of pulling National Express back to
the mainstream from what was a pretty dire position,” said  Paul Hickman , a London-based analyst at Peel Hunt with a “hold”
rating on the stock. “I do think the company is fairly
valued.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  