-- 
NFL Begins Mediation Talks With Players After Labor Negotiations Collapse

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 
2011-04-14T15:37:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/national-football-league-players-begin-mediation-before-minnesota-judge.html
The  National Football League  and
players seeking to halt an owner-imposed lockout began formal
mediation today before a federal magistrate judge in
 Minneapolis .  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson on April 11
ordered both sides to mediation before U.S. Chief Magistrate
Judge Arthur J. Boylan in his chambers in the Minneapolis
federal courthouse. The court ordered player representatives to
meet with Boylan on April 12 and told the league to meet with
him yesterday, according to court filings.  The players, led by quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and
Peyton Manning, sued the NFL last month, alleging antitrust
violations after the collapse of collective-bargaining talks.
Owners of the 32 NFL teams declared a lockout after the
negotiations failed.  The dispute involves the formula that the New York-based
league and its players use to divide about $9 billion in annual
revenue. The players want Nelson to stop the lockout. The league
says that only the  National Labor Relations Board  has such
authority.  The National Football League Players Association disbanded
after the talks broke down. That gave the players the right to
pursue an antitrust suit, they said in court papers last month.  Ben Leber who played on the  Minnesota Vikings  last season
and is a plaintiff in the case, was at the courthouse today, as
were plaintiff Mike Vrabel, who played for the Kansas City
Chiefs, and former Viking Carl Eller, a plaintiff in a case
filed by retired players, which was consolidated with the Brady
action.  The NFL draft of college players is still scheduled to
start April 28.  The case is Brady v. National Football League, 11-cv-639,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota ( St. Paul ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in St. Paul, Minnesota, at 
 hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  