-- 
NATO Chief Seeks More Attack Jets for Libya, Raising Pressure on Pentagon

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-04-14T19:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/nato-struggling-to-resolve-divisions-over-libya-as-qaddafi-retains-power.html
NATO’s chief said the alliance
needs more attack jets to target Libyan ground forces, putting
pressure on the U.S. military to step back into the air campaign
against Muammar Qaddafi’s troops as they continue to attack the
besieged coastal city of Misrata.  “We need a few more precision-fighter ground-attack
aircraft for air-to-ground missions,” NATO Secretary General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen said today at a meeting of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s 28 foreign ministers and leaders
from other allied nations in Berlin.  The call for more warplanes, which Rasmussen said wasn’t
directed at a specific alliance member, comes 10 days after the
U.S. largely withdrew its ground-attack planes operating over
 Libya . U.S. and French officials said that their governments
don’t plan to offer additional warplanes and that it is up to
other allies to help.  NATO ministers met as a seven-week rebel drive to push
Qaddafi from power has ground to a standstill and the Libyan
leader’s forces pound Misrata, Libya’s third-largest city.
Allies are struggling to overcome divisions on how to force
Qaddafi’s exit amid complaints by Britain,  France  and rebel
commanders that NATO isn’t doing enough.  Testing NATO  “Qaddafi is testing our determination,” U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said at the meeting. “As our mission
continues, maintaining our resolve and unity only grows more
important.”  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told reporters that
within NATO “there are differences over the means to achieve a
united goal” in Libya. France currently is “the biggest air
force contributor, so we don’t have room for an increase,”
Juppe said. “Other countries are in a position to do that, so I
hope they will.”  Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said troops loyal
to Qaddafi are planting  land mines  around Misrata, a city 210
kilometers (130 miles) east of the capital, Tripoli, where he
said 250 civilians have been killed in the last two weeks. Italy
would support establishing a humanitarian corridor to enable aid
and supplies to reach the city, Frattini said.  Rebels say that NATO’s air strikes have been insufficient
in aiding their drive to topple Qaddafi’s 42-year regime, while
French and British officials this week said alliance members
need to offer more combat jets. The U.S. withdrew from targeting
Qaddafi’s ground forces after an initial round of strikes, part
of President Barack Obama’s plan to have NATO allies take the
lead under NATO command.  ‘Step Up to the Plate’  Rasmussen said he was optimistic that NATO would get the
extra jets it needs. “I’m confident that the nations will step
up to the plate,” he said.  Additional U.S. warplanes are on standby for deployment in
NATO missions, though alliance commanders have yet to request
any, two U.S. officials said earlier today on condition of
anonymity. The U.S. ended offensive “strike missions” earlier
this month, depriving NATO of warplanes such as A-10
“ Warthogs ” and AC-130 gunships, which can be more accurate
than higher-flying jet fighters for ground-attack missions.  The U.S. is doing its fair share and doesn’t regard
Rasmussen’s comment as seeking an increased U.S. role, said a
U.S. official in Berlin who briefed reporters under terms that
don’t allow the use of his name.  NATO has not made a formal request for additional U.S.
aircraft, Pentagon spokesman Colonel Dave Lapan said in
Washington.  NATO’s Role  Juppe on April 12 said the alliance needs to “play its
role fully” and do more to destroy Qaddafi’s heavy weapons.
U.K. Foreign Minister  William Hague  said on the same day that
NATO needed to intensify efforts to push back Qaddafi.  France doesn’t yet support arming the Libyan rebels, who
control much of the country’s oil-rich east, Juppe said. The
U.S. hasn’t ruled out such a move. British and French officials
said that arming rebels doesn’t violate United Nations arms-
embargo resolutions, a French official said yesterday.  Jan Techau, director of the  Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace  in Brussels and a former analyst at the NATO
Defense College, said that given the alliance “doesn’t want to
topple Qaddafi” itself, this means that arming the rebels is
the only way forward.  ‘A Stalemate’  “Sanctions and diplomatic isolation won’t get rid of
Qaddafi,” Techau said in a telephone interview. “The
unraveling of the system isn’t happening yet. It’s a
stalemate.”  Techau said arming and training the rebels wasn’t a matter
of weeks, “but rather several months and even up to six
months.”  Libyan rebels want to borrow at least $2 billion to buy
food, medicine, fuel and perhaps weapons as their foreign allies
agreed to do more to help them prevail over Qaddafi’s forces.  Members of the so-called Libyan contact group said in a
statement after talks yesterday in Qatar that they may create a
“temporary financial mechanism” to finance the rebels using
Libyan government assets frozen abroad.  “We’re exploring all options, including those assets we
said we’d safeguard for the Libyan people,” State Department
spokesman Mark Toner said in Washington.  Libya has been effectively split in two since the early
stages of the two-month conflict, a division that has helped
push  oil prices  up 26 percent from a year ago. Crude oil for May
delivery increased $1.00 cents, or 0.9 percent, to settle at
$108.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Oil Reserves  Libya holds  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves. Qatar confirmed
April 12 that it is marketing Libyan oil on behalf of the
opposition and is providing energy products to Benghazi.  NATO airstrikes against Qaddafi’s military since March 19
haven’t stopped artillery attacks and sniper fire on cities such
as Misrata or enabled the rebels to take and permanently hold
strategic towns such as the oil port of Ras Lanuf. NATO said in
a statement that it flew 58 “strike” missions seeking possible
ground targets yesterday, down from 60 on April 12. It said that
its jets destroyed 13 bunkers, one tank and one armored
personnel carrier yesterday in the Tripoli area and three
multiple rocket launchers near the central oil port of Brega.  Eight rebels were killed in an attack by government forces
near Misrata, al-Jazeera television reported today.  Civilian Deaths  At least 13 people -- all civilians -- were killed and an
unknown number were wounded when scores of Grad rockets struck
in Misrata, said a doctor there who gave his name only as Ayman,
according to the  Associated Press . He added that a ship sent by
Doctors Without Borders to evacuate 165 critically injured
people to  Tunisia  had been scheduled to arrive this morning at
Misrata’s port, and he believed the government had shelled the
port to interfere with the humanitarian aid, AP said.  More than 1,000 people have been killed and “several
thousand” wounded in Misrata in the six-week siege, according
to Suleiman Fortia, a spokesman for the rebels’ council.  NATO said in a statement today that alliance members and
other allies taking part in the conflict set three conditions
for ending air strikes on Qaddafi’s forces: an end to all
attacks by Qaddafi loyalists on civilians, withdrawing soldiers
to bases, and allowing aid into the country.  Cameron and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who met in
Paris yesterday, reaffirmed their commitment to ousting Qaddafi
and called for no let-up in air attacks, according to a French
official who spoke on the condition that he not be identified.
The leaders agreed that arming the rebels wouldn’t violate the
UN arms embargo, the official said.  Political Solution  Libya’s Foreign Minister Abdul-Ati al-Obeidi said Qaddafi
is seeking a political solution to the war along the lines of
this week’s  African Union  proposal involving a withdrawal of
troops from civilian areas, according to his Cypriot counterpart
Markos Kyprianou, who met Obeidi in Nicosia today. Libya’s
government will cooperate with the European Union and
international organizations over aid supplies, Obeidi said,
according to Kyprianou.  The rebels rejected the African Union plan because it
didn’t specify Qaddafi’s departure.  In Cairo, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said that a
cease-fire in Libya is a priority and should be imposed
“immediately.”  “There has to be a political dialogue that allows for a
cease-fire” and allows for humanitarian aid to reach Libya, he
said at a meeting of regional and international organizations
hosted by the  Arab League . “Qaddafi should listen to the call
of the international community and adhere to United Nations
resolutions.”  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said that Qaddafi
must leave power as his regime has lost legitimacy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Washington  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  