-- 
Nestle to Decide on L’Oreal in 2014, Chairman Brabeck Says

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-04-14T16:20:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/nestle-to-decide-on-l-oreal-stake-in-2014-chairman-brabeck-says.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  said it will decide what
to do with its stake of 30 percent in L’Oreal SA, the world’s
biggest cosmetics maker, in 2014, the year that restrictions on
the foodmaker selling the holding to a third party are lifted.  Nestle’s board has started considering its options
concerning the “extremely important and complex issue of the
future of our involvement in L’Oreal,” Chairman Peter Brabeck- Letmathe said at the company’s annual shareholder meeting today
in Lausanne, Switzerland.  The world’s largest food company bought a stake in L’Oreal
in 1974 from the Bettencourt family, which still owns about 31
percent. Nestle’s holding is now worth about 14.7 billion euros
($21.2 billion). The maker of KitKat bars has agreed with
L’Oreal’s 88-year-old main shareholder, Liliane Bettencourt, not
to raise the stake until six months after her death.  Speculation that Nestle could buy the rest of L’Oreal has
increased after the food company received $28.3 billion for a
majority stake in eye-care company Alcon Inc. Brabeck has
repeatedly said Nestle needs to decide if L’Oreal fits in the
strategy of a “nutrition, health and wellness” company. He
said in September, 2009, that it “could make sense to have
L’Oreal as a strategic investment instead of a financial one.”  “They just want some breathing space,” Chas Manso de Zuniga, an analyst at Evolution Securities in  London , said by
phone. “Basically, he’s clearing the air for three years.”  L’Oreal shares fell 82 cents, or 1 percent, to 82.27 euros
at the 5:30 p.m. close in Paris.  ‘Profoundly Committed’  Francoise Bettencourt Meyers, the daughter of Liliane, said
in March 2010 she is “profoundly committed” to L’Oreal and the
family wants to continue assisting the company’s development.  Nestle and the Bettencourt family gave each other a right
of first refusal over their stakes that runs through April 29,
2014, according to their agreement. In that year, Nestle would
be able to sell its stake to a third party without consulting
the Bettencourt family.  Brabeck’s responsibilities included relations with Alcon
and L’Oreal when he transferred his role as chief executive
officer to Paul Bulcke in 2008 because Nestle considered those
holdings “financial” investments, the chairman said today.  Nestle, based in Vevey,  Switzerland , sold Alcon because the
company no longer needed funding and instead required help in
pharmaceutical research, Brabeck said. Nestle obtained a total
of 45 billion francs ($50.5 billion) for the eyecare company,
which it bought in 1977 for $280 million, the chairman said.  ‘Transformation Process’  Brabeck said he presented Nestle’s board with a proposal in
2000 to create a “wellbeing company” present in personal-care
products and pharmaceuticals. The company decided the “vision
was too ambitious at that time and that Nestle should
concentrate on the first stage of the transformation process,”
he said.  Nestle then focused on nutrition, buying the Gerber baby
food brand, Jenny Craig weight-loss services and a medical
nutrition business from Novartis AG. Last year, Nestle created a
unit called Nestle Health Science to make food products that may
prevent chronic disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 