-- 
New Jersey Voters Cool to a Christie Bid for the White House, Poll Says

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/new-jersey-voters-cool-to-christie-presidential-bid-poll-says.html
While New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  may be a rising star in the  Republican Party , just one-
fifth of the state’s voters say they’d support any bid for the
White House in 2012, according to  Rutgers-Eagleton  poll.  Only 22 percent of registered voters said they back a
potential presidential run by the 48-year-old first-term
Republican, the Eagleton Institute of Politics at  Rutgers
University  said in a report today. Almost two-thirds said they
oppose a Christie candidacy.  “The governor continues to deny any interest in running
for president in 2012,” said David Redlawsk, director of the
poll and professor of political science at Rutgers, based in  New
Brunswick , New Jersey. “Given these numbers, that’s a pretty
good thing. Every time we’ve asked about a presidential run,  New
Jersey  voters have overwhelmingly opposed the idea.”  The findings come three days after a Gallup  survey  showed
more than half of Americans said they had no opinion of him at
all. Christie has made national headlines for battling
government unions and slashing spending to close a $10.7 billion
deficit without raising taxes.  The governor, speaking yesterday before the Rutgers-
Eagleton poll’s release, told reporters he won’t run for the
presidency in 2012.  “I have probably said more than a hundred times, I am not
a candidate for president of the  United States  in 2012 and I’m
not a candidate for vice president,” Christie said at a press
conference in Trenton, the capital. “If any of you can find any
wiggle room on that, suggest to me how you do it, because I will
nail the door the rest of the way shut.”  Thirty-six percent of voters in the Eagleton poll said
having a governor on the national stage helps New Jersey’s
image, while 21 percent say it hurts the state. A Christie
presidential run has the backing of 44 percent of Republicans
and 8 percent of Democrats.  The poll surveyed 773 registered voters by phone March 28-
April 4, and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  