-- 
New Zealand Government Puts Onus on File Sharers to Prove Their Innocence

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-04-14T06:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/new-zealand-government-puts-onus-on-file-sharers-to-prove-their-innocence.html
New Zealand ’s  parliament  passed a
new law prohibiting the illegal sharing of files by  Internet
users  that puts the onus on those accused to prove their
innocence, while not allowing them to hire lawyers.  Lawmakers gave a third and final reading to the so-called
 Copyright (Infringing File Sharing) Amendment Bill  today. A
breakdown on the vote wasn’t immediately available from the
parliamentary information service.  The bill “aims to provide copyright owners with a fast-
track alternative to existing remedies,” the Commerce Committee
said in a recommendation to pass the legislation. “We have
attempted to strike a balance between the rights of copyright
holders to have their intellectual property rights protected,
and the reality that the Internet has now allowed for greater
access to copyrighted work through file sharing.”  Under the law, scheduled to take effect  Sept. 1 , copyright
owners will be required to send evidence of alleged infringement
to  Internet Service  Providers, who would then issue warnings to
the account holder. If the warnings are ignored, the copyright
owners can file a claim with the Copyright Tribunal, which can
issue fines of as much as NZ$15,000 ($12,000) for each
violation.  The five-member tribunal will generally make a decision
based on written submissions and must consent to a hearing, if
one is requested. If the tribunal agrees to hold a hearing,
representatives won’t be allowed except for specified cases,
such as a corporation can be represented by an officer or an
employee.  Infringement Presumed  Representatives may not be lawyers, according to the
legislation, unless the tribunal grants permission.  An infringement notice will allow the tribunal to presume
that illegal file sharing occurred unless the account holder
provides evidence or reasons why it shouldn’t be considered so,
according to the law.  The new law tightens requirements for the suspension of
Internet services of account holders, requiring copyright
holders to get a court order. A judge can order the suspension
of the Internet service for as long as six months.  New Zealand’s  Green Party  objected to that proposal.  “There is a danger of heavy-handed regulation for a
problem that may only be temporary,” the Green Party said in
the committee’s report. “Citizens are not denied the right to
use their telephones because they happened to be used in the
commission of a crime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  