-- 
Sienna Miller May Need More Than Cash to Settle News Corp. Phone-Hack Case

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y ,   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-15T11:57:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/news-corp-phone-hacking-victims-may-reject-settlement-offers.html
Money alone may not be enough for
actress  Sienna Miller  and the more than 20 other celebrities and
politicians suing  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News of the World  newspaper
over phone hacking to end their search for the truth.  Lawyers met with Judge Geoffrey Vos in London today for the
first time since  News Corp. (NWS) ’s U.K. unit apologized to victims
last week. The unit, News International, has set up a fund of as
much as 20 million pounds ($33 million) to compensate victims,
according to a person familiar with the case, who declined to
comment because the offers are confidential.  “If your phone was hacked and I made an offer to you of
100,000 pounds, but I’m not going to tell you how many times
your phone was hacked, or what actually happened -- are you
going to bother to accept it?” said  Mark Lewis , a London lawyer
who represents at least at least two people, including publicist
Nicola Phillips, who have sued  News Corp. (NWSA)  over phone hacking.  News Corp.’s News International unit offered to settle the
cases after two journalists linked to the paper were arrested by
police investigating phone hacking. Another reporter at the
paper, James Weatherup, was arrested yesterday, the person said.
The scandal dates back to 2007 when a former editor and a
private investigator were jailed for accessing voice-mail
messages on members of the royal household’s mobile phones.  Since offering to settle last week, News of the World has
written to 17 of the 20-plus claimants, News International
spokeswoman Daisy Dunlop said in a telephone interview. She
declined to comment further.  ‘Most Important Question’  Justice Vos asked lawyers at today’s hearing to select as
many as five test cases by next month so that he can rule on
liability and damages for guidance in the remaining litigation.  “The most important question really is: what happened, and
what are the damages?” Vos said. “Otherwise we will be going
on forever. Some people may want that, but I don’t.”  News International has written to eight people, including
Miller, sports agent Sky Andrew and lawmaker Tessa Jowell,
offering to settle. It asked another nine, including soccer
player Paul Gascoigne, actress Leslie Ash and jockey Kieren Fallon, to provide more evidence to facilitate a settlement.  “News International quite rightly want to shut this thing
down, but everyone wants to get to the bottom of what the hell’s
been going on,” said Gerald Shamash, Gascoigne’s lawyer.
Shamash, an attorney at Steel & Shamash, also represents David
Mills, Jowell’s ex-husband, who has filed his own hacking suit.  Settlement Risks  Declining a settlement has risks for the plaintiffs that
may mean most will accept the cash after some initial bluster,
said  Duncan Lamont , a media lawyer at Charles Russell in London.
Under U.K. law, by turning down a settlement, they may become
liable for News International’s court costs if the ultimate
award from a judge is less than the settlement offer.  “The other side is now at risk of costs if they make a
genuine, good, offer to settle,” Lamont said. “I would think
that, quite quickly, within maybe two months, the majority of
cases will conclude.”  The scandal hasn’t caused a drop in circulation at News of
The World, which sells about 2.8 million copies a month, said
Chris Goodall, a media analyst at Enders Analysis. At a time
when revenue is falling for the whole industry, the newspaper’s
distribution fell 7 percent in the last year, compared with 10
percent at The Guardian, which broke the story about the hacking
scandal.  ‘Drip’ for Months  “This is going to drip for many months yet, it’s hard to
see this having any easy conclusion,” Goodall said. “The very
clever idea of giving people a lot of money, more than they’d
get in the courts, is not going to stop the continued police
action.”  Former News of the World Editor  Andy Coulson  resigned as
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s head of communications in January
over claims the practice took place while he was at the
newspaper.  “Nobody will be surprised when it eventually comes out --
which it probably will -- that those higher up must have known
what was going on and if they didn’t they turned a blind eye and
were reckless,” Rod Dadak, who leads the defamation practice at
Lewis Silkin LLP, said in a phone interview.  News of the World is a Sunday tabloid that won a national
press award for “Scoop of the Year” for its coverage of
corruption in Pakistani cricket, but is better known for its
coverage of celebrity news.  Beckham, Mosley Stories  Neville Thurlbeck, the paper’s chief reporter who was
arrested earlier this month in the phone hacking probe, broke
stories about the marital infidelity of celebrities including
soccer player  David Beckham  and former Formula One President Max Mosley.  Mosley, who was the subject of a story about taking part
in a Nazi-themed orgy, won a record 60,000-pound award from the
paper in a trial over privacy violations. He later testified to
the House of Commons in the phone hacking probe. Thurlbeck
declined to comment in an e-mail and referred questions to the
newspaper’s public relations staff.  Some News of the World reporters “employ whatever
technique suits them” to find private information, said Dominic
Crossley, Mosley’s lawyer. “Thurlbeck is by no means unique at
the News of the World, but he is a case-in-point and he remains
their most senior journalist.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Lumley  in  London  at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net 
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  