-- 
North Korea Prepares to Indict U.S. Citizen Arrested for Unspecified Crime

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-04-14T03:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/north-korea-detained-u-s-citizen-for-crime-against-nation-in-november.html
North Korea  arrested a U.S. citizen
for a “crime” against the country in November and is preparing
to indict him after he admitted the alleged charges, state media
reported.  Jun Young Su was allowed “necessary humanitarian
conveniences” including visits by Swedish diplomats, who
represent U.S. interests in North Korea, the state-run Korean
Central  News Agency  reported. The news agency didn’t provide
details of the alleged offense.  North Korea’s confirmation of the arrest comes before a
visit by former U.S. president  Jimmy Carter , who traveled to the
country in August last year to win the release another American.
A U.S. State Department spokesman, Mark Toner, on April 12 urged
the government in Pyongyang to release the American on
“humanitarian grounds,” without providing details of the
detainee.  “It’s not coincidental that North Korea publicly confirmed
the arrest before Carter’s planned visit,” said Kim Yong Hyun,
professor of North Korean studies at  Dongguk University  in  Seoul .
“Releasing the citizen to Carter can help set the mood for
dialogue between the two nations on other pending issues like
North Korea’s nuclear weapons program.”  Private Visit  Carter will travel to North Korea “in a strictly private
capacity,” without carrying any official message from the
government, Toner said March 24. The U.S. described Carter’s
trip to Pyongyang in August when he returned with Aijalon Mahli
Gomes, who had been held for seven months, a private mission.  Carter will make the trip between April 26 and 28 and will
be accompanied by as many as three former heads of state,
including former Irish president Mary Robinson, Seoul-based
Yonhap News reported on April 10. The delegation will also
include former Finnish president Martti Ahtisaari and former
Norwegian prime minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, the report said.  The arrested person is a Korean-American businessman in his
60’s, who traveled to North Korea for missionary work, Yonhap
reported today, citing unidentified people in Orange Country,
 California , where the man is from.  In February last year, North Korea released an American
missionary, Robert Park, after he was held for about two months.
Gomes, who had been in anti-North Korea rallies while living in
Seoul, may have been inspired by Park when he traveled to North
Korea in January last year, according to  Agence France-Presse .  Former U.S. president  Bill Clinton  went to Pyongyang in
August 2009, winning the release of two U.S. journalists
arrested in March that year for entering the country illegally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  