-- 
North America Solar to Exceed Germany in 2012: Chart of the Day

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-04-14T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/north-america-to-top-germany-s-solar-power-installations-chart-of-the-day.html
North America  is set to overtake
 Germany  for the first time in 13 years to become the biggest
market for new photovoltaic installations,  Barclays Capital 
estimates.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows 4,455 megawatts of solar panels
will be hooked up on roofs and fields in the U.S. and Canada in
2012 and 3,500 megawatts in Germany, according to projections by
the unit of Barclays Plc. North America last topped Germany in
1999, when the three nations together fitted less than 40
megawatts, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Germany, which led the world last year by adding 7,450
megawatts, will trim subsidies in July. Annual installations
“have probably peaked because they have so much penetration
already,” said Martin Simonek, a New Energy Finance analyst in
London. In  Canada , Ontario province improved subsidies in 2009
and is attracting developers from around the world.  “The growth in North America is sustainable,” Simonek
said. “In the U.S., the mandated amounts of procured renewable
energy are growing every year, meaning utilities have to source
more electricity from renewable sources.”  Growth in the U.S., where there are more commercial solar
farms, may benefit Chinese companies, while more expensive
European panels do better in rooftop markets like Germany, said
Simonek, whose research group forecasts the North American
market to overtake Germany a year later than Barclays Capital.  Germany, with the biggest growth in photovoltaic capacity
for six of the past seven years, also leads the world in total
capacity, with 17,000 megawatts fitted by the end of 2010. The
U.S. had 2,500 megawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  