-- 
Nuclear Regulators Delay Study of Fukushima Lessons Until 2012

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-04-14T12:14:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/nuclear-regulators-delay-study-of-fukushima-lessons-until-2012.html
Nuclear powers ended a closed-door
meeting by delaying for 16 months consideration of the failures
that triggered the meltdown at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  The 72-nation Convention on Nuclear Safety pledged to hold
an extraordinary meeting in August 2012 to review the breakdown
of safety systems at Fukushima, according to a seven-paragraph
statement released today in Vienna.  “It is understood that the lessons-learned process cannot
be completed until sufficient additional information is known
and fully analyzed,” according to the statement. “Japan has
committed to provide this information as soon as possible.”  Backup generators and cooling systems at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi station were knocked out by a 15-meter (49-foot) tsunami
following a magnitude-9 earthquake on March 11, triggering the
worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl in 1986. Hydrogen
explosions occurred as water in the reactors and spent-fuel
ponds boiled away and radiation leaked into the air and sea.  Japan’s representative to the meeting, Ichiro Ogasawara,
thanked the regulators and industry participants for their
“solidarity in the course of the review meeting” during “this
crucial juncture in the history of the convention.”  Signatories to the treaty, drafted after the 1986 Chernobyl
meltdown in Ukraine, will also evaluate whether the convention
does enough to promote nuclear safety when they meet next year.  “Nuclear safety is the very lifeline of nuclear power
development,” China’s Li Ganjie, who presided at the meeting
that began April 4 and ended today, said at a briefing. “It is
a global issue. Members of the public have anxiety about nuclear
safety issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  