-- 
Obama's Money Pump for 2012 Re-Election Campaign Primed by Chicago Friends

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/obama-s-money-pump-for-2012-re-election-campaign-primed-by-chicago-friends.html
Les Coney, an executive vice
president at Chicago-based Mesirow Financial, will take a seat
at two of three hometown events  Barack Obama  is scheduled to
headline today as the president kicks off fundraising for a re-
election bid that might cost as much as $1 billion.  Raising money may be tougher than four years ago, Coney
said, partly because Obama was mostly a blank slate then,
engaged in a historic quest to become the first black president.  “There was a certain type of excitement that went around
the first go-around,” said Coney, who was one of Obama’s top
 2008 fundraisers  and has collected money for him for more than a
decade. “He’s never going to be able to capture that again.”  Coney, 52, and other Obama supporters in the third-most-
populous U.S. city say they feel the pressure to raise more
early money, as Republican governors weaken the president’s
allies in organized labor and the U.S. Supreme Court has eased
restrictions on campaign spending.  Jim Messina , a former White House deputy chief of staff who
is running the re-election campaign, has asked its top
fundraisers to collect at least $350,000 this year alone. Four
years ago, members of Obama’s national finance committee were
asked to raise $250,000 for the entire election cycle.  The higher bar has been set in part because Democrats don’t
know whether Obama will be helped or hurt by the top court’s
Citizens United decision and efforts by governors to make it
harder for unions to collect membership dues.  Democratic Counterattack  Illinois  dollars are central to the campaign’s
counterattack. “I think Chicago will be right there,” Coney
said. “Not just in the African-American community, but I’m
talking about the entire community. He’s our favorite son.”  Obama For America will need the help, especially if Wall
Street donors are less generous than in 2008 because of last
year’s passage of the financial regulatory overhaul and Obama’s
“fat-cat” rhetoric toward bankers. The securities and
investment sector was his  fifth-largest source  of
contributions in 2008, according to the Washington-based  Center
for Responsive Politics .  Today’s  Chicago  events could raise more than $2 million for
Obama and the  Democratic National Committee , said a party
official not authorized to share the information.  Obama, 49, has fundraisers scheduled this month in
California and New York as his campaign tries to balance
partisanship with the presidency at a time when the nation faces
8.8 percent unemployment, wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan , and
military action in  Libya .  Illinois Bundlers  In the 2008 campaign, Illinois was second only to
California for the total number of Obama “bundlers,” a team of
people who solicit money from wide circles of donors, according
to the center’s  data . There were 97 from California, 86 from
Illinois and 82 from  New York .  Chicago’s 60614 Zip code, which includes the city’s Lincoln
Park neighborhood on the north side, was Obama’s second-highest-
grossing fundraising Zip code in 2008, netting $2.5 million,
according to the center’s  data . Only an Upper West Side Zip code
in  Manhattan , 10024, accounted for more, at $2.8 million.  All candidates, political parties and outside groups spent
a total of $2 billion in the 2008 presidential campaign,
according to the  Federal Election Commission . Obama raised a
record $745 million in 2007-08, and was the first major-party
nominee to reject public financing for the general election.  Messina rejected “pie-in-the-sky speculation” that
Obama’s campaign will raise $1 billion for 2012.  “We’ll raise enough funds to compete and win, and that
will take a significant amount given the vast amounts GOP-allied
groups are already raising,” he said in a statement.  Business Ire  While Obama has drawn the ire of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and been accused of being anti-business, his supporters
say that sentiment doesn’t extend to his hometown.  “I see more energy from the CEO community and the
business-leader community than I have ever seen,” said John Rogers, 53, chairman of Chicago-based Ariel Investments LLC and
someone who raised more than $500,000 for Obama’s 2008 campaign.
“The support here is really, really deep.”  Ariel, which provided Obama with  office space  the first
three days after his election, employs another Obama friend and
fundraiser, Mellody Hobson. She’s the company’s president, a
personal finance contributor on ABC’s “Good Morning America”
and filmmaker  George Lucas ’s girlfriend.  Seed Money  Hobson, Rogers and Coney are among black professionals in
Chicago who provided Obama with some of his earliest political
seed money and have continued to sustain his campaigns.  With about three dozen people now working in the Chicago
headquarters, Obama For America is already spending money and
soon will open offices in competitive states.  The campaign will have a new source of potential
fundraisers that it didn’t have four years ago: those who had
backed other Democrats, such as former Senator  Hillary Clinton  
of New York and former Senator  John Edwards  of  North Carolina .  “There has been a conscious effort to make all of those
supporters, whether they were Hillary supporters or Edwards
supporters, feel welcome,” Coney said.  In Chicago, that includes people such as entrepreneur and
philanthropist Fred Eychaner, who supported Clinton in 2008 and
is one of the nation’s top Democratic donors. In September,
Obama named Eychaner, who has  hosted   Bill Clinton  at his Chicago
home at least three times, as a trustee to the  John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts  in  Washington .  Social Secretaries  The president’s fundraising operation will be run by  Rufus
Gifford , who raised money in  California  for the 2008 campaign.
His former partner, Jeremy Bernard, was named the White House’s
social secretary in February. Gifford will have help from
Julianna Smoot, the top staff person for Obama’s 2008
fundraising effort, a former White House social secretary and
one of two deputy campaign managers for 2012.  The Chicago events will include two at downtown restaurants
for bigger donors, including one with an admission of $35,800.  Chicago donors are likely to be involved in one last major
fundraising push for him -- to pay for a presidential library.
Obama hasn’t spoken on the topic, though the president of the
 University of Chicago  said in 2009 that the school was studying
the possibility of hosting a presidential archive and museum.  “There’s going to be a whole another new energy around a
library,” Coney said. “You will see a whole new window of
opportunity to be supportive. It will be a big deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  