-- 
Obama Sets June Deadline for Deficit-Cut Deal in Challenge to Republicans

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/obama-sets-june-deadline-for-deficit-cut-deal-in-challenge-to-republicans.html
President  Barack Obama  set a June
deadline for a bipartisan deal to cut the federal deficit and
offered a path to get there that was designed to contrast with a
Republican proposal he called unfair to the elderly and overly
generous to the wealthy.  Obama’s plan, outlined in a speech yesterday at George
Washington University, would cut $4 trillion in cumulative
deficits within 12 years through a combination of spending
reductions and tax increases that draws heavily on
recommendations from the chairmen of his bipartisan  fiscal
commission .  The timeline Obama proposed for coming up with an agreement
-- beginning talks in early May and completing them by late June
-- sets up a negotiation over the nation’s long-term fiscal
challenges in parallel with a congressional debate over raising
the $14.29 trillion legal debt limit. The Treasury Department
projects that it will reach the limit on May 16, though it could
use emergency measures to avoid default until about July 8.  Moody’s Investors Service said the plan Obama announced may
be a “positive” for the nation’s credit quality.  “It seems both sides of this debate are now targeting
lower debt and lower deficits,” said  Steven Hess , senior credit
officer at Moody’s. “We do see this as a turning point in terms
of the debate. We would view that as a positive, but we’ll have
to wait to see the outcome.”  The president’s speech also sought to frame the issues for
the 2012 presidential campaign by casting the partisan struggle
over budget priorities as part of the debate over values.  ‘Basic Social Compact’  Obama called his approach to the deficit “a more balanced
approach” than the Republicans have, saying “their vision is
less about  deficit reduction  than it is about changing the basic
social compact in America.”  He said a proposal in the House Republicans’ budget plan to
replace Medicare’s current fee-for-services plan with a subsidy
to buy private insurance “ends Medicare as we know it.”  Obama rejected that idea. “I will not allow Medicare to
become a voucher program that leaves seniors at the mercy of the
 insurance industry , with a shrinking benefit to pay for rising
costs,” he said.  Instead, Obama would build on cost-containment measures in
the health-care overhaul law and strengthen a Medicare cost-
cutting board. He also proposed allowing Medicare to negotiate
drug prices with manufacturers, accelerate availability of
generic versions of higher-priced biotech drugs, and prohibit
brand-name drug companies from paying generic competitors to
delay their products.  Voting Group  Though the Republican plan would not change benefits for
anyone currently over 55, Obama’s stand positions the president
as a defender of a program important to the elderly, potentially
bolstering his support among a constituency that recently has
deserted Democrats.  Among voters age 65 and older, support for Democratic House
candidates dropped from 49 percent in 2006 to 38 percent in
2010, according to  exit polls . In the months before the 2010
midterm elections, Republicans charged that Obama’s health-care
law weakened Medicare benefits.  Obama drew a connection between the Republican plan, which
he said would raise the cost of Medicare to a new recipient in
10 years by almost $6,400, and the party’s support for extending
the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for the wealthy.  “They want to give people like me a $200,000  tax cut 
that’s paid for by asking 33 seniors to each pay $6,000 more in
health costs,” said Obama, who vowed to block renewal of tax
cuts for individuals making more than $200,000 a year and
married couples earning more than $250,000.  Republican Response  Obama’s speech was noteworthy for “setting a new standard
for class-warfare rhetoric,” said Representative  Jeb Hensarling 
of  Texas , the chairman of the House Republican Conference.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican who was the main author of his party’s budget plan,
said Obama’s proposal was “hopelessly inadequate to address our
country’s pressing fiscal” problems.  “What we heard was a partisan broadside from our
campaigner in chief,” Ryan told reporters after Obama’s speech.
“We don’t need partisanship, we don’t need demagoguery.”  Treasuries gained, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
halted its longest slump since November. Yields on the benchmark
10-year note fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 3.46 percent at 5:05 p.m. in  New York , according to BGCantor
Market Data. The  S&P 500  rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,314.41.  Lower Yields  Bond market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the
government was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even
though Treasury Department data show that the amount of
marketable debt outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from
$4.34 trillion in mid-2007. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
note is below the average of 7 percent since 1980 and compares
with the average of 5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001
period, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Obama set a target of reducing the annual U.S. deficit to
2.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2015, compared with the
10.9 percent of GDP projected for this year.  In contrast to the House Republicans’ budget plan, which
includes no tax increases, Obama would get a quarter of his $4
trillion in deficit reductions from higher taxes.  Republican leaders said after getting briefed by the
president that they won’t accept tax increases to cut the
deficit.  “If we are going to resolve our differences and do
something meaningful, raising taxes will not be part of that,”
said House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio .  Debt Commission  The president borrowed some ideas from the debt commission
he created last year, drawing on the recommendation by co-
chairmen  Alan Simpson , a former Republican senator from  Wyoming ,
and Erskine Bowles, a former chief of staff for President  Bill Clinton , for a simpler  tax code  that lowers rates and increases
revenue. He also adopted the recommendations on non-security
discretionary spending, which would save $770 billion by 2023.  Obama proposed saving $400 billion in current and future
defense spending and called for a “fundamental review” of U.S.
military missions. The deficit commission majority recommended
deeper cuts in the  defense budget .  Obama’s plan also calls for $480 billion in savings from
Medicare and Medicaid, with an additional $360 billion coming
from other entitlement programs such as farm subsidies.  To achieve the debt targets, the president is urging
Congress to pass a “debt failsafe” that would trigger across-
the-board spending cuts and tax changes if the debt-to-GDP ratio
hasn’t stabilized by 2014. The automatic cuts wouldn’t apply to
entitlements, including Social Security, Medicare and programs
intended for low-income Americans.  Triggers  Stan Collender , managing director of Qorvis Communications
and a former staff member of the House and Senate budget
committees, said the president’s approach for a trigger attempts
to overcome the limits of the 1985 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act,
which required automatic cuts if deficit targets, based on
budget projections, weren’t reached. That plan, he said, could
be bypassed with optimistic economic assumptions.  “We had triggers in the past, but no one decided to comply
with them,” Collender said. A debt trigger “is going to be
monitored by people in the markets who are very serious about it
and who aren’t in the political system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 