-- 
Obama Says His Senate Vote Against Debt Limit Was ‘Political’

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-14T21:10:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/obama-says-his-senate-vote-against-debt-limit-was-political-.html
President  Barack Obama  said his
vote as a U.S. senator against raising the nation’s debt limit
was a “political” maneuver by a new lawmaker, as he faces
questions about his stance now that he is asking Congress to
approve an increase in the cap as soon as next month.  In an  interview  with ABC News today, Obama said he was
presented with a “lousy” choice in 2006 to raise the limit.  “That was just an example of a new senator, you know,
making what is a political vote as opposed to doing what was
important for the country,” Obama, who won election to the
Senate in 2004, said. “And I’m the first one to acknowledge
it.”  Obama was joined by all of the Senate’s Democrats in
casting a “no” vote on raising the debt limit on March 16,
2006, and he isn’t the only one expressing regrets. In a
separate interview with ABC, Senate Democratic leader  Harry Reid 
said he is ”embarrassed” that he argued against raising the
cap during the administration of Republican President George W. Bush.  At the time, Reid, from Nevada, accused Republicans of
pushing “reckless” policies that had created “an explosion of
debt.”  “I shouldn’t have done that,” Reid told ABC. “It was a
political maneuver by we Democrats.”  Republicans held the majority in the Senate and the higher
limit was  passed  52-48. Democrats now control the chamber 53-47.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  on April 11 said
that Obama “regrets” his 2006 vote.  Cap on Borrowing  The U.S. government is projected to hit the $14.3 trillion
legal cap on  government borrowing  next month amid warnings from
administration officials that any failure to approve an increase
would be catastrophic for the  U.S. economy  and financial
markets.  “Nobody should be playing chicken with the debt limit,”
White House budget director  Jacob Lew  told reporters today.  Obama said approval of an increase will require votes from
both Republicans and Democrats.  “As president, you start realizing, ‘You know what? We
can’t play around with this stuff’,” Obama said. “This is the
full faith and credit of the  United States .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  