-- 
Obama Says He Wants to Move ‘Rapidly’ on Debt-Cutting Plan

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-14T16:38:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/obama-says-he-wants-to-move-rapidly-on-debt-cutting-plan-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  met with the
co-chairmen of his debt commission and said he wants to move
“rapidly” on putting a deficit-cutting plan in place.  Any plan to trim the federal debt must reduce spending for
a broad swath of government programs, including defense, and
include some increase in revenue through taxes, he said. The
president repeated his opposition to extending again the Bush-
era tax cuts for the top income brackets.  “We can’t exempt anybody from these efforts,” Obama said
at the White House today before a private meeting with the co-
chairmen of his debt commission, former White House chief of
staff Erskine Bowles and former Republican Senator  Alan Simpson ,
a Wyoming Republican. “It’s not appropriate for us to ask for
sacrifices from everybody except for the 2 percent of Americans
who are doing best.”  Bowles and Simpson last December offered a plan to cut $3.8
trillion from the nation’s cumulative deficit over a decade.
Obama said the framework they developed “helps shape my
thinking on these issues.”  Obama’s proposal, which he outlined in a speech yesterday,
aims to reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over 12 years. He set
a target of reducing the annual U.S. deficit to 2.5 percent of
gross domestic product by 2015, compared with the 10.9 percent
of GDP projected for this year.  Republican Alternative  The Republican alternative, a budget drawn up by
Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , would cut $6.2 trillion
over the next decade, though it wouldn’t balance the budget
until 2040 because of offsetting tax cuts.  In addition, a group of three Republican and three
Democratic senators known as the Gang of Six has been working on
its own proposal for narrowing the budget shortfall.  Bowles said afterward that Obama presented “a solid,
responsible plan” to cut the deficit. He said both sides should
take up the best of the recommendations and come up with a plan
that can be put to a vote.  “Now’s the time for action,” he said. “This era of
deficit denial has to end, it’s over, this is the moment of
truth.”  Simpson said having multiple proposals -- from Obama, from
 House Republicans  and the six senators -- may help form a
consensus on the path forward.  June Deadline  Obama said yesterday he wants to have an agreement on a
deficit-cutting framework by the end of June, and he designated
Vice President  Joe Biden  to work with congressional leaders from
both parties in the negotiations.  Simpson, who served 18 years in the Senate, said he was
skeptical whether the president’s deadline could be met. Trying
to set a date by which lawmakers will act is a “lost cause,”
he said. “It is just impossible to say.”  Republican leaders already have rejected using tax
increases to cut the deficit.  “Raising taxes on the very people that we expect to invest
in our economy and create jobs is the wrong move,”
House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  told reporters today.  Obama’s timeline sets up discussions about the nation’s
long-term fiscal challenges in parallel with a congressional
debate over raising the $14.29 trillion legal debt limit. The
Treasury Department projects that it will reach the limit on May
16, though it could use emergency measures to avoid default
until about July 8.  Bond Market Yields  For all the debate about the deficit in Washington, bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is below the
average of 7 percent since 1980 and compares with the average of
5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Ten-year note yields were little changed at 3.46 percent at
11:01 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  