-- 
Obama, Sarkozy, Cameron Say Qaddafi Must Leave Power ‘for Good’

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-04-14T22:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/obama-sarkozy-cameron-say-qaddafi-must-leave-power-for-good-.html
The U.S., U.K.,  France  and other
NATO nations will keep up military operations in Libya until
Muammar Qaddafi is forced out, President  Barack Obama , French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
write in joint letter published in newspapers in Europe.  Qaddafi “must go, and go for good” if Libya is to begin
forming a new government and Libyan citizens can choose their
own futures, they write.  “So long as Qaddafi is in power, NATO and its coalition
partners must maintain their operations so that civilians
remain protected and the pressure on the regime builds,” the
leaders wrote in the letter, which was published on the
websites of the Times of  London  and El Figaro. “Then a genuine
transition from dictatorship to an inclusive constitutional
process can really begin, led by a new generation of leaders.”  Obama, Sarkozy and Cameron said that while the  United
Nations  Security Council resolution authorizing military action
to protect civilians doesn’t include overthrowing Qaddafi, “it
is impossible to imagine a future for Libya with Qaddafi in
power.”  The letter was published as differences were being raised
in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which has assumed
control of the no-fly zone over Libya, and a seven-week drive
by rebels to push Qaddafi from power has ground to a
standstill.  “We need a few more precision-fighter ground-attack
aircraft for air-to-ground missions,” NATO Secretary General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen said today at a meeting of NATO’s 28
foreign ministers and leaders from other allied nations in
Berlin.  The call for more warplanes, which Rasmussen said wasn’t
directed at a specific alliance member, comes 10 days after the
U.S. largely withdrew its ground-attack planes operating over
Libya. U.S. and French officials said their governments don’t
plan to offer additional warplanes and that it is up to other
allies to help.  “Britain, France and the  United States  will not rest
until the United Nations Security Council resolutions have been
implemented and the Libyan people can choose their own
future,” Obama, Sarkozy and Cameron wrote.  “NATO and its coalition partners are acting in the name
of the United Nations with an unprecedented international legal
mandate,” they wrote. “But it will be the people of Libya,
not the UN, who choose their new constitution, elect their new
leaders and write the next chapter in their history.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 