-- 
Obama Signs Law Repealing Business Tax Reporting Mandate

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-04-14T22:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/obama-signs-law-repealing-business-tax-reporting-mandate-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  signed a
bill repealing a tax-compliance mandate in last year’s health-
care law, giving a victory to business groups that led a
campaign against the requirement.  The repealed provision, under which companies would have
had to report more transactions to the  Internal Revenue Service ,
was included in the law as a revenue-raising measure. It was to
have taken effect in 2012.  “Small business owners are the engine of our economy and
because Democrats and Republicans worked together, we can ensure
they spend their time and resources creating jobs and growing
their business, not filling out more paperwork,” Obama said
today in a statement released by the White House.  To cover the cost of the forgone revenue from the repeal,
the legislation Obama signed today includes provisions that will
curtail health-insurance tax credits in the health-care law. The
president signed the bill despite his objections to those
changes.  “I look forward to continuing to work with Congress to
improve the tax credit policy in this legislation and I am eager
to work with anyone with ideas about how we can make health care
better or more affordable,” he said in the statement.  Widespread Criticism  The tax reporting requirement, dubbed 1099 for the tax form
it would have required, drew widespread criticism after Congress
passed it last year.  Under the provision, businesses would have had to report
transactions totaling at least $600 in a year paid to all
businesses for goods and services. The repeal law returns such
information reporting to its previous state, in which businesses
must report only payments to unincorporated businesses for
services.  Congress wrote the 1099 provision to combat  tax evasion  by
businesses that underreport income. Business groups argued that
the law created a paperwork burden for minimal benefit, and they
lobbied for repeal.  Lawmakers in both parties agreed, and Obama endorsed
changes to the 1099 provision in his State of the Union speech.  The biggest problem they encountered was covering the cost
of the $21.9 billion the provision was estimated to raise. The
Senate voted 81-17 on Feb. 2 to repeal the 1099 provision and
offset it with spending cuts.  The House took a different approach, voting 314-112 on
March 3 to pass the version of the bill that became law today.
The Senate passed the House version, 87-12, on April 5.  Health Tax Credits  The new law changes the portion of the health-care law that
deals with the health insurance tax credits that low- and
middle-income Americans will get.  Eligibility for the tax credits, which are paid directly to
health insurers, is determined each year by examining income
from a prior year. At the end of each year, there is a
reconciliation through which the government can seek repayment
of credits from people whose incomes rose.  The new law changes the calculation and will require more
people to return overpayments. Democrats maintained that this
portion of the legislation represented a tax increase for people
who happened to receive a year-end bonus.  The bill Obama signed also repeals a separate tax reporting
requirement that was passed in another law last year. That rule,
which took effect Jan. 1, required landlords to report more
information about their business expenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  