-- 
Oil Gains a Third Day After Reports Saudi Arabia Cut Production This Month

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-04-15T01:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/oil-gains-a-third-day-after-reports-saudi-arabia-cut-production-this-month.html
Oil gained for a third day in  New
York , after a Saudi Arabia-based economist said the holder of
the world’s biggest crude reserves cut production this month,
signaling supply may shrink.  Futures climbed as much as 0.6 percent today, paring the
week’s decline to 3.7 percent, after John Sfakianakis, chief
economist at Riyadh-based Banque Saudi Fransi, said the kingdom
reduced output by 300,000 barrels a day. Barclays Plc said the
country may be lowering production of its lighter oil blends
introduced in response to the slump from  Libya . Prices also
advanced yesterday after the  U.S. dollar  fell, increasing the
appeal of raw materials.  “Reduced production of the country’s lighter blends in
response to Libyan outages suggests supply may tighten,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in a note today. “On the
other hand, it could imply that demand is weak for Saudi light
crude blends. The weaker U.S. dollar helped” prices, he said.  Crude for May delivery gained as much as 63 cents to
$108.74 a barrel, in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , and was at $108.58 at 9:10 a.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the contract increased $1, or 0.9 percent, to
settle at $108.11. Prices are up 27 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for June settlement rose 45 cents, or 0.4 percent,
to $122.45 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Yesterday, it fell 33 cents to $122. The May contract,
which has expired, slid 52 cents, or 0.4 percent, to close at
$122.36 yesterday.  Brent Premium  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $14.25 a
barrel to U.S. futures yesterday. The difference between front-
month contracts in  London  and New York surged to a record $19.54
on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa
and stockpiles climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for New York futures. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  Saudi Arabia , the biggest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 9 million barrels of
crude a day in March, the highest level since October 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Falling Libyan crude output increased prices for comparable
low-density, low-sulfur grades. Saudi Arabia developed two
blends to offset the shortfall.  The conflict in Libya is the bloodiest in a wave of
uprisings that has toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  and
spread to Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Syria and Yemen.  The chief of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization said
yesterday that the alliance needs more attack jets to target
Libyan ground forces, putting pressure on the U.S. military to
step back into the air campaign against Muammar Qaddafi’s troops.  Oil in New York also rose yesterday after the dollar
dropped as U.S. initial jobless claims rose and producer prices
advanced at a slower pace, signaling the  Federal Reserve  will
keep borrowing costs low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  