-- 
Crude Oil Advances on Reports Saudi Arabia Reduced Production This Month

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-04-14T20:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/oil-advances-as-sunoco-refinery-unit-shut-u-s-gasoline-supplies-tumble.html
Crude oil climbed for a second day
in New York on reports that  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s
largest oil reserves, reduced output this month.  Futures rose 0.9 percent after John Sfakianakis, chief
economist at Riyadh-based Banque Saudi Fransi, said the desert
kingdom cut production by 300,000 barrels a day. Barclays Plc
said Saudi Arabia may be reducing production of its lighter oil
blends introduced in response to the slump in Libyan output.  “The news that the Saudis are cutting output should be
scaring the daylights out of people,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis . “It looks like they couldn’t find buyers for their light
blends.”  Crude oil for May delivery increased $1 to settle at
$108.11 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Prices are
up 26 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for May settlement slipped 52 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the session at $122.36 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The more actively traded June
contract declined 33 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $122.  Saudi Arabia, the biggest oil producer in the  Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries , pumped 9 million barrels of
crude a day in March, the highest level since October 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Libyan Oil Shortfall  Falling Libyan crude production bolstered prices for
comparable low-density, low-sulfur grades. Saudi Arabia
developed two blends to offset the Libyan shortfall.  Nigeria ’s Bonny Light crude, a grade with similar
properties to the missing Libyan barrels, has surged 30 percent
this year and touched $130.13 on April 8, the highest level
since July 22, 2008. The grade slipped 8 cents to $125.60 a
barrel at 3:09 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If Saudi Arabia is cutting back on anything, they’ve cut
back on those blends,” said Amrita Sen, a commodities analyst
at Barclays in  London .  Prices have advanced 18 percent this year as unrest spread
from  Tunisia  to  Egypt , Libya, Yemen, Bahrain and  Syria . Libya
has been effectively split in two since the early stages of the
two-month conflict that has halted the country’s oil exports.  “There’s very little downside risk in the market given the
geopolitical situation in the Middle East,” said  David Kirsch ,
an analyst with PFC Energy in  Washington . “There are structural
problems in the region that can’t be solved in the near term.”  Libyan Air Campaign  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s chief said the
alliance needs more attack jets to target Libyan ground forces,
putting pressure on the U.S. military to step back into the air
campaign against Muammar Qaddafi’s troops.  “We need a few more precision-fighter ground-attack
aircraft for air-to-ground missions,” NATO Secretary General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen said today at a meeting of the group’s 28
foreign ministers and leaders from other allied nations in
Berlin. The call for more alliance warplanes comes 10 days after
the U.S. largely withdrew its ground attack planes from  Libya .  Elections in Nigeria this month may lead to decreased
output from  Africa ’s top crude-producing country. Attacks by
armed groups in the Niger delta region, home to Nigeria’s oil
and gas industry, cut more than 28 percent of the country’s oil
output between 2006 and 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  “The geopolitical situation is getting worse,” said Ray Carbone, president of Paramount Options Inc., a broker on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . “The Saudis cut production,
there’s problems in Nigeria and sweet crude is diminishing.”  U.S. Economic Data  Oil also increased after the dollar dropped as U.S. initial
jobless claims rose and producer prices advanced at a slower
pace, signaling the  Federal Reserve  will keep borrowing costs
low. A falling U.S. currency increases the appeal of raw
materials priced in dollars. The greenback dropped as much as
0.5 percent to $1.4515 per euro.  “Oil rose as soon as the dollar dropped,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston.
“Today’s economic data makes it less likely that the Fed will
raise rates, which is weakening the dollar.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 701,989
contracts as of 3:13 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 1.03
million contracts yesterday, 29 percent above the average of the
past three months. Open interest was 1.59 million contracts the
most since March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 