-- 
Tokyo Apartments Put Up for Sales May Drop 25%

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-04-14T05:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/tokyo-march-condominiums-put-up-for-sale-unchanged-correct-.html
(Corrects the name of Mitsui Fudosan’s official in 9th
paragraph.)  The number of condominiums offered
for sale in Tokyo and surrounding areas may drop 25 percent in
April as developers withhold sales of some projects after
Japan’s strongest earthquake on record, a researcher said.  A total of 2,400 new condominiums are scheduled to be put
up for sale in April, compared with the 3,214 units sold a year
ago,  the Real Estate Economic Research Institute  said in a
report released today. The last time April had a lower supply
was in 1992 when 1,365 units were sold, according to Akio Fukuda,
a manager at the institute.  Developers including  Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc. (3231)  have
held back sales on concerns that demand will decline after a
magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing Tsunami on March 11 crippled
a nuclear plant in Fukushima Prefecture, about 220 kilometers
(135 miles) north of Tokyo.  “Apartment sales will be sluggish and it’s hard to tell
when a recovery will take place at the moment,” said Mikio Namiki, an analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “With
relatively big aftershocks and radiation leaks continuing, no
one would be interested in buying a home now.”  In March, number of sales remained flat from a year ago,
driven by an increase in Kanagawa prefecture, the report said.  Sales of apartments including at the 555-unit Inagekaigan
and the 52-story Shinonome Tower with 600 units that were
scheduled to start in March have been postponed until May, said
Yoichiro Ishikawa, a spokesman for Nomura Real Estate,  Japan ’s
fifth-largest developer.  ‘Not Good Time’  The delay in sales is due to concerns about home buyers’
sentiment following the disaster and possibilities of later
completion dates because of a shortage in building materials, he
said. The Inagekaigan apartment was scheduled to be completed by
January 2012, while Shinonome Tower was set to be built by the
end of next year.  “This is not a good time to introduce new apartments,”
Ishikawa said, adding that only “a few” customers came to sign
the contracts for new apartments after the earthquake.  Mitsui Fudosan Co., Japan’s largest developer, is also
predicting a delay to complete some of its apartment projects
because of a lag in building materials, according to Hideaki
Yamakawa, a spokesman at the company.  “Some deliveries of materials may be delayed because of
the earthquake,” Yamakawa said in an e-mail. “The impact on
completion schedules varies from project to project.”  The damage has turned parts of reclaimed land in  Tokyo  Bay
area into mud, a phenomenon known as liquefaction, where soil
loses its strength after violent shaking.  At Tokyo Tatemono Co., which has about three condominium
projects near Tokyo Bay, a total of 10 sales centers were closed
from March 19 after the rolling blackouts and five of home
centers were reopened a week later, the company said in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  