-- 
London Police Arrest Third Man in Tabloid Phone-Hack Probe

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-14T16:43:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/london-police-arrest-third-man-in-tabloid-phone-hack-probe-3-.html
London  police arrested  News of the
World  reporter James Weatherup as part of an expanded probe into
phone hacking by reporters at the Rupert Murdoch-owned
newspaper, a person familiar with the situation said.  The Metropolitan police said in a statement they arrested a
man in connection with their phone-hacking probe at 8 a.m.
today. The man, who the police didn’t identify, has now been
released on bail, according to a separate statement.  Weatherup was formerly an assistant news editor at the
tabloid, said the person who declined to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to disclose the information. He is the
third person arrested in the probe this month.  Last week police arrested Ian Edmondson, a former news
editor at the tabloid who was fired in January, and Neville
Thurlbeck, the paper’s chief reporter. U.K. police reopened the
case for the third time after more than a dozen civil lawsuits
were filed by alleged victims of the hacking and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
U.K. unit gave “significant new information” to investigators.  “This arrest seems to be an unexpected one,” Chris
Goodall, an analyst at  Enders Analysis , said in a telephone
interview. “This guy hadn’t been mentioned before, which
suggests that everybody in the senior ranks in the News of the
World in the last decade will be nervously looking behind
them.”  Royal Household  News of the World has been dogged by allegations reporters
listened to private voice-mail messages for stories since a
former editor and a private investigator were jailed in 2007 for
hacking the mobile phones of members of the royal household.
Former News of the World Editor Andy Coulson resigned as Prime
Minister David Cameron’s head of communications in January over
claims hacking took place while he worked at the paper.  Glenn Mulcaire , the private investigator, in 2006 admitted
to five other counts of phone hacking relating to soccer
executive Gordon Taylor, soccer agent Sky Andrew, publicist Max Clifford, model Elle Macpherson, soccer player Sol Campbell and
lawmaker Simon Hughes.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for  News Corp. (NWS) ’s U.K. unit,
declined to comment. Weatherup didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment. News of the World spokesman Chris
Pragnell declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Lumley in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net . 