-- 
Hong Kong Land Sales Plan Is Aimed at Curbing Prices, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-04-14T02:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/hong-kong-land-sales-plan-means-government-will-use-auctions-to-curb-boom.html
Hong Kong’s planned  sale  of nine
residential sites in the second quarter signals the government
will use more regular land auctions to help curb a two-year
surge in housing prices, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  The government will sell a site on April 27, its first
auction since November, and another three on May 12, according
to a Lands Department statement yesterday. It’s also considering
announcing its land sale schedule at the beginning of each
quarter, Financial Secretary John Tsang told lawmakers at the
Legislative Council yesterday.  Housing prices in the city, ranked the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home by  Savills Plc (SVS) , have gained more
than 65 percent in the past two years on record-low  mortgage
rates  and an influx of buyers from  China . The government in
November increased property transaction taxes and pledged to
boost land supply amid public protest that housing prices are
becoming un-affordable and as the central bank warned about the
risk of a “credit-fueled property bubble.”  “The government has effectively resumed regular auction to
regain control over the pace of land supply,” Credit Suisse
analysts Cusson Leung and Joyce Kwock wrote in a note yesterday.
“The determination to increase land supply is shown.”  The nine sites being sold this quarter will generate 2,650
new units, Tsang said.  Most government  land sales  in recent years have been done
through the so-called application system where developers’
proposals to buy the sites trigger the auction. That system was
put in place in 2002 to support falling home prices triggered by
the Asian financial crisis that started in 1997. Government-
initiated land auctions were partially resumed last year.  Slow Down Prices  Hong Kong  may auction as many as 52 plots of land this
year, Tsang said in his Feb. 23 budget speech. The land could
yield 16,000 units, almost 80 percent more than from land sold
last year.  “What they are doing is trying to slow down price
growth,” said Wong Leung-sing, research director at Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely-held realtor.
“There’s still a long way to go before prices will start
falling and I’m not sure that is something the government wants
to see.”  Hong Kong’s housing prices have surged more than 65 percent
since the beginning of 2009 to the highest since 1997, according
to an index compiled by Centaline. The city’s government, which
doesn’t have an independent interest-rate policy because of a
currency pegged to the  U.S. dollar , has kept its  base rate  at
the record-low of 0.5 percent since December 2008.  London   Hong Kong is 55 percent more expensive than London to buy a
home, Savills said in a report in January.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the city’s seven
biggest developers, rose 0.6 percent yesterday. Tsang announced
the land sale plan before the market closed. The measure dropped
0.7 percent as of 10:05 a.m. in Hong Kong, paring the gain this
year to 2.3 percent, compared with the 4.8 percent advance in
the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The three sites up on sale in May are located on Stubbs
Road on  Hong Kong Island , Begonia Road in the Kowloon Tong area
and Ngau Tam Mei in the  Yuen Long  district, according to the
government  statement .  It will also begin tender for two sites in Hung Hom on
April 29 and another one in the Tung Chung district in June,
when it will auction two more sites, with one each on Hong Kong
Island and in Yuen Long.  ‘Spark Keen Interest’  The sites on Hong Kong Island and Kowloon Tong “should
spark keen interest from developers as the future land supply
for these location is expected to be limited,” the Credit
Suisse analysts said. “These sites’ auction is likely to drive
a short wave of positive sentiment in the market.”  Of the 2,650 new units from the land sale this quarter, 70
percent are earmarked for smaller and medium-sized apartments,
Tsang said.  A group of Hong Kong activists went on a three-day protest
from April 8 to 10 outside the headquarters of  Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd. (1) , the builder controlled by billionaire Li Ka-
shing, to protest against the government’s land policy and the
practice of developers, Apple Daily reported.  The city will also sell three other sites for commercial
use through tender during this quarter, Tsang said yesterday.
The government later announced tenders for a site earmarked for
businesses in the Kwun Tong district and another designated for
a hotel on Queen’s Road East on Hong Kong Island.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  