-- 
Orchard Brands Retailer Unit Wins Approval of Reorganization Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-04-14T22:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/orchard-brands-unit-wins-court-approval-of-reorganization-plan.html
A unit of  Golden Gate  Capital
Corp.’s Orchard Brands won court approval of a restructuring
plan that will eliminate more than $400 million in debt.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross approved Appleseed’s
Intermediate Holdings LLC plan at a hearing today in Wilmington,
 Delaware . Gross said the reorganization “really is an excellent
result,” and that “all or most of the 4,000 jobs will be
preserved.”  Orchard Brands, which didn’t file for bankruptcy, sells
clothing and home products to women and men under 17 brands such
as Gold Violin, Haband and  Norm Thompson . The Beverly,
Massachusetts-based company also operates stores under its
Appleseed’s and Draper’s & Damon’s brands.  “Our approved plan, which reduces our debt by over half
and gives us access to significant new capital, will enable
Orchard Brands to emerge from this process with a financial
structure that firmly positions us for long-term success,”
Neale Attenborough, Orchard Brands’ chief executive officer,
said today in a statement.  The clothing retailer, whose products target customers 55
and older, listed as much $1 billion in debt and as much as
$500 million in assets in Chapter 11 documents. The company has
about $725 million in funded debt.  Turnaround Plan  Appleseed’s plans to exit bankruptcy before the end of
April, according to the statement. The company will use a
$90 million loan from PNC Bank NA to make certain payments in
its turnaround plan and help fund its operation once it exits
court protection. Appleseed’s also will take on the name Orchard
Brands Corp.  The plan, which had lenders’ support prior to the
bankruptcy filing, “eliminates more than $400 million in
indebtedness,” Joshua A. Sussberg, a lawyer for Appleseed’s,
told Gross.  Lenders with a first-priority of repayment are owed about
$324.1 million and will convert their debt into 95 percent of
the reorganized company’s equity and about $243 million in new
loans, according to the plan. Lenders with a secondary priority
of repayment are owed about $289.3 million and will get the
remaining 5 percent of the equity.  Potential Litigation  Unsecured creditors will share in a trust that will pursue
potential litigation. The trust would be funded with $2.5
million, with the first $1 million available for investigations
or to distribute among unsecured creditors.  The remaining $1.5 million would be used for lawsuits. The
trust may investigate and pursue a lawsuit against certain
parties involved in the acquisition of the Blair Corp. in 2007,
including Golden Gate, which received a portion of a
$320 million special dividend as part of that transaction. The
reorganized company would also share in any recovery from the
lawsuits.  The amount creditors can seek from Golden Gate is limited
to the amount of the dividend they received. Golden Gate, a San
Francisco-based private-equity firm that manages about
$9 billion in capital, acquired Orchard Brands in 2005.  The case is In re Appleseed’s Intermediate Holdings LLC,
11-10160,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 