-- 
Mortgage Servicers Settle, Insider Trading, FDIC: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-04-14T11:35:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/mortgage-servicers-settle-insider-trading-fdic-compliance.html
The 14 largest U.S. mortgage
servicers must pay back homeowners for losses from foreclosures
or loans that were mishandled in the wake of the housing
collapse, according to consent decrees released yesterday.  The banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Wells Fargo &
Co., agreed in the settlement to conduct a review of all loans
that went into foreclosure in 2009 and 2010. They also agreed to
improve their foreclosure, loan modification and refinancing
procedures by hiring staff, upgrading document-tracking systems,
assigning a single point of contact for each borrower and
policing lawyers and vendors.  The companies also agreed to end the practice of dual-track
foreclosures, in which servicers seize the homes of delinquent
borrowers even while negotiating lower mortgage payments.  While the settlements didn’t include any fines, regulators
say they will be imposed at a later date.  “There will be civil money penalties,” acting Comptroller
of the Currency John Walsh told reporters in a conference call.
“The issue is time and amount.”  The agreements could also help the U.S. Justice Department,
which, along with several state attorneys general, is
negotiating a global settlement with the largest mortgage
servicers. According to Associate Attorney General Tom Perrelli
who is leading the efforts, the parties met yesterday to discuss
potential fines. Also at issue is whether servicers should be
required to reduce the amount owed on some home loans.  “This has been a very broad interagency effort,” Perrilli
told reporters. “The best possible resolution for consumers,
for all government entities, is a fully coordinated
resolution.” Yesterday’s consent decrees address only a
“subset” of issues with mortgage servicers, Perrelli said.  Compliance Action  FrontPoint Partners’ Skowron Charged With Securities Fraud  FrontPoint Partners LLC portfolio manager Joseph “Chip”
Skowron was charged with conspiracy and securities fraud as part
of a U.S. crackdown on so-called expert networkers.  Skowron, 41, of Greenwich, Connecticut, surrendered
yesterday to agents at the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s New
York office, said James Margolin, an FBI spokesman. Information
Skowron obtained from an insider about hepatitis C drug trials
enabled his fund to avoid more than $30 million in losses,
prosecutors said.  Skowron is linked to the case brought in November by U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission against Dr. Yves Benhamou, an expert in
hepatitis drugs and a former adviser for Human Genome Sciences
Inc., prosecutors said.  Benhamou acted as a paid consultant to hedge funds while
working as an adviser to HGSI and serving on its steering
committee for Albuferon trials, the U.S. said.  The U.S. alleged that Benhamou shared inside information
with an unidentified co-conspirator at a hedge fund. The U.S.
yesterday identified Skowron and FrontPoint as the recipients of
Benhamou’s tips, court papers said. Skowron provided benefits to
Benhamou, including paying him more than $14,600 in cash as well
as other gratuities such as hotel rooms and expenses, the U.S.
said.  The SEC yesterday separately accused Skowron of insider
trading. Six hedge funds previously named as defendants in the
case agreed to settle and pay more than $33 million in
disgorgement and interest, without admitting or denying
wrongdoing, the SEC said.  Benhamou, of Neuilly-sur-Seine, France, pleaded guilty
April 11 before U.S. District Judge George Daniels in New York,
said Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office. He has
agreed to cooperate with prosecutors, according to a plea
agreement unsealed yesterday. He was originally arrested and
charged by Bharara’s office with insider trading on Nov. 2.  Benhamou pleaded guilty to four counts, including
conspiracy, securities fraud, conspiracy to obstruct justice and
making false statements to the FBI during their investigation of
the expert-networking scheme. Securities fraud carries a term of
as long as 20 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-MAG-997, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  FDIC Settles Dispute Over Executive Documents From Failed Banks  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. settled a lawsuit filed
by a law firm representing former executives at four failed
banks over bank files. The executives said they need access to
the documents to defend against possible fraud claims.  A federal court in Atlanta on April 12 dismissed McKenna
Long & Aldridge LLP’s lawsuit against the FDIC after both
parties requested the case be closed. McKenna Long sued in
November after the FDIC demanded the law firm return records it
received from its clients before the banks collapsed.  “I think the FDIC understands it is reasonable for bank
officers and directors to have some access to documents,” said
David L. Balser of McKenna Long in Atlanta. He declined to say
in an interview how the suit was resolved.  The FDIC has a pending complaint against Bryan Cave LLP,
alleging the St. Louis-based law firm broke federal privacy laws
and Kansas trade secret laws by acquiring bank files while
representing executives at Hillcrest Bank in Overland Park,
Kansas. A federal judge in Atlanta is considering whether to end
the case without a trial.  The FDIC said the records sent to Bryan Cave’s Atlanta
office included customer information, as well as financial
statements, business plans, and “confidential information
relating to the FDIC’s regulatory activities,” according to
court papers.  FDIC spokesman David Barr declined to comment on the
matter.  The cases are McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP v. FDIC, 10-
cv-3779, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia
(Atlanta) and FDIC v. Bryan Cave LLP, 10-cv-03666, Northern
District of Georgia (Atlanta).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Insurers Fight AIG Stigma in Bid to Avoid Fed Risk Oversight  Insurance companies are fighting the legacy of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  as they seek to avoid being branded
systemically risky and the extra supervision that comes with
that designation.  Lobbyists representing  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ,
Northbrook, Illinois-based  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  and  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Geico Corp. say the business model for insurers has
little in common with the high-risk derivatives and securities-
lending operations that might have destroyed AIG if it weren’t
for a $182 billion taxpayer-funded bailout.  Their position may clash with the views of the Financial
Stability Oversight Council, a group of regulators charged with
preventing another financial crisis. The council’s staff
suggested in a draft report in February that some insurers may
warrant tougher oversight by the  Federal Reserve  because their
failure could pose a threat to the financial system.  “AIG stood alone, quite unique, relative to other
insurance companies,” John Nadel, an analyst with Atlanta-based
securities firm Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc., said in an interview.
“I don’t think there’s a regulatory body in Washington that
truly understands the unique elements, the arcane and esoteric
elements of the insurance industry.”  MetLife Inc. (MET)  will automatically be subject to increased
supervision because it is a bank holding company with more than
$50 billion in assets. “Enhanced standards” will be applied to
its risk-based capital, liquidity, leverage, wind-down plan and
concentration limits, the New York-based company said in its
annual report in February.  Representatives from the Property Casualty Insurers
Association of America have met with officials from the Fed,
Treasury, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and other agencies in
an effort to convince regulators that insurers shouldn’t be
treated like banks and pose no threat to financial stability,
said David Sampson, the group’s chief executive officer.  For more, click here.  Companies Can Argue Systemic-Risk Designation, Treasury Says  Financial companies under consideration for Federal Reserve
oversight will get a chance to convince a council of regulators
they don’t warrant the extra supervision, a U.S. Treasury
Department official said.  “A company under consideration will have the opportunity
to submit written materials to the council on whether, in the
company’s view, it meets the standard for designation” as
systemically risky, Jeffrey Goldstein, undersecretary for
domestic finance, said in testimony prepared for a congressional
hearing today. The council’s decisions will ultimately be
subject to review by a judge, he said.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators charged with preventing a financial crisis, will
evaluate information submitted by the company before voting on
whether to subject it to heightened scrutiny, Goldstein said.
His prepared testimony before a House Financial Services
Committee panel was obtained by Bloomberg News.  U.S. bank-holding companies with more than $50 billion in
assets -- including JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  -- will
automatically have increased supervision. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, a council member, said last month that regulators hope
to start designating some non-bank financial companies by
midyear.  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner is chairman of the
council, which also includes the chairmen of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Treasury Needs Better Review of TARP Legal Bills, Watchdog Says  The U.S. Treasury risks paying too much in legal fees
related to bailouts because it isn’t adequately reviewing bills
from law firms, a government watchdog said.  The Treasury office managing the Troubled Asset Relief
Program needs to “improve controls over the review and payment
of legal fee bills,” according to a report from the Office of
the Special Inspector General for TARP. “Current contracts and
fee-bill review practices create an unacceptable risk that
Treasury, and therefore the American taxpayer, is overpaying for
legal services.”  The special inspector general’s office, or SIGTARP, said it
“found weaknesses” in the Treasury’s contract with law firm
Venable LLP. The contract didn’t include sufficient detail on
how Venable should prepare bills or how to describe tasks within
each bill.  The Treasury “has already taken steps” to implement
recommendations SIGTARP made to improve the review and payment
of legal fees, Timothy Massad, acting assistant secretary for
financial stability, said in a letter released with the report.
The department “has implemented strong and effective processes
in regard to all its contracts, including those for legal
services,” he wrote.  “Venable fully cooperated with SIGTARP’s review,” the law
firm said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We have not had
the opportunity to read the full report. However, we are
confident that Treasury received fair value for the services
that we provided.”  The special inspector general’s office said it analyzed
contracts with five law firms that had received $27 million in
legal fees from the Treasury as of the end of last year.  Higher Energy Taxes, New CO2 Levy Sought by EU Regulators  European Union regulators proposed to raise EU taxes on
fuels including diesel and to introduce an emissions levy on
industries that are spared carbon-dioxide caps, setting up a
potential clash with national governments.  The draft law by the European Commission, the 27-nation
EU’s regulatory arm, aims to spur  energy savings  and the
development of low-emission technologies as part of the fight
against climate change by taxing all fuels in the same way. The
legislation needs the backing of all EU national governments,
any one of which has veto power.  Current European law  sets minimum tax rates for mineral
oils, coal, natural gas and electricity to prevent distortions
of competition between EU countries rather than to promote
environmental goals. Separate EU legislation caps CO2 from power
plants and factories by requiring them to have a permit for each
metric ton they emit and forcing those that discharge more than
their quotas to buy extra allowances.  “Our common goal is a more resource-efficient, greener and
more competitive economy,” EU Taxation Commissioner Algirdas
Semeta said yesterday in Brussels. The proposed emissions tax
would apply to households and such industries as road transport
and agriculture, which would also remain subject to the existing
fuel levies.  The commission under President  Jose Barroso  is using the
battle against global warming to venture into the politically
sensitive area of taxation as the EU tries to contain a debt
crisis that over the past year has forced Greece, Ireland and
Portugal to request emergency aid.  Countries including the U.K. have traditionally opposed EU
powers over taxation, saying this is a matter for national
authorities and defending low rates. Opposition may also come
from cash-strapped euro nations whose economic outlook has been
clouded by the European Central Bank’s decision last week to
raise  interest rates  for the first time in almost three years.  For more, click here.  Appeals  Visa Loses EU Court Appeal Over Fine for Barring  Morgan Stanley (MS)   Visa Inc., the world’s biggest electronic-payments network,
and Visa Europe Ltd. lost an appeal of a 10.2 million-euro
($14.8 million) European Union fine for blocking competition.  The  EU General Court , the 27-nation region’s second-highest
tribunal, today upheld the fine for blocking Morgan Stanley from
offering card services, rejecting all arguments by Visa.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator,
fined Visa in October 2007 for barring Morgan Stanley from its
system because the securities firm owned the competing Discover
card in the U.S.  While Visa had settled the dispute with Morgan Stanley in
2006, the commission continued its probe. It said the fine was
justified because Visa blocked Morgan Stanley for two years
after getting a formal EU charge sheet in 2004.  Visa Europe split from  Visa Inc. (V)  before the U.S. card
company’s initial public offering in early 2008. Visa Europe
said it was “disappointed” with the decision and the finding
that competition law had been infringed.  “The dispute with Morgan Stanley which led to the case was
settled nearly five years ago -- in 2006 -- and the complaint
was withdrawn at the time, although the commission continued
with the case, which has ultimately led to today’s outcome,”
the company said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is T-461/07, Visa Europe and Visa International
Service v. European Commission.  New Lawsuits  American Sues Travelport, Orbitz as Ticket Dispute Expands  American Airlines sued Travelport Ltd. to stop what it
called anticompetitive behavior and retaliation against the
carrier for a push to use its own technology to distribute fares
and schedules to travel agents.  The legal action expands a dispute between  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
American and global distribution systems that compile fare and
schedule data from various airlines and distribute them to
travel agents. American wants to bypass those companies,
including units of Travelport and Sabre Holdings Corp., and
substitute its proprietary technology.  “Travelport, Orbitz and other industry participants have
undertaken attacks against American that have been swift and
punitive,” said the lawsuit, which was filed April 12 in
federal court in Fort Worth, Texas.  The lawsuit against Travelport and its  Orbitz Worldwide
Inc. (OWW)  affiliate seeks triple the airline’s actual damages as well
as punitive damages to be determined at trial. More than $2.7
billion in sales were booked through Travelport’s global
distribution systems in the past year, the lawsuit said.
American had $16.8 billion in passenger revenue in 2010.  American said on April 4 it reached a tentative agreement
with Expedia Inc. that would allow the online travel agency and
its Hotwire unit immediately to resume selling the airline’s
tickets, resolving a dispute that started in December. American
remains in talks with Sabre after the two earlier agreed to
freeze a lawsuit over the matter.  American’s Direct Connect system would limit consumer
choices and ability to compare fares among carriers, Chicago-
based Orbitz said in a statement, which called the claims
“baseless.”  Travelport, which sued American Airlines in November to
block the carrier from terminating Orbitz’s ability to sell
tickets on the airline’s flights, said it would vigorously
defend the suit.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Travelport Ltd.,
Travelport LP and Orbitz Worldwide LLC, 4-11-cv-00244-Y,
Northern District of Texas (Fort Worth).  Speeches/Interviews  CFTC Needs New Division for Dodd-Frank Rules, O’Malia Says  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission needs a new
division to analyze and collect data under mandates from the
Dodd-Frank financial overhaul passed last year, Commissioner
 Scott O’Malia  said.  “I have a plan to reorganize the commission to make it
ready to adapt to the Dodd-Frank responsibilities,” O’Malia
said at a Futures Industry Association conference in New York.
The Division of Market Data Collection and Analysis would
include developing algorithms “to keep pace” with computer-
based trading in futures markets, he said.  The CFTC and the Securities and Exchange Commission are
writing rules for the $583 trillion over-the-counter derivatives
market after it contributed to the financial crisis. The new
regulations mandate that most interest-rate, credit-default and
other swaps be processed by a clearinghouse and traded on
exchanges or similar systems. Data on every swap traded, whether
cleared or not, must be reported to the CFTC.  The commission is too reliant on exchanges it regulates
such as Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME)  for data showing market
activity, O’Malia said.  “This is unacceptable. We have to develop our own
analytical capabilities,” he said. “Data is a very dry topic,
but it is the foundation” of what the CFTC does to police
derivatives markets, he said.  The four other commissioners have received his re-
organization idea “pretty well,” O’Malia said. The expansion
wouldn’t mean the hiring of hundreds of new employees and would
try to unify different parts of the commission such as
enforcement and market surveillance, he said.  “This has to happen nearly immediately,” he said.  The commission may create a swaps division as well, though
O’Malia said he had some concerns about that.  “Futures clearing and swaps clearing should be together”
and not separated in different parts of the commission, he said.  EU Laws Shouldn’t Force High-Frequency Trade Slowdown, FSA Says  An overhaul of regulations by European Union lawmakers
shouldn’t force high-frequency traders to slow down, the U.K.’s
 Financial Services Authority  said.  The FSA “does not believe that the case has been made to
require orders to rest on the book for a minimum period of
time,” David Lawton, the FSA’s director for market
infrastructure, said in a speech in London yesterday, referring
to how long an offer to buy or sell must be maintained before it
can be retracted.  The  European Commission , the EU’s executive arm, is
reviewing the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or
Mifid, following the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. The commission will present final proposals to
regulate securities trading as soon as July for discussion by
the European Parliament and the 27 member states.  “The existing evidence is inconclusive about the wider
impact of high-frequency trading on market efficiency,” Lawton
said.  High-frequency trading is used in strategies from
electronic market making to statistical arbitrage and
proprietary algorithms where how fast a trade is executed may be
critical to profitability.  The commission in December sought views on plans to
regulate high-frequency traders. The proposals may include
limits on the number of orders traders can place, as well as
requiring them to tell regulators how their computer algorithms
work.  “There is a clear need to understand better the impact of
trends in automated trading as the basis for forming any
policy,” Lawton said.  Dodd-Frank Swaps Rules Help the ‘Real Economy,’ Gensler Says  Regulation of the $583 trillion over-the-counter
derivatives market will “bring tangible benefits to the real
economy,”  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, said yesterday in New York.  “It is essential that we have comprehensive oversight of
these markets to protect and benefit both end-users of
derivatives and the broader American public,” Gensler said at a
conference sponsored by the Levy Economics Institute of Bard
College.  The Dodd-Frank Act, approved last July, directs the CFTC
and the Securities and Exchange Commission to write rules
governing the derivatives market. The law was meant to reduce
risk and increase transparency after unregulated swaps trading
exacerbated the 2008 financial crisis.  The agency is tasked with setting margin requirements to
secure trades against default, impose restrictions on the number
of contracts a single firm can hold in commodities such as wheat
and oil, and increase transparency by ordering that most
standardized trades be guaranteed by clearinghouses and traded
on exchanges or swap-execution facilities.  “Derivatives markets and effective oversight of those
markets matters to corporations, farmers, homeowners and small
businesses,” Gensler said. “The recent increases in commodity
prices highlight the need for effective oversight that promotes
fair and orderly derivatives markets.”  Gensler has said the commission will finish some rules
after the mid-July deadlines required under Dodd-Frank.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to commodities, stocks, bonds, interest rates or events, such as
the default of a company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 