-- 
Toshiba Rises After President Says Profit May Beat Forecast

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-04-14T10:23:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/toshiba-shares-rise-after-president-says-net-income-may-exceed-forecast.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , Japan’s biggest
maker of nuclear reactors, rose to the highest level in 10 days
in Tokyo trading after President Norio Sasaki said the company
may beat its profit forecast.  Net income for the year ended March 31 may exceed Toshiba’s
January estimate, he told reporters today in Tokyo, declining to
elaborate. The stock reversed losses earlier in the day to close
trading at 404 yen, a jump of 2 percent. The benchmark  Nikkei
225 (NKY)  Average Index gained 0.1 percent.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, which forced
manufacturers including Toshiba to shutter factories, will have
a limited impact on earnings for the fiscal year just ended,
Sasaki said. The company, which helped build reactors at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station that was damaged by the
disaster, is sticking with its goal of winning 39 reactor orders
by 2015, he said.  “Damages from the Fukushima disaster are probably not as
bad as people had expected,” said  David Rubenstein , a Tokyo-
based analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd., who rates the
stock “buy.”  Toshiba said in January it expected full-year net income of
100 billion yen ($1.2 billion), compared with a loss of 19.7
billion yen a year earlier. Revenue and operating profit may
fall short of Toshiba’s January estimates, Sasaki said today.  Toshiba is expected to report net income of 94.2 billion
yen for the year ended March 31, according to estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. The company is set to announce its earnings
outlook for the fiscal year 2011 on May 9.  Reactor Orders  Clients Toshiba approached haven’t canceled their plans to
build nuclear reactors, the president said.  “There are possibilities that regulation, or design, will
change in each nation. Even if we are to secure 39 contracts,
there can still be delays in groundbreaking,” he said.  Toshiba may delay its target of generating 1 trillion yen
in annual revenue from nuclear power plant sales by 2015, Sasaki
said. The company had aimed to clear the sales target as early
as 2014, he said.  “We need more time to figure out whether we can clear the
target in 2015 or 2016, or it needs to be rescheduled further.”  The reactor maker may find it harder to win new contracts
after  Japan ’s record earthquake and tsunami crippled the Dai-
Ichi plant. Blasts and radiation leaks at the power station,
located about 220 kilometers (135 miles) north of Tokyo, led to
the evacuation of hundreds of thousands of inhabitants.  The 40-year-old power plant, equipped with six reactors,
had its power and back-up generators knocked out by the tsunami
that followed the 9-magnitude earthquake. A lack of power to
cool reactors led to explosions and radiation leaks.  Rules for nuclear power stations need to be modified to
require stronger protection against tsunamis, Sasaki said today.  The world’s second-largest maker of flash-memory chips is
facing shortages of parts that may affect earnings during the
six months to Sept. 30, Sasaki said. Negotiations with
alternative suppliers “have progressed significantly” and
Toshiba won’t likely have a big procurement problem, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  