-- 
U.S. Senate Kills House Bills Targeting Health Law, Planned Parenthood

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-15T04:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/house-votes-to-defund-health-care-law-planned-parenthood-1-.html
The Democratic-run  U.S. Senate 
defeated measures approved by the Republican-run House to bar
spending government funds for the health-care overhaul
law and Planned Parenthood.  The House voted 241-185 to stop federal funding for Planned
Parenthood, which provides contraception and abortion services.
The legislation was voted down in the Senate, 42-58, with five
Republicans joining the 53 members of the chamber’s Democratic
caucus to oppose it.  The House vote to deny funding for the health-care law that
President  Barack Obama  pushed through Congress last year was
240-185. The Senate rejected the measure 53-47 on a straight
party-line vote.  The votes in both chambers were held yesterday as part of
the budget agreement reached last week to finance the government
operations through the Sept. 30 end of the 2011 fiscal year. The
separate budget measure, with spending cuts of $38.5 billion,
cleared both chambers and will become law with Obama’s
signature.  House Republicans , who in January passed a measure to
repeal the health-care law that is unlikely to come up for a
Senate vote, said they were satisfied that senators were
required to go on the record on the defunding issue.  Vote Owed Public  “This is a vote that the American public has called for,
and a vote that we owe the American public,” Representative
Rodney Alexander, a Louisiana Republican, said during
yesterday’s House debate on the health-care measure.  Representative Rosa DeLauro, a Connecticut Democrat, said
the defunding proposal would “take away the consumer
protections” of the health-care law and “put insurance
companies back in charge.”  The defunding provisions for the health-care law and
Planned Parenthood were included in a budget bill the House
passed in February that called for $61 billion in spending cuts
this fiscal year. Republicans sought the Planned Parenthood
provision because the organization provides abortion services
along with other medical care, such as cancer screenings and
tests for sexually transmitted diseases.  Obama’s Agreement  Obama insisted that neither provision be included in the
compromise budget bill with the $38.5 billion in spending cuts
that he negotiated with House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican. The president did agree to the separate votes on the
measures, as did Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat.  In yesterday’s House votes, three Democrats broke with
their party to support defunding the health-care law, while
seven Republicans split with their caucus to oppose blocking
funding for Planned Parenthood.  Republicans voting against the Planned Parenthood
legislation in the Senate were  Scott Brown  of  Massachusetts ,
 Mark Kirk  of  Illinois ,  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, and Maine’s
Olympia Snowe and  Susan Collins .  Cecile Richards, Planned Parenthood’s president, hailed the
Senate action. In a statement, she said “this extreme
proposal” that “would have denied some family planning” and
produced more unplanned pregnancies “was rightly rejected by
Democrats and Republicans.”  Republican Argument  Federal law bars the expenditure of government money for
abortions except under specific circumstances, such as to save a
woman’s life. Republicans argued that providing funding to
Planned Parenthood frees up other money that the organization
can use for its abortion services.  Planned Parenthood affiliates received $363 million in
government grants or contracts in the 2009 fiscal year,
according to the organization’s 2008-2009  annual report.   DeLauro said that 75 percent of Planned Parenthood’s 3
million patients who depend on the group’s clinics for basic
health care live at or below the poverty level.  Planned Parenthood “carries out millions of life-
preventing services” each year, DeLauro said. “If this
resolution passes all of those services would be lost,” she
said.  Representative Alan Nunnelee, a Mississippi Republican,
said “it’s morally wrong to have taxpayer dollars” go to
Planned Parenthood, which “has assisted in aborting the lives
of over 5 million children” since 1977.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  