-- 
Congress Approves Spending Bill With $38.5 Billion Cut

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-04-14T21:55:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/house-passes-2011-u-s-spending-bill-with-38-5-billion-cut.html
Congress gave final approval to
legislation cutting  government spending  by $38.5 billion as
lawmakers’ first major battle this year over the federal budget
drew to a close.  The Senate approved the measure, 81-19, and forwarded it
onto President Barack Obama for his signature after it cleared
the House, 260-167. House Republicans needed Democrats to
approve the legislation; it was opposed by 59 Republicans while
81 Democrats supported it. A stopgap bill currently funding the
government expires tonight and, without action, federal agencies
would begin to close.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, urged his
colleagues to back the legislation to implement the budget deal
worked out last week among himself, Obama and Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.  “Is it perfect? No,” Boehner said. “I’d be the first one
to admit that it’s flawed. Well, welcome to divided
government.”  Many of his Republican colleagues were unhappy after a
Congressional Budget Office  report  said the bill would cut this
year’s deficit by only $352 million. Most of the savings
wouldn’t take effect until the next fiscal year, which begins
Oct. 1.  ‘Total Nonsense’  The agency also concluded that some of the money lawmakers
took from program budgets wouldn’t have been spent anyway, so it
wouldn’t have any effect on the deficit. Boehner today rejected
complaints of budget gimmicks as “total nonsense -- a cut is a
cut.”  A $61 billion budget-cutting measure approved in February
by the House would have cut $9 billion from this year’s $1.4
trillion deficit, according to CBO, with additional savings in
subsequent years.  Top House Democrats split on today’s vote. House Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , Assistant Leader James Clyburn of South Carolina and Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson of  Connecticut  voting against it, while Democratic Whip
Steny Hoyer of  Maryland  voted for it.  Planned Parenthood  As part of the budget deal, lawmakers agreed to hold
separate votes on Republican-backed provisions to bar federal
funding for Planned Parenthood, which among its services
provides abortion, and to defund the administration’s health-
care overhaul. Both cleared the House today before being
defeated in the Senate.  Republicans and the Obama administration already are
beginning the next fiscal dispute over the need to raise the
nation’s debt limit. The Treasury Department predicts that the
government the legal cap on borrowing by May 16. Republicans
have said they will lifting the cap without commitments from
Obama for more steps to rein in spending  A fight over the 2012 budget also looms, with Democrats
opposing a plan by Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican who chairs the House Budget Committee, that would cut
$6 trillion over 10 years and phase out the traditional Medicare
program for seniors.  Obama and congressional leaders agreed on today’s
legislation just hours before the government’s spending
authority was set to expire April 8. Democrats thwarted many of
the Republicans’ proposed cuts, securing funding for  National
Public Radio , the AmeriCorps volunteer program, public financing
of presidential campaigns and other programs that had been
targeted for elimination.  Smaller Cuts  Pell grants for college students, the  Peace Corps  and the
National Endowment for the Arts will receive much smaller cuts
than Republicans had sought.  The Environmental Protection Agency would be cut by $1.6
billion. Grants offered through the Clinton administration’s
“Cops” law-enforcement program would drop by 17 percent. The
 National Institutes of Health  would be cut by $260 million.  For all the debate about the deficit in Washington, bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is below the
average of 6.92 percent since 1980 and compares with the average
of 5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Ten-year note yields rose 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point to 3.49 percent at 4:04 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  