-- 
Pakistan Protests U.S. Missile Strikes Near Border as Ties With CIA Sour

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-04-14T04:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/pakistan-protests-latest-u-s-missile-strike-as-tensions-with-cia-increase.html
Pakistan  protested the latest U.S.
missile strike on targets near its border with  Afghanistan ,
saying the Central Intelligence Agency’s use of drone aircraft
has become “a core irritant” in the war against militants.  “These attacks are creating a lot of problems for us,”
Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  said late yesterday during a
speech in the National Assembly. “The U.S. will have to stop
these attacks. We are trying through our common friends to
convince them.”  Yesterday’s strike in South Waziristan district was the
first since Pakistan’s intelligence chief, army Lieutenant
General Ahmed Shuja Pasha, pressed the U.S. for changes in
attacks by pilotless aircraft and other CIA activities in
Pakistan during meetings April 11 in  Washington , according to
unidentified U.S. and Pakistani officials cited by the New York
Times.  Tensions between the CIA and Pakistan’s Inter-Services
Intelligence Directorate, or ISI, have risen since Jan. 27, when
a security contractor for the CIA shot and killed two armed
Pakistanis he said were trying to rob him. Raymond Davis,
released March 16 after the payment of compensation to the dead
men’s families and threats by U.S. legislators to halt American
aid, was one of an unconfirmed number of CIA contractors in the
country.  Pakistan’s foreign office said in a statement late
yesterday that it had lodged a protest with the U.S. ambassador
in Islamabad, Cameron Munter.  ‘Strengthen Terrorists’  “Drone attacks have become a core irritant in the counter-
terror campaign,” the statement said. “Such attacks are
counter-productive and only contribute to strengthen the hands
of the terrorists.”  Pakistan’s ISI has seen an increased CIA network in the
country as a threat, said  Talat Masood , a political and security
analyst based in the capital, Islamabad.  For the first time since the two intelligence agencies
joined forces to fight Islamic militant groups, the CIA “is
trying to penetrate into Pakistan and influence events
independently of ISI,” said Masood, a retired army lieutenant
general who maintains contact with senior Pakistani officers.
“This, for ISI, is a break of partnership and breach of
Pakistan sovereignty and breach of confidence,” Masood said in
a phone interview yesterday.  Pasha met with CIA director Leon Panetta and Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, April 11 to
demand that the CIA give the ISI more information about
intelligence operations it has been conducting in Pakistan on
its own, the New York Times said, citing unidentified Pakistani
and U.S. officials.  Al-Qaeda Haven  “ISI wants the CIA to go back to fundamentals and readjust
their strategy,” Masood said of the Pakistani demands. “I
think that will happen because they both need each other. I see
fewer drone attacks right now.”  U.S. government officials refuse to confirm or discuss the
 six-year-old  program of drone attacks in Pakistan, which have
targeted the Taliban, al-Qaeda and allied militants, while also
killing civilians.  Calls by Pakistani politicians to restrict the attacks
intensified after a March 17 strike that Pakistani officials
said killed between 26 and 35 people in the district of North
Waziristan, which the U.S. says is a haven for Taliban and al-
Qaeda militants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  