-- 
Panama Won’t Voluntarily Share Information on Tax Accounts

-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 
2011-04-15T01:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/panama-says-u-s-must-specify-tax-allegations-to-access-accounts.html
Panamanian banks won’t voluntarily
forward clients’ account information to U.S. regulators as they
step up efforts to prosecute alleged tax cheats, Finance Vice-
Minister Frank De Lima said.  U.S. investigators must provide specific allegations of tax
crimes before the Central American country shares information on
its bank customers, he said.  “There will be no fishing expeditions and no automatic
exchange of information,” De Lima said in an interview today in
 Panama  City.  The tax-information exchange agreement was signed by
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Juan Carlos Varela,
Panama’s vice president and foreign affairs minister, in
November and covers information since Nov. 30, 2007. Panama’s
Congress approved the accord yesterday in a bid to clear the way
for a free-trade agreement with the U.S. The nations began
negotiations on a tax-exchange treaty in 2002.  Sandra Salstrom, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Treasury, said
that the “vast majority” of existing tax accords only allow
data to be shared upon request by either country.  “There is no obligation to spontaneously or automatically
exchange tax information,” Salstrom said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The tax accord will allow both nations to exchange
information on bank accounts, a requirement sought by U.S.
lawmakers such as Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat,
before they consider approving the trade agreement.  A pending free-trade accord with South Korea is the biggest
prize for U.S. companies among three deals being pushed by
President  Barack Obama , as trade with that nation topped $87
billion in 2010, compared with $28 billion for Colombia and $6.5
billion for Panama, according to U.S. Census Bureau data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in  San Francisco  at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  