-- 
Petrobras May Seek China Development Bank Loan After Borrowing $10 Billion

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-14T10:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/petrobras-in-talks-for-new-loan-from-china-development-bank.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s
state-run oil company, is in talks with  China  Development Bank
Corp. for a new loan after borrowing $10 billion from the policy
bank in 2009, bank Chairman Chen Yuan said.  Chen told reporters in Sanya, China, that details of any
loan were yet to be agreed. Petrobras needs cash to pay for $224
billion in planned investment through 2014, the largest spending
plan of any oil company, as it seeks to increase oil and
gasoline output. Petrobras Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli accompanied Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff on her
trip to China.  “We are in discussions for the next step of cooperation
but we haven’t discussed how much or what kind of loans at this
stage,” Chen said. “Both sides have expressed their intent and
interest in furthering cooperation.”  China Development Bank ’s 2009 loan to Petrobras committed
the Brazilian company to ship oil to China for 10 years. China,
the world’s biggest energy user, is looking for guaranteed
supplies of oil to fuel its economic growth.  The bank, whose $687.3 billion in total loans outstanding
at the end of last year were more than twice the amount of the
 World Bank ’s, helps carry out Chinese policy goals by lending
money to support the acquisition of energy and to foster the
expansion of Chinese companies abroad.  India , Russia  BRICS nations are among the top beneficiaries. China
Development Bank last year said it would loan India’s Reliance
Communications Ltd. $2 billion to help buy Huawei Technologies
Co. Ltd. communications gear. Russian state-owned energy
companies won $25 billion in financing from the bank in 2009 in
exchange for oil deliveries of 300,000 barrels a day through
2030.  South Africa ’s Standard Bank Group,  Africa ’s biggest lender,
is doing more work with CDB to facilitate loans in Africa, Craig Bond, the company’s Beijing-based China head, said in an
interview yesterday.  Policy lenders from the BRICS nations will cooperate on
finding ways to increase the use of local currencies in loans to
each other, the leaders of the lenders said in Sanya.  “We are actually presented with a rare historical
opportunity in deepening financial cooperation,” Chen said.
“The deepening financial cooperation is really an urgent need
to attain sustainability.”  China Development Bank said today that its loans to the so-
called BRICS nations have reached more than $38 billion,
according to a statement on the lender’s website. The bank
signed an agreement with other development banks to increasingly
use each others’ national currencies when making loans between
BRICS countries.  BRICS countries include China,  Russia , Brazil, India and
South Africa.  --Andre Soliani, Michael Forsythe. Editors: Mark Williams, Peter Hirschberg  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Sanya at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Sanya at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  