-- 
PGS Shares Fall as Earnings Cut by Drop in Seismic Studies

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-04-14T09:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/pgs-shares-fall-as-earnings-cut-by-drop-in-seismic-studies-1-.html
Petroleum Geo-Services ASA (PGS) , the
world’s third-biggest oil and natural-gas field surveyor, said
earnings were hurt by lower data licensing, higher fuel costs
and unrest in North Africa. The shares fell.  Earnings before interest and tax will be about break-even
in the first three months of the year, the Lysaker, Norway-based
company said today in a statement. Yard stays and a weakening
dollar also affected earnings, it said.  The industry has struggled after last year’s Deepwater
Horizon rig explosion and oil spill in the  Gulf of Mexico  and a
now-lifted moratorium on deepwater drilling. Crude prices have
advanced 17 percent this year as unrest spread from Tunisia to
 Egypt ,  Algeria ,  Libya , Yemen, Bahrain and  Syria .  “Should the current oil price level continue throughout
the remainder of the year, PGS’s total fuel cost is estimated to
increase by approximately $35 million compared to the price
level in the fourth quarter of 2010, forming the basis for PGS’s
initial financial guidance for 2011,” according to the
statement.  PGS shares dropped 7.2 percent to 82.1 kroner at 11:13 a.m.
in Oslo, the steepest decline since Nov. 16.  “They are seeing challenges related to fuel costs going
forward,” First Securities ASA analyst Paal Holdo Dahl said by
phone. “I expect that other seismic companies which rely more
on marine gas oil as opposed to heavy fuel are seeing even
bigger problems.” Holdo Dahl has a neutral rating on the stock.  Seismic Studies  PGS’s seismic studies estimate energy reserves in areas
such as the Gulf of Mexico and the  North Sea . It sells some of
the data through non-exclusive, or multiclient, user licenses.  “PGS has seen reduced data licensing activity and
seasonally lower prefunding level in the first quarter of 2011,
with MultiClient revenues ending at about $52 million,” the
company said.  Total revenues for the first quarter were about $240
million, resulting in earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of about $70 million.  The company said that according to a new accounting policy
its full-year earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will be about $500 million, based on current costs
and market prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  