-- 
Plosser Says Fed Should Adopt Inflation Target as Stimulus Exit Approaches

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-04-14T20:21:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/plosser-says-fed-should-adopt-inflation-target-as-stimulus-exit-approaches.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said the U.S. central
bank should set a numerical inflation target to promote  price
stability  as it prepares to withdraw record monetary stimulus.  “The apparent strengthening of the  U.S. economy  suggests
that, in the not-too-distant future, monetary policy will have
to begin reversing course from a very accommodative policy
stance,” Plosser, 62, said today at the annual Hyman P. Minsky
conference in New York, organized by the Levy Economics
Institute of Bard College.  “As we choreograph that exit, I believe that the Fed
should do all it can to underscore its commitment to maintaining
price stability,” said Plosser, who votes this year on the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee .  Plosser has said the central bank should consider removing
record monetary stimulus in 2011 before inflation flares. Last
month he detailed a strategy for an exit, and he has repeatedly
called for the adoption of a numerical target for inflation
since becoming the Philadelphia district bank chief in 2006.  Plosser’s view on stimulus contrasts with comments by Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  and Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President  William Dudley , who suggested this month that the Fed
will complete its planned $600 billion of bond purchases through
June because the economic recovery is still fragile.  Forecast Still Holds  Plosser reiterated in response to questions from reporters
that the Fed may need to exit as soon as this year. The impact
from  Japan ’s tsunami and nuclear disaster is likely to be
“transitory,” and that the forecast for the U.S. economy still
holds, he said.  “If you took most economists’ forecasts looking through
the end of this year and into next year,” and “if that turns
out to be the right forecast,” then the Fed “would have to
act,” Plosser said. Such a policy move may come this year, he
said.  The Fed hasn’t decided on how it will withdraw its stimulus
and policy makers should come up with a plan, Plosser said. “I
put one on the table,” and “a lot of people didn’t like it,
but it was a plan,” he said to reporters, referring to his
March 25 proposal that the central bank set a pace for asset
sales in conjunction with raising  interest rates .  The “prevailing concern” about the economy has swung from
worries that the “U.S. economy was on the verge of a
deflationary spiral” about a year ago, to speculation that
surging commodity prices will cause “higher than desired”
inflation, Plosser said.  ‘Public’s Confidence’  “The swing in views does concern me,” Plosser said. “It
suggests that the public’s confidence in the Federal Reserve’s
commitment to maintain price stability is not as firmly
established as I would like.”  A numerical inflation target would clarify “what the Fed
means by price stability,” make the central bank’s commitment
to its goal “explicit,” and increase “accountability,”
Plosser said.  Opposing an inflation target is “an argument against
commitment,” and “policy makers are loathe to tie their
hands,” Plosser said in response to audience questions. An
inflation goal of 1.5 percent to 2 percent, targeted over a two-
to three-year horizon would be “reasonable,” he said.  ‘Firmer Footing’  The FOMC, which next meets April 26-27 in  Washington , said
in a statement after its last session March 15 that the economy
is on a “firmer footing,” and unanimously affirmed plans to
buy  Treasury securities  through June.  Policy makers were divided over the central bank’s next
steps. A “few” officials said tighter credit may be warranted
this year, while a “few others noted that exceptional policy
accommodation could be appropriate beyond 2011,” minutes of the
meeting released April 5 showed.  By setting an inflation goal, the “Fed can underscore its
commitment to keep inflation low and stable and protect against
a loss of credibility, which, in turn will keep inflation
expectations anchored despite volatile commodity prices,”
Plosser said.  Inflation expectations have climbed since Fed officials
hinted they may embark on the second round of bond purchases
they announced in November.  Inflation-Linked Debt  The breakeven rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the yield difference between the
inflation-linked debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, has
risen to 2.34 percentage points in  New York  from 1.24 percentage
points on Aug. 27, the day Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
suggested additional stimulus might be necessary, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rate is a measure of the outlook for consumer prices
over the life of the securities.  Plosser said that while inflation expectations have been
rising, he’s not “panicked” about them. He also said he
doesn’t expect the end of the Fed’s bond purchase program in
June to have an impact on the rally in commodity prices.  The beginning this month of regular press conferences by
Bernanke probably won’t influence Plosser’s communications with
the public, Plosser said.  “Most of us don’t offer speeches in FOMC week,” and “I
still won’t be inclined to comment” until the following week,
he said. “I don’t think most of us look for opportunities
immediately after: It’s unseemly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  