-- 
Portuguese Trio Joined by Spain's Villarreal in Europa League Semifinals

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-14T22:35:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/portuguese-trio-joined-by-spain-s-villarreal-in-europa-league-semifinals.html
The Portuguese trio of Porto, Braga
and Benfica advanced to the Europa League soccer semifinals,
where they’ll be joined by Spanish club Villarreal.  Porto, the favorite with U.K. bookmakers to win European
soccer’s second-tier competition, beat Spartak Moscow 5-2 last
night for a 10-3 victory over two matches. It was the biggest
quarterfinal aggregate win in the tournament’s history.  Braga’s goalless home draw with  Dynamo Kiev  sent it through
on the away goals rule after the teams finished 1-1. Benfica’s
2-2 tie at  PSV Eindhoven  gave it a 6-3 total win, and Villarreal
completed an 8-2 victory by beating FC Twente 3-1.  Hulk, Cristian Rodriguez, Freddy Guarin, Falcao and Ruben
Micael had the goals in Moscow for 2003 champion Porto, which
has won all seven of its away games in the Europa League this
season. Falcao now has 11 goals to lead the tournament.  Braga knocked out Dynamo Kiev after playing the final 61
minutes with 10 men following Paulo Cesar’s red card for a late
challenge. Braga advanced to its first European semifinal by
virtue of scoring more away goals, after a 1-1 draw in the
opening game.  Dynamo Kiev also finished with 10 men after Goran Popov
received his second yellow card with two minutes remaining.  Braga will play Benfica, which rallied for the away tie at
PSV. Balazs Dzsudzsak and Jeremain Lens scored in the opening 25
minutes for the Dutch side, before Anderson Luisao and Oscar
Cardozo answered for Benfica.  Giuseppe Rossi and Marco Ruben scored with penalty kicks,
and Cani added a late goal to lead Villarreal past  FC Twente  in
the Netherlands. Emir Bajrami scored for Twente, which had
Dwight Tiendalli sent off for a foul that led to Rossi’s spot
kick.  The two-game semifinals will be played April 28 and May 5,
with the final May 18 in Dublin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 