-- 
Pound Climbs as U.K. Confidence Rebounds and Greece Concern Weighs on Euro

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-04-14T16:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/pound-advances-versus-dollar-as-consumer-confidence-rises-from-record-low.html
The pound strengthened against the
dollar as a report showed U.K. consumer confidence rose in March
from a record low, fueling speculation that the central bank may
increase  interest rates .  Sterling appreciated versus the euro and gilts rose after
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece may have
to seek debt restructuring.  Nationwide Building Society ’s index
of sentiment in the U.K. gained to 44 from a revised 39 in
February, which was the lowest since records began in 2004. Data
yesterday showed unemployment fell in Britain, even as those
claiming jobless benefits increased last month.  “There are green shoots of an improvement in confidence,”
said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “There’s an excessive amount of
doom and gloom priced into sterling already.”  The pound strengthened 0.4 percent to $1.6340 at 4:56 p.m.
in  London . It reached $1.6428 on March 8, the most since Jan.
19, 2010. The British currency traded 0.3 percent stronger at
88.47 pence per euro.  U.K. joblessness, as measured by International Labour
Organization methods, slipped to 7.8 percent in the quarter
through February from 7.9 percent in November, the  Office for
National Statistics  said yesterday. Payrolls rose to the highest
in two years in the quarter. Figures this week also showed
inflation was at twice the  Bank of England ’s 2 percent target,
even as it slowed for the first time in eight months.  Rate Increase  Sterling has strengthened 0.3 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which measure the 10
most widely traded currencies. It has trailed the euro’s 3.8
percent gain amid signs that the  European Central Bank  would
raise rates faster than the Bank of England.  Should an audit of Greece in June question the nation’s
ability to repay creditors, the nation would have to negotiate
to ease its debt burden, since creditors can’t be forced to take
losses until  Europe ’s permanent rescue system for the euro
starts up in mid-2013, the Berlin-based Die Welt cited Schaeuble
as saying in comments published today.  The U.K. central bank kept its main rate at 0.5 percent on
April 7, while the ECB increased its main refinancing rate to
1.25 percent from 1 percent. Investors have priced in a 25
basis-point gain in the key U.K. rate by September, according to
forward rates on the sterling overnight interbank average, or
Sonia, compiled by Tullett Prebon Plc.  Gilts Rise  U.K. government bonds rose today as concern about  Greece ’s
finances drove demand for the safest debt, with the 10-year
yield falling two basis points to 3.69 percent. The two-year
yield was also two basis points lower, at 1.24 percent.  “When peripheral yield spreads widen, we tend to see
investment flows into gilts, which are seen as a safe asset
because Britain shows it’s serious about fiscal consolidation,”
said  Matteo Regesta , a senior interest-rate strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in London.  Gilts outperformed their German counterparts this year,
losing investors 0.7 percent since Dec. 31 through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
The German bunds index fell 2.8 percent, while U.S. Treasury
returns were close to zero.  The U.K. sold 2 billion pounds 2040 gilts today, attracting
bids equivalent to 1.68 times the amount on offer. The
securities were sold at an average yield of 4.23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 