-- 
Progressive Profit Climbs 23% to $362.9 Million on Higher Insurance Sales

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-14T13:46:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/progressive-profit-climbs-23-to-362-9-million-on-higher-insurance-sales.html
Progressive Corp. (PGR) , the fourth-
largest U.S. auto insurer, said profit increased 23 percent on
investment gains and rising policy sales to individuals through
the Internet.  First-quarter net income climbed to $362.9 million, or 55
cents a share, from $295.6 million, or 44 cents, a year earlier,
the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based company said today in a
statement. Operating profit, which excludes some investment
results, was 45 cents a share, based on a 35 percent tax rate,
beating by 2 cents the average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Progressive, led by Chief Executive Officer Glenn Renwick,
has gained sales along with  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Geico
business as drivers shun agents and shop online. Auto insurers
are benefiting from an improving U.S. job market that has
boosted car sales and increased demand for coverage.  “There’s more new premium coming into the marketplace,”
 Amit Kumar , an analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd. who rates the
company “neutral,” said before the earnings were announced. If
the economy continues to improve, “more people buy expanded
coverage instead of trying to just buy the basic coverage.”  Progressive slipped 21 cents to $21.20 at 9:44 a.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer gained 7.8
percent in this year through yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, compared with the 1.6 percent advance in the 24-
company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   Book Value  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to
$9.64 a share, compared with  $9.13  on Dec. 31, led by gains in
the company’s portfolio of common stocks. Pretax realized
investment gains advanced to $99.7 million from $30.8 million a
year earlier.  Policy sales rose to $3.9 billion, or 3.2 percent, from
 $3.78 billion  a year earlier. Progressive reports results on a
monthly basis and had already disclosed figures from January and
February.  Progressive’s total personal auto insurance policies
climbed to 11.9 million on March 31, a 5.8 percent increase,
from a year earlier. The gains were led by a 9.6 percent rise in
the number of customers who signed up through direct channels
such as the Internet and telephone.  Progressive and Geico “validate the whole direct-to-the-
consumer model,” Renwick said in a March 3 call with analysts.
“While we will be arch competitors always, we recognize that in
some sense both of the models are producing very successful
results.”  Economic Rebound  The  U.S. economy  added jobs for six consecutive months
through March, with payrolls rising by 478,000 in the first
quarter, according to Labor Department figures. The  unemployment
rate  fell to a two-year low of 8.8 percent.  Auto sales ran at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 13.1
million in the first quarter, the fastest pace since the three
months ending June 2008, according to Autodata Corp.  “The new car replacement cycle is under way and they had
some positive rate filings last year that are starting to work
their way into higher premium prices this year,” said  Mark Dwelle , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , in an interview
before the results were announced. He rates the stock
“outperform” and doesn’t own any.  Progressive had an underwriting profit of 9.7 cents on
every dollar it collected from customers, compared with 9.1
cents a year earlier.  State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. and Northbrook,
Illinois-based  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  are the top two sellers of
personal auto insurance in the U.S., while Berkshire is the
third-largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut@bloomberg.net . 