-- 
ProLogis to Make Bid for PEPR Valuing the Warehouse Owner at $1.7 Billion

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-04-14T16:07:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/prologis-to-make-bid-for-pepr-valuing-the-warehouse-owner-at-1-7-billion.html
ProLogis (PLD)  plans to make an offer for
 ProLogis European Properties (PEPR)  that values Europe’s biggest
warehouse owner at 1.2 billion euros ($1.7 billion), beating a
bid by APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV and  Goodman Group. (GMG)   ProLogis, the world’s largest warehouse operator, will
offer 6.10 euros in cash for each PEPR unit after raising its
stake to about 38 percent, the Denver-based company said in a
statement today. That’s 22 percent more than the closing price
on April 12, when APG and Goodman announced their 1.1 billion-
euro bid. PEPR is a fund managed by ProLogis.  ProLogis and APG have clashed over the legal structure of
the fund, which owns 232 properties across  Europe  with a value
of 2.8 billion euros. For European listed companies, PEPR has a
corporate governance structure that is among the worst,
according to Ruud Van Maanen, an analyst at ABN Amro Group NV.  “This isn’t a classical takeover battle,” Van Maanen said
by telephone from Amsterdam. “The APG consortium could raise
its offer, but even then ProLogis can still simply reject that
or refuse to give up the  management contract .” Van Maanen said
he is reviewing his “reduce” rating on the stock.  Shares Jump  PEPR climbed 8 percent to 6.21 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Amsterdam, the highest since September 2008. Goodman fell 1.4
percent to 70 Australian cents in Sydney. This would be the
biggest bid for a European property company since December 2009,
when Paris-based Icade SA bought Morgan Stanley’s stake in Cie
La Lucetee for 1.25 billion euros.  Third Avenue Management LLC sold its 5.49 percent stake to
ProLogis for a price higher than the  New-York  based investor had
originally expected, said Michael Winer, portfolio manager.  “We think 6.10 euros is full value,” Winer said by phone
today. “Our expectation was that we’d ultimately get about 6
euros. It crystallized value for us much earlier than we had
hoped. We think it’s a great price.”  APG and Goodman noted ProLogis’ offer “with interest,”
according to an e-mailed statement today. The two companies said
they won’t make a more detailed announcement until ProLogis
discloses more information about the bid.  ProLogis’ offer is “very compelling” and provides any
holders with liquidity, its chief executive officer, Walt Rakowich, said in an interview. No other unit holders have
tendered their stakes, he said.  ‘Compelling Offer’  “I’ve not been on the line with shareholders. It’s way too
early,” Rakowich said. “It’s a compelling offer and at the end
of the day, there will be a number of shareholders that will
like this offer. We’ll just have to wait and see.”  APG is the Amsterdam-based manager of Europe’s biggest
retirement plan and Sydney-based Goodman is  Australia ’s biggest
industrial real estate investment trust by market value.  Following the initial bid, ProLogis said it has no
intention of selling its stake in PEPR or giving up the
management contract.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is advising the U.S.
company, which agreed in January to merge with San Francisco-
based  AMB Property Corp. (AMB)   PEPR has refinanced or paid more than 1.3 billion euros of
debt in the past two years, ProLogis said in today’s statement.
The occupancy rate for the fund’s properties have also been
higher than the European market as a whole.  ‘Ulterior Motive’  ProLogis’ offer means that APG, the second-largest PEPR
shareholder, can now sell its 12 percent stake for a 22 percent
premium to PEPR’s closing share price of 5 euros on April 12. It
would be a “mistake” for APG not to sell its stake when it
can’t buy the company, Winer said.  “They forced ProLogis’ hand,” he said from New York. “It
was a good move by APG to bring Goodman in to make it look like
it was a real offer, but their ulterior motive might have been
to just get ProLogis to move.”  APG is trying to end years of disagreement with ProLogis on
the management and governance of the European fund, according to
the Dutch company’s statement two days ago. Its offer of 6 euros
per unit would “resolve widely held concerns regarding PEPR’s
strategy and governance structure,” APG and Goodman said in the
statement.  Under takeover rules in  Luxembourg , where PEPR is based,
ProLogis had to make a bid for all of the units after its stake
exceeded the 33.33 percent threshold. Both of the bids are less
than PEPR’s net asset value of 6.32 euros per ordinary unit as
of Dec. 31, based on EPRA guidelines.  APG and Goodman would join a group of pension and sovereign
wealth funds to finance a transaction, the pair said. APG and
Goodman would hold stakes of about 25 percent each.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  