-- 
PZ Drops on U.K. Discounting, Raw Materials Cost Increases

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-04-14T15:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/pz-drops-on-u-k-discounting-raw-materials-cost-increases.html
PZ Cussons Plc (PZC) , the U.K. maker of
Imperial Leather soap, dropped the most since January as it was
troubled by discounting in the U.K. and the rising cost of raw
materials.  Competitors have been cutting prices in shower gels and
hand wash to lure cash-strapped U.K. customers, the Manchester,
England-based company said in a statement on Regulatory News
Service. PZ was the second-biggest decliner in the FTSE 350
stock index, with shares falling as much as 6.3 percent.  British consumers have been squeezed by rising energy and
food costs, with retail sales dropping the most on record in
March. PZ also has been hurt by rising prices of ingredients
such as palm oil and chemicals linked to oil used in packaging,
Finance Director Brandon Leigh said in a telephone interview.  “There are more 3-for-2 offers, and some of our
competitors have even been offering ‘buy one, get two free,’ ”
Leigh said. “We won’t go there.”  PZ fell 13.3 pence to close at 328 pence at 4:30 p.m. in
 London . The shares have declined 18 percent so far this year,
giving the company a market value of 1.4 billion pounds ($2.3
billion).  Costs are rising at roughly a 7 percent to 10 percent
annualized rate, and PZ expects to raise prices by about the
same amount, Leigh said.  To cope, PZ switches soap-making ingredients, such as  palm
oil  for tallow, as prices suit, he said.  Leigh said he expects analysts’ consensus estimates for
full-year pretax profit to drop to 108 million pounds from a
previous range of 111 million pounds to 113 million pounds.  The U.K. discounting will be partly offset by the
resilience of premium suntan and beauty brands such as The
Sanctuary, St Tropez and Charles Worthington, PZ said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  