-- 
NATO Claims Unity on Libya Operation as Russia Questions Military Actions

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-15T18:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/qaddafi-taunts-as-nato-seeks-more-warplanes-to-hit-his-forces.html
NATO countries sought to bridge
differences over their Libya mission as  Russia  said the
alliance’s actions may be exceeding those authorized by the UN
Security Council.  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters
after a meeting of NATO foreign ministers today in Berlin that
he’s confident his request for additional ground-attack aircraft
will be met, even though the U.S. and  France  rejected deploying
more planes.  “We have got indications that nations will deliver what is
needed,” said Rasmussen, without identifying which countries or
confirming reports that the request is for about eight warplanes
to attack Muammar Qaddafi’s forces.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization leaders “are now
realizing that this is not a very short mission,” German Deputy
Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said in an interview today. “It
takes much longer, it’s much more complicated, it’s much more
demanding than some had expected.”  NATO’s  Libya  operations may become “stuck in the sand,”
Hoyer said, adding that it would be “a nightmare” if Qaddafi
remains in control of a divided and failed state.  Germany  is one
of the NATO members opposed to the military campaign, although
it supports economic and political measures to force Qaddafi out
of power.  ‘Solid and Sustainable’  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said that the NATO
consensus on the goals for Libya is “solid and sustainable”
and that “we all need to be a bit patient.”  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, challenging the
extent of the military operations, said that NATO must move
“urgently” toward a political solution. In Berlin to
participate in talks with NATO foreign ministers, he said that
“using excessive military force will lead to additional
casualties among civilians.”  Oil rebounded as U.S. consumer sentiment and industrial
output increased, signaling higher fuel demand in the world’s
biggest crude-consuming country. Crude oil for May delivery
increased $1.50, or 1.4 percent, to $109.61 a barrel at 1:33
p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Regional Developments  Elsewhere in the region, Syrian security forces blocked
roads to thwart protesters whose defiance of President Bashar al-Assad persisted for a fifth Friday, following the
announcement late yesterday of Cabinet changes, activists said.
Routes to the Damascus suburbs of Douma and Harasta were blocked
by vans and concrete blocks, as thousands took to the streets,
Damascus-based human-rights activist Razan Zaitouneh said on her
Facebook page. There were rallies in Homs, Aleppo, Qamishli, the
port city of Latakia and Daraa, a flashpoint for dissent last
month, she said.  Clashes between protesters and authorities in  Jordan  left
83 security officers and eight civilians injured, Al Arabiya
television reported, citing the country’s head of general
security. In Yemen, protesters around the country rejected a
Gulf Cooperation Council plan to resolve political turmoil
because it doesn’t insist on President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s
immediate departure.  In Libya, the limitations of NATO’s air campaign have
become evident as forces loyal to Qaddafi stepped up their
assault on Misrata, Libya’s third-largest city, and pressed
their attack on rebels near the oil port city of Brega.  Misrata Bombarded  Al-Jazeera television cited rebels as saying 20 people,
including five Egyptians, were killed in Misrata last night by
Qaddafi troops and that tanks bombarded the city today near the
Kasr Ahmed district. More than 6,500 foreign nationals are
stranded at Misrata’s port, the International Committee of the
Red Cross said in an e-mailed statement.  Foreign ministers from NATO’s 28 member states and leaders
from other allied nations met in Berlin to discuss the Libyan
conflict.  On providing more assistance to rebels, including military
aid, Clinton said “there have been a number of discussions on
how to best provide that assistance.”  “We are also searching for ways to provide funding for the
opposition so that that they can take care of some of these
needs themselves,” including helping the rebels sell oil, she
said. The rebels are seeking to borrow $2 billion secured by
Libyan government assets abroad that have been frozen.  Only 14 NATO members -- plus  Sweden , Qatar, and the  United
Arab Emirates  -- are participating in some aspect of the
military operation known as “Unified Protector,” most under
rules preventing them from attacking Qaddafi’s forces except in
self-defense. About five NATO nations, led by France and the
U.K, are known to be targeting Qaddafi’s ground forces.  U.S. Role Limited  The call for more warplanes, which Rasmussen said wasn’t
directed at a specific alliance member, came 10 days after the
U.S. withdrew its ground-attack planes from civilian protection
missions. The U.S. continues to fly F-16 missions against
Libya’s dwindling air defenses, as well as providing a variety
of support aircraft for refueling, intelligence, surveillance,
and reconnaissance.  Libya is “ Europe ’s affair” and it’s understandable that
the U.S. isn’t playing a leading role, French Defense Minister
Gerard Longuet said in an interview on LCI Television. “The
U.S. has two large obligations with Iraq and  Afghanistan .”  President  Barack Obama , U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  jointly declared in a
statement published today that allowing Qaddafi to remain in
power “would be an unconscionable betrayal.”  The three leaders said that while the United Nations
Security Council resolution authorizing military action to
protect civilians doesn’t include overthrowing Qaddafi, “it is
impossible to imagine a future for Libya with Qaddafi in
power.”  Pressure Qaddafi Regime  “So long as Qaddafi is in power, NATO and its coalition
partners must maintain their operations so that civilians remain
protected and the pressure on the regime builds,” they wrote in
a letter published in newspapers, including the Times of  London ,
Le Figaro and the International Herald Tribune.  NATO said in a statement yesterday that allies taking part
in the conflict set three conditions for ending air strikes on
Qaddafi’s forces: an end to all attacks by Qaddafi loyalists on
civilians, withdrawing soldiers to bases, and allowing aid into
the country.  NATO said in a statement that its jets yesterday hit eight
bunkers, four ammunition storage sites, and two armored
personnel carriers near Sirte; three bunkers and a helicopter
near Misrata; an SA-3 radar and SA-3 missile launcher near the
Tunisian border; and a tank, two ammunition storage sites and a
radar near Tripoli. NATO said it flew 60 missions looking for
possible ground-attack targets, up from 58 on April 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Berlin at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  