-- 
Rajaratnam's Family Invested in Defense Witness’s Fund Weeks Before Trial

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-15T04:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/rajaratnam-family-invested-with-schutte-before-insider-trial-1-.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s family invested $15 million in a fund run by
Richard Schutte weeks before he took the stand to defend
Rajaratnam at a federal  insider-trading  trial.  That came on top of a $10 million investment that
Rajaratnam himself made in September 2010 in the $35 million
fund, Spottail Capital Advisers LLC, Schutte told a jury
yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court.  The testimony from Schutte, Galleon’s former U.S.
president, came at the close of his cross-examination by
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky . Schutte, one of
Rajaratnam’s four witnesses so far, testified for four days in
defense of his former boss.  “So eight weeks before the start of the trial, Mr.
Rajaratnam’s family put $15 million into Spottail?” Brodsky
asked.  “That is correct,” Schutte replied.  Rajaratnam, 53, has been on trial since March 8 in the
largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
The Sri Lankan-born money manager and co-founder of Galleon is
accused of gaining $63.8 million from tips leaked by corporate
insiders and hedge-fund traders. He denies wrongdoing, saying he
based his trades on research.  Rajaratnam’s defense began on April 11. Under friendly
questioning by defense lawyers, Schutte reviewed scores of
analyst reports, news accounts and other documents that the
defense says are the basis of Rajaratnam’s trades in  Intel
Corp. (INTC) , Google Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other
companies.  Cross-Examination  On cross-examination of Schutte, which began April 13,
Brodsky sought to undermine his testimony by showing that
Rajaratnam didn’t see the research reports, that they contained
contradictory recommendations, and that Rajaratnam’s trades
coincided with his receipt of what the U.S. says is inside
information.  Brodsky then concluded his questioning by asking Schutte
about Spottail, which Schutte formed on July 1, 2010, at the
same time that Schutte was closing Galleon under a $2 million
consulting contract with the firm.  Is one of the investors Raj Rajaratnam? Brodsky asked.  Schutte, Spottail’s managing member, said yes.  “He is the biggest investor?” Brodsky asked.  “That is fair to say,” Schutte replied.  Close Associates  The chief operating officer of Spottail is George Lau,
another ex-Galleon employee, Schutte testified. Asked about the
compensation paid to Spottail, Schutte said his firm received 2
percent of the capital under management and 20 percent of the
profits -- a standard arrangement in the hedge fund industry, he
added.  Brodsky asked whether 2 percent of Rajaratnam’s $25 million
investment amounted to $500,000.  “That is correct,” Schutte said.  Schutte also acknowledged that he and Rajaratnam spoke with
one another for 15 minutes on March 18, 10 days after the trial
began. The former Galleon president said the two spoke
sporadically.  Expert Witness  “We were close business associates,” said Schutte, who
this year signed a new consulting agreement with Galleon that
pays him as much as $4,000 a month to shut the firm. “I don’t
socialize with him. I don’t golf with him.”  On redirect examination, defense attorney Michael Starr
immediately asked Schutte whether Rajaratnam had promised to
invest more in Spottail after the trial and whether Rajaratnam
had “offered you anything in exchange for testifying for him.”  “Absolutely not,” Schutte said.  Jim McCarthy , a spokesman for Rajaratnam, said after court
that the defense was “aware” of the investment, which it deems
“routine and ordinary.”  Schutte’s attorney, Alan Vickery of Boies, Schiller &
Flexner LLP, said after court “the government apparently felt
it had to resort to innuendo to try to blunt the effect” of
Schutte’s testimony.  “Mr. Rajaratnam would pay similar fees if he were to
invest in another fund,” Vickery said in an e-mailed statement.
“During this initial phase of Spottail’s business, Mr. Schutte
is not drawing a salary. Further, Mr. Rajaratnam had a
comparable amount of money invested in Mr. Schutte’s portfolios
at Galleon.”  Former SEC Economist  Schutte was followed to the witness stand by Gregg Jarrell,
the top economist for the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission from 1984 to 1987. Jarrell, testifying as an expert
witness for Rajaratnam, has said that tips Rajaratnam allegedly
received weren’t material to Galleon or didn’t comprise inside
information.  Jarrell testified that he analyzed all 36,437 trades that
Rajaratnam made from 2005 to 2009 totaling more than $172
billion. He compared that number to the 126 trades in which the
U.S. has alleged insider trading.  “That’s less than one-third of one percent,” said
Jarrell, who teaches at the University of Rochester’s graduate
school of business in  New York .  Jarrell calculated that Rajaratnam actually lost
$3.8 million on his allegedly illegal trades -- rather than the
$63.8 million the U.S. said he earned -- because Rajaratnam lost
$67.6 million in a trade in  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)   Summations in the case may begin next week, the judge said.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  