-- 
Rand Slides to Two-Week Low Against Dollar on EU Debt

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-15T09:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/rand-weakens-versus-euro-for-fifth-day-as-carry-appeal-wanes.html
(Corrects exchange rate in second paragraph of story
published yesterday.)  The rand tumbled to its weakest
level in two weeks against the dollar on concern  Europe ’s most
indebted nations may be forced to restructure debt, prompting
investors to sell high-risk assets.  South Africa ’s rand lost as much as 1.2 percent to 6.8780
per dollar, its weakest intraday level since 29 March. It traded
1.1 percent down at 6.8665 as of 1:35 p.m. in Johannesburg, the
worst performance today out of more than 20 emerging-market
currencies monitored by Bloomberg. The rand slid as much as 0.7
percent to 9.8879 euro, the weakest intraday level since March
22.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told Die Welt
newspaper that  Greece  may need to negotiate with creditors
should an audit in June question its ability to make debt
repayments. Bondholders may see a 50 percent to 70 percent
“haircut” on their Greek securities if the nation restructures
its debt, said  Moritz Kraemer , head of S&P’s European debt
evaluation team. Portuguese and Greek bonds slumped, driving
yields to record highs.  “It seems like it is risk-off again, associated with the
European sovereign debt crisis,”  Michael Keenan , an analyst at
Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest
rand trader, said by phone. “Every time we get bouts of risk
aversion the rand is going to be at the forefront of the sell-
off.”  Yield Advantage  The rand’s decline was fueled by speculation South Africa
will lag behind the  European Central Bank  in raising interest
rates, reducing the yield advantage of rand assets.  Inflation in Africa’s largest economy remains “well-
contained,” Gerhard van den Heever, the South African Reserve
Bank’s deputy chief economist, said yesterday. That may allow
the bank to leave its benchmark interest rate at a 30-year low
of 5.5 percent. The ECB last week raised its main rate to 1.25
percent and left the door open to further increases.  Van den Heever’s comment “underscores our view that the
central bank won’t hike local lending rates as quickly as the
market expects,”  Standard Bank ’s Keenan wrote in a research
note. “This implies that the rand’s carry-trade appeal could
wane relative to other high-yielding currencies.”  In the carry trade, investors borrow in the currency of a
country with low interest rates to use the proceeds for
purchasing assets where interest rates are higher. The rand
returned 26.4 percent in the euro carry trade last year, the
best performance of more than 20 emerging-market currencies
monitored by Bloomberg.  Government bonds fell for a fourth day. The 13.5 percent
bonds due 2015 dropped 5 cents to 120.85 rand, boosting the
yield 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.81 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  