-- 
Rank Says Revenue Rises 2% in 15-Week Period on Bingo Sales

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-04-14T15:50:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/rank-says-revenue-rises-2-in-15-week-period-on-bingo-sales-2-.html
Rank Group Plc (RNK) , which operates
Mecca Bingo clubs and Grosvenor casinos, said revenue rose 2
percent in the 15 weeks to April 10.  Revenue at Mecca Bingo clubs open more than a year rose 4
percent in the period, the Maidenhead, England-based company
said today in a statement. Sales at Grosvenor casinos were
little changed because of an “unusually low win margin” at
London venues.  Rank said it made “a positive start to the year with
growth in customers and customer visits.” Chief Executive
Officer Ian Burke said in a phone interview that revenue at
Grosvenor establishments open more than a year is climbing
outside London and the win margin will tend to even out over a
“reasonable time scale.”  “We’re getting admissions growth in  London  and the
provinces, and like-for-like revenue growth in the provinces”
at Grosvenor, Burke said. “Easter is an important weekend in
the bingo business” and unlike last year, it isn’t reflected in
today’s figures, he said.  Rank, which has gambling businesses in the U.K.,  Spain  and
 Belgium , climbed 1.2 percent to 148.1 pence as of the 4:30 p.m.
close in London trading, giving the company a market value of
576.9 million pounds ($942.4 million.)  “We see Rank’s valuation as attractive,” Paul Leyland, an
analyst at Investec Plc, said in a note today, reiterating his
“Buy” recommendation on the stock. “The weak London win
margin early in the period has normalized and underlying trends
remain encouraging” at Grosvenor, he said.  Overpaid Tax  The company received 74.8 million pounds in overpaid value-
added tax from the U.K. government on March 22. It said it
received an additional 79.5 million pounds of interest relating
to taxation of bingo revenue, as flagged last month.  Revenue at Rank’s Spanish clubs fell 20 percent in the 15
weeks, affected by a smoking ban in the country from Jan. 2, the
company said. Visitors to Grosvenor casinos open more than a
year climbed 12 percent, while average spending per visit fell
11 percent, mainly because of a low win margin at London
casinos, Burke said.  The number of visitors to Mecca Bingo clubs was little
changed; the amount spent rose by 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  