-- 
Treasuries Erase Advance Before U.S. Auctions $13 Billion of 30-Year Bonds

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-04-14T16:33:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/treasury-10-year-yields-reach-a-one-week-low-as-equity-markets-decline.html
Treasuries erased an advance as
stocks trimmed losses before the U.S. auctions $13 billion of
30-year securities.  U.S. 10-year yields earlier touched a one-week low as U.S.
initial unemployment-insurance claims unexpectedly jumped,
producer prices rose less than forecast and German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece may need to restructure
its debt, boosting investor demand for safety.  “We are seeing positioning in front of the auction and
stocks rebounding some, which has taken the steam out of
Treasuries,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist at
Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. “We are building in a
concession that should help the auction to do OK.”  Ten-year note yields rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.48 percent at 12:30 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They earlier fell to
3.42 percent, the lowest level since April 5. The 3.625 percent
security due in February 2021 declined 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000
face amount, to 101 6/32.  Thirty-year bond yields touched 4.52 percent, the lowest
since April 6, before trading little changed at 4.55 percent.  Applications for unemployment insurance benefits rose
27,000 in the week ended April 9 to 412,000, the most in two
months, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Economists projected claims would be little changed at 380,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Producer Prices  Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose 0.7 percent in March, led
by higher prices for energy, light trucks and passenger cars,
another Labor Department report showed. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey was for a rise of 1 percent. U.S. consumer
prices rose 0.5 percent last month, a separate Bloomberg survey
showed before tomorrow’s data.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was down 0.2 percent after
dropping as much as 0.9 percent.  Treasuries earlier rose and German 10-year note yields
reached the lowest in a week, 3.38 percent, after Schaeuble told
the German newspaper Die Welt that  Greece  would have to
negotiate to ease its debt burden if an audit in June questions
its ability to pay creditors. The move revived concern that
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may worsen.  “You don’t want to rally too much into the auction because
it could impact demand,” said Gary Pollack, who helps oversee
$12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank
AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New York. “The market
would rather see higher yields going into the auction and then
rally.”  30-Year Auction  The 30-year bonds being sold today yielded 4.555 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 4.569 percent at the previous
sale of the securities on March 10.  Investors bid for 3.02 times the amount of debt on offer
last month, versus an average 2.7 ratio at the past 10 sales.
Indirect bidders, a category that includes foreign central
banks, bought 40.7 percent, compared with a 10-auction average
of 39.7 percent. Direct bidders, non-primary dealers buying for
their own accounts, purchased 6.4 percent, the least since
January 2010.  “The 30-year auction is likely to present a good buying
opportunity,” wrote  George Goncalves , head of interest rate
strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that
are obligated to bid in Treasury offerings. “The auction should
proceed fairly well and a decent concession heading into the
event will only help results.”  Fed Speakers  The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday manufacturing led a
moderate expansion across much of the U.S. in February and
March, with labor markets showing improvements in most regions.
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  speaks in New York
today. Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo speaks in Washington and
Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker is due to speak in
Baltimore.  The central bank, while keeping its benchmark rate at zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008, is aiming to boost growth
by completing $600 billion of Treasury purchases through June.
It bought $7.68 billion in Treasuries today maturing from May
2018 to February 2021 as part of the program.  U.S. President Barack Obama yesterday outlined a plan to
cut $4 trillion in cumulative deficits within 12 years through a
combination of spending reductions and tax increases. Obama set
a target of reducing the annual U.S. deficit to 2.5 percent of
gross domestic product by 2015, compared with the 10.9 percent
of GDP projected for this year. He proposed completing talks on
the plan in late June.  End of Purchases  Treasuries will withstand the end to the Fed’s bond-buying
program, known as quantitative easing, without sending yields
higher, the primary dealer Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “Many market participants are worried that the end of the
Treasury purchases will have strongly adverse effects on bond
yields,” Sven Jari Stehn, an economist at Goldman in  New York ,
wrote in a report yesterday. “This is unlikely.”  Traders are forward-looking and adjust market prices when
the Fed announces its buying plans, rather than when it acquires
the debt, according to Goldman. When the buying stops and the
stock of Fed holdings is unchanged, there should be little
effect on yields, Stehn wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  