-- 
Treasuries to Withstand End of Fed Buying Program, Goldman Sachs Predicts

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-14T03:13:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/treasuries-to-withstand-end-of-fed-buying-program-goldman-sachs-predicts.html
Treasuries will withstand the end
of the  Federal Reserve ’s $600 billion bond-buying program in
June without sending yields higher, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said in a report.  “Many market participants are worried that the end of the
Treasury purchases will have strongly adverse effects on bond
yields and other asset prices,” Sven Jari Stehn, an economist
at Goldman Sachs in  New York , wrote in the report yesterday.
“This is unlikely.”  Traders are forward-looking and they adjust market prices
when the Fed announces its buying  plans  rather than when it
acquires the debt, according to Goldman Sachs, one of the 20
primary dealers authorized to trade directly with the central
bank. When the buying stops, and the stock of Fed holdings is
unchanged, there should be little effect on yields, Stehn wrote.  “Almost all” the central bank officials saw no need to
stretch out the debt purchases beyond June, minutes of their
March 15 meeting released yesterday showed. The central bank
announced the program in November, dubbed QE2 because it is
their second round of so-called quantitative easing to sustain
the economic expansion.  Ten-year Treasury yields fell almost half a percentage
point to 2.53 percent on March 18, 2009, when the Fed announced
a plan to buy $300 billion of Treasuries. Yields rose eight
basis points on Oct. 29, 2009, the day the Fed completed the
program, having climbed about 1 percentage point over the period
to 3.50 percent.  The central bank announced its current $600 billion round
of purchases on Nov. 3, and yields slid two basis points that
day to 2.57 percent. They were little changed today at 3.46
percent as of 12:13 p.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  