-- 
Treasury Needs Better Review of TARP Legal Bills, Watchdog Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/treasury-needs-better-review-of-tarp-legal-bills-watchdog-says.html
The  U.S. Treasury  risks paying too
much in legal fees related to bailouts because it isn’t
adequately reviewing bills from law firms, a government watchdog
said.  The Treasury office managing the Troubled Asset Relief
Program needs to “improve controls over the review and payment
of legal fee bills,” according to a report today from the
Office of the Special Inspector General for TARP. “Current
contracts and fee-bill review practices create an unacceptable
risk that Treasury, and therefore the American taxpayer, is
overpaying for legal services.”  The special inspector general’s office, or SIGTARP, said it
“found weaknesses” in the Treasury’s contract with law firm
Venable LLP. The contract didn’t include sufficient detail on
how Venable should prepare bills or how to describe tasks within
each bill.  The Treasury “has already taken steps” to implement
recommendations SIGTARP made to improve the review and payment
of legal fees, Timothy Massad, acting assistant secretary for
financial stability, said in a letter released with today’s
report. The department “has implemented strong and effective
processes in regard to all its contracts, including those for
legal services,” he wrote.  “Venable fully cooperated with SIGTARP’s review,” the law
firm said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We have not had
the opportunity to read the full report. However, we are
confident that Treasury received fair value for the services
that we provided.”  The special inspector general’s office said it analyzed
contracts with five law firms that had received $27 million in
legal fees from the Treasury as of the end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  