-- 
Reckitt Benckiser's Next CEO Has ‘Tough Act to Follow’ in Departing Becht

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-04-14T23:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/reckitt-benckiser-s-next-ceo-has-tough-act-to-follow-in-departing-becht.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) 
shareholders may have their best returns behind them as Chief
Executive Officer Bart Becht steps down after more than a decade
at the helm of the household-cleanser company he formed.  Rakesh Kapoor, 52, named yesterday to take over in
September, may struggle as sales slow in  Europe  and competition
intensifies, analysts including Carl Short of  Standard & Poor’s 
said. Under Becht, Reckitt Benckiser’s comparable sales growth
has risen more than 5 percent a year since 2005 and posted
double-digit net-income growth in eight of the past 10 years.  The new CEO is “not going to produce the same kind of
growth we’ve seen over the next decade,” Short said. “Becht is
going to be a very tough act to follow, especially given that
we’ve entered much more challenging conditions for consumers in
developed markets.”  Becht, 54, who led the company through the 1999 merger of
Benckiser NV and Reckitt & Colman, has increased market value
more than sixfold with a steady stream of product innovation
such as Lysol hands-free soap dispensers and mergers and
acquisitions including last year’s purchase of Durex condom
maker SSL International Plc. Reckitt Benckiser’s stock fell 7.5
percent yesterday, the most since 2003.  The Dutchman “seemed to define Reckitt’s culture to us,”
said  Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec. “We see this event
as strongly negative for the shares.” He cut his recommendation
from “hold” to “sell.”  ‘Best CEO’  The maker of Cillit Bang cleaner and Nurofen painkillers
has already said sales in 2011 will probably rise at a slower
pace than last year as European revenue stagnates amid a
slowdown in  consumer spending . Reckitt Benckiser gets a smaller
percentage of sales from emerging markets than competitors
including Unilever and Colgate-Palmolive Co.  Still, Becht was “arguably the best CEO I’ve come across
in the short 20 years I’ve had of doing this job,” said James
Edwardes Jones, an analyst at Espirito Santo in  London .
“Statistically, the chance of getting another one at the same
company is not great.”  His departure makes Reckitt Benckiser “marginally” more
likely to be a takeover target, as Becht was such a star that it
would have been harder for a larger company to buy the Slough,
England-based firm, Edwardes Jones said. That would have been a
deterrent for a company such as Colgate to make an offer.  ‘Powerbrands’  Reckitt Benckiser, which makes Vanish stain remover, is
facing increasing competition at the fabric-care unit and a
potential generic alternative to its Suboxone heroin-dependency
drug. The company is looking to expand sales in emerging markets
through purchases of new businesses or “powerbrands,” it said
in February.  Reckitt reported full-year comparable sales growth of 6
percent in 2010, compared with Unilever’s 4.1 percent growth.
The company said it expects revenue on the same basis to
increase 4 percent this year.  “Investors, in our view, are coming to terms with a
sustainably lower rate of sales growth from the company than has
been the case in the past,” Edwardes Jones wrote in a note.  Kapoor, who has overseen marketing and research at Reckitt
Benckiser since 2006 as executive vice-president for category
development, started his career at Reckitt & Colman in 1987 in
 India . That may be beneficial for the company’s expansion in
emerging markets, Short at S&P said.  Reckitt Benckiser’s growth has been aided by innovation of
products including Air Wick air-freshener products, though the
company may face increased competition from rivals Unilever and
Procter & Gamble.  “The glory days seem to be over,” Deboo at Investec
wrote. “And now the architect of it all -- who we would have
backed as the best guy to lead the renaissance -- is going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 