-- 
Reckitt Benckiser Chief Bart Becht to Step Down; Shares Decline

-- B y   C e l e s t e   P e r r i   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-04-14T09:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/reckitt-benckiser-chief-bart-becht-to-step-down-shares-decline.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  said
Chief Executive Officer Bart Becht will step down, having led
the maker of household cleaners since its creation more than a
decade ago.  Shares in the maker of Cillit Bang fell the most in more
than two years after it was announced that company veteran
Rakesh Kapoor will succeed Becht in September. Becht, 54, will
stay on as a part-time adviser until September 2012, Slough,
England-based Reckitt Benckiser said in a statement.  Under Becht, Reckitt Benckiser stock has gained almost
sixfold since 2000 as the company focused on its strongest
brands and bought others including Durex condom-maker SSL
International Plc. The announcement of his departure comes six
months after the maker of Nurofen painkillers said Chief
Financial Officer Colin Day was standing down after 10 years.  “This is clearly bearish for Reckitt given the key role
Becht has played in Reckitt’s success,” analysts at MF Global
including Andy Smith wrote today in a note. “Reckitt will have
lost both its CEO and CFO in a short space of time.”  Reckitt Benckiser shares fell as much as 272 pence, or 8.1
percent, to 3,094 pence, the steepest intraday drop since Feb.
5, 2009. The stock traded at 3,125 pence at 9:49 a.m. and was
the biggest faller in  London ’s benchmark FTSE 100 Index.  ‘Drivers of Success’  Kapoor, 52, has been executive vice-president for category
development at the company since 2006. The Indian manager joined
Reckitt & Colman in 1987, prior to the U.K. company’s 1999
merger with Dutch competitor Benckiser NV.  “The board is delighted that someone of Rakesh Kapoor’s
caliber is able to step into the role of CEO,” said Chairman
Adrian Bellamy. “His close involvement in the drivers of
success at Reckitt Benckiser and significant achievements to
date are reassurance that the excellent performance for which
Reckitt Benckiser has become renowned is set to continue.”  Reckitt, which makes products including Airwick fresheners
and Vanish stain removers, has focused on driving growth through
product innovation and the development of so-called Powerbrands.
The company said in February that it was interested in adding
Powerbrands in health and personal care as competition from
 Procter & Gamble Co . and Unilever as well as subdued  consumer
spending  in developed markets hinder sales improvements.  Sales this year will probably rise more slowly than in 2010
as the global market stagnates, the company said in February.  Becht received more than 18 million pounds ($29.4 million)
in compensation last year from Reckitt Benckiser, including more
than 14 million pounds from the exercise of share options and
performance-based restricted shares as part of Reckitt’s long-
term incentive plan. His non-share-based remuneration totalled
4.2 million pounds, according to the company’s annual report,
more than larger competitor Unilever’s CEO Paul Polman, who
received 2.9 million euros ($4.2 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 