-- 
Reckitt Benckiser, Coach, Motorola: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-14T11:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/reckitt-benckiser-epo-coach-motorola-intellectual-property.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  was
given a final fine of 10.2 million pounds ($16.6 million) by a
U.K. regulator for halting supplies of a heartburn medicine to
the  National Health Service  to block sales of a generic version.  The fine, disclosed and provisionally accepted in October,
was lowered from 12 million pounds after Reckitt, the world’s
biggest maker of household cleaners, admitted violating U.K. and
European competition law and cooperated in the case, the  Office
of Fair Trading  said yesterday in a statement.  “This action demonstrates both our willingness to take
action against companies abusing dominant positions, and to
impose fines that will deter other businesses from engaging in
anticompetitive behavior,” OFT Chief Executive Officer  John
Fingleton  said in the statement.  Reckitt, based in Slough, U.K., admitted dropping the drug,
 Gaviscon Original Liquid , too quickly from the service’s
prescription channel in 2005 to boost sales of a version with an
active patent and before its generic name had been published,
according to the OFT. The move blocked doctors from prescribing
a cheaper generic version and ensured more prescriptions for the
newer product, Gaviscon Advance Liquid, which has a patent that
doesn’t expire until 2016.  Europe-Wide Patent System Would Slash Companies’ Costs, EU Says  Companies’ costs to protect their innovations could drop
drastically under two draft proposals that would set up the
European Union’s first patent system.  The amount a company would have to pay to protect its
technology in  Europe  could drop to less than 2,500 euros
($3,620) from current fees that can be as much as 32,000 euros,
the European Commission said yesterday.  “The purpose of unitary patent protection is to make
innovation cheaper and easier for businesses and inventors
everywhere in Europe,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s internal
markets commissioner said in an e-mailed statement. “It will
mean a big reduction in terms of costs and red tape, and provide
a stimulus for European innovation.”  The closest thing currently to an EU-wide patent is offered
by the  European Patent Office , which isn’t part of the EU and
has 38 member countries. Once granted, those patents must then
be defended in each of the individual countries. Attempts to
reach a deal on a region-wide patent since 2000 have failed
mainly over language issues.  Under the new plan, which still needs the approval of EU
lawmakers and governments, companies would file for so-called
unitary patent protection with the EPO in Munich in any of the
EU’s 23 official languages. The patent would be examined and
granted in English, French or German and the claims then
translated into the other two languages.  The proposal by the Brussels-based commission, the EU’s
executive agency, was made yesterday over the objections of
Spain and  Italy , which opted out of the plans over language. The
commission has said it hoped the two countries would still join.  Companies including  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker of
mobile phones, have said there are risks of going ahead with the
patent without having the structure of a future patent court in
place. The plan -- the first in more than a decade of
negotiations -- may be hampered by a ruling from the EU’s top
court that an existing proposal for a separate patent tribunal
doesn’t comply with the region’s rules.  The commission said it “is in the process of analyzing”
the decision “and considering ways to address the court’s
concerns.”  Krka Says Slovenian Court Finds Eli Lilly Suit ‘Unfounded’  Krka Group d.d., Slovenia’s biggest drugmaker, said a
district court in Ljubljana found a patent lawsuit filed by  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s unit in the U.K. is unfounded.  The complaint was filed over the alleged infringement of
the patent for Olanzapine, the active ingredient in Zalasta,
which is the generic version of the antipsychotic drug Zyprexa.  The Novo Mesto-based company commented in a statement
yesterday to the Ljubljana stock exchange.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Coach Seeks $2 Million from Jo-Ann, Feldman in Trademark Suit  Leonard Green & Partners LP’s Jo-Ann Fabric unit was sued
for trademark infringement by Coach Inc., the New York-based
maker of handbags and other high-end leather goods.  According to the complaint filed April 11 in federal court
in  Chicago , the Hudson, Ohio-based fabric and craft store is
carrying a fleece fabric that infringes the Coach signature
“C” trademark.  The fabric is sold both through the fabric chain’s brick-
and-mortar stores and the company website, www.joann.com. Co-
defendant with the fabric store is  Feldman Co. , of  New York .
According to court papers, Jo-Ann informed Coach that Feldman is
the designer and supplier of the allegedly infringing fabric.  Coach first registered the C design as a U.S. trademark in
September 2002, according to the complaint. The leather-goods
company, which says it sells $3 billion worth of merchandise
annually, has filed more than 500 trademark infringement suits
since the beginning of 2010.  The company claims it’s damaged by the sale of the
allegedly infringing fabric and that the public is likely to be
confused about its source. The fabric store and Feldman are
accused of trying to benefit from the “incalculable goodwill”
symbolized by the C mark, Coach said in its pleadings.  Coach asked the court to bar Feldman and Jo-Ann from future
infringement, and for the recall of all infringing products and
promotional materials. The company asked the court for an award
of $2 million for each counterfeit mark or type of counterfeit
goods, and additional damages to punish the defendants for their
actions.  Additionally, Coach asked for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Feldman did not respond immediately to an e-mail requesting
comment. Jo-Ann spokeswoman Courtney Talkington said in an e-
mail that her company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  Coach is represented by  S. Patrick McKey ,  Mariangela M.
Seale  and  Donald A. Cole  of St. Louis-based Brian Cave LLP.  The case is  Coach Inc. (COH)  v. Joann Fabric and Craft Stores,
1:11-cv-02432, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Illinois  (Chicago).  More Than 44,000 Indian Trademark Registration Files Lost  Files of more than 44,000 trademark registrations have
disappeared from branches of  India ’s Trade Marks Registry in
Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai and Calcutta, the Hindustan Times
 reported .  The Delhi  High Court  has told a division of the Ministry of
Commerce to track the files immediately, according to the
newspaper.  The court did say that many parties have no idea that the
files are lost, Hindustan Times reported.  Even the Trade Marks Registry Office has no idea what
caused the files to disappear, or when they went missing, the
high court said, according to Hindustan Times.  Alberto-Culver Sues Private-Label Manufacturer For Infringement  Alberto-Culver Co. (ACV) , a manufacturer of beauty and household
products, sued a Canadian maker of private-label products for
trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed April 12 in federal court
in Chicago,  Apollo Health and Beauty Care Corp.  of Concord,
Ontario, is accused of infringing the trade dress associated
with Alberto-Culver’s TRESemme line of hair-care products.  Alberto claims Apollo sent a solicitation to members of the
TopCo Associates LLC cooperative in October 2009 offering hair-
fare products “expressly intended to simulate” the TRESemme
products. After this, Alberto says, Apollo sold the infringing
products to stores in the U.S, using an advertising theme that
simulated the TRESemme ad themes.  TopCo is not a party to the suit.  The use of such similar packaging was “adopted for the
purpose of trading upon the goodwill symbolized by Albert’s
TRESseme black and white trade dress,” Alberto said in its
court papers.  Melrose Park, Illinois-based Alberto said it’s harmed by
Apollo’s actions, and that the Canadian company is competing
unfairly by using copycat packaging for its products. It asked
the court to bar Apollo from using packaging similar to that of
the TRESemme products, and for awards of money damages, attorney
fees and litigation costs.  Alberto requested that both the damages and the profits
Apollo realized from its alleged infringement be tripled and be
awarded to the Illinois company. It also asked for an order for
the destruction of all infringing products and promotional
materials.  Apollo didn’t immediately respond to an emailed request for
comment.  Alberto is represented by  Charles Robert Mandly Jr.  of
Milwaukee’s Foley & Lardner LLP.  The case is Alberto-Culver International Inc. v. Apollo
Health and Beauty Care Corp., 1:11-cv-02466, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  U.K.’s IPO Uses Aardman’s Wallace & Gromit to Tell IP Story  Aardman Animations Ltd.’s  Wallace & Gromit  cartoon
characters animate a website set up by the U.K.’s  Intellectual
Property  Office to advertise a youth-oriented exhibit focused on
intellectual property.  The  “Cracking Ideas” website , which features a noisy
factory sound track, promotes an exhibition at the Life Science
Center at Newcastle Upon Tyne, running from April 16 through
Oct. 30.  In conjunction with the exhibit, the Intellectual Property
Office ran a “Cracking Ideas” competition, soliciting kids’
designs for theme park attractions. Winners of that competition
will be announced on the website in June.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Motorola Solutions, Huawei Agree to End Technology Dispute  Motorola Solutions Inc. and Huawei Technologies Co. settled
a technology-secrets dispute, allowing the sale of Motorola’s
networks unit to Nokia Siemens Networks to proceed.  Motorola Solutions and Huawei will drop lawsuits against
each other, with the Chinese company receiving an undisclosed
fee for use of its technology, the two companies said in a joint
statement yesterday. Motorola also agreed to lower the price
Nokia Siemens will pay for the phone-network equipment business
to $975 million, from $1.2 billion, Motorola said in a separate
regulatory filing. Motorola and Nokia Siemens intend to close
the deal on April 29, according to the filing.  Motorola Solutions had sought an agreement to help close
the sale to Nokia Siemens, announced in July. Huawei,  China ’s
biggest maker of telecommunications equipment, sued Motorola and
Nokia Siemens in January, saying Motorola hadn’t provided
assurances it would prevent disclosures about Huawei technology
to Nokia Siemens.  “After reviewing the facts, we decided to resolve these
matters and return to our traditional relationship of confidence
and trust,” Greg Brown, chief executive officer of Schaumburg,
Illinois-based Motorola, said in the statement.  As part of the settlement, Huawei will allow Nokia Siemens
to receive and use confidential Huawei information to service
networks Motorola has deployed.  Motorola Solutions spokesman Nick Sweers declined to
comment on the reasons for the reduced sale price or how big the
Huawei fee is. The terms of the deal are otherwise unchanged, he
said, adding that the transaction still needs approval from
Chinese regulators.  “This suit was never about Motorola or Nokia Siemens,”
said Bill Plummer, Huawei’s Washington-based vice president of
external affairs, said in an interview today. “This was about
seeking to ensure that our intellectual property rights were
protected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 