-- 
Republican Horror Movie Sequel Hits Theaters: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-04-14T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/republican-horror-movie-sequel-hits-theaters-jonathan-alter.html
Republicans jumped all over
President Barack Obama’s budget speech at George  Washington 
University as political, and they are absolutely right.  It was the old Obama, the one who changed history in 2008,
and he is back on his game, both thematically and tactically.
The domestic debate now is much clearer and the takeaway for
Republicans is out of a horror movie: Be afraid. Be very afraid.  Obama was elected as a story-teller. Beginning with his
famous  speech  to the Democratic National Convention in 2004, he
weaved a personal narrative about Africa, Hawaii and community
organizing in  Chicago  into a compelling message of “Change we
can believe in.”  His first two years as president brought plenty of change.
He responded to the worst economic conditions since the Great
Depression with the most legislation since the Great Society.
Yet somewhere along the line Obama lost the thread of his
narrative. He was no longer telling a story about America, where
it had been and where it is going.  The  George Washington  speech signaled the return of an
overarching idea. Obama said that while we’re a nation of
“rugged individualists,” this country has always understood
that public investments in education, research and
infrastructure -- what Republicans call “wasteful spending” --
helped make us great.  National Amnesia  He told a story that national amnesia has somehow erased:
that through the combined efforts of the first President Bush
and President Clinton, we balanced the budget in the 1990s. It
was only in the last decade when Republicans put two wars, a
prescription-drug benefit and massive tax cuts on the  credit
card  that we got the trillion-dollar deficits that confronted
him when he took office. Most important, the president stressed
the fundamental American values of fairness and compassion.  The plan offered by Republican House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan  that will likely pass the House by the end of
the month would lower the top marginal  tax rate  to 25 percent,
another trillion-dollar windfall for the wealthy. And it would,
as the president said, “end Medicare as we know it” by turning
that hallowed program into a voucher system that has already
proven to be a failure when tried in a few states.  The Ryan proposal would also effectively gut Medicaid,
under which the elderly poor get to live in nursing homes
instead of in their children’s homes.  Popular Programs  While everyone agrees that Medicare and Medicaid must be
reformed, the basic programs remain wildly popular. The GOP
understood this as recently as last fall, when it took control
of the House with the help of scare ads across the country
saying “Obamacare will slash $500 billion from Medicare.” Now
the same freshmen elected on that message will vote to end
Medicare -- and in many cases end their political careers.  Older, independent voters that Republicans won in 2010 will
despise the Ryan plan once it filters down to them. A Democratic
war cry of “They’re killing Medicare!” isn’t demagoguery this
time. It’s true.  The president offered few specifics about how to save $4
trillion over 12 years beyond letting the tax cuts for wealthy
expire in late 2012. That won’t be enough. But teeing up tax
cuts for the rich as a campaign issue will clearly help the
Democrats, as it did in 2008.  The president sounded concerned about the deficit but
understated the threat. As  David Stockman , who served as  Ronald Reagan ’s budget director, told me last week, the $4 trillion in
savings now embraced by both parties is woefully inadequate to
the scope of the challenge. He was particularly withering in his
critique of what he called the “religious obsession” within
the GOP to keep cutting taxes amid terrifying deficits.  Known Folly  Even Republican Senator  Tom Coburn , a conservative member
of the Bowles-Simpson deficit commission, knows that this part
of the Ryan plan is folly.  At George Washington, Obama announced that Vice President
 Joe Biden  would head the effort to negotiate with Congress.
Emotions are running too high for any agreement this summer on
where to find huge savings. The president made it clear he would
veto any bill resembling the House plan.  With the Senate still controlled by Democrats, it’s
unlikely anything significant will reach his desk any time soon.
The important part of his proposal was a “fail-safe” provision
to compel huge savings if Congress can’t reach agreement by a
certain date. The idea of adding teeth to budget cutting worked
in the 1990s and can work again.  Default Crisis  After a lot of posturing and finger-pointing, this might be
just enough to get Washington through the treacherous waters of
raising the debt ceiling and avoiding a default crisis. The
specifics on where to cut will await the results of the 2012
presidential election, which is now teed up by Obama as a
referendum on competing visions of what we owe each other as a
people.  “One vision has been championed by Republicans in the
 House of Representatives  and embraced by several of their
party’s presidential candidates,” the president said, a clear
sign that he intends to wrap the Ryan plan around the neck of
the eventual Republican nominee.  Ever since he agreed to extend the Bush tax cuts in a deal
last winter, some progressives have doubted whether  Barack Obama 
had the intestinal fortitude to stand up for the great social
contract of the 20th century -- the one most Americans still
support. Now we know.  ( Jonathan Alter , author of “The Promise: President Obama,
Year One,” is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  