-- 
RBI Conflicted Managing Interest Rates, Bond Sale: India Credit

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-04-14T23:43:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/reserve-bank-conflicted-managing-interest-rates-bond-sales-india-credit.html
The  Reserve Bank of India  is facing
conflicts in its dual role of fighting inflation and managing
the government’s debt issuance, according to former governor
Bimal Jalan.  The most-active 2022 bonds are headed for a third week of
losses, with the yield reaching a two-month high of 8.18 percent
as the Reserve Bank held the first government debt auction of
the fiscal year on April 8 and prepared to meet to set monetary
policy on May 3. Jalan, chairman of the Centre for Development
Studies, said policy makers may be discouraged from raising
interest rates to keep price increases in check.  Rupee notes have lost 0.6 percent this month, the worst
performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt markets outside
 Japan , according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. A
report will show today wholesale prices rose 8.36 percent last
month, four times the rate in the U.S. and the highest among
BRIC economies except  Russia , according to the median forecast
of 28 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “There is always some tension and some trade-off if you’re
managing government debt,” Jalan said in an interview on April
11. “If you’re a borrower, whether you acknowledge it or not,
the only way is to try and keep interest rates lower than they
should be.”  Price Pressures  The yield on 7.8 percent notes due April 2021 rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.93 percent on April
13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. India’s financial
markets were closed yesterday. The yield on the 8.13 percent
bond maturing in September 2022 climbed 14.5 basis points over
three trading days to 8.195 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  raised 120 billion rupees ($2.7 billion)
from the April 8 sale, which included new 10-year bonds.
Inflation in the nation, where 66 percent of the population
lives on less than $2 a day, has climbed from an 11-month low of
8.08 percent in November.  The difference in yields between the nation’s 10-year bonds
and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries has widened to 454 basis
points from this year’s low of 436 reached on April 8.  “The RBI needs to be vigilant and look at whether these
increases are becoming more persistent,” Namrata Padhye, a
Mumbai-based economist at IDBI Gilts Ltd., said in an interview
on April 13.  ‘Conflict of Interest’  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  sets interest rates while
the Treasury manages government issuance. Most OECD countries
established independent debt-management offices in the 1980s and
1990s, while emerging-market economies including  Brazil ,  South
Africa  and  Argentina  have restructured public finances. Most
countries “don’t have this sort of a problem, but in our
situation it has evolved over years,” said Jalan, 70, who led
the central bank from November 1997 to September 2003.  The Reserve Bank and the  Finance Ministry  have examined the
separation of roles since 1991, with the central bank’s 2000-01
 annual report  “unequivocally” recommending the move. There is
a “severe conflict of interest between setting short-term
interest rates and selling bonds,” according to a finance
ministry  report  in 2008. Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said
in his budget speech on Feb. 28 the government will introduce
legislation to set up an independent debt-management office.  “Establishing a separate debt office earlier would have
helped,” said Deepali Bhargava, an economist at the Indian unit
of ING Groep NV in Mumbai. “Maybe the Reserve Bank could have
had a better hold on inflation today.”  Fiscal Deficit  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee aims to reduce the
shortfall in the government’s finances to 4.6 percent of gross
domestic product from an estimated 5.1 percent in the prior 12
months. The  International Monetary Fund  estimates the gap in the
government’s finances will be the highest among the BRIC
economies at 8.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2011,
including the gap in state government budgets. The central bank,
which next meets on May 3, will raise the benchmark repurchase
rate to 7 percent by end-June from 6.75 percent now, according
to Royal Bank of  Canada .  “The deficit is falling at a very slow pace and that just
means that the onus is on the RBI to do all the work” on
fighting inflation,  Brian Jackson , an emerging-markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong , said in an
interview on April 8. The deficit “is a consideration which
guides how quickly they can go on  interest rates ,” he said.  The rupee has dropped 1 percent this week on speculation
oil refiners stepped up dollar purchases to pay for costlier
crude imports. Oil for May delivery was at $107.23 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , taking this year’s gains to 17
percent. The currency traded at 44.505 per dollar on April 13,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  External Factors  “Inflation globally is being caused by a rally in
commodity prices like oil,” said N.R. Bhanumurthy, a New Delhi-
based economist at the National Institute of Public Finance and
Policy. “The RBI has limited tools at its disposal to
influence” external factors, he said.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned  State
Bank  of  India , which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, has increased three basis points to 166 this month,
according to CMA prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  “The setting up of a debt management office is overdue,
but at least it is getting done now,”  Dharmakirti Joshi ,
Mumbai-based chief economist at Crisil Ltd., a unit of Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Services, said in an interview on April 13. He
predicts inflation will range from 7 percent to 8 percent over
the next six months if  oil prices  drop to $90 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 