-- 
Rhode Island Pension Board Widens Funding Gap 27% by Lowering Return Rate

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-04-14T20:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/rhode-island-pension-funding-deficit-jumps-27-on-lower-returns.html
Rhode Island ’s unfunded public
pension liabilities jumped about 27 percent after the board
overseeing the retirement system voted to cut the presumed rate
of return on assets.  The fund lacks at least $6.83 billion to meet projected
needs, up from about $5.4 billion before overseers yesterday cut
return expectations to 7.5 percent a year from 8.25 percent,
according to a report from  Gabriel Roeder Smith & Co. ,
consultants hired by the board. The system, with $7.4 billion in
assets as of April 1, covers more than 50,000 people.  “It’s a big deal,” said Treasurer Gina Raimondo, a
Democrat who heads the Employees’ Retirement System of Rhode
Island board and voted for the change. “I believe it was the
right thing to do.”  The move may drive taxpayers’ fiscal 2013 obligation to the
system up 33 percent, to $622 million, from earlier projections,
according to the Irving, Texas-based consultants. The pension’s
funding ratio, or assets as a proportion of assumed liabilities,
fell to about 48 percent from 54 percent. Actuaries say the
level must be at least 80 percent to ensure adequate coverage.  The system’s “current real rate-of-return assumption is
not justified by  asset allocation  and forward-looking expected
returns by asset class,” the consultants said in the report,
which recommended cutting the projections. The nominal rate
adopted yesterday includes 5.15 percent on invested assets and
2.75 percent for inflation, minus 0.4 percent in expenses.  Joining Other States  Rhode Island joins states from  New Jersey  to California and
 Illinois  that face unfunded pension liabilities estimated to be
as much as $3.6 trillion, when city plans are included. The
Ocean State was ranked sixth-worst, based on assets as of Aug.
20, in data compiled by Bloomberg. Based on information from
fiscal 2009, its pension’s funding ratio was about 61 percent.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is probing
Rhode Island bond offerings, possibly over disclosure of the
state’s pension liabilities, Raimondo said in February, when the
investigation was made public. The state included information
about pensions in statements connected with securities sales.  Raimondo is preparing to release a report next month that
will outline ways to close the pension funding gap, according to
Joy Fox, a spokeswoman. Former Governor Donald Carcieri, whose
second term ended in January, tried reining in costs by raising
the retirement age and years of service needed to qualify for a
stipend, capping benefits and altering cost-of-living increases,
said Gary Sasse, the Republican’s head of administration.  ‘Fiscally Unstable’  “Those reforms could not belie the fact that the system is
fiscally unstable,” Sasse said in a telephone interview. “The
system is just not affordable or sustainable without a reduction
in benefits.”  Governor Lincoln Chafee, a former Republican U.S. senator
who was elected last year as an independent, declined comment
through Michael Trainor, a spokesman. Rhode Island faces a $331
million deficit in fiscal 2012, which represents 11.3 percent of
its current annual spending, according to a March report from
the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities  in  Washington . The
state’s fiscal year begins July 1.  The higher pension liability doesn’t necessarily threaten
the state’s credit rating, said Marcia Van Wagner, a Moody’s
Investors Service analyst in  New York . She said Rhode Island has
been making its annual pension contributions, unlike some states
that have deferred payments amid fiscal stress.  “We try to look at this in a balanced way that takes into
account the state’s willingness to address its obligations as
well as balance its obligations against other requirements in
its budget,” Van Wagner said.  Rhode Island general-obligation debt is rated third-highest
by Moody’s, at Aa2, and  Standard & Poor’s , at AA. S&P has a
negative outlook on the credit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  