-- 
RIM Chiefs Defend PlayBook Against Critics as Debut Nears

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-04-15T13:54:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/rim-chiefs-defend-playbook-against-critics-as-introduction-approaches.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  co-Chief
Executive Officer Jim Balsillie said criticism of the company’s
PlayBook tablet computer, which goes on sale next week, are
misguided because they ignore RIM’s base of BlackBerry faithful.  Technology columnists criticized the 7-inch tablet for its
limited number of applications, lack of built-in e-mail and
inability to connect to mobile-phone networks -- issues that
won’t be remedied until new software and further editions of the
device are introduced later this year. Some critics suggested
RIM rushed an unfinished device to market, a charge Balsillie
refutes.  “I don’t think that’s fair,” Balsillie, 50, said in a
television interview yesterday on "Bloomberg West" with Emily 
Chang. He pointed out that more than 60 million BlackBerry 
smartphone users can pair their phones and PlayBooks to read 
e-mail and connect to the Internet. “A lot of the people that 
want this want a secure and free extension of their BlackBerry.”  RIM will need those loyal customers to help it come from
behind in the tablet market.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which put its first
iPad on the market last April, has sold more than 15 million
units and Samsung Electronics Co., Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. and Dell Inc. have all introduced tablets already.  While RIM hasn’t forecast how many of the devices it will
sell, Balsillie said the opportunity is significant.  “I like our chances for a lot of share,” he said. “We’re
very excited about where we are.”  Business Market  RIM rose 75 cents to $54.67 at 9:51 a.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading after dropping 1.7 percent yesterday
following the negative reviews. Before today, the shares had
lost 7.2 percent this year.  The iPad accounted for 75 percent of tablets shipped in the
fourth quarter, according to researcher  Strategy Analytics .
Tablets that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, including
Samsung’s Galaxy Tab and Dell’s Streak, had a 22 percent share.  RIM’s best chance to win customers is with business users,
say investors such as David Eiswert of the T. Rowe Price Global
Technology Fund.  “RIM’s got this really good tablet but would a consumer
buy anything other than an iPad, given the time it’s been out on
the market and all the applications that come with it?” said
Eiswert, manager of the Baltimore-based fund, which includes
Apple shares and a “small” amount of RIM. “They need to take
the PlayBook, install it among their diehard installed base and
then push back out to consumers.”  ‘Ultraportable’  Co-Chief Executive Officer Mike Lazaridis said RIM expects
to distinguish itself in the tablet market the same way it did
in mobile phones -- through better technology. The PlayBook has
security features that appeal to corporate customers and unique
extras, such as the ability to let consumers browse the Web and
run videos simultaneously, he said in an interview last week.  The device, which is smaller than the 9.7-inch iPad, is
also designed to be “ultraportable” so it can be more
frequently used during the day, he said.  “This is superior,” he said. “It’s far more portable,
it’s lighter in your hands, you can hold it for longer.”  RIM didn’t make the decision on size lightly. Todd Wood,
vice president of industrial design, and his team studied the
optimal proportions for a tablet while Lazaridis weighed what
format would offer a screen big enough for watching video and
could pack a powerful processor, and remain portable. The
inspiration for the final size was decidedly low-tech: the 
Moleskine  leather notebooks used by  Pablo Picasso  and  Ernest Hemingway .  “It’s an iconic form factor,” Wood said in an interview.
“There’s the science part of it that led them to 7 inches and
we took the human factor side and in the end agreed very
quickly.”  Smaller Tablets  Consumers have had the chance to buy smaller tablets for
months, though sales haven’t threatened the iPad’s dominance.
Samsung’s Galaxy Tab, the size of the PlayBook, went on sale in
October and had shipped 2 million units by the end of 2010.
 Verizon Wireless  and Sprint Nextel Corp. last week cut the price
of the device for a second time this year to spur sales.  “There’s no doubt the PlayBook has a lot of power,” said
 Michael Gartenberg , an analyst with Gartner Inc. in  San Jose ,
 California . “The question is whether those things will matter
to consumers more than the things that the iPad can do, namely
with its breadth and depth of applications.”  Pricing Parity  The PlayBook starts at $499, the same as the least
expensive iPad 2. The priciest PlayBook is $699, while the top-
end iPad, which comes with a 3G connection, is $829.  A large installed base of business customers should help
RIM sell about 250,000 PlayBooks in its current fiscal quarter
which ends in May, and 5.4 million over the fiscal year,
predicts Alkesh Shah, an analyst with Evercore Partners Inc.  The device will probably capture 10 percent of the tablet
market by 2015, compared with 47 percent for the iPad, research
firm Gartner Inc. predicts. PlayBook sales will be about 29
million devices in 2015, eclipsed by a forecast of about 138
million iPad sales, according to Gartner.  ManuLife Financial,  Canada ’s largest insurer with about
24,000 employees worldwide, plans to deploy the device across
its businesses in  North America  and  Asia . Toronto-based insurer
Sun Life Financial Inc. is ordering as many as 1,000 of the
devices to make signing up new policyholders easier. ING Direct,
a Canadian unit of ING Groep NV, plans to pilot the PlayBook for
its staff. All three companies have said the adaptability of the
PlayBook to existing BlackBerry networks, and the tablet’s
security features were primary reasons to stick with RIM.  “Any new tablet maker faces an uphill challenge in
capturing the attention of the market, but PlayBook has the
potential to be meaningfully different,” said  Paul Taylor ,
chief investment officer of BMO Harris Private Banking in
Toronto, which holds both RIM and Apple shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  