-- 
Roche's First-Quarter Sales Decline 9% on Swiss Franc’s Strength, Avastin

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-04-14T18:47:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/roche-s-first-quarter-sales-decline-9-on-swiss-franc-s-strength-avastin.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s
biggest maker of cancer drugs, said first-quarter sales declined
9 percent as the Swiss franc strengthened and revenue from the
Avastin tumor medicine fell.  Sales dropped to 11.1 billion francs ($12.4 billion) from
12.2 billion francs a year earlier, the Basel, Switzerland-based
company said today in a  statement . Analysts predicted 11.3
billion francs, the average of 22 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Roche doesn’t release quarterly earnings.  The stronger franc and regulatory scrutiny of Avastin are
adding to pressure on Roche at a time when changes to health-
care systems in the U.S. and Europe are already hurting sales.
The  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  moved in December to
withdraw marketing permission for Avastin in breast tumors, and
European regulators limited its use in such malignancies.  “The environment is very tough for Roche and some drastic
action is needed” beyond cost reductions announced last year,
Karl-Heinz Koch, an analyst at Helvea SA in Zurich, said in a
telephone interview. He rates the stock “neutral.”  Roche fell 20 centimes, or 0.2 percent, to 132.9 francs in
Zurich trading. The stock has lost 19 percent in the past year
including reinvested dividends, compared with a 4.3 percent
return for the Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index.  Franc’s Strength  Earnings per share excluding some items should increase by
high single digits this year excluding currency shifts, Roche
said, reiterating its Feb. 2 forecast. Sales probably will rise
in the low single-digit range in local currencies. The outlook
excludes revenue from the Tamiflu influenza treatment.  Roche got more than a third of its sales in the U.S. last
year. The franc strengthened by 15 percent against the dollar in
the 12 months ended March 31, reducing the value of revenue in
the U.S. currency. The franc gained 9.4 percent against the
euro.  Avastin sales fell 15 percent in franc terms to 1.4 billion
francs, below analyst estimates of 1.49 billion francs. Roche in
January appealed the FDA decision to withdraw conditional
approval for the medicine in breast malignancies. The regulator
will hold a hearing June 28 and 29.  Avastin won U.S. clearance against  breast cancer  in 2008
under an accelerated review that required further trials proving
the drug stalls the disease. The additional tests failed to
match earlier results.  Avastin Forecast  The Swiss company cut its peak sales forecast for the drug
in February, saying it expects Avastin to generate about 7
billion francs in annual revenue compared with a previous
forecast of as much as 9 billion francs. Avastin generated 6.46
billion francs in sales for Roche last year.  Revenue from the Swiss company’s pharmaceuticals business
fell 10 percent to 8.7 billion francs. Sales in the diagnostics
division fell 4 percent to 2.4 billion francs.  Roche has said it expects health-care overhaul to have
stripped about 1 billion francs from sales by the end of this
year, following a 532 million-franc impact in 2010. The U.S.
government wants drugmakers to increase discounts and rebates to
programs that provide medicines to the poor and elderly.  The health laws are expected to shave “just over” 2
percentage points from revenue in 2011, Chief Executive Officer
Severin Schwan said on a conference call.  The impact “should level out in the second half of the
year because there is less of a base effect since those measures
have been implemented during the year in 2010,” Schwan said.  Cost Reductions  Roche is seeking to offset the effect of the overhauls by
lowering costs. The company said in November it would cut 4,800
jobs to generate savings of 1.8 billion francs in 2011 and about
2.4 billion francs a year from 2012. The program, called
Operational Excellence, was also expected to result in total
restructuring costs of about 2.7 billion francs through 2012.  The Swiss drugmaker is “fully on track” to reach those
targets, Schwan said.  Roche has experienced several drug development setbacks
over the past year. The experimental T-DM1 breast cancer
medicine was delayed and Avastin failed studies in prostate,
stomach and early colorectal cancer. Roche also halted
development of the taspoglutide diabetes treatment.  Sales of Tamiflu, which can ease the symptoms and duration
of infection with swine flu, dropped 47 percent to 252 million
francs during the first quarter as concerns about the virus
receded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  