-- 
Roots of Crisis Buried Deep After Inquiry: Peter J. Wallison

-- B y   P e t e r   J .   W a l l i s o n
-- 
2011-04-14T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/roots-of-crisis-buried-deep-after-inquiry-peter-j-wallison.html
No one wants to excuse the managers
and regulators of financial companies from responsibility for
the financial crisis. But it is too easy to assign blame and
walk away, without doing the serious work of finding out what
really happened.  This observation was triggered by news last week that the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is considering an
enforcement action against  Daniel Mudd  and Richard Syron, the
chief executives of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, respectively,
before the two government-sponsored enterprises collapsed.  If, as news reports suggest, Fannie and Freddie failed to
fully disclose the potential subprime mortgage losses, the
implications would extend beyond a violation of securities laws.
It would also have important implications for the causes of the
financial crisis and the thoroughness of the work of the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.  The commission’s majority  report  blamed the crisis on
financial executives who failed to understand or didn’t care
about the risks they were taking. Regulators didn’t do their
jobs either, according to the commission.  The conclusion to draw from this is that the crisis was
caused by private greed and the indolence or lack of authority
of regulators. The remedy implied by this narrative was tighter
regulation, and the now-notorious Dodd-Frank Act was the result.  Nearing Truth  Yet the commission, headed by  Phil Angelides , a former
Democratic candidate for governor of  California , and  Bill Thomas , a former Republican congressman from that state, never
investigated what information about Fannie and Freddie’s loans
was available at the time, or why investors and regulators
continued to believe that mortgage-backed securities were safe.  With the SEC’s impending enforcement action, we are getting
close to the truth.  Under legislation adopted in 1992, Fannie and Freddie were
required to meet affordable housing goals when they bought loans
from mortgage originators. Initially, the goals required that 30
percent of all mortgage acquisitions had to be classified as
affordable -- that is, made to borrowers who were at or below
median income in the areas where they lived.  Over succeeding years the goals were increased so that, by
2007, 55 percent of all mortgages the two companies acquired had
to be made to borrowers at or below median income.  Competing for Loans  It’s possible to find prime borrowers at this income level.
But not when more than half of all loans had to meet this test,
and especially when the companies were competing for the same
loans with the  Federal Housing Administration , and insured
banks, and savings and loan associations with similar
requirements under the Community Reinvestment Act.  By 2008, Fannie and Freddie held or had guaranteed 12
million loans that were made to borrowers with FICO credit
scores below 660 -- a common definition of a subprime loan -- or
were otherwise risky because they had no or very low down
payments and other deficiencies. By then, 27 million loans, or
half of all U.S. mortgages, were subprime or otherwise risky.  When the housing bubble began to deflate, these loans
started defaulting at unprecedented rates, dragging down housing
prices and the financial companies holding securities backed by
these mortgages.  Subprime Exposure  For many years,  Fannie Mae  defined subprime mortgages as
loans that it bought from subprime lenders, not by credit score.
This had the effect of making its investment holdings seem less
risky. In its 2007 10-K  annual report , for example, the company
estimated its subprime exposure at about 0.3 percent of its
single-family mortgages. Tables deeper inside the report showed
loans with FICO credit scores of less than 660 were 18 percent
of the company’s single-family holdings.  The significance of this for the financial crisis is that
Fannie and Freddie’s reports might have lulled analysts and risk
managers into believing that if the housing bubble collapsed,
the damage would be limited because the number of risky loans
was small.  We now know the damage was severe. Had those 12 million
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  loans been prime instead of subprime,
delinquencies and defaults probably would have been around 2
percent, not almost nine times higher.  No Inquiry  In writing my  dissent  from the commission’s majority
report, I searched widely for examples of anyone -- academic
researcher, credit rating analyst or housing market expert --
who knew before 2008 that half of all mortgages in the financial
system were subprime or otherwise risky, or that Fannie and
Freddie had contributed almost half of that total. I found none.  The  commission  had a chance to investigate the risks that
Fannie and Freddie were taking and why the information available
in the market was so deficient. But this would have required the
commission to examine the losses caused by government housing
policy. Angelides refused to do so. Instead, Fannie and
Freddie’s contribution to the housing crisis was called
“marginal” in the commission’s report.  As a result, the American people and Congress received a
distorted picture of the causes of the financial crisis, not the
thorough investigation they deserved.  (Peter J. Wallison, the Arthur F. Burns Fellow in Financial
Policy Studies at the  American Enterprise Institute , was a
member of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission and dissented
from its majority report. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter J. Wallison at  pwallison@aei.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  