-- 
Russia May Sell 12% of Rail Monopoly as State Seeks Investment

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 
2011-04-14T11:58:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/russia-may-sell-12-of-rail-monopoly-as-state-seeks-investment.html
Russia may offer 12 percent of its
monopoly OAO Russian Railways, the operator with the longest
train network, as the government seeks to raise budget revenue
and improve infrastructure.  A 25 percent stake slated for sale “would be too much”
for investors to absorb at once, Transportation Minister  Igor Levitin , 59, said in an interview. “Selling 10 or 12 percent
would be more appropriate.”  The company may be worth several times its share capital of
more than 1.5 trillion rubles ($53 billion), Chief Executive
Officer Vladimir Yakunin said last year.  The government plans to sell 1.8 trillion rubles of state
assets within the next five years as it seeks to close a budget
gap. As much as 25 percent minus one share in Russian Railways
is scheduled for sale sometime later than 2013, after the
monopoly sells stakes in its own units to raise investment
funds.  The monopoly may spend more than 1 trillion rubles on
upgrades in the next three years, said a company official, who
asked not to be named because of corporate policy. The rail
operator plans to spend 350 billion rubles on tracks and rolling
stock, of which 132 billion rubles will be raised through stake
sales, the operator said in January.  To help finance infrastructure upgrades, Russian Rail sold
350 million pounds ($572 million) of bonds in March, after a
sale of $1.5 billion of notes last year. The yield on the 2017
dollars bonds fell by 8 basis points today to 4.837 percent.  Telecoms Sale  Russian Railways may sell a stake in its  ZAO TransTeleCom 
telecommunications unit next year to help finance spending,
Levitin said in the April 12 interview. The company must retain
control “at least in the initial stage” because of its
reliance on the fixed-line phone operator, he said.  A 25 percent stake in freight unit OAO TransContainer may
be sold this year, Levitin said. The operator raised about $400
million selling 35 percent of the unit in an initial public
offering in Moscow and London in November. Russian Railways now
holds 50 percent plus one share.  The Transportation Ministry recommends the rail company
sell its entire TransContainer stake, said Levitin, who has been
minister since 2004. The government and Russian Railways haven’t
reached an agreement yet about how shares will be sold this
year, he said.  “We could raise more money from selling the holding in one
go than selling it in slices,” Levitin said. TransContainer’s
global depositary receipts in  London  have gained 41 percent
since the start of trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  