-- 
S&P’s Absent Rating Threatens DeKalb’s Luxuries as Cash Shrinks

-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 
2011-04-14T22:35:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/s-p-s-absent-rating-threatens-dekalb-s-luxuries-as-cash-shrinks.html
(Corrects amount of bond sale planned for this year in
third paragraph.)  DeKalb County’s $10 million Lou
Walker Senior Center has a swimming pool, art studio and beauty
salon. The  Atlanta suburb  also has a $17 million performance
center and $7 million water park, luxuries some say it can’t
afford after a cash shortage brought a five-step downgrade of
its  credit rating  to near junk.  Commissioners of the county, home to about 700,000 people,
Emory University and the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention , refused to boost taxes to offset declining revenue.
That will require $34 million of expense cuts,  Standard & Poor’s 
said on March 28, when it lowered DeKalb to BBB from AA-, its
fourth-highest grade. Because officials didn’t say how they
would stem a dwindling cash balance, S&P then withdrew the
rating altogether.  If the bond-rating issues remain unresolved, DeKalb will
likely pay higher interest on $150 million of tax-anticipation
notes planned for sale this year to meet payroll. Yields on some
DeKalb bonds have risen almost 2 percentage points since S&P’s
action. Other U.S. cities and states are cutting non-essential
services to close budget deficits that opened when the housing-
market collapse brought the longest recession since the 1930s.  “DeKalb County insists on spending revenues on things that
are far flung from the core mission of county government,” said
Mike Jacobs, DeKalb’s Republican state representative. “With
the downturn in the housing market, those chickens have come
home to roost.”  Burdened With Costs  Decisions made as area  home prices  came off their 2007 peak
are now burdening DeKalb with costs. The performing arts center
and water park both opened in 2008, after the economy entered a
17-month recession.  That same year,  Dunwoody , a 12-square-mile (31 square
kilometer) area of 36,000 people in north DeKalb, incorporated
as a separate government. That deprived the county of about 12
percent of its property-tax base and $18 million of annual
revenue, according to Natalie Cohen, a senior analyst at Wells
Fargo Securities. Dunwoody also took the Perimeter Mall, with
its Bloomingdale’s, Macy’s and Nordstrom stores, and $2.6
million in annual sales-tax receipts.  “The county made affirmative decisions to spend money
right before the economy tanked,” Jacobs said. “There is just
a litany of examples where the county continues to spend well
beyond its core mission.”  Top Rating  As recently as January, DeKalb carried S&P’s AAA rating,
the highest general-obligation grade. S&P’s action in March, in
which it dropped the ranking to two levels above non-investment
grade before withdrawing it, spooked investors. Yields on top-
rated 10-year tax-exempt debt climbed 0.09 percentage point on
March 30, the biggest one-day jump since Jan. 13, a Bloomberg
Valuation index shows.  Especially troubling was the county’s lack of disclosure
about finances, said  Tom Kozlik , a municipal-credit analyst for
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “This S&P action leaves open worries about which issuer or
issuers could be the next to suffer a similar action because of
the common lack of updated municipal financial disclosure among
certain, especially higher-risk, credit profiles,” he wrote to
clients on April 8.  DeKalb hasn’t withheld information, said Joel Gottlieb, its
finance director. It gave bond raters “everything they have
asked for,” he said.  Tax Concern  S&P’s concern is over whether commissioners will raise
property taxes, said Burrell Ellis, DeKalb’s chief executive
officer.  “I think that’s what they are referring to when they say
they are getting inconsistent information,” he said.  In late December, with DeKalb’s cash reserves exhausted,
Ellis proposed a $34 million property-tax increase in his  2011
budget , which covers the calendar year. The seven-member
commission on Feb. 22 rejected the higher taxes, and now must
cut spending.  Commissioner Jeff Rader has proposed a $51 million tax
increase, which could face a vote by the board later this month.
The county has $12.5 million cash in reserve, he said, less than
a third of the one month’s operating expenses, or $45 million,
it needs.  Higher taxes could restore reserves and leave $18 million
for critical needs, for which the chief executive must make a
“compelling” case, said Rader.  Funds Cushion  “We should have a cushion in order to address any
unexpected contingencies,” Rader said. “The  operating budget 
is under incredible pressure from declining revenues.”  Simply raising taxes without examining the larger role of
county government is “a lazy way of governing,” said
Commissioner Lee May, chairman of the budget committee.  “Who are we as a county?” May asked. “What the bond-
rating agencies are looking for is a plan, a proactive approach
to guide us through this economic turmoil.”  The annual budget of DeKalb, whose population is larger
than  Wyoming ’s, dropped to $529 million this year from $636
million in 2008, mainly because of lower property-tax receipts.  A 2006 voter-approved five-year freeze on growth of
assessed valuation of some properties reduced county revenue by
$12 million from 2007 through 2009, Moody’s Investors Service
said in December.  Moody’s cut its rating that month on $444 million of DeKalb
general-obligation bonds two levels to Aa3, it fourth-highest
investment grade, from Aa1. It has a negative outlook on the
credit, meaning more downgrades may come.  Previous Cuts  The county has covered past revenue declines with spending
cuts including 800 early retirements, grounding the police
helicopter and dismissing fire-department recruits.  It wants to borrow $150 million this year with tax-
anticipation notes to meet payroll, said Gottlieb, the finance
director. It also plans $1.3 billion of sewer bonds over five
years, he said, with $500 million this year. Because of the
deteriorating credit ratings, taxpayers will pay more in
interest costs.  The difference in yield between a 4 percent DeKalb general-
obligation bond maturing in December 2021 and an index of top-
rated 10-year municipal bonds widened to 2.4 percentage points
yesterday from 35 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage
point, the day S&P withdrew its rating, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tax Decline  DeKalb’s shrinking income isn’t unusual, said May, the
budget committee chairman. Property-tax collections by U.S.
local governments in the last three months of 2010 fell at the
fastest pace since home prices peaked more than four years ago,
the Census Bureau said March 30.  “We’re no different from any other government,” said May.  DeKalb’s  population  increased only 3.9 percent over the
last decade, compared with  Georgia ’s 18.3 percent growth,
according to the Census Bureau. The county’s  unemployment rate ,
at 10.5 percent in February, was higher than both the Georgia
and national averages.  Joe Arrington, a retiree who’s lived in DeKalb for more
than 30 years, said the county can no longer afford all the
“quality of life” services it began when real estate was
booming.  “We won’t be able to raise taxes high enough to afford the
same things we were affording four years ago,” he said. “We’ve
got to do whatever it takes to live within our means.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Beasley in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley4@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 