-- 
Sacramento Mayor Pitches NBA Owners in Bid to Thwart Kings' Anaheim Move

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-04-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/sacramento-mayor-pitches-nba-owners-in-bid-to-thwart-kings-anaheim-move.html
Sacramento Mayor  Kevin Johnson  made
a final plea to National Basketball Association owners to keep
the Kings from moving about 375 miles (600 kilometers) south to
Anaheim,  California .  Johnson, a former NBA All-Star guard, spoke to the league’s
Board of Governors in New York yesterday for 30 minutes after a
relocation presentation by the Maloof family, which owns the
Kings, and Anaheim officials.  Johnson told owners his priority was to keep the team in
Sacramento, California’s capital, as the city works to build a
new entertainment complex. A group led by Pittsburgh Penguins
billionaire co-owner  Ron Burkle  is willing to buy the Kings or
take over a new franchise in Sacramento at a later date, Johnson
said afterward.  “We felt very strongly that the  Sacramento Kings  were
worth fighting for,” Johnson said at a news conference. “If
anybody thinks that we’re going to sit on our hands and roll
over and just let somebody leave town without putting up a good
fight, they’d be gravely mistaken.”  Burkle’s group wants to keep a franchise in Sacramento,
Johnson said.  “This is not meant to be a hostile takeover,” Darius Anderson, a member of Burkle’s group, said at the news
conference. “We wanted to give an alternative group if the
Maloofs opt to bring on additional partners, if they want to go
ahead and sell and, if we lose the Kings, that the NBA has an
alternative ownership group to bring an additional franchise at
a later date.”  ‘Not Selling’  “No, we are not selling,” Gavin Maloof said in a text
message when asked about the Burkle-led group.  The Maloof family has until April 18 to file an application
with the NBA to move the franchise for the 2011-2012 season. The
Kings have complained in recent years about a lack of luxury
suites and amenities in  Sacramento . The Kings were next-to-last
among the NBA’s 30 teams in attendance this season, averaging
13,890 fans per game.  Sacramento, which has failed in past attempts to get a new
arena built with taxpayer money, is going forward with an
entertainment complex and arena plans regardless of whether the
Kings depart, Johnson said.  “You have a community that’s much more poised and more
sophisticated today in terms of the challenges that it takes to
build a new entertainment complex,” he said.  The city expects to complete a feasibility study on a venue
by the end of May, said Tim Romani, president and chief
executive officer of  ICON Venue Group .  “The question that we still have to work through, and we’re
going to work through, is the funding model,” Romani said at
the news conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  