-- 
Ex-Senator Santorum Begins Raising Money for Possible 2012 White House Bid

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-04-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/santorum-begins-raising-money-for-possible-2012-white-house-bid.html
Former Senator Rick Santorum, one
of the most outspoken opponents of abortion while serving in
Congress, said yesterday that he would start raising money for a
White House run.  Santorum, 52, became the fourth Republican to start raising
money for a potential presidential candidacy in 2012. He formed
an exploratory committee and set up a  website  for online
donations.  “We’re going to determine whether the resources are going
to be there,” he said on Fox News Channel’s “On the Record.”  Santorum served from 1995 to 2007 in the  U.S. Senate ,
losing a bid for a third term to Democrat Bob Casey. He is a
former chairman of the Senate Republican Conference. Prior to
his election to the Senate in 1994, he served two two-year terms
in the U.S. House.  “In 2008, Americans wanted a president who they could
believe in, but after two years they realized that what they
needed is a president who believes in them,” Santorum said in
an e-mail to supporters after his appearance on Fox.  “It’s time for America to be America again -- an America
that rewards innovation and hard work, that stands by our allies
instead of our enemies, that protects even the most vulnerable
of our society, and an America that says every life is to be
cherished,” he wrote.  He is scheduled to make his 14th trip to  New Hampshire  --
the site of the nation’s first presidential primary -- today,
according to the website of his political action committee,
America’s Foundation.  Santorum raised $1.6 million last year for his PAC. Former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who announced April 12 that
he was forming an exploratory committee, raised $4.7 million for
his federal PAC, while former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty ,
who made his announcement March 21, raised $2.1 million.  A fourth Republican, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of
 Georgia , has set up a website to explore a candidacy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  