-- 
Saudis Aren’t Cutting Output of New Oil Blend, Sfakianakis Says

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-04-14T17:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/saudis-aren-t-cutting-output-of-new-oil-blend-sfakianakis-says.html
Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s
largest oil reserves, didn’t cut production of its lighter crude
blends introduced in response to the slump in Libyan output,
according to the chief economist at  Banque Saudi Fransi. (BSFR)   Saudi Arabia, the biggest producer in the Organization for
Petroleum Exporting Countries, reduced its crude oil output in
April by 300,000 barrels per day, John Sfakianakis said today in
a telephone interview.  “The cuts are across the board and not in the new blends
or any other type alone,” he said. “Saudi Arabia is not
cutting output of its new blends because it’s expecting to see
demand for them starting from the summer months.”  Saudi Arabia raised its output last month by 300,000
barrels a day to 9 million, according to a Bloomberg survey of
producers, analysts and oil companies who follow output. That
was about 949,000 barrels more than its target of 8.051 million.
OPEC’s largest exporter started reducing its output in April
because of a slowdown in demand from  Japan  and from refineries
abroad shutting for scheduled maintenance, Sfakianakis said.  Sfakianakis said that he expects to see Saudi oil
production to increase next month May as “market dynamics come
back in play.”  Libyan crude output slumped this year, pushing up prices
for comparable low-density grades that are sweet, or low in
sulfur, including  Nigeria ’s Qua Iboe. Saudi Arabia developed two
blends to offset the Libyan shortfall. European refiners prefer
to process sweet crude as it yields more premium products such
as gasoline and jet fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in London at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  