-- 
Scene Last Night: Kennedys, Clinton, Ed Norton, Cynthia Nixon

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-14T17:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/scene-last-night-kennedys-clinton-sting-edward-norton-cynthia-nixon.html
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. noted that a
new Riverkeeper chapter has just been founded in  Iraq  to protect
the Tigris.  The environmental organization’s chief prosecuting attorney
then asked attendees at the benefit last night for the original
Hudson Riverkeeper chapter to sing “Happy Birthday” to his
daughter Kick Kennedy, who turned 23 yesterday.  Paul Tudor Jones , chairman of Tudor Investment Corp., actor
Zach Galifianakis, and MSNBC’s Dylan Ratigan were among the
guests who joined in. Rufus Wainwright provided the official
entertainment, performing “Hallelujah” and “Sonnet 20” in
honor of Trudie Styler and Sting.  The couple, who established the  Rainforest Foundation ,
received the Riverkeeper Big Fish Award: a statue more than 2
feet tall, depicting a sturgeon. Former President  Bill Clinton 
also received a Big Fish at Pier 60, an event space overlooking
the Hudson.  Comedian Susie Essman asked guests to write checks with the
fish pens on their tables.  Reading Lesson  A speech invoking Cicero was the highlight of the  American
Academy  in  Rome  centenary gala at the Plaza Hotel.  The president of the New York Public Library, Paul LeClerc,
quoted the Roman statesman as he accepted an award from the
academy.  A highlight: “Read at every wait; read at all hours; read
within leisure; read in times of labor; read as one goes in;
read as one goes out. The task of the educated mind is simply
put: read to lead.”  The architect  Frank Gehry  also received an award, present
by actor Edward Norton.  “David Childs roped me into this and he’s not even here,”
Gehry said, referring to the architect who is a trustee of the
academy.  The orchestra played the theme song to “Gone With the
Wind.” A culinary highlight was an elegant appetizer featuring
a thin slice of pumpernickel bagel wedged next to a swirl of
smoked salmon, accompanied by a cucumber lime gelee.  Cynthia Nixon  Eyes lit up when Cynthia Nixon strode onto the red carpet
at City Harvest’s gala, wearing a Carolina Herrera dress and
cream-colored Christian Louboutin pumps.  Nixon, a donor to City Harvest Inc. for the past four years
and the event’s emcee, said the charity is a cause that’s easy
for her to connect to because it helps feed  New York ’s hungry.
“I feel very much at home here,” she said.  Nixon laughed when asked which of the characters in “Sex
and the City” is most akin to her in real life. “People ask me
that all the time,” she said. “I am in fact like Miranda.”  KKR & Co. founder  Henry Kravis  and his wife, Marie-Josee
Kravis, dined on short ribs while chatting with Le Bernardin
chef Eric Ripert and his wife, Sandra. A dinner for 12 cooked by
Ripert went for $80,000 during a live auction.  Guests included some of Ripert’s buddies from the food
world, Bravo’s “Top Chef” judge Tom Colicchio, restaurateur
Donatella Arpaia, Marc Murphy, the owner of the Landmarc
restaurants, and Ai Fiori’s  Michael White .  Rich Man, Poor Man  Sallie Krawcheck , head of Bank of America Corp.’s wealth
management division, and Anna Patterson, director at Google,
were among the attendees at the  New York Public Library ’s spring
luncheon.  The chief diversion was Nora Ephron musing on the phrase
“It’s as easy to marry a rich man as a poor man.”  “It’s one of the most untrue things,” Ephron, 69, said in
remarks in the Celeste Barton Forum, “especially for most of us
when we were growing up: There weren’t that many rich men. Now
they’re everywhere.”  As for the wealth accumulated in the room, data chart a
nice curve: The first event 30 years ago raised $14,000. This
year’s event raised a record $600,000.  The chairmen of the luncheon were Lea Brokaw, the wife of
Clifford Brokaw, managing director at Corsair Capital LLC;
Danielle Ganek, married to David Ganek, managing partner of
Level Global Investors LP; Liz Peek, spouse of Jeffrey Peek,
vice chairman of  investment banking  at  Barclays Capital ; and
Elizabeth Rohatyn, wife of legendary deal maker  Felix Rohatyn .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 