-- 
Schneider CEO Tricoire Buoyed by Rewards of APC Risk as He Considers Tyco

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   D e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-04-15T08:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/schneider-ceo-tricoire-buoyed-by-rewards-of-apc-risk-as-he-considers-tyco.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU)  investors
optimistic that the stock slump this week will deter Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire from his pursuit of Tyco
International Inc. should recall his biggest purchase to date.  After announcing the $6.1 billion acquisition of American
Power Conversion Corp. in October 2006, Schneider plunged the
most in four years on a single day. Tricoire remained steadfast,
saying “the market has to take some time to understand” the
deal, which added equipment to protect computers and factories
from power outages to Schneider’s circuit breakers and motors.  Now Tricoire, 47, is once again testing shareholders’
appetite to back a major deal. Schneider held preliminary talks
with Tyco about a takeover of the U.S. company, three people
with knowledge of the matter said on April 11. A purchase would
rank as the largest ever by a European industrial company.
Tyco’s market value exceeded $22 billion before Bloomberg News
first reported Schneider’s intentions.  “Schneider has a history of taking risks with
acquisitions” said Alex Barnett, a London-based analyst at
Jefferies International. “If they think they’re going to do
something good for the next 4 to 5 years, they’re willing to
sacrifice the short term share price.”  Losing Billions  Schneider shareholders lost $1.7 billion on the day the
company’s preliminary discussions with Tyco became known. The
stock continued its descent the following day, until Schneider
intervened on April 13 with a statement that the company, based
near Paris, is “not currently” in takeover talks with Tyco.  The response, which Exane BNP Paribas analyst Olivier Esnou
called “exceptional for Schneider,” failed to stem the slide.
Schneider has lost 9.6 percent in value so far this week,
dropping every day, the longest downward streak in a month. The
stock fell as much as 40 cents, or 0.4 percent, in Paris today.  Tricoire has made eight purchases alone in the last six
months. Schneider probably spent about 500 million euros ($723
million) so far this year, Nomura International Plc analyst Lisa Randall estimates. For Tyco, Schneider put a preliminary bid
valued at about $30 billion on the table, the Wall Street
Journal reported April 13, citing people it didn’t identify.  “For a project of that size, management and the
supervisory board must be convinced, and it must bring value to
the company rapidly,” said Lionel Pellicer, an analyst at
AlphaValue in Paris.  Ballooning Goodwill  Tricoire has led Schneider since 2006. His predecessor,
Henri Lachmann, now leads the supervisory board. Under their
combined reign, Schneider has more than doubled sales in the
past decade through acquisitions. Goodwill has jumped from about
3.6 billion euros in 2000 to more than 10 billion euros in 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Schneider’s purchases in recent years include Juno Lighting
Inc. for $410 million in 2005 that added high-end lighting
fixtures, and a building-systems unit from U.K.-based  Invensys
Plc (ISYS)  for $296 million the following year to expand in the U.S.
and  Asia . Last year, Schneider beat  General Electric Co. (GE)  with
its 1.1 billion-euro purchase of power distribution assets from
 Areva SA. (CEI)  GE CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  personally flew to Paris in an
effort clinch the deal, before conceding.  “To put it crudely, Schneider is an ‘acquisition
machine,’” said Ben Uglow, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in
London. The company “is highly cash generative and its
management is essentially driving a mature company toward much-
higher growth areas.”  Other Targets  Even if Schneider were to abandon its pursuit of Tyco, the
company has the means to take over other targets. Schneider has
said it’s prepared to resort to acquisitions in its goal to
expand in industrial automation, where it ranks second behind
 Siemens AG. (SIE)  The company also aims to expand in building
automation and security, where it trails behind Siemens, Johnson
Controls and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)   Schneider would need to issue new shares and possibly sell
some assets if it bought Tyco, analysts said. Schneider’s net
debt was 2.7 billion euros at the end of 2010, giving it a debt-
to-equity ratio of 18 percent. It had 2.6 billion euros of
undrawn credit lines, the company said last month.  When Schneider bought APC, Tricoire offered a 30 percent
premium to shareholders of APC as he sought to push into the
growing market for data centers and cut reliance on the
residential construction and factory automation. Investors have
since warmed to the acquisition. Profitability at the
information-technology unit has more than doubled, and the stock
has outperformed peers including Siemens and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)   ‘Very Risky’  “The APC deal was smaller relative to the company, but at
the time was perceived as very risky, and as a strategic
departure for them,” said Jefferies International’s Barnett.
“Long term the deal looks very compelling.”  Lachmann, too, had a taste for major transactions at the
expense of mid-term profitability. Schneider shares fell 12
percent after the company said in 2001 that its planned 8.2
billion euro purchase of  Legrand SA (LR) , a maker of electrical
equipment, will reduce profit for the next two years. The
European antitrust regulator blocked the deal, forcing Schneider
to sell Legrand in December 2002 to private equity firms.  Tricoire was joined in 2009 by Chief Financial Officer
Emmanuel Babeau. He previously held the same position at Pernod
Ricard SA, the French liquor maker, where Babeau helped engineer
some of the company’s biggest transactions. Pernod paid 7.6
billion pounds (12.4 billion) in cash and stock for Allied
Domecq Plc in 2005 to double its sales. In 2008, Pernod almost
doubled its net debt to 12 billion euros to buy Vin & Sprit AB,
the maker of Absolut vodka, for 5.6 billion euros in cash.  Security Systems  Buying Tyco would add ADT, the largest security systems
firm as well as fire-prevention equipment and valves used in
water systems. Schneider, whose roots predate the French
Revolution in 1789, had traditionally targeted electrical
distribution and industry automation.  Tricoire told investors in November that Schneider’s
accessible market has grown from 60 billion euros in 2000 to 200
billion euros now as it added building automation, critical
power systems for data centers and banks, and medium-voltage
equipment for oil and gas companies and utilities.  The executives and board members will face shareholders at
the annual general meeting next week. Investors will vote, among
other things, whether to scrap the age of 74 as a limit for
supervisory board members. A positive outcome would allow
Lachmann to remain in place. One of his challenges would then be
to appease shareholders over a possible Tyco bid, said Martin Prozesky, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  London .  “If they do pursue Tyco, they will have a huge task to
explain and to justify why this is the right thing,” Prozesky
said. “The logic is kind of weak, and Tyco is large. Nobody
expected it to be Tyco and nobody expected something this big.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  