-- 
Search for Super Corn Seeks to Limit Nitrogen Use, Pollution

-- B y   J o n   B i r g e r
-- 
2011-04-15T05:39:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/search-for-super-corn-seeks-to-limit-nitrogen-use-pollution.html
Marc Albertsen, the bespectacled,
62-year-old research director at Pioneer Hi-Bred, DuPont Co.’s
seed-development unit, was catching up on paperwork one morning
in July 2007 when he got a call from an assistant, Sharon
Cerwick.  “Marc,” Cerwick said, “you’d better come out here and
see this.”  Cerwick had been in the field inspecting rows of
experimental corn planted next to Pioneer’s headquarters in
Johnston,  Iowa . The corn had been genetically engineered by
Albertsen and his colleagues in hopes of achieving a new trait:
more efficient use of nitrogen. That’s at the top of the corn
growers’ wish list because the cost of ammonium nitrate
fertilizer has soared 130 percent to $450 a ton since 2002.
Albertsen and other seed scientists have been trying to build
nitrogen-efficient stalks for at least five years, but their
super corn is still five to 10 years away.  “You’re talking about our holy grail,” said Pamela
Johnson, a National Corn Growers Association board member with
1,200 acres in Floyd, Iowa.  In the field, Albertsen discovered one row of corn whose
leaves were afflicted by a V-shaped yellowing, the telltale sign
of nitrogen deficiency. The other row -- the plants that had
been engineered for nitrogen efficiency -- was green and
thriving. Both had been planted in severely nitrogen-deficient
soil, but the genetically engineered plants seemed unaffected.  Need for Nitrogen  The malnourished seedlings reminded Albertsen of the past:
sickly cornstalks he had seen as a boy on his family farm near
Danbury, Iowa. The healthy ones, growing in the same tired soil,
spoke of the future. He immediately phoned his team in Woodland,
California, where Pioneer was running an identical trial in
central California farmland, and asked them to check their
seedlings.  “Even today, it gives me goose bumps,” he said. “Their
field checks came back with the same results.”  Other than water and sunlight, there’s nothing more
important to growing corn -- the most-valuable U.S. crop, worth
$66.7 billion in 2010 -- than nitrogen. Generous applications of
nitrogen fertilizer are essential to the 180-to-200-bushel-an-
acre yields that have become commonplace in big farm states such
as Iowa and Illinois, double what farmers were producing 35
years ago, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .
Wheat and rice growers around the world have seen yields
plateau. Corn is the only major crop for which per-acre
production continues to rise.  Environmental Damage  Such extraordinary productivity comes with an economic and
environmental price. Nitrogen fertilizer is the biggest or
second-biggest expense for most American farmers, said Rod
Williamson, director of research at the Iowa Corn Growers
Association. At an average cost of 60 cents a pound, the 150
pounds of nitrogen that farmers spread over each of the nearly
90 million acres of U.S. cornfields add up to a bill of around
$8 billion a year.  Harder to quantify but no less costly is the damage
fertilizer runoff does to aquatic life. More than half of the
fertilizer American farmers apply to corn gets wasted. Some of
it leaches into aquifers, polluting local drinking water. More
of it ends up in rainwater runoff, flowing into the creeks and
streams that feed the Chesapeake Bay, the Mississippi River, and
other ecosystems.  Algae Blooms  The Mississippi runoff winds up in the  Gulf of Mexico ,
where it spawns deadly algae blooms that steal oxygen from fish
and plants. The Gulf is now home to the second-largest ocean
dead zone, according to a 2010 study prepared by the
Environmental Protection Agency and the USDA, and scientists are
still debating which has been more damaging -- last year’s BP
Plc oil spill or the ongoing nitrogen pollution from U.S.
agriculture.  That isn’t the only environmental problem caused by
nitrogen-heavy corn production. Another is  climate change .
Nitrogen fertilizer is produced from air, water and natural gas
in a process that releases 3.6 tons of carbon dioxide per ton of
fertilizer, according to an analysis by  Yara International ASA (YAR) ,
an Oslo-based chemical company. When the fertilizer breaks down
in the soil, it releases nitrous oxide, a greenhouse gas that
the EPA says is 310 times more effective at trapping heat in the
atmosphere than carbon dioxide.  Ethanol Perception  Forty percent of the U.S. corn crop is now used to produce
some 13 billion gallons of ethanol per year, according to the
U.S. Energy Information Administration. As a result of the
greenhouse gas produced during the corn/ethanol life cycle,
academics such as  Princeton University ’s Timothy Searchinger and
Duke University’s  Robert Jackson  now say that ethanol has a
carbon footprint at least as large as gasoline’s. Many growers
and ethanol advocates dispute that, but Johnson, the Iowa farmer
and NCGA board member, believes U.S. corn producers must address
these concerns to maintain support for ethanol.  “Reducing our use of nitrogen fertilizer is one of the
ways we fight the perception that ethanol is a bad thing,”
Johnson said.  All of which explains why DuPont is one of five major
agribusinesses racing to develop nitrogen-efficient corn. If the
fossil-fuel industry has as its mission the development of low-
carbon “clean coal,” you might call this the quest for clean
corn.  $1.5 Billion Market  The research and development divisions at Pioneer and its
competitors --  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s CropScience unit,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s
Dow AgroSciences unit,  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  -- want to
be first to market with a nitrogen-efficient corn seed that
might use up to 30 percent less fertilizer per bushel. Analysts
say the U.S. market for corn with such a trait could be worth
nearly $700 million a year. Globally, the market opportunity
could be as high as $1.5 billion, said Kevin McCarthy, an
analyst for Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “It’s without a doubt the single most important trait
under development,” said  Mark Gulley , an agricultural chemicals
analyst at Soleil Securities in  New York .  While the potential payoff is enormous, so too is the
scientific challenge. Until now, the biggest advances in
genetically modified crops have involved transplanting a single
new gene (called a “transgene”) into corn DNA, which gives the
plant a valuable new trait, such as resistance to the dreaded
corn-borer bug. Unfortunately, there’s no single-gene solution
for nitrogen efficiency.  “There may be 100 important genes that control nitrogen
use, whereas with an insect-resistance trait, it’s only one,”
said Fred Below, a professor of plant physiology at the
University of  Illinois  at Urbana-Champaign.  Nitrogen Efficiency Quest  That’s because nitrogen utilization is not a single
process, but rather multiple ones that start with roots’ uptake
of nitrogen from the soil, continue with the movement of
nitrogen through the stalk, and culminate with use of nitrogen
during photosynthesis to grow ears and kernels.  Multiple genes control each process, and it is this
complexity that has made the quest for nitrogen efficiency one
of small and incremental victories -- which brings us back to
Albertsen’s eureka moment in 2007.  As it turned out, the trial was not a complete success: The
experimental seeds wound up yielding subpar amounts of corn when
planted in nitrogen-rich soil. This only mildly discouraged
Albertsen.  “It told me two things,” he said. “One was that maybe we
could make this project work -- something that wasn’t certain
when we embarked on it. And secondly, it endorsed our way of
thinking about the genes that control uptake of nitrogen from
the soil and how that nitrogen is transported and assimilated by
the plant.” Up until then, he hadn’t been sure that genetically
engineering a corn plant for nitrogen efficiency was possible.  Fertilizer Essentials  A tall, balding scientist with the soul of a farmer,
Albertsen had been dreaming of nitrogen-efficient corn since he
joined Pioneer 30 years ago. Iowa may be known for its rich
farmland, but Albertsen grew up on a western Iowa farm with
lousy soil.  “Fertilizer was always a big deal for us,” he said. Ill-
timed rains could wash away thousands of dollars worth of the
stuff, putting a severe dent in his family’s income. “Certain
images -- like that V-shaped necrosis -- just got emblazoned in
my mind.”  Albertsen’s farm upbringing is typical for scientists
involved in seed research. Monsanto Chief Technology Officer
Robb Fraley grew up on a farm in rural Illinois. Tom Wiltrout,
who heads the global seeds division for Dow AgroSciences, got
his early farm education on his grandparents’ 80-acre parcel in
northern  Indiana . All talk about using science to combat the
caprice of Mother Nature and make farming less risky for folks
like their parents and grandparents.  People to Feed  Their other goal: help feed a growing world population and
slow rising food costs now contributing to unrest in the Middle
East and other parts of the world. Corn futures have more than
doubled, to $7.5925 a bushel, in the past year.  “World population is going to grow from 7 billion to 9
billion over the next 30 years, which will require a doubling of
grain production,” Fraley said. “That’s a pretty big task.”  Historically, the availability of nitrogen has had a
decisive impact on how much food farmers could produce. While
nitrogen is abundant in the atmosphere, making up 80 percent of
the air we breathe, nitrogen gas cannot be absorbed by corn,
rice, wheat and other grains.  Legumes such as soybeans and peanuts can use atmospheric
nitrogen; their root systems host “nitrogen-fixing” bacteria
that help the plant convert nitrogen gas into ammonia. While
some academics are working to create a nitrogen-fixing corn
hybrid that would get all the nitrogen it needs from the air,
the private sector seems reluctant to invest in such speculative
research.  ‘Change the World’  “I’m a believer that we will be able to fix nitrogen in
corn some day and that it’s going to change the world,” said
Nicholas Duck, head of corn and soybean research for  Bayer
CropScience . “That said, I think we are a long, long way from
being able to understand how to do that.”  Natural sources of nitrogen available to early farmers,
such as animal manure or plant decay, tended to be limited,
putting a cap on what farms could produce. Then, in 1900, a
German chemist named Fritz Haber made a discovery that would win
him a  Nobel Prize .  Haber found a way to make synthetic nitrogen fertilizer by
pressure-cooking nitrogen and hydrogen into the plant food now
known as ammonium nitrate. His discovery gave birth not just to
modern agriculture but also to the modern world. (Haber is also
known for supervising  Germany ’s poison-gas program during World
War I.) Crop yields skyrocketed as farmers applied nitrates to
their crops. More food allowed world population to soar from
1.6 billion people in 1900 to 6.6 billion today.  Corn Genome  The corn genome was decoded and sequenced in 2009 with the
help of $29.5 million in funding from the  National Science
Foundation . Although seed scientists still have much to learn
about how genes interact, they now understand which corn
chromosomes control which functions of the plant. Attempts to
genetically engineer corn for nitrogen efficiency involve
identifying genes from other plants, other corn species, or even
from bacteria that are thought to contribute to more efficient
utilization of nitrogen. Those genes are then cloned and
inserted into corn DNA with the help of a machine known as a
“gene gun,” which fires microscopic gene-covered pellets into
the cells.  Pioneer originated the use of gene guns on corn in the
1980s, but newer technologies have accelerated the discovery
process. Gene guns are imprecise; scientists cannot control
exactly where the transgenes get inserted within the corn
genome.  DNA Sequencing  To achieve a desired trait, researchers used to have to
repeat the process hundreds, if not thousands, of times, then
grow each of the newly created embryos to maturity to see which
of their gene modifications were successful. Today’s seed
scientists use DNA sequencing and other advanced genomic
technologies -- tools originally developed for medical research
and drug development -- to identify which transgenes hit the
mark. Only embryos that possess the most promising genetic
profiles are grown to maturity.  All the companies involved in this research are pursuing
similar strategies, and all say it will probably be the end of
the decade before a corn seed genetically modified for nitrogen
efficiency receives USDA approval. Syngenta and Dow, however,
think they could have an interim product ready in half that
time.  While seeds that contain transgenes must go through an
exhaustive approval process, seeds developed through breeding
are not similarly regulated.  Precision Breeding  Once upon a time, breeding was a low-tech endeavor. Not
anymore. As with transgene research, the new embryos are all
subjected to DNA sequencing, which allows scientists to identify
hybrids with desirable chromosomes long before the seedlings
ever sprout. Syngenta calls this precision breeding or marker-
assisted breeding, and it is transforming the food industry. If
you’ve noticed an improvement lately in your supermarket produce
-- perhaps your watermelons are sweeter and crunchier -- this is
not necessarily Mother Nature. It could be a direct product of
precision breeding.  As it turns out, the big beneficiary of the 1990s genomics
revolution has not been medicine but farming.  “We have identified a lot of human disease genes, but so
far that has not yet paid off in cures,” said Michiel van
Lookeren Campagne, the head of biotechnology R&D at Syngenta.
“What we are seeing is a substantial economic impact in
agriculture through better breeding.”  New Products  This year, both Syngenta and Pioneer began marketing
drought-resistant corn hybrids created via precision breeding.
Since the seeds aren’t genetically modified, they didn’t need
USDA approval. Syngenta says its hybrid reduces yield loss in
dry fields by as much as 15 percent. Pioneer asserts a 5 percent
advantage. Now, Syngenta and Dow are applying the same
strategies to nitrogen. Their level of success may determine
whether corn and ethanol production are seen as food and energy
solutions or environmental villains.  California  has enacted a low-carbon fuel standard that
limits the growth of the ethanol market. Environmental concerns
are being used to lobby Congress and the EPA against wider
introduction of E15 gasoline, which contains 15 percent ethanol,
versus the 10 percent commonly sold now. Walt Wendland, the
chief executive officer of two ethanol plants in Iowa -- Golden
Grain Energy and Homeland Energy Solutions -- said that without
widespread adoption of E15, the industry can’t sell all the
ethanol it’s on pace to produce. “What are we supposed to do
with all those gallons we can’t even blend?”  Easing Ethanol Footprint  Both Wendland and the NCGA’s Johnson are counting on
nitrogen-efficient corn to blunt some of the attacks. Duke’s
Jackson, author of a study that criticizes ethanol’s carbon
footprint and questions the wisdom of ethanol subsidies, said
nitrogen-efficient corn would be a positive step.  “I’m not sure it would be a game changer, but it would
certainly be a major advance,” Jackson said. “It would be
helpful for greenhouse gas emissions, for water quality, and for
farmers in the economic sense.”  Still, it’s not clear that farmers would actually use less
nitrogen even if presented with more efficient seeds. Matt
Liebman, an agronomy professor at Iowa State University,
contends that the reason corn utilizes nitrogen inefficiently
has as much to do with farm practice as plant physiology.  “Farmers tend to apply fertilizer when it’s easiest, not
when it’s best,” Liebman said.  Before Planting  Most farmers apply it in the fall after harvest or in the
spring before planting. That’s easier, since there are no plants
to get in the way, but there’s also no root system to hold the
fertilizer in place, making the fertilizer more susceptible to
runoff. “The best time to use fertilizer would be in June,”
Liebman said. Most farmers won’t take their tractors onto their
fields then.  Nitrogen-efficient corn seeds would give farmers a choice:
Apply 20 percent to 30 percent less fertilizer and enjoy the
same crop yields, or apply the same amount of fertilizer and get
enhanced yields. Most farmers are likely to choose the latter
option, since the desire to grow more is practically hard-wired
into their DNA.  “The three most important traits in agriculture are yield,
yield and more yield,” Syngenta’s van Lookeren Campagne said.  Fraley concedes that the primary goal of Monsanto’s
nitrogen research is not to reduce fertilizer use but to boost
production to 300 bushels an acre by 2030 -- nearly double the
current U.S. average. “The real goal is to drive yields,” he
said.  Clean corn, in other words, may not turn out to be
radically cleaner after all.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Birger in New Yorkt .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eric Pooley at 
 epooley2@bloomberg.net  