-- 
Seat Pagine ‘Confident’ on Debt Reorganization, CEO Says

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-04-14T20:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/seat-pagine-confident-on-debt-reorganization-ceo-says-2-.html
Seat Pagine Gialle SpA (PG)  Chief
Executive Officer Alberto Cappellini said he’s “confident”
Italy’s biggest phone-directory publisher will achieve an
“adequate financial structure soon.”  The shares  jumped  the most in two years. Turin-based Seat
Pagine plans to announce “a pool of advisers” to reorganize
its debt within days, the CEO said in Milan today. All options
are on the table, he said, when asked about a possible debt-for-equity swap.  Seat Pagine, which had  net debt  of 2.73 billion euros ($3.9
billion) at the end of December, said last month that the board
evaluated the financial sustainability of the company. Standard
& Poor’s said March 22 that pressures on Seat Pagine’s operating
performance led to a  downgrade  of its credit rating to CCC+,
seven steps below investment grade.  Seat hired Rothschild as adviser, said two people familiar
with the talks who asked not to be identified because the
information is confidential. Junior bondholders hired  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ)  to assist them in the negotiations, said one of the people.  A Lazard spokesman in  London  declined to comment, while
officials for Rothschild couldn’t immediately be reached.  Seat rose 25 percent to 9.5 euro cents, the biggest gain
since April 2009. The company has a market value of 184 million
euros.  Seat Pagine said today it signed a commercial partnership
with  PagesJaunes Groupe SA (PAJ) ’s Horyzon Media. Cappellini ruled out
a merger plan with the French directories publisher.  The company expects its Internet business to grow by more
than 20 percent this year, according to a stock-exchange
statement. The publisher’s Internet revenue will match offline
sales by 2012, it forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 