-- 
Shocks Slow Global Growth as Employment, Profits Gain

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-04-15T07:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/shocks-slow-global-expansion-sustained-by-labor-gains-profits.html
The global economy is cooling, in a
shift that will slow, not stop, the worldwide expansion.  Growth is decelerating in the two largest economies as
finance ministers and central bankers gather in Washington for
the semi-annual meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  and
 World Bank  starting today. Higher gasoline prices have sapped
 consumer spending  in the U.S., while tighter monetary policy has
curbed demand in China. Japan, the world’s third largest
economy, is struggling to right itself in the wake of a record
earthquake, while  Europe  is battling a debt crisis that claimed
its third victim --  Portugal  -- last week.  “The headwinds we’ve run into are pretty strong,” said
David Hensley, director of global economic coordination at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. “The fundamental forces
driving the recovery have not been stopped. We’re bending but
not breaking.” JPMorgan Chase sees growth of 4.2 percent this
year, down from its 4.7 percent forecast in January.  The enduring expansion means that global stock markets are
still a buy, even as the world economy “loses some of its
acceleration,” said  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management in  London . “The bull market in equities
continues,” he said. He sees the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rising to between 1,400 and 1,450 by the end of the year from
yesterday’s close of 1,314.52.  ‘Really Under Way’  The IMF argues that the rebound has become “more self-
sustaining” as increasing private-sector demand replaces waning
public support in promoting growth, according to its World
Economic Outlook issued this week.  “This is not a time for complacency, but the good news is
that the recovery is really under way,” IMF Managing Director
Dominique Strauss-Kahn said yesterday in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness” with Margaret Brennan. The
Washington-based lender forecasts world growth of 4.4 percent
this year and 4.5 percent in 2012, after 5 percent in 2010.  Expansion expectations nevertheless fell for a second
consecutive month in April, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch survey of fund managers published this week.
Forty-two percent of investors polled also said they see a
period of below-trend growth and above-trend inflation.  In  India , Asia’s third-largest economy, the benchmark
wholesale-price index rose 8.98 percent in March from a year
earlier, the commerce ministry said today. The  Reserve Bank  of
India last month predicted inflation would be 8 percent by the
end of March.  ‘Rock and Roll’  The global economy is experiencing a “rock and roll
recovery,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London. “While occasional shocks are
rocking the markets, the recovery keeps on rolling.”  The oil shock did hit the  U.S. economy  hard in the opening
months of 2011, as prices for regular gasoline at the pump
jumped to the highest since 2008. St. Louis-based Macroeconomic
Advisers reckons that gross domestic product declined 0.2
percent in February after dropping 0.4 percent in January. For
the quarter as whole, the economic forecasting firm foresees GDP
rising at an annual rate of 1.5 percent after increasing 3.1
percent in the fourth quarter.  The $38 billion deal to cut federal spending that lawmakers
agreed on last week may trim economic growth, though at most by
only a few tenths of a percentage point, said Nariman Behravesh,
chief economist in Lexington, Massachusetts, for research group
IHS. “Some of the numbers that have been bandied about are
smoke and mirrors,” he said.  Japanese Earthquake  In  Japan , GDP may shrink 3 percent in the April-June
period, the most since the aftermath of the 2008 Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapse, as power and supply-chain disruptions
reduce production, according to the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey in the past week. Growth should rebound
next quarter as Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s proposed 4 trillion
yen ($48 billion) initial reconstruction package kick-starts a
recovery, the survey shows.  Tokyo-based Shiseido Co., the country’s largest cosmetics
maker, said this week the quake may have reduced its sales by 3
billion yen. A Shiseido factory that makes products including
shampoo was damaged by the temblor.  China’s economy also may be decelerating, although, unlike
in the U.S. and Japan, that seems more by design than
happenstance. GDP rose 9.7 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said today, down from a 2010
peak of 11.9 percent.  ‘Out of Control’  A slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy would help
address inflation that billionaire investor George Soros warned
this week is “somewhat out of control” in the aftermath of a
record credit boom and higher commodity prices. The People’s
Bank of  China  has raised  interest rates  four times and boosted
banks’ reserve-requirement ratios six times since early October
to contain price pressures.  Doubts about the euro area’s economic outlook have also
increased after the  European Central Bank  raised its benchmark
interest rate last week for the first time since July 2008,
threatening to compound the pain of the continent’s sovereign-
debt turmoil. Portugal last week followed Greece and Ireland in
seeking an international bailout and is being told to implement
a tougher fiscal squeeze to win it. Bonds of Europe’s most-
indebted nations fell yesterday on concerns that they will have
to restructure their debts.  Commodity Prices  The moderation in global growth has taken the edge off some
commodity prices. The most-active copper contract closed at
$4.3035 a pound yesterday, down from a record $4.6575 on Feb.
15, in trading on the Comex in  New York . Lumber futures fell 22
percent to $266 per 1,000 board feet yesterday on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange from $340 on Jan. 4, the highest intraday
price since May 5, 2006.  The deceleration hasn’t led so far to a repeat of the
“double-dip” talk that was prevalent last year when the
outbreak of Europe’s debt crisis fanned fears among investors
that the world economy was relapsing into recession.  There are good reasons for that, Hensley said. The U.S.
labor market is strengthening, with private-sector payrolls
rising by 470,000 in the past two months, the biggest such gain
in five years. Unemployment fell to 8.8 percent in March from
9.8 percent in November, the sharpest drop since 1983.  Balance Sheets  Balance sheets are also in better shape. Net worth for
households and nonprofit groups rose by $2.1 trillion in the
fourth quarter of 2010 as share prices rose and families rebuilt
finances tattered by the recession, according to Federal Reserve
figures.  The improvement is encouraging some consumers to take on
debt again. JPMorgan Chase said this week that its credit-card-
services sales volume -- the amount of money spent using its
branded cards -- climbed 11.7 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier. That’s up from 9 percent in the fourth quarter
and 4.2 percent in the first quarter of last year.  The increase “does reflect some underlying positive sales
trends for consumers in general,” Douglas Braunstein, chief
financial officer of the New York-based bank, said in an April
13 conference call with reporters and analysts. The second
biggest U.S. bank by assets reported that its profits rose 67
percent in the first quarter to a second consecutive record as
provisions for bad mortgages and credit-card loans tumbled.  Profits  Corporations also have improved their finances. Profits
from current production climbed 29 percent last year, the
biggest annual gain since 1948, Commerce Department figures
show. And in a sign that industrial production may continue to
improve, railroad-shipping volume, excluding coal and grain,
increased 7.9 percent in the first quarter, according to data
compiled by the Association of American Railroads.  U.S. stock prices have weakened as growth has slowed, with
the  S&P 500  off 2.1 percent from its 2011 high set on February
18. That pales against the 16 percent mid-year fall the index
suffered in 2010 as concern about a double dip took hold.  “We’ve had a little bit of a wobble the past couple of
days but we’ve come a long way, in effectively a straight line,
since a few months ago, so it’s not surprising,” O’Neill said.  He took encouragement from the recent rise in the Chinese
stock market and said it suggests a growing confidence among
investors about the country’s ability to engineer a “happy
slowdown” of its economy. The Shanghai Composite Index, which
tracks the larger of China’s stock exchanges, has climbed 14
percent from its 2011 low set on Jan. 25 and traded at 3,050.53
at 3:32 p.m. in Shanghai.  In Europe, much depends on  Germany , the region’s largest
economy, which expanded in 2010 at the fastest pace in two
decades. The country’s government yesterday raised its forecast
for growth this year to 2.6 percent from 2.3 percent. The
economy climbed 3.6 percent in 2010.  “There are a larger number of risks out there than is
typical at this stage of an expansion,” said  Allen Sinai ,
president of Decision Economics in New York, talking about the
global economy. “I don’t think they are show-stoppers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Rich Miller in  Washington  
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  