-- 
Singapore's Dollar Leads Gains in Most Asian Currencies After Revaluation

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-04-14T09:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/singapore-s-dollar-leads-gains-in-most-asian-currencies-after-revaluation.html
Singapore ’s dollar led gains in
Asian currencies as the city-state’s central bank said it would
allow faster appreciation to combat inflation after its economy
grew quicker than economists forecast.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore said it will re-center
the currency’s band upward, after gross domestic product
increased at an annualized rate of 23.5 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, more than double the
11.4 percent predicted in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “There’s been a lot of bullish trade riding on the back of
the Singapore policy review,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a
strategist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The
market is left to guess where the mid-point of the Singapore
currency band is, so any upside will likely be limited.”  The  Singapore dollar  jumped 0.6 percent to 1.2491 per
dollar as of 5:27 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Taiwan dollar rose 0.2 percent to NT$29.041 and
South Korea’s won advanced 0.1 percent to 1,086.85.  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened for a second day on
speculation exporters were repatriating income to take advantage
of the currency’s recent weakness.  “You have these export earnings being converted into
Taiwan dollars,” said Suan Teck Kin, an economist at United
Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore.  Chinese Inflation  China ’s yuan advanced to its strongest level in 17 years on
speculation the central bank will tighten monetary policy
further to tame inflation. The currency gained 0.04 percent to
close at 6.5315 per dollar.  The  consumer price index  rose 5.2 percent in March, the
most since July 2008, according to economists in a Bloomberg
survey before data due tomorrow. The government will also report
that gross domestic product rose 9.4 percent from a year earlier
last quarter, after increasing 9.8 percent in the previous three
months, according to another survey.  China’s inflation in March may have risen 5.3 percent to
5.4 percent from a year earlier, Hong Kong-based Phoenix
Television reported on its website today, citing an unidentified
person.  “GDP growth is still going to be strong and price
pressures remain,” said  Patrick Bennett , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. “China will respond by
tightening policy with a combination of stronger currency, hikes
in  interest rates  and the reserve ratio.”  Chinese policy makers will likely ask banks to set aside
more cash as reserves in the “near future,” the China
Securities Journal said in a front-page commentary.  Heavy Dollar Selling  South  Korea ’s won advanced for a second day on speculation
exporters were repatriating income to benefit from the
currency’s decline to the weakest since April 1 yesterday.  “There was heavy selling of dollars from exporters,” said
Kim Sung Soon, a currency dealer at Industrial Bank of Korea in
Seoul. “All Asian currencies were stronger than in the morning
session as the Singapore dollar led the gains.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah was little changed at 8,664
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s
ringgit and the Philippine peso were also little changed at
3.0240 and 43.222, respectively.  India  and Thailand’s financial
markets were closed for holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  