-- 
Singapore MAS Allows Stronger Currency to Curb Inflation

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-04-14T00:31:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/singapore-mas-allows-stronger-currency-to-curb-inflation-1-.html
Singapore  will allow its currency
to appreciate further to combat inflation after the economy grew
faster than forecast in the first quarter, the central bank said
in its semi-annual exchange-rate review.  The “policy will ensure  price stability  in the medium term
while keeping growth on a sustainable path,” the Monetary
Authority of Singapore said in a statement. There will be no
change to the slope and width of the currency’s trading band, it
said. Ten out of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted the move. Six forecast no change from the “gradual
appreciation” stance adopted in October, while four expected
faster gains by steepening the band.  “Inflation is still the focus,”  Irvin Seah , an economist
at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before the policy
announcement. “Policy has to be preemptive and constantly ahead
of the curve to be effective.”  Singapore’s dollar advanced 0.5 percent to S$1.25 against
its U.S. counterpart as of 8:06 a.m. local time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached S$1.2496, the
strongest level since at least 1981, when Bloomberg began
tracking the data.  Gross domestic product rose at an annual rate of 23.5
percent last quarter from the previous three months, when it
climbed 3.9 percent, the trade ministry said in a statement.
That compares with the 11.4 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists.  The monetary authority uses the  exchange rate  rather than
 interest rates  to conduct policy, adjusting the pace of
appreciation or depreciation against an undisclosed band of
currencies. A steeper slope allows faster appreciation over
time, while lifting the band’s midpoint amounts to a one-off
revaluation. Policy makers revalued the currency last April and
steepened the slope in October.  The central bank said the  Singapore dollar  has been trading
in the upper half of the existing trading band and that the
centre of the new band will be below the current level against
the basket of currencies.  “This is less aggressive than in April 2010,” when the
policy band was re-centered at the prevailing exchange-rate
level, Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note. Even so, he predicted
further strengthening in the currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 