-- 
Singapore Allows Further Currency Gains as GDP Grows Twice Estimated Pace

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-04-14T01:22:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/singapore-allows-faster-currency-gains-as-gdp-grows-twice-estimated-pace.html
Singapore ’s economy grew more than
twice the pace economists estimated in the first quarter and the
central bank said it would allow further gains in the currency
in the third tightening of monetary policy in a year.  The Singapore dollar jumped to a record after a trade
ministry report showed gross domestic product rose at an annual
rate of 23.5 percent last quarter from the previous three months.
That’s up from 3.9 percent in the fourth quarter, and compares
with the 11.4 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of 14 economists. The central bank said separately it will allow
the Singapore dollar to appreciate more.  The island’s dollar has climbed 10 percent over the past
year, the best performer in  Asia  outside  Japan , as policy makers
used the currency as their main tool to fight inflation.
Earnings at Singapore companies including lender  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and property developer  City Developments Ltd. (CIT)  have
surged after the economy’s expansion boosted demand for loans
and spurred  home prices  to a record.  “We were taken aback by the strength of the economy in the
first quarter,” said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “Still, the central bank’s
tightening is less aggressive than in the past” and will result
in a more modest appreciation in the currency than the past two
decisions, reflecting the uncertainties in the global economy,
he said.  Currency Jumps  The  Singapore dollar  jumped to S$1.2496 a dollar after the
central bank’s semi-annual policy statement. It traded at
S$1.2505 as of 8:59 a.m. local time.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  revalued the currency
in April 2010 and said in October it would steepen and widen the
trading band while seeking a modest and gradual appreciation.
The central bank guides the Singapore dollar against a basket of
currencies within an undisclosed band.  “Economic activity is likely to be sustained at a high
level for the rest of the year, even as the underlying growth
momentum moderates,” the central bank said. Today’s policy
“adjustment takes into account the tighter policy stance adopted
in April and October last year, which will continue to have a
restraining effect on the economy and prices,” it said.  The central bank will re-center the currency’s band upwards,
while keeping it below the prevailing level of the nominal
effective  exchange rate , it said today. There will be no change
to the slope or width of the band, it said.  Commodity Prices  Global central banks are raising  interest rates , removing
excess cash from their financial systems or allowing their
currencies to appreciate as rising oil and commodity prices fuel
inflation.  “They have a good feel on the strength of the economy that
could feed into the inflation scenario,” said Saktiandi Supaat,
head of foreign-exchange research in Singapore at  Malayan
Banking Bhd. (MAY)  “There’s still upside room for the Singapore
dollar but this time, they made known their intent to restrain
any excessive move.”  Half of the 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the
central bank would re-center the band in which the dollar is
allowed to trade. Four forecast faster gains in the currency to
be achieved through a steepening of the band, while the
remaining six foresaw no change from the stance adopted at the
last policy meeting. The next review is in October.  Policy Tool  Unlike most central banks that use interest rates to
control inflation, Singapore conducts monetary policy through
its exchange rate, adjusting the pace of appreciation or
depreciation against an undisclosed band of currencies. A
steeper slope allows faster appreciation over time, while
lifting the band’s midpoint amounts to a one-off revaluation.  Singapore’s consumer prices gained 5 percent or more in the
first two months of 2011. The central bank said today inflation
may moderate to about 3 percent by the fourth quarter and is
expected to reach the upper end of its 3 percent-to-4 percent
forecast range this year.  Economic growth this year may be at the upper end of the
government’s 4 percent-to-6 percent forecast range, the central
bank said. GDP increased 8.5 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, compared with the median estimate for a 5.8
percent gain in the Bloomberg News survey.  Elections Due  The government is distributing cash to its citizens and
giving out utility rebates to limit the effect of inflation
ahead of general elections that must be held by February 2012.
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s ruling People’s Action Party
has unveiled new candidates to compete in the upcoming polls.  Policy makers introduced more measures in January to curb
property speculation after private home prices and transactions
reached records. Attempts to rein in prices had started in 2009.  Singapore, located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait, has remained vulnerable to
fluctuations in overseas demand for manufactured goods even
after the government boosted financial services and tourism.  Non-oil shipments may increase 8 percent to 10 percent in
2011, after growing 22.8 percent last year, according to
government predictions.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about a quarter of the
economy, rose 13.9 percent from a year earlier last quarter,
after gaining 25.5 percent in the three months through December.  Tourists are arriving in Singapore in record numbers,
benefiting companies from  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  to hotel
operator  Shangri-La Asia Ltd. (69) , as the island plays host to more
conventions and exhibitions. The city state’s two casinos run by
 Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  and  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  are also luring
gamblers from around the region.  The island’s services industry grew 7.2 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, after climbing 8.8 percent in the
previous three months. The  construction industry  grew 2.6
percent, compared with a 2 percent decline in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  