-- 
Siung Tjia to Join Bloomberg Markets Magazine

-- B y  
-- 
2011-04-14T15:41:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/siung-tjia-to-join-bloomberg-markets-magazine.html

Press Release  Named Creative Director; Tjia Arrives in the New Position from
ESPN The Magazine at the End of the Month  NEW YORK -- Siung Tjia will join Bloomberg Markets magazine as
the publication’s first Creative Director beginning in April,
Editor Ronald Henkoff announced today.  Tjia will oversee all design and photography for the award-
winning magazine.  Tija has been the Creative Director for ESPN The Magazine for
the past four years and had been the Deputy Art Director at
Rolling Stone magazine. Earlier, Tija held art director
positions at  Calvin Klein ’s CRK Advertising, as well as at
 Barneys New York . He has won awards from The Society of
Publication Designers (SPD), AIGA, The Type Directors Club,
Communication Arts magazine, Print Magazine, and Folio.  Bloomberg Markets is the only magazine for the global financial
elite, providing in-depth and authoritative stories on the
companies and people who move markets.  Bloomberg Markets has won more of the top business and
investigative journalism awards in the past 10 years than its
competitors combined. Bloomberg Markets is a current finalist
for the National Magazine Awards in the General Excellence
category. Last week, the magazine won the Investigative
Reporters and Editors Award (IRE) in the Magazine category for
its “Duping the Families of Fallen Soldiers” series. On March
18th, Bloomberg Markets won nine Society of Business Editors and
Writers (SABEW) Awards, more than any other magazine. Last year,
Bloomberg Markets had a record-setting year in advertising
revenue. The magazine was redesigned and relaunched with its
November 2010 issue.  “Siung Tjia is a proven leader and innovator among magazine
designers,” said Henkoff. “Building on the momentum of our
relaunch, he will help Bloomberg Markets reach new levels of
excellence in design and photography.”  About Bloomberg Markets magazine
Bloomberg Markets magazine serves the global financial elite,
providing insight and perspective on the companies, trends,
issues and people that move the world’s markets. Bloomberg
Markets readers are the youngest and most affluent among all
financial and business publications. Bloomberg Markets
magazine’s rate base is 355,000.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through television, radio, mobile,
the internet and two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and
Bloomberg Markets, covers the world with more than 2,300 news
and multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.
Headquartered in  New York , Bloomberg employs more than 13,000
people in 166 locations around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg  Drew Kerr, +1 212-849-8250,  drew@four-corners.com   #<649777.5214955.2.1.46.17993.2660>#
-0- Apr/14/2011 15:41 GMT
 