-- 
South Korea Price Pressures Will Ease This Quarter, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-04-14T21:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/south-korea-price-pressures-will-ease-this-quarter-finance-minister-says.html
Consumer-price pressures in  South
Korea  will begin to ease in the second quarter while staying
“strong” enough for the government to weigh steps to tame
inflation, the nation’s finance minister said.  “Inflationary pressures will decline from the second
quarter,” Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said in an interview
yesterday in  Washington , where Group of 20 finance chiefs and
central bankers are meeting. Even so, the pressures “still will
be strong, so the government is very cautiously monitoring”
prices, he said in an interview.  Oil and food costs have pushed consumer inflation above the
central bank’s 4 percent ceiling each month since the start of
2011, prompting it to raise rates by a quarter of a percentage
point in January and again in March. The government has stepped
up price controls by freezing power and gas charges and pressing
a cut to gasoline costs and mobile fees after President  Lee
Myung Bak  declared a “war” against inflation in January and
said it should be capped at 3 percent.  “We will be doing everything we can” to lower the burden
of inflation on consumers, Yoon said. “We’re looking at many
options on the table,” he said, referring to the government’s
non-monetary efforts to contain price pressures. These include
reducing tariffs on imports to ease supply shortages and steps
to identify monopolies in the domestic market, he said.  The won has appreciated the most against the dollar among
Asian currencies this year. The currency reached a 31-month high
of 1,082.10 on April 8. The strengthening of the currency
“would have a stabilizing effect” on import costs while also
having “some impact on the price competitiveness of exports,”
Yoon said.  No Intervention  “The Korean government has no intention whatsoever to
intervene in the  exchange rate ,” he said. “We fully respect
the role and functioning of the market.”  The Bank of  Korea  projected on April 13 that consumer
prices may increase 3.9 percent this year, faster than a
December estimate of 3.5 percent. Gross domestic product is
forecast to expand 4.5 percent following a 6.2 percent gain in
2010, the bank said after keeping interest rates unchanged at 3
percent on April 12.  Consumer prices climbed 4.7 percent from a year earlier in
March, the biggest increase since October 2008.  Bank of Korea 
Governor Kim Choong Soo said on April 12 that high inflation
will likely persist in coming months and that he will take
monetary policy action “neither too slowly nor too fast.”  ‘Strong Reasons’  While there are “some strong reasons for  interest rates  to
be hiked,” Yoon said, there also are “other serious barriers”
that call for not raising borrowing costs. The central bank has
the independence to decide what course to follow, he said.  The  finance ministry  last December projected 5 percent
economic growth and 3 percent inflation for this year. The
government is yet to decide on whether it will bring its own
outlook for inflation and growth in line with this week’s
revised projections from the central bank, Yoon said.  “Maybe during April or May our position will be
announced,” he said. “At this moment, no change.”  The won rose 0.1 percent to 1,086.85 per dollar as the of 3
p.m. close of trading in  Seoul  on April 14, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, while the Kospi stock index rose 0.9
percent to a record 2,141.06.  The central bank also estimated the economy grew 1.5
percent during the first quarter and expanded 4.1 percent from a
year earlier, bolstered by exports. Overseas shipments jumped 30
percent to record $48.6 billion in March, according to a
government report on April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  