-- 
South African Coal Plant Wins U.S. Backing Over Environmentalist Protests

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-04-14T18:55:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/south-african-coal-plant-wins-u-s-backing-over-environmentalist-protests.html
Black & Veatch Corp. won
preliminary approval for $805.6 million in financing from the
U.S. Export-Import Bank for a coal-fired power plant in South
Africa, a move that drew criticism from environmental groups.  The board of the Washington-based lender voted today on a
loan to support construction of a 4,800-megawatt plant being
developed by Eskom Holdings Ltd. The plant would be one of the
world’s largest coal-fueled stations.  “Ex-Im Bank financing supports hundreds of U.S. jobs, and
also brings assurances of compliance with its environmental and
social guidelines, including those for high-intensity carbon
projects,” the bank said in a statement.  Eskom, South Africa’s state-owned electric utility, in 2008
said it would hire  Overland Park , Kansas-based Black & Veatch
for project management and engineering services to expand the
power plant, a project called Kusile.  Government-backed financing has expanded following the
economic crisis of 2008, producing record annual lending by the
Export-Import Bank for loan guarantees, insurance and direct
lending to U.S. exporters. The bank is backed by the U.S.
government, and provides a guarantee to boost exports.  The increase in lending has resulted in more projects that
pollute. Bank-supported ventures approved in the past fiscal
year will emit more than 20 million metric tons of carbon
pollution annually, the most since the lender started releasing
data in 2001.  Most Carbon Pollution  The Eskom power plant alone will emit 30 million metric
tons a year, 50 percent more than the total for the Export-
Import Bank’s projects in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30,
according to data from the environmental impact assessment
published on the lender’s website. It would generate the most
carbon pollution since the bank began tracking emissions from
its projects in 2001.  “Ex-Im Bank directors’ decision to support Kusile was made
despite their full knowledge of the unacceptable damage the
project will cause,” said Sunita Dubey, U.S. representative of
Groundwork  South Africa , a group opposing Kusile.  They
“disregarded the impact on people’s health and livelihoods.”  Linda Lea, a spokeswoman for Black & Veatch, declined to
comment.  The loan will be made to Eskom, which will then use the
funds to hire Black & Veatch for engineering services.  The Export-Import Bank said the new power plant will
include sulfur-dioxide scrubbers and an air cooling system and
is designed to allow the use of carbon-capture technology in the
future.  The board decision today is preliminary. Details of the
lending decision must be sent to Congress, which has 35 days to
review it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  