-- 
Standard Life CEO Nish Says He’ll Cut Product-Development Costs

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/standard-life-ceo-nish-says-he-ll-cut-product-development-costs.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/)  will cut spending
on product development as proportion of profit in the next two
years as additional pension and savings services boost earnings,
Chief Executive Officer David Nish said.  The insurer’s spending on technology increased 41 percent
to 149 million pounds ($243 million) last year, or 35 percent of
operating profit. That will fall in the next two years as the
new products increase profit, according to Nish.  “If there was a year that was going to be hit, it was last
year,” Nish, 50, said in an interview at the insurer’s London
office yesterday. “This year we’ve got the propositions. There
will be a material step up in the cash profitability of our
business in 2012.”  Standard Life,  Scotland ’s biggest insurer, boosted spending
to attract new business in the last 12 months while competitors
 Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  and  Resolution Ltd. (RSL)  have
focused on generating cash for shareholders from existing
policies. The stock, the worst-performing in the  FTSE ASX Life
Insurance (FALIFE)  Index over the last six months, dropped 18 percent in
the five days after Nish disclosed his spending on March 10.  “The market is skeptical the revenues are going to come
through in 2013, so it thinks they may be spending too much
money,” said Trevor Moss, a London-based analyst at Berenberg
Bank with a “hold” rating on the stock. “They need to
consistently demonstrate strong net flows over the next two
years to prove that the spending has been worthwhile.”  Aviva, Legal & General  The stock closed down 0.5 percent at 212.3 pence yesterday
in  London , valuing the firm at about 4.8 billion pounds. The
shares still trade at a multiple of 10.9 times earnings, more
than Aviva and Legal & General.  The two have outperformed Standard Life after they spent
less on attracting new business and focussed on generating
profit from existing customers. Legal & General has climbed 31
percent in the past 12 months, and Aviva gained almost 13
percent. Standard Life advanced 2.5 percent.  “There’s an unprecedented opportunity for growth in the
savings market,” Nish said. “Particularly when we look at
other competitors’ strategies, we are trying to create new
space. We believe off the back of this investment we’ve got the
capability to grow faster.”  The insurer last year developed  Lifelens , a product sold to
companies that allows employees to manage their savings and
pension using the same Internet portal. The company has also
started an online pension service for individuals.  “We’re hoping a large proportion of the money will flow
through to Standard Life Investments,” Nish said. The insurer
is aiming to boost income from managing customers’ savings as
older life insurance products expire, he said.  ‘Under-Owned Stock’  The company’s assets are worth about 370 pence a share,
excluding any additional cashflow generated from new products,
according to James Lowen, who helps run JO Hambro Investment
Management Ltd.’s 930 million-pound U.K. equity income fund.
Lowen is one of Standard Life’s largest 20 shareholders.  “It’s one of the most under-owned stocks in the FTSE 100,
and has some aggressive profit targets,” he said. “The high
price to earnings multiple that most negative commentators focus
on will fall dramatically as this profit growth comes through.”  All three insurers said they stand to expect to benefit as
Britons rein in spending following the worst recession in a
generation and focus on saving. The government will require
firms to automatically enroll employees in a pension from next
year and is also introducing rules limiting advisers’ commission
payments.  “We’ve got a broadly fixed cost in terms of selling
particular volumes,” Nish said. “We’ve got the capability
through the deployment of technology to administer more and more
assets with less incremental costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  