-- 
State Street’s $885 Million Tax Refund Sparks Boston Protest

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-04-15T12:41:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/state-street-s-885-million-tax-refund-fuels-boston-protest.html
An expected $885 million tax refund
for  State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody bank, helped
spark a protest against big banks in downtown Boston that drew
about 400 people yesterday.  “Corporations like State Street paying zip despite $1.56
billion in profit is beyond an outrage,” Rich Rogers, executive
secretary of the Greater Boston Labor Council, said in an e-
mailed statement before the demonstration. “It’s exactly the
kind of corporate greed that is bleeding our communities dry.”  Tax refunds for profitable companies have fueled protests
aimed at firms already the target of public criticism over their
roles in the global financial crisis or the government bailouts
they received.  General Electric Co. (GE)  was the subject of a hoax
news release earlier this week by a group claiming the
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company had agreed to return “a
$3.2 billion  tax refund ” following public outcry.  State Street used losses reported in 2009 to wipe out its
U.S. income tax bill for 2010 and secure a rebate, according to
a Feb. 28 regulatory filing. The company paid $75 million in
U.S. income tax in 2009 and $1.07 billion in 2008.  The firm had a net loss of $1.88 billion in 2009 and net
income of $1.56 billion last year. It received $2 billion in
federal bailout funds in October 2008, which it repaid in June
2009.  “State Street follows all applicable tax rules,” Arlene Roberts, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “In the past three
years alone, State Street paid more than $1 billion” in
federal, state and non-U.S. income taxes, she said.  She declined to comment on yesterday’s demonstration.  ‘Left Behind’  “While companies like State Street emerge from the
economic crisis they helped cause, many working families and
neighborhoods are left behind to struggle with joblessness and
revenue problems that resulted,” said Jeff Hall, a spokesman
for The April 14 Coalition, a group of labor, housing and
community organizations that arranged the protest.  Hall, an employee of the  Service Employees International
Union  that took part in the event, said organizers were angered
by layoffs at State Street and by what he called “obscene” pay
packages for the company’s executives.  The firm said Nov. 30 it is cutting 1,400 jobs, or 5
percent of its workforce, to lower costs as record-low  interest
rates  eroded profit from investing and  securities lending . Chief
Executive Officer Joseph “Jay” Hooley received compensation
valued at $12.9 million for 2010, according to an April 6
regulatory filing.  Protesters also called on bailout recipients  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to
lend more money to help revive the U.S. economy.  Fake News Release  The fake GE news release was issued by  US Uncut , a group
protesting corporate tax issues and government service cutbacks.
The release prompted a news story by the Associated Press that
was later retracted.  GE refuted the tax bill claim specifically and said the
company received no rebate, refund or payment from the
government on its 2010 taxes.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. and JPMorgan, both based in
New York, are the two biggest custody banks.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in  Boston  at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  