-- 
Statoil Says Major Find Near Peregrino May Warrant Platform

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-04-14T10:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/statoil-makes-significant-brazil-oil-find-south-of-peregrino.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s biggest oil
and gas producer, said the “significant” oil discovery made
adjacent to the Peregrino field off  Brazil  may warrant a
separate installation to speed up development.  Statoil encountered a gross oil column of 130 meters (427
feet) upon drilling a well a few kilometers south of Peregrino
in the Campos Basin, it said in a  statement  today. Statoil is
considering a separate installation, which would be tied back to
the floating production unit at Peregrino.  “The whole idea has been to say that if we’re able to
prove enough volumes, could we then accelerate the
development,” Tim Dodson, Statoil’s executive vice president
for exploration, said by telephone today. “For example, by
introducing a third wellhead platform.”  The well is the first in the southwest segment and the
resource volumes won’t be established until drilling is
concluded, he said. Drilling is continuing with the Blackford
Dolphin rig to penetrate deeper reservoir units, according to
Statoil’s statement.  Oil output from the Peregrino field started last week and
will gradually increase to 100,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day over the next 12 months, Peter Mellbye, Statoil’s head of
international development and production, said April 11. The
field is producing from two wellhead platforms which are tied
back to a floating production, storage and offloading unit.
Peregrino is estimated to hold as much as 600 million barrels of
recoverable reserves.  Increasing Value  An additional platform “would increase the value of this
opportunity if we could get that into production many years
earlier,” Dodson said.  Statoil, which operates about 80 percent of  Norway ’s oil
and gas production, is expanding abroad to maintain output and
boost reserves amid dwindling production from aging North Sea
fields. The company is poised to become the second-largest
operator in Brazil, which plans to double oil output in less
than a decade, and is seeking to add to its portfolio.  Statoil wants more assets in the Campos Basin area, Dodson
said.  “Since we’ve got this foothold now, then an ambition is
for us to build on this,” Dodson said. “We’re doing a lot of
regional mapping and following very closely what others are
doing. There are some opportunities and of course we review
those on a continual basis.”  Brazil’s oil regulator in February approved Statoil’s sale
of a 40 percent stake in the Velho Barreiro field to state-run
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)  Statoil in May sold a 40 percent stake
in Peregrino to  Sinochem Group  for $3.1 billion, retaining a 60
percent share. The deal has been approved by the Brazilian
authorities and is set to close next week, according to Mellbye.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  