-- 
Stronger Rand Is ‘Buffer’ Against Surging Oil Prices, Pravin Gordhan Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-04-14T10:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/stronger-rand-is-buffer-against-surging-oil-prices-pravin-gordhan-says.html
South Africa’s rand is providing a
buffer against rising  oil prices , minimizing “disruptions” in
the economy from surging fuel costs, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  While the government seeks a currency that has “stability,
predictability” and is competitive, it also wants one that can
cushion against the impact of “extraneous shocks,” Gordhan
said in an interview with the Wall Street Journal, according to
a transcript published on the newspaper’s website today.  The rand’s 5 percent gain against the dollar since Feb. 1
is helping to offset oil prices above $120 a barrel and to keep
inflation inside the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target range. In October, Gordhan described the rand as
“overvalued” and pledged to use tax revenue surpluses to help
weaken it. Oil was trading at about $82 a barrel at the time.  The rand’s gains are “providing an important buffer in
ensuring we don’t have major disruptions within our own macro-
economy,” Gordhan told the newspaper. “But more importantly,
not too negative an impact upon the larger ordinary folk, and
what they have to pay for their transport and fuel costs more
generally.”  South Africa ’s government increased gasoline costs by 5.7
percent on April 6 after raising them 4.8 percent on March 2.
The  Reserve Bank  left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at a
30-year low of 5.5 percent last month, citing oil and food
prices as the biggest threats to the inflation outlook.  Under Pressure  Labor unions and manufacturers have pressured the
government to do more to weaken the rand after it climbed 11
percent against the dollar last year. The Reserve Bank boosted
gross foreign currency reserves by $7.3 billion to $49.3 billion
in the year through March 31.  Gordhan said the government is in favor of a
“multilateral” approach to curbing volatile capital inflows
into emerging markets, rather than imposing national measures,
such as  capital controls .  “We recognize that capital controls have been resorted to
by many countries,” Gordhan said. “We’re carefully observing
and analyzing the structural nature of the problems associated
with global liquidity.”  Talks at the Group of 20 about creating an international
monetary system are “getting to a point of convergence,”
Gordhan said. Still, there is a lack of “political will on all
sides” to take action, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in  London  at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 