-- 
Sumitomo Metal Books 60 Billion Yen Charge on Earthquake

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-04-14T11:13:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/sumitomo-metal-books-60-billion-yen-charge-on-earthquake-1-.html
Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. (5405) ,
 Japan ’s third-largest steelmaker, will take a charge of 60
billion yen ($720 million) for the year ended March because of
losses caused by the nation’s worst earthquake.  Half of the quake-related charge is linked to restoring
damaged facilities and the rest comes from higher energy costs
and lost sales, Executive Vice President Fumio Honbe told
reporters in  Tokyo  today. The company aims to fully restore
operations at its Kashima factory in Ibaraki prefecture, north
of Tokyo, by the end of May, he said.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami damaged blast furnaces,
a coke gas holder and port facilities at Sumitomo Metal’s
Kashima factory, forcing it to halt operations. The plant is the
company’s largest manufacturing site, accounting for more than
half of its crude steel output.  Some 336,000 metric tons in sales were lost last month,
Honbe said. That accounts for 9 percent of its January estimate
of 3.7 million metric tons in crude steel output for the three
months ended March 31. The lower sales volume pushed down
current profit, or pretax profit from operations, by about 2
billion yen, the company said today in a statement.  Sumitomo Metal is scheduled to report its full-year results
on April 28. The company said Feb. 4 net income may reach 25
billion yen for the year ended March 31, compared with a loss of
49.8 billion yen a year earlier.  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , Japan’s largest steelmaker, sent more
than 100 people to the Kashima factory and offered hot-rolled
coil supply to recover from the disaster, Sumitomo Metal said.
The two companies unveiled a plan on Feb. 3 to combine
operations to create the world’s second-largest steelmaker.  Sumitomo Metal has yet to decide whether it will uphold its
previously planned dividend payment of 2.5 yen a share for the
second half of the year, saying facility damages due to the
March 11 quake are “big,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  