-- 
SuperValu Jumps as Profit Forecast Tops Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-04-14T20:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/supervalu-surges-after-profit-forecast-tops-analysts-estimates.html
SuperValu Inc. (SVU) , the owner of Save-
A-Lot and Albertsons grocery stores, surged the most in more
than 30 years in U.S. trading after projecting full-year profit
that topped analysts’ estimates.  SuperValu advanced $1.53, or 17 percent, to $10.61 at 4:02
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, for the
biggest gain since in 1980, the earliest available data tracked
by Bloomberg. The shares had dropped 5.7 percent this year
before today.  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer Craig Herkert,
has cut jobs, closed stores and exited markets in  Connecticut 
and Cincinnati to help reduce expenses. Sales at SuperValu have
dropped for eight straight quarters amid rising food costs and
competition from discount retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and  Target Corp. (TGT)   Adjusted profit for fiscal 2012 will be $1.20 to $1.40 a
share,  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based SuperValu said today in a
statement. Analysts predicted $1.15, the average of 14 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Same store sales excluding gasoline will
decline 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent during the period, compared
with a 6 percent drop in fiscal year 2011.  “The identical store sales guidance for next year is
aggressive,” Ajay Jain, a New York-based analyst at Hapoalim
Securities USA Inc., said in an interview. “That would imply a
very significant recovery based on the current sales trend. At
the same time, I don’t really see a real catalyst to move the
stock down materially in the next three to six months.”  ‘Modest Progress’  Fourth-quarter profit fell 2.1 percent to $95 million, or
44 cents a share, for the three months ended Feb. 26, from $97
million, or 46 cents, a year earlier, according to the
statement. Analysts projected 34 cents a share. Revenue dropped
6.3 percent to $8.66 billion from $9.21 billion in the year-
earlier period, the company said.  “We have realigned our business operations, improved our
execution and focused our corporate culture on the end
customer,” Herkert said today on a conference call. “I fully
expect fiscal 2012 will be the bottom of the cycle, and we’ll
earn earnings growth in 2013.”  The sale in December of Total Logistic Control, a
subsidiary providing distribution and transportation services
for packaged goods companies, countered store closure and
employee-related costs, the company said in today’s statement.  “The company seems to be making real, if still modest,
progress and the stock is likely to end the day markedly
higher,” Meredith Adler, an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in
 New York , said in an e-mail to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  