-- 
Swaziland Labor Unions Call Off Protests for Fear of Demonstrators' Lives

-- B y   V u y i s i l e   H l a t s h w a y o
-- 
2011-04-14T15:10:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/swaziland-labor-unions-call-off-protests-for-fear-of-demonstrators-lives.html
Labor unions in  Swaziland , sub-
Saharan Africa’s last absolute monarchy, vowed to keep pressure
on the government to move to a democratic system after a police
crackdown forced them to call off a third day of demonstrations.  The unions will call for targeted sanctions against the
southern African nation’s leaders and try to persuade other
countries to help bring change, Vincent Ncongwane, general
secretary of the Swaziland Federation of Labour, told reporters
today in Mbabane, the capital. The ruling  African National
Congress  in neighboring country South Africa urged in an e-
mailed statement for political parties to be unbanned and
criticized the violence Swaziland’s security forces meted out on
peaceful protesters.  “Even if it calls for the loss of our lives, we are
prepared to ensure that Swaziland change for the better,”
Ncongwane said. “We are not going to use any violent means to
achieve our goal because that will be counterproductive.”  Police detained union leaders and journalists and used
teargas, rubber bullets and water cannons to break up marches in
support of democracy over the last two days in Swaziland,
 Africa ’s third-largest sugar producer. A Facebook campaign urged
a national uprising to start on April 12.  Union and opposition groups want change in the tiny
mountainous nation wedged between South Africa and  Mozambique 
after austerity measures to deal with a fiscal crisis stoked
anger. The government cut spending and plans to raise taxes and
slash state worker salaries. It wants civil servants to retire
early, threatening to add to an about 43 percent unemployment
rate.  Not the End  The nation’s 1.2 million people are ruled by 42-year-old
King Mswati III, who appoints the prime minister. Lawmakers
aren’t allowed to belong to a political party and the country is
under emergency rule.  “Despite the demonstrations being halted by the
government clampdown, the visibility of the issue and the
sentiment of a pro-democracy need in the country is very high,”
said Dimpho Motsamai, a researcher at the Institute for Security
Studies in  Pretoria ,  South Africa ’s capital. “I think it is an
opportunity for the movement to reorganize, to really develop a
better strategy. I don’t think it’s the end of the matter.”  Stop Interfering  The European Union mission to Swaziland issued a statement
yesterday condemning the government for not allowing peaceful
assembly of trade unions and opposition groups. The U.S. is
concerned by the government’s reaction to the protests, its
embassy said on April 12.  Amnesty International  condemns the “levels of state
violence in the past 24 hours and the numbers of arbitrary and
secret detentions,” according to a statement e-mailed by the
U.K.-based organization yesterday.  Swaziland’s government “noted with dismay” that other
countries were interfering in the country’s affairs, Mbabane-
based Times of Swaziland reported, citing Lutfo Dlamini, the
foreign affairs minister.  Swaziland wants a $100 million loan from the  African
Development Bank  and asked the  International Monetary Fund  on
April 8 for a six-month “staff-monitored program” after a
decline in income from a regional customs union because of the
global economic crisis cut state revenue. The IMF and AfDB say
the government must reduce its wage bill.  Mswati, who has 14 wives, has a personal fortune of $200
million, according to  New York ’s Forbes Magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vuyisile Hlathswayo in Mbabane at 
 vshlathswayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  