-- 
Swinging ‘Fruit Bowl’ Will Honor German Reunification in Berlin

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-04-14T14:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/swinging-fruit-bowl-will-mark-german-unification-at-berlin-royal-palace.html
A giant steel bowl that tips from
side to side will commemorate German reunification on a square
in front of the yet-to-be-rebuilt Berlin royal palace.  The plan by Berlin choreographer Sasha Waltz and Stuttgart
designers  Milla & Partner  recalls the people’s movement of 1989,
which led to the fall of the  Berlin Wall  and the East German
communist regime, and later to Germany’s reunification. The 55-
meter-long, boat-shaped dish is set in motion by visitors
gathering on one side or the other. It can hold as many as 1,400
people and needs 20 to move.  “This monument isn’t just an object to look at,” the
designers said in an e-mailed statement today. “It should be
entered and set in motion. That movement is only possible when a
large group of visitors cooperate.”  Already dubbed “the fruit bowl” by the tabloid daily
Bild-Zeitung, the dish will cost as much as 10 million euros
($14.42) to build and has the official title “Citizens’
Movement.”  It is inscribed with the mottos of the peaceful revolution:
“Wir sind das Volk” (We are the people) and “Wir sind ein
Volk” (we are one people). The underside shows scenes from the
1989 revolution.  “The spirit of the proposal is that every person can
contribute to the wellbeing of the community through creative
action,” the designers said. “It lends citizens weight.”  The winning project was chosen from three finalists by
Culture Minister Bernd Neumann and approved by a parliamentary
committee. It is expected to take two or three years to build.  The construction of the royal palace, the former residence
of the Prussian rulers blown up by East  Germany ’s communist
regime, was postponed by three years to 2014 as part of a 2010
government austerity package.  To contact the writer on this review:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 