-- 
Assad Approves Syrian Cabinet in Wake of Protests

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-14T19:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/syrian-premier-safar-forms-new-cabinet-in-wake-of-protests-1-.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
approved the formation of a new government under Adel Safar
almost two weeks after the prime minister was named to replace
an administration that resigned after deadly protests.  In addition, Assad ordered the release of people detained
during political protests that started about a month ago and who
did not “commit criminal acts,” the state-run SANA news agency
reported. The government agency didn’t say how many  would be
released or indicate how many people were detained by the
authorities.  In the cabinet shake-up, Mohammad al-Jalilati replaced
Finance Minister Mohammad al-Hussein, while Foreign Minister
Walid Al-Muallem and Energy Minister Sufian Alao retained their
positions in the new government, the state-run  Syrian Arab News
Agency  reported today. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic
Affairs Abdallah Dardari, who isn’t from the ruling Baath party,
was removed. Mohammad Ibrahim Shaar was named interior minister,
overseeing the country’s security.  Safar, who will be joined in the cabinet by a total of 30
lawmakers, was agriculture minister in the cabinet of Muhammad Naji Otri. Otri quit March 29 following demonstrations that have
been the strongest challenge to Assad’s rule since he inherited
power from his father in 2000. In a March 30 speech, Assad told
parliament that political changes are under way and that Syria
won’t be rushed. He also said the protests were a conspiracy.  ‘Real Face’  Formation of the cabinet is “significant because it
answers the question that everyone has been asking for the past
three weeks, which is whether Assad is a reformer or if he will
show his real face,” said Nadim Shehadi, associate fellow at
the London-based  Chatham House  international affairs institute.  “This cabinet in a way answers that question and Assad has
decided the way to confront the present unrest is to act
tougher,” as shown by the removal of Dardari, Shehadi said.
“Assad’s claim to be a reformer gained credibility when someone
like Abdallah Dardari was seen to be working with him, and
that’s when many Syrians who were previously skeptical started
looking more favorably towards the regime.”  ‘No Real Difference’  “There is no real difference with this new lineup,” Ammar
Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s  National Organization for Human Rights ,
said in a phone interview from Cairo today. “It’s a
continuation of the last government and appointing an
agriculture minister from the previous government as premier to
head a new cabinet is proof that this government will not
initiate any investigations or be accountable.”  Syria, where Assad’s Baath party has been in power since
1963, is the latest Middle Eastern country to be hit by a wave
of uprisings that ousted longtime rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia 
and sparked armed conflict in  Libya . Assad’s regime is an ally
of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring Lebanon, where it
supports the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement. Syria ranks 152
in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s 2010 Democracy Index, below
 Afghanistan .  Human Rights Watch  said in an April 12 report that at least
130 people have been killed in the crackdown on demonstrators.  Assad should immediately order his security forces to stop
using “unjustified lethal force” against anti-government
protesters, New-York based  Human Rights Watch  said in an April 5
report. Security forces in at least two towns prevented injured
protesters from being taken to hospitals and kept medical
personnel and others from reaching them, the organization said
this week. It cited interviews with 20 witnesses from three
towns.  Placing Blame  The Interior Ministry has denied the group’s findings. It
said armed gangs were responsible for preventing police injured
in the protests from receiving medical treatment. The  ministry 
has said it “will not allow the deliberate mixing between
peaceful protests and vandalism to sow discord and destabilize
the established national unity.”  The United Nations Human Rights Council should schedule a
special session to address human-rights violations in Syria,
including the unlawful use of force against demonstrators, the
 Human Rights Watch  group said.  Assad told parliament last month that Syria will have a new
parliament and local administrations after elections, already
scheduled for August, and that there were no hurdles to changes
although there were some delays.  “Our duty is to provide the Syrian people with the best,
not the fastest,” he said.  Assad’s Promises  Assad on March 31 set up a committee to investigate the
deaths of protesters in Daraa and Latakia, while another panel
will prepare for the lifting of the country’s state of
emergency, in place since 1963.  The regime has promised to release prisoners, change the
law on political parties, combat corruption, introduce a media
law guaranteeing more freedom, improve  living standards  for
residents of border areas and make legal changes to ban random
arrests.  “Putting a brigadier general from the security services in
charge of the Interior is unlikely to result in greater
transparency or a significantly different approach,” said
former Canadian ambassador Brian Davis.  “It is unfortunate that Dardari is gone,” he said by e-
mail. “He has been something of a thorn to the regime, because
he was not a Baathi and was always advocating changes in the way
things were done, some of which were deemed unwelcome
interference by colleagues in government and by some of the
circle around the president. That said, he was unable to
accomplish much during his 6-7 years of involvement with the
government.  ‘‘In fact, while one looks at cabinet changes in Syria to
see if the ‘kind’ of person might signal a change in direction,
the fact is that the PM and ministers are relatively powerless
and do what they are told,’’ Davis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in London at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  