-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending April 12 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-14T13:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-april-12-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Overview: Across the dryness and drought areas of the  United
States , the heaviest precipitation during the past week was
mostly confined to parts of eastern Oklahoma, northern Arkansas,
and northern Indiana. An active weather pattern persisted over
the country with occasional frontal activity. Temperatures have
been above normal east of the Continental Divide, with the
greatest departures of 8-10 degrees F above normal over parts of
the southern Plains and middle Mississippi Valley. West of the
Divide, temperatures have generally been up to 4 degrees F below
normal, with a few localized areas of 6-8 degree departures.  The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: Observed rainfall during the
past week has generally been on the light side (up to 0.5
inches) over the coastal plain, and on the heavy side (1.5-2.5
inches) over the higher elevations of the central Appalachians,
Alleghenies and northern Adirondacks. Along with above to much-
above normal stream flows, a slight eastward adjustment to the
western margins of both abnormal dryness (D0) and moderate
drought (D1) in western  Virginia  was deemed appropriate.  In
contrast, stream flows in and around Rhode Island are currently
running much below normal (lowest ten percent of the historical
stream flow distribution), and low stream flows have been
recorded for at least the past month. Precipitation deficits of
up to 3.0 inches have accumulated over the past 30-days, though
current total column soil moisture anomaly values fall within
the near-normal tercile (NLDAS).  Southeast: Rainfall deficits of 4-8 inches were observed in the
January-March 2011 season across southeastern Virginia, central
portions of  North Carolina , southern portions of both Georgia
and Alabama, and the western  Florida  panhandle. For the past 30-
days, the most serious deficits (3-6 inches) have been over
southern Alabama and adjacent parts of the Florida panhandle.
Though the Carolinas were off to a very dry start early in 2011
which is consistent with La Nina winters, showers and
thunderstorms in recent weeks have at least temporarily offset
the severity of dryness and drought in the area. This is well
indicated by the objective short-term and long-term blends, with
hydrological impacts being dominant this early in the spring.
Recent warmth and moisture have been favorable for small grains.
In central North Carolina, the western margins of abnormally dry
(D0) and moderate drought (D1) conditions were shifted slightly
eastward, consistent with recently favorable rain across the
higher terrain of western North Carolina. In  South Carolina ,
farm operators were able to continue planting despite high winds
and damaging hail in the past week, as the severe weather was
sporadic and occurred primarily in the evenings. Statewide soil
moisture was rated as 4 percent short, 81 percent adequate, and
15 percent surplus. In Georgia, statewide soil moisture was
rated as 1 percent very short, 10 percent short, 79 percent
adequate, and 10 percent surplus. Rainfall amounts across the
state ranged from a trace up to near 2 inches locally in the
past week. In southern Florida, continuing dryness prompted the
expansion of extreme drought (D3) over all of northern Miami-
Dade County, and the severe drought (D2) area was shifted
southward across southern Miami-Dade County and Monroe County.
According to local experts, Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach
have experienced rainfall deficits of about 22 inches since June
1, 2010.  Delta: During the past week, moderate showers and thunderstorms
(1-2.5 inches) fell over north-central  Mississippi , and
northwestern Arkansas. However, much less rain fell elsewhere,
exacerbating regional drought conditions. This led to expanding
the area of exceptional drought (D4) from eastern  Texas  into
western  Louisiana . This includes the Louisiana parishes of
Vernon and northern Beauregard. In addition to wildfire impacts,
there are also water conservation measures being implemented by
the Sabine River Authority. Extreme drought (D3) was also
extended slightly eastward in this week’s drought depiction
across central Louisiana. Local experts note that the Louisiana
statewide average precipitation deficit is about 16 inches for
the past 12 months, making this the 4th driest on record since
1895. The 180-day precipitation anomaly for the coastal section
of Mississippi is a staggering 16 inches, warranting an
expansion of (at least) D2 conditions from the Mobile, AL area
westward to the eastern Louisiana border. Severe drought (D2)
was also introduced to south-central Louisiana, and included
southern St. Mary and lower St. Martin Parishes, as well as
Terrebonne Parish. Stream flows across much of Louisiana and
southern  Arkansas  are currently running well below normal.  Midwest: Light to moderate rain (up to 1 inch) fell across parts
of upper  Michigan , and northern lower Michigan during the past
7-days, with greater amounts (1-2 inches) observed over the
abnormally dry (D0(H)) area over northern Indiana and extreme
northwestern Ohio. Temperatures for the first 10 days of April
2011 have been averaging a few degrees above-normal, with the
greatest anomalies (+7 F to +8 F) over the confluence area of
the lower Ohio and middle Mississippi rivers. In  Iowa ,
northwestern and west-central  Illinois , slow green-up has been
accelerated by the recent warmth, and the dryness has been
beneficial for spring field work. A slight trimming back of
abnormally dry (D0) conditions was made in southwestern Iowa,
though D0 conditions did expand northward into west-central
portions of the state. In southeastern Iowa, tributary stream
flows continue to do well, and both topsoil and subsoil moisture
is mostly adequate or surplus. Therefore, for the time being, no
D0 has been introduced into southeastern Iowa.  Southern and Central Plains: During the past week, a band of 1-2
inch rains fell across southeastern portions of  Oklahoma  and
northeastern portions of Texas. The southern lower Plains (and
adjacent lower Mississippi Valley) has experienced very low
stream flows for at least the past 30-days, and top 1-meter soil
moisture anomalies in the past 30-days of at least 2 to 3 inches
across a broad portion of the region, with some embedded areas
of 3 to 5 inch deficits (NLDAS). USDA maps indicate 86 percent
of Oklahoma and 90 percent of Texas are dominated by short-very
short topsoil moisture conditions. Precipitation deficits in the
southern lower Plains range from 3-6 inches in the past 30-days
to 4-8 inches in the past 90-days. With deficits of 12-16 inches
in the past 180-days, extreme drought (D3) conditions were
expanded across McCurtain and Pushmataha Counties in
southeastern Oklahoma, with severe drought (D2) extended
slightly northward of these Counties. Local experts note that
Latimer County continues to have extremely low farm ponds and a
shortage of hay, and recommend maintaining D2 conditions here
for the time being. Along the northern tier of Counties in
Oklahoma, locally 1-3 inches of rain, baseball-sized hail, and
winds in excess of 90 mph were noted in eastern Grant, Kay, and
western Osage Counties. Therefore, a westward shift was made in
the drought depiction of D0 conditions from eastern Osage County
through Kay and eastern Grant Counties to indicate some
improvement. In southeastern Texas, extreme drought (D3) was
nudged southward into Wharton and Jackson Counties. In this
region, crops are doing poorly, and reservoir levels are either
holding steady or very slowly falling. In southwestern Texas,
extreme drought (D3) was downgraded even further to exceptional
drought (D4). Since the start of the current water year (Oct.
1), barely any rain has fallen. In Pecos County, Fort Stockton
received only 0.01 inches, while in Jeff Davis County, Fort
Davis had 0.09 inches. In Midland, 0.11 inches of precipitation
has fallen, which is only two percent of normal! It is by far
the driest such period on record for Midland, dating back to
1930. In addition, one wildfire between Marfa and Fort Davis
consumed 108,000 acres since the weekend. Finally, in far
southeastern  South Dakota , the prevalence of recent dry
conditions has proved beneficial to field preparation for
planting.  The Southwest: Rainfall deficits of up to 3 inches were observed
over New Mexico, most of  Arizona  and eastern  Colorado , and much
of eastern  Utah  during the past month. Much of Arizona received
up to 0.5 inches of precipitation in the past week, with locally
greater amounts in north-central Arizona. The objective short-
term and long-term blends depict the gradual degradation of
conditions across the Southwest. SNOTEL basin-average Snow Water
Content (SWC) dated April 11, 2011 indicates SWC values within
the lowest 25 percent over all but extreme north-central New
Mexico, and the southeastern half of Arizona. Water Year to Date
(WYTD) Precipitation (April 12) is still running well below
normal for most of New Mexico and Arizona since October 1st,
2010. WYTD precipitation is mostly near or slightly above normal
over southwestern Colorado, and well above normal over
northwestern Colorado, and northern and central Utah. No
alterations were made to the drought depiction this week, but
may be required next week pending further assessment by local
experts.  North-central Rockies: WYTD precipitation in  Wyoming  is running
near-above normal, as is snow water content. A localized 3-inch
maximum of precipitation was observed in part of northwestern
Wyoming during the last 7-days. For now, no changes were deemed
necessary for the two D0(H) areas in western portions of the
state.  Hawaii,  Alaska  and Puerto Rico: During the past 30 days in
Hawaii, precipitation at a few selected stations stood at 106
percent of normal at Honolulu, 71 percent of normal at Hilo, 11
percent of normal at Kaunakakai on the island of Molokai, and
only 6 percent of normal at Kahului on the island of Maui.
Vegetation conditions improved enough on Lanai despite some
short-term dryness to warrant a 1-category upgrade from D1 to
D0. In coastal southern Alaska, precipitation was widely
scattered, with amounts ranging from little if any to 3 inches.
Stream flow percentiles varied markedly across this same region.
No alterations to the drought depiction were made for Alaska. In
Puerto Rico, despite little precipitation, stream flows remained
near normal. No changes were made to the drought depiction for
Puerto Rico.  Looking Ahead: For the ensuing 5 days (through April 18), with
few exceptions, prospects for heavy rain are greatest across
areas that do not need the precipitation. The northern and
eastern fringes of the large drought area centered over the
south-central states may receive between 0.5 and 1.5 inches of
rain (for example, southern  Nebraska , northern Kansas, and much
of both Arkansas and Mississippi). Near the Atlantic Seaboard,
North Carolina is likely to receive additional, beneficial
rainfall with over 0.75 inches in most areas, and up to 1.5
inches of rain is expected over Rhode Island, which will help
reverse the current drying trend. Temperatures are forecast to
be near to below normal over most areas of the CONUS, with the
exception of above normal temperatures over the Southwest.  The CPC 6-10 day outlook (valid April 19-23) is calling for
enhanced chances of above-median precipitation over most of the
eastern half of the lower 48 states, and western Washington
state, and enhanced chances of below-median precipitation over
the Southwest, and southwestern Alaska. The temperature pattern
for this period is expected to feature elevated odds of below
normal temperatures over much of the northern CONUS and Alaska,
and above normal temperatures over the southern and eastern
CONUS.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  