-- 
U.S. Completes Fraud Case Against Taylor Bean Chairman Farkas

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-14T22:06:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/u-s-completes-fraud-case-against-taylor-bean-chairman-farkas.html
U.S. prosecutors finished their
case against  Lee Farkas , the former chairman of Taylor, Bean &
Whitaker Mortgage Corp. accused of masterminding a $1.9 billion
fraud scheme that targeted the federal bank bailout program.  Prosecutors spent eight days laying out the allegations for
jurors in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia. The government
called nearly two dozen witnesses, including officials at
Freddie Mac, Bank of America and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  Six of those
who testified were former colleagues or associates of Farkas who
had pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges.  Farkas, 58, is charged with orchestrating a fraud involving
fake mortgage assets that duped some of the country’s largest
financial institutions, targeted the Troubled Asset Relief
Program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery, Alabama-
based  Colonial Bank .  Farkas is accused of 14 counts of conspiracy and wire, bank
and securities fraud. If convicted of the single conspiracy
charge, Farkas faces a prison term of as long as 30 years.  Bruce Rogow, one of Farkas’s lawyers, said in court that
Farkas may testify in his own defense as the final witness.  The government’s last witness was Raymond Peroutka, a
forensic accountant hired by prosecutors to analyze mortgage and
accounting records at Colonial Bank,  Taylor Bean , and Freddie
Mac and Ginnie Mae.  Patrick Stokes, deputy chief of the U.S. Justice
Department’s Fraud Section, had Peroutka explain wire
transactions that form the basis for several of the counts in
the indictment.  During cross examination, Farkas’s lawyer, Craig Kuglar,
asked Peroutka whether he saw any evidence of Farkas requesting
these wire transfers.  “I don’t have a specific recollection of any,” Peroutka
said.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 