-- 
U.S. March Producer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-04-14T12:30:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/u-s-march-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the U.S.
producer price report for March released by the Labor Department.  The Producer Price Index for finished goods rose 0.7
percent in March, seasonally adjusted, the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics  reported today. This advance followed a
1.6-percent increase in February and a 0.8-percent gain in
January. At the earlier stages of processing, prices
received by manufacturers of intermediate goods climbed 1.5
percent in March and the crude goods index declined 0.5
percent. On an unadjusted basis, prices for finished goods
moved up 5.8 percent for the 12 months ended March 2011,
the largest year-over-year gain since a 5.9-percent advance
in March 2010.  Stage-of-Processing Analysis  Finished goods  In March, nearly ninety percent of the increase in the
finished goods index can be attributed to a 2.6-percent
rise in prices for finished energy goods. Also contributing
to the advance in the finished goods index, prices for
goods other than foods and energy moved up 0.3 percent. By
contrast, the index for finished consumer foods moved down
0.2 percent in March.  Finished energy:  Prices for finished energy goods rose 2.6 percent in
March, the sixth consecutive monthly advance. Over eighty
percent of the March increase can be attributed to the
gasoline index, which climbed 5.7 percent. Higher prices
for liquefied petroleum gas and home heating oil also were
factors in the rise in the finished energy goods index.  Finished core:  The index for finished goods other than foods and
energy moved up 0.3 percent in March, the fourth
consecutive increase. About one-third of this advance can
be traced to prices for light motor trucks, which rose 0.7
percent. An increase in the passenger car index also
contributed to higher finished core prices.  Finished foods:  Prices for finished consumer foods fell 0.2 percent in
March, the first decline since August 2010. Leading the
March decrease, the index for fresh and dry vegetables
dropped 21.4 percent.  Intermediate goods  The Producer Price Index for intermediate materials,
supplies, and components moved up 1.5 percent in March, the
eighth consecutive advance. The broad-based March increase
was led by prices for intermediate energy goods, which rose
2.9 percent. The indexes for intermediate goods less foods
and energy and for intermediate foods and feeds also were
factors in the intermediate goods advance, moving up 0.9
percent and 2.2 percent, respectively. For the 12 months
ended March 2011, prices for intermediate goods climbed 8.9
percent, the largest advance since rising 9.8 percent in
October 2008.  Intermediate energy:  The index for intermediate energy goods increased 2.9
percent in March, the eighth straight advance. Prices for
jet fuel, which rose 8.4 percent, contributed significantly
to the March increase. Higher prices for gasoline and
lubricating oil base stocks also were major factors in the
rise in the intermediate energy goods index.  Intermediate core:  Prices for intermediate goods less foods and energy
advanced 0.9 percent in March. Over thirty percent of the
increase can be attributed to the index for basic organic
chemicals, which moved up 3.4 percent. Higher prices for
steel mill products also contributed to the advance in
intermediate core prices.  Intermediate foods:  The intermediate foods and feeds index rose 2.2
percent in March, the eighth straight monthly increase. A
4.8-percent jump in prices for dairy products accounted for
a third of the March advance in the intermediate foods
index.  Crude goods  The Producer Price Index for crude materials for
further processing fell 0.5 percent in March. For the 3
months ended in March, prices for crude materials advanced
6.2 percent, subsequent to a 13.0-percent jump for the 3
months ended December 2010. Leading the monthly decrease in
March, the index for crude nonfood materials less energy
fell 2.3 percent. Also contributing to this decline, prices
for crude energy materials moved down 0.5 percent. By
contrast, the index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs
rose 0.3 percent in March.  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy fell
2.3 percent in March. From December to March, crude core
prices advanced 3.9 percent compared with a 9.5-percent
increase from September to December. In March, a major
factor in the monthly decrease in crude core prices was the
index for nonferrous scrap, which fell 2.1 percent. Lower
prices for grains and corrugated wastepaper also
contributed to the decline in the crude core index.  Crude energy:  The index for crude energy materials fell 0.5 percent
in March. For the 3 months ended in March, crude energy
prices rose 2.4 percent compared with a 24.0-percent jump
for the 3 months ended December 2010. In March, the
decrease in prices for crude energy materials was the
result of an 11.7-percent decline in the natural gas index.  Crude food:  The index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs rose 0.3
percent in March. For the 3-month period ended in March,
prices for crude foods climbed 11.7 percent after advancing
4.3 percent for the 3 months ended December 2010. A 12.8-
percent rise in the fluid milk index led the March increase
in crude food prices.  Services Analysis
Trade Industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of total
trade industries moved up 1.1 percent in March following a
1.5-percent increase in the prior month. (Trade indexes
measure changes in margins received by wholesalers and
retailers.) Over half of the March advance can be traced to
a 14.0-percent jump in margins received by department
stores. Higher margins received by wholesale trade
industries and by  motor vehicle  and parts dealers also
contributed significantly to the rise in the total trade
industries index.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of
transportation and warehousing industries climbed 2.4
percent in March, the third straight increase. Over forty
percent of the March advance is attributable to prices
received by the scheduled air transportation industry
group, which rose 6.2 percent. Higher prices received by
the truck transportation sector and line-haul railroads
also were major factors in the increase in the
transportation and warehousing industries index.  Traditional services:  The Producer Price index for the net output of total
traditional  service industries  was unchanged in March after
decreasing 0.2 percent in the previous month. In March,
higher prices received by investment bankers and securities
dealers and by the accommodation sector were offset by
lower prices received by the industries for commercial
banking and offices of certified public accountants.  The Producer Price Index for April 2011 is scheduled
to be released on Thursday, May 12, 2011 at 8:30 a.m.
(EDT). Transmission of material in this release is
embargoed until 8:30 a.m. (EDT), Wednesday, March 16, 2011  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  