-- 
U.S. Treasury Department Schedule for Thursday, April 14

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-04-14T12:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/u-s-treasury-department-schedule-for-thursday-april-14.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the U.S. Treasury Department’s daily release on the
schedule for Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and other officials:  In the morning, Secretary Geithner will participate in a
conversation on the President’s fiscal framework and the state
of the global economy with the Financial Times’ Lionel Barber at
the “Back to Work: Innovation, Investment & International Open
Markets” Conference hosted by the Bertelsmann Foundation. This
event is at the Newseum and is open press.  Later in the morning, the Secretary will meet with former
British Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  at Treasury. This meeting is
closed press.  Also in the morning, Deputy Secretary Wolin and Secretary
Geithner will deliver remarks at an event marking the 20th
anniversary of the Treasury Department’s Office of Technical
Assistance (OTA) and discuss OTA’s efforts to help developing
nations strengthen their financial sectors and economies. This
event is at Treasury and is open press.  Later, the Secretary will attend the President’s meeting
with Erskine Bowles and  Alan Simpson  at the White House. This
meeting is closed press.  In the afternoon, the Secretary will meet with European
Union Commissioner Olli Rehn at Treasury. This meeting is closed
press.  Later in the afternoon, the Secretary will meet with
members of the Senate Finance Committee to discuss his recent
letter to Congress on the debt limit. This meeting, which was
previously announced for earlier in the week and rescheduled, is
closed press.  Later, Secretary Geithner and French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  will co-chair a meeting at the  World Bank  with
economic leaders from  Europe , the Middle East and North Africa,
along with the heads of the international financial
institutions, to assess how we can work together to assist Egypt
and Tunisia in their transitions toward more inclusive growth.
There will be a photo spray at the top of the meeting.  In the evening, the Secretary will attend a G-7 finance
ministers’ and central bank governors’ meeting. This meeting is
closed press.  Later in the evening, the Secretary will attend a G-20
finance ministers’ and central bank governors’ working dinner at
the  International Monetary Fund . This meeting is closed press.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  