-- 
U.S. Foreclosure Settlement Muddies Outlook for Mortgage Relief

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-04-14T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/u-s-foreclosure-settlement-muddies-outlook-for-mortgage-relief-from-banks.html
The foreclosure-abuse settlements
announced yesterday by federal regulators may make it harder for
state attorneys general and the Obama administration to force
banks to reduce loan balances for more troubled U.S. homeowners.  The 14 largest U.S. mortgage servicers, including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , agreed to review all
foreclosed loans from 2009 and 2010, and pay back losses in
cases that were mishandled. They also will improve procedures by
hiring staff, upgrading document-tracking systems and assigning
a single point of contact for each borrower.  While the attorneys general proposed many similar terms
last month, banking regulators didn’t include any requirements
for lowering mortgage debt. That may hinder Iowa Attorney
General Thomas J. Miller as he leads a group of state officials
working with the administration to require lenders to evaluate
loan cuts for some borrowers whose homes are worth less than
their mortgages.  “I have always been pretty skeptical about the ability of
principal reductions to get you much,” said Mark A. Calabria,
director of financial-regulation studies at the  Cato Institute ,
a public-policy research group in Washington. “I think we will
look back and say this was the death knell.”  The settlements, which include yet-to-be determined
monetary penalties, also prohibit banks from seizing homes for
which borrowers have negotiated a trial or permanent loan
modification. The attorneys general proposal goes a step
further, freezing the foreclosure process even while borrowers
are being evaluated for workouts.  Divided Views  The agreements stem from reviews of the mortgage-servicing
industry by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the
Federal Reserve, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The banks didn’t admit or deny
regulators’ findings.  The loan-reduction rules are the most divisive part of
Miller’s bid to get servicers to settle with all 50 states on
allegations of abusive foreclosure practices. In the past month,
at least seven state attorneys general rejected the proposal,
and  Brian T. Moynihan , chief executive officer of  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , said widespread principal cuts were bad policy.  Miller has pushed for such relief as one of the best ways
to bolster the housing market by reducing foreclosures, which
drive down property values for homeowners who continue to pay
their mortgages.  HAMP’s Shortcomings  The Treasury Department’s main foreclosure-prevention
program, which lowers monthly payments, has resulted in about
600,000 permanent loan modifications, short of its goal of up to
4 million. The Home Affordable Modification Program, also known
as HAMP, doesn’t require loan cuts.  Federal regulators said the decision to craft their own
deal doesn’t preclude what they call a global settlement with
banks that could also include the state attorneys general and
Obama administration.  Officials from  Justice Department , the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and 10 state attorneys general met
yesterday for a second time with banks to negotiate a broader
settlement, Associate U.S. Attorney General Tom Perrelli told
reporters. The group is discussing potential fines and whether
servicers should be required to reduce the principal on some
home loans.  The agreements “will not limit our pursuit of remedies and
reforms,” Iowa’s Miller said yesterday in a statement. HUD
Secretary Shaun Donovan said the deals support their broader
effort.  Rewarding Default  “The Obama administration and the state attorneys general
are committed to ensuring the banks are held accountable in a
way that helps to strengthen the housing market and helps
American families stay in their homes,” he said yesterday in a
statement.  Opponents of mandatory loan writedowns, including the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and dissenting
attorneys general, say they reward borrowers for failing to meet
their obligations and could cause additional defaults as
homeowners stop making payments so they can qualify for help.  “There’s very little incentive for the banks to accept any
deal that’s going to require them to forgive significant amounts
of principal for underwater borrowers,” said Jaret Seiberg, a
financial-policy analyst for  Washington  Research Group, a
Washington-based unit of broker MF Global Holdings Ltd. “It’s
one of those slippery slopes where once you start, you don’t
know where you’ll end.”  Case Against Writedowns  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the primary
overseer of national banks, supports giving lenders the option
to cut borrowers’ debt, Bryan Hubbard, a spokesman for the
regulator in Washington, said in an e-mail.  Mandatory reductions don’t make sense because contracts
with some investors who own bonds backed by mortgages don’t
permit them, and it isn’t fair to make servicers or investors
absorb losses from declining property values that would
ordinarily be borne by homeowners, he said.  “Principal reduction results in immediate and permanent
loss to servicers/investors with no potential for recovery if
property values rise or the borrower’s financial condition
improves,” he wrote.  The federal settlements come as the U.S. housing market
remains under pressure from unemployment of almost 9 percent. A
record 2.9 million properties received foreclosure filings in
2010, according to RealtyTrac Inc., a data firm in  Irvine ,
 California . Sales of existing homes fell 9.6 percent in
February, and distressed properties accounted for 39 percent of
deals, data from the Chicago-based National Association of
Realtors show.  Case for Writedowns  About 27 percent of U.S. mortgage holders were underwater
at the end of last year, according to Zillow Inc. of Seattle, a
real estate information company.  A targeted program to lower principal for struggling
homeowners can help shrink the overhang of foreclosures, said
Cristian de Ritis, a director at Moody’s Analytics Inc., an
economics-research firm in West Chester,  Pennsylvania . Borrowers
who have loan balances in line with their home values have an
incentive to keep paying and a cushion if they lose a job or
face other financial setbacks.  About 200,000 to 500,000 mortgage holders could qualify for
a writedown and stay current on payments as long as changes are
implemented within the next six months, de Ritis said.  Standard
& Poor’s , the New York-based ratings company, said in a Feb. 7
report that trimming mortgage balances is the “most effective”
and “least frequent” modification. Less than 3 percent of
workouts include writedowns.  “If the program is delayed, it will have less of an impact
as many distressed borrowers will have already lost their
homes,” de Ritis said.  Fixing System  The attorneys general and federal regulators began
separate probes of the industry late last year amid allegations
of shoddy practices such as robo-signing, or using workers with
little or no training to sign thousands of documents filed in
support of foreclosures without reading them. The investigations
were broadened to include all aspects of the servicing business.  “Our enforcement actions are intended to fix what is
broken, identify and compensate borrowers who suffered financial
harm and ensure a fair and orderly mortgage-servicing process
going forward,” John Walsh, acting comptroller of the currency,
said yesterday in a statement.  The regulators deal with servicers is a victory for banks
that shows how their political muscle has been strengthened
after atrophying during the financial crisis. Servicers may now
be less inclined to agree to a deal with the states including
mortgage relief.  ‘Moral Hazard’  “The regulators’ settlement lets the banks’ defenders say
that anything else is piling on,” said Peter Swire, a law
professor at  Ohio  State University in Columbus, Ohio, who was an
adviser on housing issues to President Barack Obama until
August.  Regulators are too cozy with the banks they oversee, said
Paul Leonard, director of the California office for the Center
for Responsible Lending, which seeks to protect homeownership
and family wealth. He said banks are in no position to argue
that bailing out troubled borrowers creates a “moral hazard”
that will encourage other homeowners to seek handouts.  “Banks are ignoring the hypocrisy of having accepted
billions of dollars of federal bailouts when they wouldn’t have
survived without such federal largesse,” Leonard said.  More than 1.8 million homes are projected to be taken this
year in foreclosures, short sales and voluntary dispossessions
known as deeds in lieu, according to Moody’s Analytics.
Borrowers lost 1.67 million homes in 2010, the research firm
said.  Writedown Challenge  Paul Willen, an economist with the Boston  Federal Reserve ,
said the danger of offering a program for loan cuts is that
lenders will be inundated with applications from borrowers, most
of whom don’t need them, slowing the already clogged foreclosure
pipeline. The inherent challenge with writedowns is identifying
which borrowers are sufficiently discouraged by their equity
position to stop making payments, Willen said.  “We do not see broad-based principal reduction as a sound
policy decision for America,” Bank of America’s Moynihan said
April 12 in prepared  remarks  to state attorneys general in the
company’s hometown of  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “It’s hard to
see how we could justify reducing principal for many delinquent
customers who represent a small portion of borrowers, but not
for the vast majority of our customers who have stayed current
on their loans.”  Credit Rating ‘Ding’  Lenders can avoid moral hazard issues by adding
“frictions” to the program so that “those who don’t need
principal reductions are not envious of those who receive it,”
 Laurie Goodman , senior managing director at Amherst Securities
Group LP in  New York , said in a March 24 report. The borrower
could be forced to share any future appreciation with the lender
or face a credit-rating “ding” by accepting the modification,
she wrote.  Miller’s 50-state coalition began to fracture last month
when a 27-page list of proposed settlement terms leaked and at
least seven Republicans attorneys general, including  Florida ’s
Pam Bondi and Virginia’s Kenneth Cuccinelli, came out against
it. New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said April 11
that a settlement shouldn’t preclude individual states from
investigating servicers.  “The term sheet’s principal reduction proposals may
actually foster an unintended ‘moral hazard’ that rewards those
who simply choose not to pay their mortgage -- because they can
simply take advantage of lenders’ obligation to honor virtually
automatic principal writedowns,” according to a March 22 letter
to Miller signed by the attorneys general of Virginia,  Texas ,
Florida and South Carolina.  One Tool  Prentiss Cox, a University of Minnesota law professor and
former assistant state attorney general, said the attorneys
general don’t need all 50 states onboard to be successful. If a
reasonable number of states are represented, banks might see the
terms as a de facto national standard, he said.  “When you have federal regulators like the OCC captive to
the industry they regulate, it’s critical that the AGs use the
law-enforcement function to create rules that are more balanced
in favor of consumers,” Cox said.  While Miller hasn’t disclosed the size of the potential
penalties servicers may face, the group could seek $20 billion,
two people briefed on the talks said in February.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller, said writedowns
are just “one tool in the toolbox.”  “He favors doing so only in appropriate circumstances
where the homeowner simply cannot afford the payment,”
Greenwood said. “And he would want to ensure that it’s
structured in a way to prevent strategic default.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 