-- 
Stocks in U.S. Retreat After Surprise Advance in First-Time Jobless Claims

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-04-14T12:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/u-s-stock-index-futures-extend-losses-after-initial-jobless-claims-rise.html
U.S. stock-index futures extended
losses after initial jobless claims unexpectedly increased,
damping optimism about economic growth.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in June
lost 0.6 percent to 1,301 at 8:34 a.m. in  New York . Dow Jones
Industrial Average futures retreated 55 points, or 0.5 percent,
to 12,144.   Applications for jobless benefits rose 27,000 in the week
ended April 9 to 412,000, the most in two months, Labor
Department figures showed. Economists projected claims would be
little changed at 380,000, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. The increase in claims traditionally seen
at the end of a quarter was larger than usual this year, a Labor
Department spokesman said as the figures were released to the
press.  A separate Labor Department report showed wholesale costs
in the U.S. rose 0.7 percent in March, led by higher prices for
energy, light trucks and passenger cars.  U.S. stocks yesterday snapped a four-day selloff after a
Federal Reserve report fueled optimism that the economy will
weather President Barack Obama’s plan to cut spending and raise
taxes. Earlier in the week, the  S&P 500  declined to a two-week
low after  Japan  said its earthquake-hit nuclear power plant may
release more radiation than Chernobyl and Alcoa Inc. reported
sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  Four S&P 500 companies are scheduled to report earnings
today including Google Inc., which is due to post its first-
quarter results after the close of trading in New York.  Financial shares may move after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
chief U.S. strategist,  David Kostin , downgraded the industry to
“neutral” from  “overweight.” Kostin said energy and
information technology shares remained the bank’s preferred
sectors.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  