-- 
U.S. Companies Pay World’s Sixth-Highest Tax Rate, Study Finds

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-04-14T17:28:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/u-s-companies-pay-world-s-sixth-highest-tax-rate-study-finds.html
U.S. companies face the sixth-
highest effective tax rate in the world, according to a study by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  The tax rate for the largest U.S. companies between 2006
and 2009 was 27.7 percent, compared with a non-U.S. average of
19.5 percent, according to the study released today. Companies
based in Japan,  Morocco ,  Italy ,  Indonesia  and  Germany  faced
higher tax rates. Excluding the U.S., companies based in
industrialized countries had an average rate of 22.6 percent.  “Without effective business tax reform, we’re going to
continue to slip behind competitors,” said  John Engler ,
president of the  Business Roundtable , an association of chief
executives based in Washington that commissioned the study.  The report may help shape the debate over rewriting the
U.S. tax code. President  Barack Obama  has asked Congress to
lower the 35 percent corporate tax rate and remove tax credits
and deductions to make up for the forgone revenue.  Business groups also want the U.S. to switch to a
territorial tax system, which wouldn’t tax U.S. companies on
profits they earn in other countries. The U.S. requires
companies to pay the top corporate rate of 35 percent on profits
earned outside the country, though it allows companies to defer
taxation until they bring the profits home. Other countries,
including  Japan  and the U.K., have recently switched to a
territorial system.  Value-Added Taxes  Except for the U.S., all other major industrialized
countries levy value-added taxes that help cover the cost of
government and are used to hold down corporate tax rates.  “It intrigues me because that’s the other difference that
counts for that German advantage,” said Engler, a former
Republican governor of  Michigan .  Engler said he and the CEOs he represents wouldn’t support
a value-added tax on top of the current U.S. tax system and that
he didn’t think one was politically feasible.  “Would there ever be support for a wholesale change?” he
said. “That is an interesting question. Let’s just say we don’t
have policy on that at the moment.”  The report doesn’t take into account accelerated
depreciation and other timing incentives built into the U.S. tax
system, and that makes the difference between the U.S. and other
countries look bigger than it is, said Martin A. Sullivan, a
contributing editor at Tax Analysts, a nonprofit organization in
 Falls Church , Virginia.  Not Much Difference  “Although it is contrary to the authors’ purpose, the
study overall shows U.S. multinational tax burdens are not much
different than tax burdens of multinationals in other major
economies,” he said in an e-mail.  A March 31 report by the  Congressional Research Service ,
using different methodology, found that the U.S. had an
effective corporate tax rate of 27.1 percent in 2008. Other
industrialized countries had an average 27.7 percent effective
rate, using a weighted approach that adjusted for the size of
the economy, and a 23.3 percent rate with an unweighted
approach.  The  Business Roundtable  report excluded oil and gas
companies, which often face higher taxes when they extract
natural resources. It also excluded companies for years in which
they had negative pretax income. The study included at least one
year of data for 484 U.S. companies and 1,336 non-U.S.
companies.  The study examined taxes as reported for book accounting
purposes. That means it typically reflects tax obligations and
benefits as companies accrue them, not as they are paid. It also
doesn’t differentiate between taxes paid to governments in
companies’ home countries and taxes paid to other governments.  Many of the countries with the lowest effective tax rates,
including Hungary, Oman, Panama and Qatar, have much smaller
economies and far fewer large companies than the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  