-- 
Most U.S. Stocks Rise as House Approves Bill to Avert Shutdown

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-14T22:16:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/u-s-stock-index-futures-drop-apple-retreats-financial-shares-may-move.html
Most U.S. stocks advanced, erasing
an early decline, as the House approved a spending bill that
will avert a government shutdown and on investors’ optimism
about higher-than-estimated corporate earnings.  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  surged 17 percent for the top gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index after the owner of Save-A-Lot and
Albertsons grocery stores projected full-year profit that beat
projections.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  added
more than 1.3 percent as oil rose on reports that  Saudi Arabia 
reduced output this month.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  dropped at least 1.7 percent as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
cut its recommendation on financial shares.  Almost four stocks gained for every three that fell on U.S.
exchanges at 4 p.m. in New York. The S&P 500 increased less than
0.1 percent to 1,314.52, erasing an earlier decline of as much
as 0.9 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  advanced 14.16
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,285.15 today.  “The government is still running,” said  Richard Sichel ,
who oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co. “That’s a sigh of relief for the market.
Investors are focusing on the good economic fundamentals and
solid corporate earnings. Yes, we do have global issues,
European debt concern and higher commodities prices. Still, the
stock market is very resilient.”  Economic Optimism  The benchmark gauge yesterday halted a four-day slump, its
longest since November, as a Federal Reserve report fueled
optimism about the economy. The index, which has soared as much
as 99 percent since March 2009, last week rose to near the
highest closing level for the rally, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The  S&P 500  advanced to 1,335.54 on April 6, or
7.47 points below the high on Feb. 18.  Stocks reversed earlier losses as the House approved
spending legislation to cut $38.5 billion and avert a government
shutdown. The Senate plans to pass the measure later today,
bringing this year’s first major budget fight to a close. The
House voted in favor of the measure 260-167. A stopgap bill
currently funding the government expires tonight, and without
approval by Congress and President  Barack Obama , federal
agencies would begin to shut down.  The stock market has been resilient as the economy faces
challenges in emerging from the deepest recession since the
1930s, said economist  Edward Yardeni .  Corporate Earnings  The S&P 500 has fallen 2.1 percent from this year’s high
amid unrest in the Middle East and North Africa, a nuclear
crisis in  Japan  and European debt concern. Still, the gauge has
risen 4.5 percent in 2011, extending last year’s 13 percent
gain, amid government stimulus measures and higher-than-
estimated corporate earnings.  “Profits have been extraordinary and that has gone
straight into the corporate cash flow,” said Yardeni, president
of Yardeni Research Inc., in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “When you
look at corporate profits, you have to be impressed at how well
companies are being managed in the face of all the adversities.
That feeds into the resilience in the markets.”  Earnings for S&P 500 companies rose 12 percent in the first
quarter and will increase 17 percent this year, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of consumer-staples companies had the biggest gain
in the S&P 500 within 10 industries, rising 0.6 percent.  SuperValu Soars  SuperValu soared 17 percent to $10.61 after fourth-quarter
earnings topped estimates and the company forecast fiscal year
2012 profit excluding some items of at least $1.20 a share. On
average, the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated profit of
$1.15 a share.  J.B. Hunt Transport Services Inc. climbed 6.6 percent to
$47.53 to lead a rally in the Dow Jones Transportation Average
as earnings topped estimates. The trucking company reported
first-quarter earnings of 40 cents a share, beating the average
analyst estimate of 38 cents a share, according to Bloomberg
data.  Energy shares had the second-biggest gain of 10 S&P 500
groups. Halliburton gained 1.4 percent to $46.14. Anadarko rose
1.3 percent to $79.38.  Consumer confidence in the U.S. rose for a third straight
week as improving job prospects made Americans less pessimistic
about the economy and their finances. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index climbed to minus 43 in the period to April 10, the
best showing since the end of February, following a minus 44.5
reading the prior week.  Jobless Claims  Earlier declines came after more Americans unexpectedly
filed first-time claims for unemployment insurance last week,
reflecting greater-than-normal volatility at the end of the
quarter. Applications for jobless benefits rose 27,000 in the
week ended April 9 to 412,000, the most in two months, Labor
Department figures showed. Economists projected claims would be
little changed at 380,000, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The S&P 500 will rise to 1,525 over the next 12 months as
the  U.S. economy  expands and corporate sales grow, Goldman Sachs
strategist  David Kostin  wrote in a note dated yesterday. He
favors stocks of energy and technology companies, while reducing
financials to “neutral” from “overweight.” Kostin also
narrowed the size of Goldman’s health care “underweight”
recommendation.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  slumped 1.1 percent as 18 of its 24
stocks retreated. JPMorgan dropped 2.8 percent to $44.97, while
Wells Fargo fell 1.7 percent to $30.15.  Goldman Slumps  Goldman Sachs slumped 2.7 percent to $155.79. Senator  Carl
Levin  requested a federal probe of the bank’s dealings in
mortgage securities. Levin, a Democrat from Michigan who’s the
chairman of the Senate panel that investigated the financial
crisis, said he wants the Justice Department and the Securities
and Exchange Commission to examine whether Goldman violated the
law by misleading clients who bought collateralized debt
obligations without knowing the firm was betting they would fall
in value.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  slid 2.7 percent to $140.90. The company
said yesterday that Bruce Sohn will step down as president of
operations at the end of this month. Sohn may eventually pursue
work as chief executive of another solar company, an analyst
said, after a two-year non-compete agreement expires.  Investors should buy bullish U.S. stock options because the
VIX, or Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, falling
below 20 indicates that equities are poised to rally to
multiyear highs,’’ MKM Partners LP said.  Capping Potential Profit  Jim Strugger, a derivatives strategist at MKM, recommended
buying May $133 call options on the SPDR S&P 500 exchange-traded
fund while selling twice as many May $137 calls in a strategy
known as a ratio call spread, which cuts the trade’s cost while
capping potential profit. The ETF rose 0.1 percent to $131.56 as
the VIX lost 3.8 percent to 16.27.  “The 20 level for VIX represents an important risk
threshold,” Strugger wrote in a note yesterday. “Above 20, we
turn incrementally more cautious, anticipating escalation toward
a volatility peak. On the other hand, we interpret a decline
below that level as the beginning of a troughing phase that is
coincident with a period of equity outperformance.”  Lower VIX levels presage that stocks will climb to new
highs because the VIX remaining below 20 for most of the period
from early December to late February coincided with the S&P 500
rallying 14 percent to a 32-month high, the Stamford,
Connecticut-based strategist wrote.  The VIX, which measures the cost of using options as
insurance against stock-market declines, has averaged 20.37 in
its two-decade lifetime. It has fallen 45 percent from an eight-
month high of 29.40 on March 16, the week after the Japanese
earthquake, as takeovers and the improving U.S. economy
bolstered optimism that the global recovery can be sustained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  