-- 
U.S. Should Halt Approvals for Nuclear Reactors, Groups Say

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-04-14T15:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/u-s-should-halt-approvals-for-nuclear-reactors-groups-say-1-.html
The U.S. should suspend licensing
decisions for new and existing nuclear plants while it
investigates  Japan ’s reactor crisis, environmental groups said.  The groups seek a “credible Three Mile Island-style
review” of Japan’s failed reactors and implications for U.S.
safety, lawyer Diane Curran said today on a conference call.  The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  should “immediately
suspend all licensing activities,” Curran said, speaking for 45
groups and individuals including the Knoxville, Tennessee-based
Southern Alliance for Clean Energy, the Institute for Energy and
Environmental Research of Takoma Park, Maryland, and San Luis
Obispo Mothers for Peace.  The NRC is conducting a two-step safety review of U.S.
nuclear plants after a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on
March 11 crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant in Japan with fires, explosions and radiation leaks.  A 90-day review that started last month will identify near-
term changes that might be needed at U.S. reactors, NRC Chairman
 Gregory Jaczko  said April 12. It would be followed by a six-
month examination based on additional information on the
Japanese reactor crisis, Jaczko said.  The NRC can order U.S. plants to add safeguards during the
review, he said. New-reactor applications and proposals to
extend licenses can be reviewed because the agency’s processes
“are robust enough to deal with the new issues” that may arise
after the Japanese nuclear disaster, he said.  After a  1979 accident  resulting in a partial meltdown at
the Three Mile Island nuclear plant near Middletown,
Pennsylvania, former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter  appointed an
independent commission to conduct a six-month investigation.  On March 25, the New York-based  Natural Resources Defense
Council  urged President  Barack Obama  to appoint a similar panel
to investigate Japan’s nuclear crisis and implications for U.S.
reactor safety. The NRC should suspend work on license renewals
for reactors in earthquake-prone areas until the investigation
is finished, the NRDC wrote to Obama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  