-- 
UN Calls for Somali Vote Before Government Term Ends in August

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-04-14T08:28:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/un-calls-for-somali-vote-before-government-term-ends-in-august.html
The  United Nations  called on
Somalia’s transitional government to hold presidential elections
before its term was scheduled to expire in August. The
government extended its mandate by a year last month.  There is a “need to end the transition” as previously
agreed, Augustine Mahiga, the UN’s special representative for
Somalia, said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday in
neighboring  Kenya ’s capital, Nairobi.  He made the comments at the end of a closed, two-day
meeting in Nairobi to discuss the Horn of Africa nation.
Somalia’s government, led by Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, refused
to attend, saying the meeting should have taken place in
Somalia’s capital, Mogadishu. Participants included the Speaker
of the Transitional Federal Parliament, the president of
Puntland, a semi-autonomous northern region of Somalia, members
of the government-allied Ahlu Sunnah Waljamaah group, the
European Union and the  African Union , Mahiga said.  The conference agreed on the proposal to have elections in
Somalia within four months, he said, without giving details on
how to organize a poll in the conflict-torn nation.  A follow-up discussion will be held in Somalia this month
or next, Mahiga said on April 11.  Islamic Insurgents  Last month, Somalia’s interim government extended its
mandate until August 2012, arguing it was justified in light of
recent gains in the fight against Islamic insurgents, Agence
France-Presse news agency reported on April 1, citing Prime
Minister Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed. The transitional
administration needs extra time to rid the country of militants
and prepare a stable government, he said, according to AFP.  South and central  Somalia  are under siege by al Qaeda-
linked insurgents, while the government, backed by about 9,000
African Union peacekeeping forces, has control over swathes of
Mogadishu. The government is touting recent advances after
capturing several key positions in Mogadishu and “liberating”
seven towns near the Kenyan border since February.  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the ouster of Mohamed Siad Barre 20 years ago.  The conference pledged to “redouble” efforts to boost
security and provide aid in previously conflict-ridden parts of
Somalia, Mahiga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 