-- 
Uranium Producers in Takeover Play as Assets Exceed Share Price: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-04-14T15:14:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/uranium-producers-in-takeover-play-as-assets-exceed-share-price-real-m-a.html
Uranium companies from  Toro Energy
Ltd. (TOE)  to  Mega Uranium Ltd. (MGA)  are so depreciated they’re trading at
less than their assets would be worth in a fire sale.  That’s one reason takeover speculation is increasing after
Japan’s nuclear crisis made uranium miners 31 percent cheaper
relative to book value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Toro, which explores for uranium in  Australia , tumbled below the
value of its net assets, and Mega Uranium trades at a 59 percent
discount. The price-to-book ratio for Australia’s  Paladin Energy
Ltd. (PDN) , the most likely takeover candidate among producers
according to BMO Capital Markets, slid 21 percent.  While last month’s disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
triggered fears of radiation, firms from Commerzbank AG to
Deutsche Bank AG are still projecting higher uranium prices as
developing nations from  India  to  China  seek to meet power demand
in the world’s fastest-growing economies. Nuclear Power Corp. of
India said yesterday it’s considering a venture with state-owned
Uranium Corp. of India to acquire mines overseas, and  Newmont
Mining Corp. (NEM)  disclosed a 6.7 percent stake in Paladin.  “With the financial market’s view on the uranium industry
and nuclear being extremely negative, there’s some opportunity
because this is just a knee-jerk reaction,” said Ben-Ari Elias,
a New York-based analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. “The whole
space is cheap and it shouldn’t be. I do think some properties
will come up for sale.”  Discount to Assets  The  Global X Uranium ETF (URA)  declined 24 percent before today
since a magnitude-9 earthquake struck Japan on March 11.
Companies in the ETF are trading at a median book value of 1.89
times, down from 2.75 times on March 11, the data show.  Cameco
Corp. (CCO) ,  Uranium One Inc. (UUU)  and Paladin are among the ETF’s largest
positions, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Toro, which is seeking to develop the  Wiluna  deposit in
Western Australia, fell to 0.88 times the value of its assets
minus liabilities from 1.09 times during the same span, the data
show. The Australian company, with a market value of A$101.3
million ($106.3 million), also explores in  Namibia . Toro’s
shares were unchanged today in Sydney.  “Being in Australia, plus they’ve got stuff in  Africa , and
that makes it an interesting play as well given the proximity to
China, India,” said Robert Lauzon, a portfolio manager at
Middlefield Group, which manages about C$3 billion ($3.1
billion). “Over time, you’re not going to see the slowdown in
India, China and  Russia .”  Toro is awaiting regulatory approval for its $278 million
Wiluna uranium mine.  ‘Big Drop’  “We’ve had a big drop because we’re in the development
doldrums and people know we’ll need to raise money for Wiluna’s
development in 2012,” Chief Executive Officer Greg Hall said in
an interview.  Mega Uranium, which is developing mines in  Australia  and
exploring for the metal in Canada and Cameroon, now trades at
0.41 times book value, down from 0.61 times. The shares rose 5
cents, or 9.8 percent, to 56 cents at 10:58 a.m. in Toronto,
giving it a market value of $149.7 million.  Richard Patricio, a spokesman for Toronto-based Mega
Uranium, didn’t respond to a phone call requesting comment.  It may be too soon for uranium companies to draw
acquisition interest because the stocks may get cheaper, said
Edward Sterck, a London-based mining analyst at BMO Capital.  “If the stocks sell off to a certain extent we could see
an increase in M&A,” Sterck said. “I don’t feel that we’re
quite at that level yet.”  Most uranium producers can’t do a deal right now because
companies like Cameco and Uranium One have shareholders who may
block a transaction, he said. Vancouver-based Uranium One is
controlled by Russia’s state-owned nuclear company Rosatom Corp.  Foreign Ownership  Cameco, the world’s third-largest uranium producer, is
protected by Canadian incorporation rules that cap individual
foreign ownership at 15 percent, said Murray Lyons, a spokesman
for the Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company.  Newmont, the largest U.S. gold producer, took a stake in
Paladin after completing the takeover of Vancouver-based
Fronteer Gold Inc., a shareholder in the uranium company.
Newmont of Greenwood Village, Colorado, holds 6.699 percent in
Paladin, according to a notice filed with the Australian stock
exchange yesterday.  Newmont probably doesn’t want to own the stake in Paladin
indefinitely, Middlefield’s Lauzon said. Paladin may look
attractive to a buyer after its share price dropped because it’s
one of the only independent uranium producers that doesn’t count
a company in  South Korea ,  Japan  or China as a major shareholder,
he said.  Paladin in Play  Shares of Perth-based Paladin had dropped 24 percent before
today since March 11, cutting its price-to-book ratio to 2.63
from 3.35. Paladin, with  projects  in Africa and Australia,
doesn’t have major shareholders that would try to block a deal
and being a uranium producer makes it more attractive than an
exploration or development company, according to BMO Capital’s
Sterck. The shares fell 0.8 percent to A$3.55 today, giving it a
market value of $2.9 billion.  Paladin has no interest in being acquired and isn’t looking
for a large investor, said spokesman  Greg Taylor .  India’s Nuclear Power, the nation’s Mumbai-based monopoly
builder of atomic plants, is considering forming a venture with
state-owned Uranium Corp. of India to acquire mines overseas and
secure supplies of the reactor fuel to meet demand, the
company’s Finance Director Jagdeep Ghai said yesterday.  Companies with advanced uranium projects such as Perth-based
 Bannerman Resources Ltd. (BMN)  and  Corpus Christi , Texas-based  Uranium
Energy Corp. (UEC)  may also lure acquirers, said  John Stephenson , a
senior portfolio manager at First Asset Investment Management
Inc. in Toronto.  Uranium Fundamentals  “Uranium fundamentals still look strong,” he said. “But
the headlines out of Japan look awful -- the space will trade on
news flow, not fundamentals, for at least six months.”  Bannerman, whose shares had dropped 42 percent in Sydney
since the earthquake in Japan, is developing its 80 percent
owned  Etango  uranium project in Namibia, one of the world’s
largest deposits. Uranium Energy is expanding output of the
commodity in  Texas  and other western states, according to its
website. The shares had fallen 20 percent before today since
March 11.  Uranium Energy rose 14 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $4 today
in  New York . Bannerman was unchanged at 40 cents in Sydney.  Uranium Energy Chief Financial Officer Mark Katsumata
wasn’t available for comment, and representatives for Bannerman
didn’t respond to phone calls seeking comment.  Radiation Leaks  The earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan shut  power
plants , including the Dai-Ichi station, which is undergoing the
worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986. That led to
explosions and radiation leaks as cooling water boiled away.
Japan has experienced rolling blackouts and faces more power
shortages as temperatures increase.  While uranium has retreated 15 percent since March 11 to
$58.25 per pound of U308, the tradable form of the metal,
investment banks are still projecting gains.  Commerzbank of  Frankfurt  estimated this month that uranium
would climb to $69 a pound this year and $80 in 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank’s
forecast on March 30 predicted prices of $65 this year and next
and an increase by $5 a pound in both 2013 and 2014.  “The damage from the Japanese disaster hasn’t been fully
assessed. The initial reaction was to stop everything,” said
 John Kinsey , a Toronto-based portfolio manager at Caldwell
Securities Ltd., which invests in uranium producers as part of
overseeing about C$1 billion. “It’s a temporary hiatus, things
will go back to normal and merger activity will start up
again.”  Nuclear Reactors  China has 13 nuclear reactors and 27 under construction,
according to the  World Nuclear Association ’s website. India
plans to supply a  quarter  of electricity from nuclear reactors
by 2050, up from 2.5 percent in 2007, the association said.  “The Chinese may tweak their nuclear plans, but they’re
not going to walk away from them,” Kinsey said.  State-owned companies are the most likely acquirers,
including China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group and ARMZ Uranium
Holding Co., a unit of Russia’s Rosatom, said John Wong, a
London-based  fund manager  at New City Investment Managers Ltd.
who helps oversee about $1 billion, including shares of Cameco.  “Anything that has anything to do with nuclear energy or
uranium just got dumped,” said Ben Mackovak, senior analyst at
Charlottesville, Virginia-based hedge fund Rivanna Capital LLC,
which owns about 2 million shares of uranium company  USEC Inc. (USU) 
“Longer term the simple fact is that nuclear energy is part of
the energy equation -- it has to be.”  Overall, there have been 6,961 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $701.5 billion, a 32 percent increase from
the $532.3 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at +1-212-617-3143 or  scasey4@bloomberg.net . 