-- 
Turkish Bonds Drop First Day in Three on European Debt Concern

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-04-14T14:59:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/turkish-bonds-drop-first-day-in-three-on-european-debt-concern.html
Turkish bonds fell for the first
time in three days and stocks retreated from a one-week high on
concern the most-indebted countries in western  Europe  will
struggle to repay debt.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt rose 6 basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 8.74 percent, according to the RBS
Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index. The  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  lost
0.4 percent to close at 67,959.50. The lira was little changed
at 1.5201 against the dollar at 5:45 p.m. in Istanbul.  The euro weakened against 11 of its 16 major peers as
Portuguese and Greek yields surged to records on concern the
countries will reschedule debt. The MSCI Emerging Europe, Middle
East and Africa Index slumped 2.1 percent to a two-week low.  “We’ve been having negative news on peripheral Europe for
quite a long time without a massive effect in emerging
markets,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-market strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in  London , said in e-mailed comments. Today’s
weakening in the euro “negatively affected the dynamics in
Eastern European assets,” Costa said.  Turkey ’s current account deficit more than doubled in
February from a year earlier, widening to $6.1 billion in a 14th
straight month of increases, the central bank said April 11.  The government will take extra measures should they be
needed from May to restrain the current-account deficit, after
observing the effects of the central bank’s low rates and high
reserve requirement policy, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said
in an interview with NTV television on April 12.  “I am still reluctant to be extremely positive on the lira
prospects, given the still challenging current-account
dynamics,” Citigroup’s Costa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  