-- 
Varney Says Congress ‘May Want’ to Study Antitrust Overlap

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/varney-says-congress-may-want-to-review-justice-department-ftc-overlap.html
Christine Varney , head of the
Department of Justice’s antitrust division, said Congress “may
well want” to look at the overlapping responsibilities of the
DOJ and the  Federal Trade Commission  to meet a call by business
to make merger reviews more consistent and predictable.  “I would leave to Congress how they would like to resolve
the overlapping and sometimes inconsistent jurisdiction between
the agencies,” Varney, 55, said in an interview April 14 in
Washington. “I think what business does need is clarity,
certainty and understanding of the legal framework within which
their deals will be evaluated.”  As the Obama administration looks for ways to streamline
the federal government and boost efficiency, the time may be
ripe to wring costs out of antitrust oversight, Varney said.
Having the FTC handle consumer protection while the Justice
Department addresses competition and monopoly is “certainly one
option,” said Varney, a  former  FTC commissioner who has run the
 division  since April 2009.  Varney commented against the backdrop of increasingly
public jockeying between the two agencies over merger reviews
involving such technology companies as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  as well as over nascent medical organizations mandated by
the health-care overhaul enacted last year.  Court Decree  A consolidation might also reinforce Varney’s push to
settle cases by approving deals that impose conditions the
department then monitors under court decree, making the trust
busters more of a regulator, said Bert Foer, the president of
the American Antitrust Institute in Washington.  “Varney is bringing in a new philosophy of handling
mergers,” Foer said. “This approach shows a willingness to
compromise, to allow the new organization to come into existence
and then to constrain it against certain effects with regulatory
oversight in the courts. The traditional view has been to say
‘yes’ or ‘no’,” he said.  The  Justice Department ’s April 8 decision on Google’s
$700 million purchase of ITA Software Inc., a maker of travel
information software, is the latest example of Varney’s
approach. The eight-month review ended with the acquisition
approved, yet imposed conditions on the world’s most popular
search engine. They include making travel data available to
search-engine rivals, setting up firewalls to protect client
information and letting the government review complaints of
unfair conduct.  ‘Protect the Innovation’  The Google-ITA agreement “allows the efficiencies of the
deal to go forward, while attempting to protect the innovation
platform that exists today,” Varney said. “I would call it not
throwing the baby out with the bathwater.”  Other deals forged with Varney’s constraints include the
settlement for Comcast Corp.’s purchase of  NBC Universal  in
January and the department’s approval of Ticketmaster
Entertainment Inc.’s merger with Live Nation Inc. in January
2010.  The Comcast agreement imposed safeguards to keep the
largest U.S. cable company from restricting online video
content. The Live Nation merger required Ticketmaster to license
its software to AEG Live, its largest customer.  “I don’t mean to say there aren’t precedents, but she’s
charting a new path,” Foer said.  Compliance Committee  To monitor settlements, Varney established a centralized
compliance committee under the division’s general counsel,
Robert Kramer. It will oversee teams for the conditional
settlements that include lawyers who worked on each decree.  The Obama administration is more willing to use post-deal
oversight than the previous one, said Deborah Garza, the
division’s acting head from 2008 to 2009.  During the  Bush administration , the Justice Department was
criticized by lawmakers and consumer groups for allowing
consolidation in the telecommunications industry and mergers
such as  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) ’s takeover of appliance rival Maytag
Corp.  In those years not a single monopolization case was filed
and the number of investigations dropped to eight from an annual
average of 12 during the Clinton administration, according to
the American Antitrust Institute.  As the economy recovers, antitrust reviews are on the rise.
The combined number of transactions reported to the Justice
Department and the Federal Trade Commission rose 63 percent in
the fiscal year ending September 2010 from a year earlier, when
the economic crisis restrained dealmaking, according to annual
figures filed by the two agencies.  Joint Authority  Both the Justice Department and the FTC have authority to
decide if mergers are anticompetitive and to review whether
dominant companies are abusing their market power. They
negotiate which will handle major antitrust investigations, with
the decision turning on their respective expertise in an
industry.  “The FTC works productively with DOJ to provide clarity
and joint guidance for businesses, and we expect to do so in the
future,” said FTC spokeswoman Cecelia J. Prewett. “We’re going
to focus on antitrust enforcement and not turf.”  Efforts to end the FTC’s antitrust authority or leave only
criminal, anti-competitive cases with the Justice Department
have come up before and never found support in Congress, Eleanor Fox, a law professor at  New York University , said in an
interview.  The debates usually split those favoring less antitrust
enforcement and those who wanted more.  “No one would design the system we have if we were
starting a new antitrust regime today in the U.S.,” said Sean
Heather, executive director of global regulatory cooperation at
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  