-- 
Vietnam’s Bonds Decline on Concern Inflation Fight May Ease

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-14T09:05:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/vietnam-s-bonds-decline-on-concern-inflation-fight-may-ease.html
Vietnam ’s bonds declined after
 Standard & Poor’s  said the country’s economic stability depends
on the government keeping its pledge to slow credit growth and
it’s too soon to conclude the situation is improving. The dong
was little changed.  “The government’s policy measures include tighter fiscal
and monetary policies,” Kim Eng Tan, a Singapore-based analyst
at Standard & Poor’s, wrote in a report dated April 11. “The
risk that the government may not follow through on these
measures is significant.”  The yield on the benchmark five-year bonds rose two basis
points to 11.94 percent, according to a daily fixing from banks
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has cut the target for
credit growth this year to less than 20 percent from 23 percent
and ordered a tighter monetary policy as costlier fuel and
electricity and a weaker currency stoke inflation, which hit a
25-month high of 13.9 percent in March. The central bank raised
its refinancing and repurchase rates on April 1 and plans to
boost reserve ratios for lenders’ dollar deposits in May.  “The macroeconomic outlook this year doesn’t seem very
bright,” said Pham Minh Hoang, a fixed-income dealer at Hanoi-
based Ocean Commercial Joint-Stock Bank. There will be some lag
for the government’s tightening measures to be effective, he
said.  The dong was little changed at 20,923 per dollar as of 3:30
p.m. in Hanoi, from 20,928 yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The central bank fixed the  reference rate  at 20,718,
compared with 20,723 yesterday, according to its website. The
currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side of
that rate.  --Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. With reporting by Jason Folkmanis in
 Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: James Regan  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  