-- 
Vietnam Stability Hinges on Slower Credit Growth, S&P Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-14T08:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/vietnam-stability-hinges-on-slower-credit-growth-s-p-says-1-.html
Vietnam’s economic stability
depends on the government keeping its pledge to slow credit
growth, and it’s too soon to conclude the situation is improving,
 Standard & Poor’s  said.  “The government’s policy measures include tighter fiscal
and monetary policies,” Kim Eng Tan, a Singapore-based analyst
at Standard & Poor’s, wrote in a report dated April 11. “The
risk that the government may not follow through on these
measures is significant.”  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has cut the target for
credit growth this year to less than 20 percent from 23 percent
and ordered a tighter monetary policy as costlier fuel and
electricity and a weaker currency stoke inflation. The central
bank raised its refinancing and repurchase rates on April 1 and
plans to boost reserve ratios for dollar deposits in May.  “It’s too early to conclude that the economic situation is
stabilizing or even improving,” wrote Tan. “The outcome
depends on policymakers’ ability to deliver on their promises.”  Vietnam ’s inflation rate accelerated to 13.89 percent in
March, the highest in 25 months, while the  trade gap  widened to
$1.15 billion that month from a revised $1.11 billion in
February, according to preliminary figures.  The nation’s financial stability has been damaged by the
fastest consumer-price growth in the region and persistent trade
deficits, wrote Tan.  Financial Distress  Potential financial “distress” has weighed on the
government’s creditworthiness, according to S&P, which cut
Vietnam’s sovereign-debt rating in December. It maintained its
negative outlook on Vietnam’s BB- long-term foreign-currency
sovereign credit rating. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings also downgraded the country last year.  Vietnam’s gross foreign-exchange reserves fell to $12.4
billion by the end of 2010 from $14.1 billion in 2009 and $23
billion in 2008, the  World Bank   said in March .  “Many businesses in Vietnam struggle to obtain foreign
exchange for their operations,” wrote Tan. “Vietnamese have
been big buyers of gold and foreign currencies against the local
currency, which has kept the dong  exchange rate  weak.”  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Sunil Jagtiani,
K. Oanh Ha.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  