-- 
Villaseca Says Sonatrach Must Accept ‘Market Reality’ on Prices

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-04-14T11:37:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/villaseca-says-sonatrach-must-accept-market-reality-on-prices.html
Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS)  Chief Executive
Officer Rafael Villaseca said Sonatrach must accept “market
reality” in their dispute over the price of gas.  Villaseca is aiming to negotiate a settlement with
 Algeria ’s state-owned gas company after challenging a Parisian
court ruling that it pay $1.97 billion more for gas it received
since 2007 through the Maghreb Europe pipeline.  “It’s fundamental that any agreement is based on market
reality,” Villaseca said at a press conference in Barcelona
today. “No one can escape the market in the end.”  Sonatrach executives didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment left with an assistant at its London
headquarters.  Gas Natural,  Spain ’s No. 3 energy company, is challenging a
ruling by the Parisian arbitration court recognizing  Sonatrach 
price increases that Villaseca said are “abusive.” The ruling
was suspended by a Swiss Federal Court while it considers the
appeal.  “This is still the key issue they have to resolve for
investors to look at the fundamentals of the company,” said
Raimundo Fernandez-Cuesta, an analyst at Nomura in Madrid who
has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  “We are convinced that a reasonable agreement with
Sonatrach will be reached as the prices set by Paris are simply
unreasonable and unsustainable given the losses they would imply
for Gas Natural,” he said.  Gas Natural buys about a third of its gas from Sonatrach
under long-term contracts that run through 2021 and stipulate
prices should be revised every three years.  ‘More Rational’  The Barcelona-based company has made provisions that are
“sufficient” to cover its exposure to the Sonatrach suit
without specifying how much money it has set aside, Villaseca
said.  The chances of reaching a settlement have improved since
Sonatrach appointed a new negotiating team, Chairman Salvador
Gabarro said today at the same event. The current
representatives are “much more rational,” Gabarro said.  The company may increase investment from 2013 after
reducing the debts it accrued buying Union Fenosa SA in 2009,
Villaseca said. Villaseca aims to reduce net debt to about 15.5
billion euros by the end of 2012 from 19.1 billion euros last
year. The pace of investment may double to as much as 3.9
billion a year in 2013 and 2014, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  