-- 
Volvo Wakes Up, Challenges BMW With Superman Sedan: Jason Harper

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/volvo-wakes-up-challenges-bmw-with-superman-sports-sedan-jason-harper.html
Until I drove the S60 sport sedan,
the only fun I’ve ever had in a Volvo was behind the wheel of a
careening double-decker bus.  More than a decade ago I drove Volvo’s entire line at its
Gothenburg,  Sweden , headquarters. It was a sleepy, torpid
affair, as you might expect from the world’s most boring (yet
safe -- really, really safe!) automobiles.  Finally someone asked if I wanted a crack at the “big
toys” -- Volvo’s heavy equipment division -- which sent me
around a test track in my own version of the movie “Speed.”
Awesomeness that nearly made up for the lackluster cars.  Lately, though, colleagues have been insisting that the
updated S60 sports sedan is different -- a fun Volvo. I filed
that phrase between “friendly fire” and “jumbo shrimp.”  Only they’re right. The S60 T6 sport sedan is a sleeper
agent, a 300-horsepower, BMW-challenging sports car camouflaged
by geeky frame glasses and Volvo duds Clark Kent might like.  Underneath the exterior, the T6 model has an “S”
emblazoned on its chest, courtesy of a turbocharged, in-line
six-cylinder with 325 pound-feet of torque. This thing was made
to run.  Pounce on the gas and -- whammo! -- 60 mph comes on in 5.5
seconds, leaving BMW 3 Series drivers scratching their heads.
Who saw that coming?  Handsome Sedan  Audi was once the European manufacturer most identified
with superhero  sports cars  with hidden identities. The brand’s
bravura redesign made its products a lot more interesting, but
had some fans feeling left behind.  If the Audi A4 no longer interests you, consider the S60.
It isn’t bad-looking by a long shot, but you won’t find an in-
your-face grill or outsized logo. (Notice how everyone from VW
to Mercedes has made badges much larger?)  The sedan is crisp and handsome, with a stance that leans
forward. It has a particularly good-looking rear, a mix of sharp
lines and concave hollows that looks hand-crafted. Dynamic, but
not shriekingly so.  It’s good timing, as the Swedish car industry has had a
hard ride lately.  Saab was sold off by  General Motors Co. (GM)  in a last-minute
deal to Spyker Cars NV, and has seen production delays due to
unpaid bills. A recent drive in the updated 9-5 sedan left me
disappointed in the flimsy-feeling interior, a hallmark of GM
from a few years ago.  The S60, meanwhile, is the first model to come out since
Ford sold Volvo to Chinese-owned Geely. Nonetheless, the design
and engineering departments remain in Sweden, just as they had
underneath Ford.  The T6 model starts at $37,700, not including an $875
destination charge. It gets the six-cylinder engine and all-
wheel drive. The front-wheel drive, five-cylinder T5 has 250
horsepower and starts at about $31,000.  Sad Saab  The AWD makes a big difference. You can feel the S60 push
and pull you simultaneously and relentlessly down the road. It
stays perfectly flat on big sweeping curves.  I’ll admit to my surprise. After 100 miles I wanted to
drive 100 more. Quite unlike the Saab, which left me feeling a
little blue for a model I once liked.  The Volvo would benefit from a swifter transmission, as the
six-speed automatic takes a heartbeat to kick down when you
suddenly need a spurt to burst through traffic. Behind-the-wheel
paddles would be nice, too.  The steering-wheel effort can be adjusted electronically --
I put it on the heaviest setting. The on-center feel is a bit
hazy and takes some getting used to.  My tester was a burnt-orange color (vibrant copper
metallic, according to the company), with a nice brown-leather
interior that seems like a 1970s throwback, but in a cool way. I
would totally order it in the combination.  The S60 has an adequate navigation system that’s well
integrated into the console. The instrument cluster is a bit
dull, but the controls only take a moment to master.  And of course, the safety stuff is still there. My test car
had a $2,100 technology package which includes a system that
monitors pedestrians and, at low speeds, will come to a full
brake if it senses a collision course. (I didn’t test that,
thankfully.)  Pay Attention  There’s a lane-departure warning, adaptive cruise control
and a distance alert. Those can also be turned off with a button
on the console, as simply paying attention to the road does
wonders.  As carmakers change hands among corporate (and
international) owners, it’s nice to discover that the final
result doesn’t always yield products that are watered down. In
Volvo’s case, I find it more potent.  The 2011 Volvo S60 T6 AWD at a Glance  Engine: Turbocharged, in-line six-cylinder with 300
horsepower and 325 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 5.5 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 18 city; 26 highway.  Price as tested: $46,200.  Best feature: Romping ride in subdued package.  Worst feature: Where are the behind-the-wheel paddles?  Target buyer: The sports sedan seeker who wants a BMW and
Audi alternative.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or
follow on Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 