-- 
Walsh Says Fixing Mortgage Servicing Problems Will Be “Messy”

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-04-14T16:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/walsh-says-fixing-mortgage-servicing-problems-will-be-messy-.html
Fixing the broken foreclosure
process will be “messy” but is necessary to restore integrity to
the system,  John Walsh , acting Comptroller of the Currency said.  In a speech in Washington today, Walsh said that an
agreement announced yesterday that will force mortgage servicers
to review two years of loans and pay restitution to borrowers
who were damaged should not affect other efforts by law
enforcement officials to assess wrong-doing.  “My hope is that our enforcement actions will establish a
framework, and the actions that state law enforcement officials
and the other federal agencies may take will be complementary
to, and consistent with, what we are doing,” Walsh said. “This
is a messy process, and it will take time to put things right.”  A groups of state attorneys general is continuing to
negotiate with mortgage servicers, calling for changes to
foreclosure practices and mandatory loan modifications,
including mortgage principal write downs.  The 14 largest U.S. mortgage servicers including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  must pay back homeowners for losses from
foreclosures or loans that were mishandled in the wake of the
housing crisis, according to a settlement between regulators and
servicers announced yesterday. The decrees were released jointly
yesterday by the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, the Fed, and the Office of Thrift Supervision.  “Our enforcement actions address the full range of
deficiencies we found,” Walsh said. “They are intended to fix
what is broken, identify and compensate borrowers who suffered
financial harm, and ensure a fair and orderly mortgage servicing
process going forward.”  ‘Robust’ Oversight  The orders called for eliminating dual tracking, in which
servicers seize the homes of delinquent borrowers even while
negotiating lower mortgage payments, and require “robust”
oversight and controls of third-party vendors.  Walsh said that while the integrity of the foreclosure
system has suffered, the number of wrongful foreclosures may
turn out to be relatively small.  “If there is any reassurance here, and there is sadly very
little, it is that borrowers subject to foreclosure in our
sample were indeed seriously delinquent,” Walsh said. Servicers
“generally” possessed documents necessary for foreclosures and
also considered borrowers for loan modifications before
seizing homes, he said.  “While the servicers got a couple of things right, what
stood out was the pervasiveness of flaws and failings right
across the process. Robo-signing may be the image that has
lodged most firmly in our minds from news reports, but other
deficiencies, beyond the mishandling of affidavits, were equally
serious,” Walsh said. “That such routine business operations
could be so badly mismanaged as to raise safety and soundness
concerns was, quite frankly, astounding.”  The “look-back” provision will require banks to authorize
a comprehensive independent review of foreclosures actions for
two years starting January 2009, and to pay restitution to
borrowers who homes were foreclosed in error or otherwise
suffered financial harm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  