-- 
WaMu Hawaii Trips for Bankers Drove Risk as Regulator Failed, Report Says

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d ,   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-04-14T01:14:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/wamu-hawaii-trips-for-bankers-drove-risk-as-regulator-failed-report-says.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , once the
largest U.S. thrift, rewarded bankers for overcharging customers
on subprime mortgages and selling the worst-performing loans to
investors, a U.S. Senate panel concluded.  The lender gave its top producers free trips to places like
 Hawaii  and the Bahamas in return for increasing mortgage volume,
even as performance of the loans deteriorated, according to the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations report on the
financial crisis.  “Loan officers and processors were paid primarily on
volume, not primarily on the quality of their loans, and were
paid more for issuing higher-risk loans,” the panel found.
“Loan officers and mortgage brokers were also paid more when
they got borrowers to pay higher  interest rates , even if the
borrower qualified for a lower rate -- a practice that enriched
WaMu in the short term, but made defaults more likely.”  The report of more than 600 pages, released yesterday, is
based on internal documents and testimony from executives and
regulators. The subcommittee concludes that WaMu’s primary
regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, identified hundreds
of the lender’s failings without taking effective action and
impeded the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. from ordering
corrective steps.  Kerry Killinger, the former chief executive officer of
WaMu, and another executive were sued by the FDIC last month.
They were accused of taking extreme risks with the bank’s
mortgage portfolio, causing billions of dollars in losses. Barry
Kaplan, Killinger’s attorney, declined to comment yesterday when
asked about the Senate report.  Compensation Practices  WaMu’s “troubling compensation practices went right to the
top,” the panel found. Killinger received a $15 million
severance payment in 2008 “when he was asked to leave the bank
that failed under his management,” according to the report.  The Seattle-based lender was sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
in September, 2008, as it collapsed. “The activities described
in the subcommittee staff’s report obviously took place before
we purchased Washington Mutual’s assets,”  Joseph Evangelisti , a
spokesman for JPMorgan, said yesterday.  WaMu, which had $300 billion of assets and 2,300 branches
when it collapsed, began a strategy of emphasizing high-risk
loans in 2004, the subcommittee said. The panel found that the
bank’s efforts to boost loan volume involved fraud.  “WaMu management was provided with compelling evidence of
deficient lending practices in internal e-mails, audit reports,
and reviews,” the panel said. “Internal reviews of WaMu’s loan
centers, for example, described ‘extensive fraud’ from employees
‘willfully’ circumventing bank policy.”  ‘Predatory’ Lending  An internal audit of a Washington Mutual subprime
subsidiary in 2005 identified “predatory” lending practices
and found that staff sometimes failed to provide proper
documentation. The review of early-default cases found that
fraud should have been “easily detected,” the panel said.  WaMu officers who had responsibility for loan quality tried
to reject some loan applications, and found that their decisions
were sometimes overridden, according to the report.  Diane Kosch, a quality-assurance officer in Dublin,
 California , told the panel about “enormous” pressure to keep
up with loan volume. “Often, when she tried to stop the
approval of a loan that did not meet quality standards, it would
be referred to management and approved anyway.”  WaMu’s mortgages and mortgage-backed securities were among
the worst-performing in the industry, the panel found. That
prompted some investors to complain.  Buyers Want Answers  David Beck, head of WaMu’s capital markets division, sent
an e-mail in November, 2006, to David Schneider, the bank’s home
loans president, about defaults and angry investors.  Securities issued by a WaMu subsidiary were “among the
worst performing paper in the mkt in 2006,” the e-mail said.
“Subordinate buyers want answers.”  Cheryl Feltgen, the chief risk officer in the home-loan
division, wrote in an e-mail in February, 2007, that there was
“a meltdown in the subprime market.” She recommended the
thrift sell off loans, especially Option Adjustable-Rate
Mortgages, or an Option ARMs.  “This seems to me to be a great time to sell as many
Option ARMs as we possibly can,” she wrote to an executive.  The OTS discovered more than 500 “serious deficiencies”
at WaMu from 2004 to 2008, the subcommittee reported.  The agency “failed to take action to force the bank to
improve its lending operations and even impeded oversight by the
bank’s backup regulator, the FDIC,” the panel said in its
report.  William Ruberry, the spokesman for the OTS, which is being
phased out under the Dodd-Frank financial reforms, said the
agency would have no comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Sterngold in  New York  at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in  Charlotte  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  