-- 
Wholesale Prices in U.S. Rise 0.7%, Led by Energy, Trucks, Passenger Cars

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-14T12:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-increase-0-7-led-by-energy-trucks.html
Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose
0.7 percent in March, led by higher prices for energy, light
trucks and passenger cars.  The increase in the producer-price index was smaller than
forecast as food prices unexpectedly dropped for the first time
since August, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median projection in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 1 percent gain. The so-called core measure, which excludes
volatile food and energy costs, increased 0.3 percent, more than
estimated.  Growth in China and other emerging economies and a
weakening dollar are pushing up commodity costs, prompting
companies like ConAgra Foods Inc. to boost prices. Increases in
raw-materials have opened a rift among Federal Reserve policy
makers between those that view the gains as temporary and those
that believe it will lead to a pickup in inflation.  “The trend in core prices is upward and that is consistent
with what we’re seeing in earlier stages of production,” said
 Aaron Smith , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
 West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “Manufacturers are finding some
pricing power, but there is still quite a lot of slack in the
factory sector and demand is moderate.”  Estimates for producer prices were based on forecasts from
76 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Projections ranged
from gains of 0.2 percent to 1.7 percent, after a 1.6 percent
rise in February.  More Claims  Another Labor Department report today showed more Americans
unexpectedly filed first-time claims for  unemployment insurance 
last week, reflecting greater-than-normal volatility at the end
of the quarter. Applications for jobless benefits rose 27,000 in
the week ended April 9 to 412,000, the most in two months.  The increase in claims traditionally seen at the end of a
quarter was larger than usual this year, a Labor Department
spokesman said as the figures were released to the press.  Stock-index futures extended earlier declines on the
unexpected increase in jobless claims. The contract on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June fell 0.6 percent to
1,300.6 at 8:44 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  rose,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 3.43
percent from 3.46 percent late yesterday.  Wholesale prices excluding volatile food and energy costs
were projected to rise 0.2 percent from the prior month, the
Bloomberg survey showed. The core index rose 0.2 percent in
February.  Inflation Picks Up  Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 5.8 percent
more for goods last month after a 5.6 percent rise in February.  Core wholesale prices climbed 1.9 percent in the 12 months
ended in March, up from a 1.8 percent increase the prior month
and the biggest year-over-year gain since August 2009.  Fuel costs rose 2.6 percent as gasoline prices climbed 5.7
percent. Companies were charged 0.7 percent more for light motor
trucks, while prices for passenger cars rose 0.9 percent, the
biggest gain since June 2009.  The cost of food decreased 0.2 percent, led by a 21 percent
drop in vegetables, after a 3.9 percent gain in February.  Producer prices are calculated based on costs as of the
Tuesday of the week containing the 13th of the month, which may
influence month-to-month changes.  Expenses for intermediate goods rose 1.5 percent from the
prior month, while prices of crude goods decreased 0.5 percent.  Food Manufacturer  Food packagers are beginning to pass along the higher
costs.  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , which manufactures and markets
packaged foods for restaurants and retail consumers, is amomng
those raising prices.  “The recent and continued inflationary environment has
made it necessary to take prices up responsibly,” Gary Rodkin,
president and chief executive officer of the Omaha, Nebraska-
based company, said on a March 24 conference call. “We have
implemented price increases, either in terms of lower trade
promotions or higher list prices, across almost half of our
portfolio. Inflation and the consumer mindset will continue to
be challenging.”  The  Fed  has reiterated it plans to stick with a second
round of bond purchases that’ll pump $600 billion into the
financial system by June. Trading partners such as  China , and
 Brazil  have said the Fed’s unconventional easing policy is
behind the surge in commodity prices, and the measure may come
under criticism at this week’s meeting of Group of 20 finance
ministers and central bankers in Washington.  Fed Views  Some policy makers have said rising commodity prices won’t
have a lasting effect on inflation. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke , Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and Federal Reserve Bank of
New York President William C. Dudley are among those who’ve said
the economic expansion is still too fragile, the  unemployment
rate  is too high and that commodity prices will probably have
only a short-term influence on inflation.  That’s put them at odds with  Charles Plosser , president of
the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia , and  Richard Fisher ,
his counterpart at the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas , who have
said the central bank should consider removing monetary stimulus
this year before inflation flares.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Prices of goods imported into
the U.S. climbed 2.7 percent in March from the prior month, the
biggest gain since June 2009, data showed this week. Imported
food costs jumped by the most since 1994.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures, rose
0.5 percent in March for a second month, and the core index had
a 0.2 percent gain, according to the median forecasts of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a Labor Department
report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  