-- 
Wisconsin Judge Dismisses One of Three Lawsuits Over Union Bargaining Law

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-04-15T04:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/wisconsin-judge-dismisses-one-of-three-lawsuits-over-union-bargaining-law.html
A  Wisconsin  county official was
ruled ineligible to sue to block a state law stripping
government employee unions of most of their collective
bargaining power.  Dane County Executive Kathleen Falk and County Board
Chairman Scott McDonell lack standing to challenge the law on
constitutional grounds in their official capacities, Dane County
Circuit Judge Maryann Sumi ruled yesterday. Falk and McDonell
may be able to sue as individuals, Sumi said.  “Under longstanding Wisconsin law, an agency or arm of
government lacks authority to challenge the constitutionality of
state statues,” Sumi wrote in her opinion.  Falk’s lawsuit was one of three filed seeking to block
legislation signed by Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , a
Republican, on March 11. The bill requires annual
recertification votes for union representation by public
employees and makes payment of union dues voluntary.
Firefighters and police officers are exempt.  “We haven’t decided if we will sue as citizens,” McDonell
said in a phone interview. “Someone needs to represent the
taxpayers of Wisconsin in this matter.”  Falk didn’t immediately return phone calls seeking comment.  Democrats and organized labor opposed the legislation as an
attack on worker rights. Opposition sparked almost four weeks of
protests around and inside the state capitol.  Temporary Ban  Dane County  District Attorney Ismael Ozanne last month sued
four Republican lawmakers, alleging they violated the state’s
open meetings law when they crafted the legislation. Sumi
temporarily barred the law from taking effect. State Attorney
General J. B.  Van Hollen  petitioned the  Supreme Court  to dismiss
Ozanne’s complaint.  In her opinion yesterday, Sumi wrote that Ozanne has
“explicit statutory authority” to enforce alleged open
meetings law violations. Dane County doesn’t, she said.  “We’re pleased that Judge Sumi reached the right result on
this motion,”  Bill Cosh , a spokesman for Van Hollen, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We will continue our
efforts to defend this lawsuit and believe that we will
ultimately be successful.”  The case is Dane County v. State of Wisconsin, 11-cv-01175,
Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court (Madison). The
prosecutor’s case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne v.
Fitzgerald, 11-cv-1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Madison at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  