-- 
Woody Allen’s Romantic Movie With Bruni to Open Cannes Festival

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-04-14T11:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/woody-allen-s-romantic-paris-film-with-carla-bruni-to-open-cannes-festival.html
Woody Allen’s “Midnight in
Paris,” which features a cameo appearance by French first lady
Carla Bruni, is the opening movie of the  Cannes Film Festival ,
which starts on May 11, the event’s organizers said today.  Allen’s romantic comedy stars  Owen Wilson , Rachel McAdams
and President Nicolas Sarkozy’s wife in a walk-on role. Prize
contenders include Spanish director Pedro Almodovar’s “La Piel
Que Habito” (“The Skin I Live In”) and Turkish director Nuri
Bilge Ceylan’s “Once Upon a Time in Anatolia,” the organizers
said at a news conference at Le Grand Hotel in Paris.  The red carpet and more than 3,000 movies are ready to roll
out for the film industry’s 64th annual gathering in the south
of  France .  “There will be no popcorn served,” Gerald Duchaussoy, one 
of the festival’s organizers, said in an interview. “Cannes is
the ultimate film temple. We’re expecting 30,000 people to show
up.”  The star of Cannes 2011 is Oscar-winning actor and jury
president  Robert De Niro . The 67-year-old American will head 
the nine-member panel of international judges who view the 20 
titles scheduled to compete for the coveted Palme d’Or for 
best film.  Films being screened during the two-week festival include
Walt Disney Co.’s “Pirates of the Caribbean 4” with  Johnny Depp  reprising his role as Captain Jack Sparrow.  Cannes 2011 corporate sponsors include Hewlett-Packard Co.,
L’Oreal SA, Renault SA and Electrolux AB.  The first  Cannes film festival  took place in 1946, a year
after World War II ended. Among the event’s earliest award
winners were directors Orson Welles, Luis Bunuel,  Ingmar Bergman 
and Satyajit Ray.  To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Paris at  ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 