-- 
World’s 50 Best Restaurant Awards Draw Leading Chefs to London

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-04-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/world-s-50-best-restaurant-awards-draw-star-chefs-to-london-richard-vines.html
Daniel Boulud  and  Thomas Keller  are
among the chefs expected from the U.S., along with Rene Redzepi
from  Denmark  and others from across the globe, for the  S.
Pellegrino World’s 50 Best Restaurants  awards in London.  As many as 40 of the world's top 50 establishments will be
be represented at the Guildhall on Monday evening in an event
that has become a key date in the culinary calendar.  “I’d be surprised if there’s another event that brings
together so many leading chefs in one place at the same time,”
said William Drew, editor of Restaurant magazine, which created
the awards. “Part of the intention is that it brings so many
chefs together to talk about food.”  Redzepi’s Noma, in Copenhagen, won last year, followed by
Ferran Adria’s El Bulli, north of  Barcelona , which came first in
2002 and from 2006 through 2009, and has been in the top three
every year since the awards started in 2002. Adria said in an
interview in March that he doesn’t plan to attend this year
because El Bulli will close on July 30.  The notion of a best restaurant is problematic, and a list
compiled from the rankings of 837 food critics, chefs and
restaurateurs may lack coherence. Yet that doesn’t diminish the
importance of the awards.  “It’s only a list based on the views of 800 people who eat
too much, but they are people who know what they’re talking
about,” said Observer critic Jay Rayner, who heads the U.K.
judging panel, of which I am a member.  Adria is turning El Bulli into an institute of culinary
creativity, and only those invited will be able to eat there.  French Laundry  The only other restaurants to have taken the top spot are
Keller’s French Laundry (2003 and 2004) and  Heston Blumenthal ’s
Fat Duck (2005). While I have no idea who will win this year, my
guess would be Noma, for three reasons: It’s a great restaurant;
Redzepi is a popular chef whose creativity is admired; award
voters have been lining up to visit.  If you’re planning on dining out in London on Monday, your
chef is less likely than usual to be there. Many attend the
awards, and the final of the  Roux Scholarship , the U.K.’s
foremost culinary challenge, falls on the same evening. Noma’s
victory last year underlined the competition’s importance.  “Before then, we often had empty tables for lunch,”
Redzepi, 33, said in an interview in December. “The day after,
we had more than 100,000 people trying to book online, which is
an obscene amount of numbers. We have between 20 and 22 tables a
day, five days a week, which is about 125 tables a week times
four, around 600 tables a month, times 11, which is almost 7,000
tables, so in one day we could have filled our restaurant for
almost 15 years. It was a crazy thing.”  Members of the voting academy are required to have eaten in
the restaurants they nominate within the prior 18 months.  The awards started as a feature in Restaurant. Former
editor Joe Warwick said he sent e-mails to journalists and chefs
to pick their favorite places. That first year, U.K. venues did
well:  Gordon Ramsay  was second and the Ivy eighth.  Here is last year’s Top 50 list:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 