-- 
Tyco Becomes Target With Schneider Talks Viewed as Sale Sign

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-04-14T21:10:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/tyco-becomes-target-as-analysts-see-schneider-talks-as-sale-sign.html
Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  is emerging
as a candidate for a sale or breakup whether  Schneider Electric
SA (SU)  follows through on talks to take over the company or passes
on a deal, analysts said.  After the stock gained 10 percent to $51.94 through today
following Bloomberg’s report of Schneider’s interest on April
11, Tyco Chief Executive Officer Ed Breen risks criticism from
shareholders if the price slumps back, said analysts including
Jeffrey Sprague, co-founder of Vertical Research Partners.  “It’s going to be hard for Tyco to throw their hands up
and say, ‘It was all smoke and let’s go back to $45 here,’”
Sprague, who is based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said yesterday
in an interview. He rates Tyco as “hold.”  Schneider, a French maker of electrical components, held
preliminary talks after approaching Tyco earlier this year, said
three people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. Schneider hasn’t
ruled out pursuing Tyco, another person said.  As CEO of General Instrument Corp. in 1999, Breen, 55, sold
that company to then-Motorola Inc., rose to become president and
chief operating officer there, then left to run Tyco in 2002. He
divided the company into three businesses in 2007 and stayed to
run Tyco, the world’s largest maker of security and fire-
protection systems and industrial valves.  No Empires  “Ed Breen is not an empire builder,” said Stephen Tusa, a
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analyst in New York who recommends buying
Tyco. “This has always been a candidate for a breakup or a
sale.”  Tyco fell 7 cents to $51.94 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Rueil-Malmaison, France-based
Schneider has fallen 9.4 percent since Bloomberg reported
consideration of a Tyco offer, trading at 110 euros in Paris.  Analysts including Tusa and  Nick Heymann  of Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. in New York have estimated that Tyco has a value of
at least $60 a share.  A Tyco spokesman, Paul Fitzhenry, declined to comment
yesterday. Schneider said that it was “not currently” in talks
with Tyco, and Anthime Caprioli, a spokesman for Schneider,
declined to comment further.  Tyco generated almost three-fourths of its $17 billion in
sales for its last fiscal year from its security and fire-
prevention units, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
third major component of the company is so-called flow control,
with offerings such as valves used in oil refineries.  Serious Offers?  “We believe Tyco’s management and board would entertain
serious offers to sell the company in its entirety,” John Inch,
an analyst at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch division in
New York, said in a note to clients yesterday. He rates Tyco as
“neutral.”  Breen succeeded CEO L.  Dennis Kozlowski , who exited amid a
criminal investigation for personal  tax evasion . Kozlowski ran
the company for a decade, boosting revenue with acquisitions. In
2002, the year Breen joined Tyco, revenue was about $35.6
billion. Last year’s sales were less than half that amount,
after about 25 divestitures and the 2007 separation.  Tyco created two other companies in that split: Tyco
Electronics, now known as TE Connectivity Ltd., a maker of
electronic components, and  Covidien Plc (COV) , a maker of medical
devices and supplies.  While a takeover by Schneider would be earlier than
expected, “being acquired may be one of the logical conclusions
in Tyco’s long-term strategic plan,” said Deane Dray, a
Citigroup Inc. analyst in New York with a “hold” rating on the
shares. “Tyco’s management team appears to be working towards
paring down Tyco to its ‘lowest common denominator,’ namely, its
industry-leading fire and security businesses.”  Schneider’s Team  Schneider had been studying a takeover with bankers from
JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, said people with knowledge
of the matter.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has been advising Tyco,
the people said.  Schneider’s approach valued Tyco at about $30 billion, the
Wall Street Journal said.  If Schneider withdraws, Tyco might prove attractive to a
company such as  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , analysts said.  Tyco’s ADT security-monitoring services may mesh well with
the equipment manufactured by United Technologies in its fire
and security business, Sprague said. United Technologies
expanded in that industry by buying operations from  General
Electric Co. (GE)  in 2010.  Services Market  While some monitoring companies might balk and buy gear
elsewhere, the market is so fragmented that United Technologies
could weather the loss, Sprague said. ADT has 11 percent of a
market for security monitoring of at least $68 billion, Tyco
estimated in a February  presentation .  “Given the size of ADT, given who ADT’s competitors are,
you could probably make it work,” Sprague said.  John Moran, a spokesman for Hartford, Connecticut-based
United Technologies, declined to comment.  Another option for Tyco would be splitting into three
separate companies, said Ajay Kejriwal, an analyst with FBR
Capital Markets in  New York , who recommends buying Tyco.  If Tyco spins off the flow-control business in a breakup,
“that would make them more attractive, a little bit more of a
lean bite for Schneider,” Tusa said.  Any offer for the whole company higher than $65 to $70 a
share would make sense for Tyco shareholders, said Steven Winoker, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. with a
“market perform” rating on the shares.  ‘Aggressive Actions’  “The current process is likely to create a floor to the
stock price, increase investor focus on Tyco as a value
opportunity and drive management to take even more aggressive
actions with regard to returning cash to shareholders and either
divesting or spinning flow control,” Winoker, who’s based in
New York, said in a note to clients today.  Tyco may face questions on Schneider’s approach when it
reports earnings for its fiscal second quarter on April 28. The
company may think its stock will rise to the mid-$60 range by
the end of this year and the mid- to upper-$70s by the end of
2012, Heymann said.  If Breen doesn’t get an attractive offer, he may decide to
keep the company together, said Brian Langenberg, principal at
Langenberg & Co. LLC in Oak Park,  Illinois .  ‘Disciplined Guy’  “This is a disciplined guy,” Langenberg said yesterday in
an interview. “When he got there, job one was to save the
ticker symbol. People are going to carp at him. He’s been at
Defcon 5. If he does it, it will be the right thing at the right
time at the right value.”  Tyco options traders are paying more for bullish options
than any time in four years and lifting the number of bets on a
gain to a three-year high. Tyco’s skew, a measure of prices for
puts to sell versus calls to buy, tumbled to the lowest level
since May 2007 today.  “In the options market, the skew is indicating there’s a
high likelihood of a bid for the company,” Christopher Rich,
the Chicago-based head options strategist for JonesTrading
Institutional Services LLC, said today in an interview.  The open interest for calls to buy the stock has jumped to
140,299 contracts, the highest since January 2008 and enough to
buy 14 million shares if exercised. A record 155,805 calls
changed hands yesterday, with May $55 calls accounting for more
than a quarter of all transactions.  “It’s a reverse skew so the options market is reflecting
much more upside than downside risk,” said Ophir Gottlieb, head
of client services at Livevol Inc., a San Francisco-based
provider of options market analytics. “The options market is
seeing $55 to $57.50 as the takeover target range with less
probability that it goes to $60 or $65.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in New York at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  