-- 
Yield Gap Doubles for Railroad in Spending Splurge: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-14T16:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-14/yield-gap-doubles-for-railroad-in-spending-splurge-china-credit.html
Borrowing costs for  China ’s
Ministry of Railways are surging this year amid concern the
builder of the world’s biggest high-speed network will struggle
to repay 1.8 trillion yuan ($275 billion) of debt.  The company sold 50 billion yuan of bonds this year, more
than Indian Railway Finance Corp. and Russian Railways offered
in 2010, and has more than 120 billion yuan of principal and
interest payments due in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield gap between its one-year notes and
government debt more than doubled to 125 basis points on April
12 from 56 on Dec. 31, according to Chinabond data, the widest
since September 2008 when Bloomberg started compiling the data.  The relative yield for bonds sold by the ministry, rated
AAA domestically at the same level as the sovereign, which is
ranked AA- by  Standard & Poor’s , is wider than debt sold by
billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc (BRK/A) .-controlled
Burlington Northern Santa Fe that’s rated four levels lower at
BBB+, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China plans to
spend 2.8 trillion yuan in the five years to 2015 on railway
infrastructure to help sustain economic growth.  “The railway ministry cannot pay” its debt, said Zhao Jian, a professor at Beijing Jiaotong University, which can
trace its origins to China’s  School of Railway Management  in
1909. “The central government will. This will happen within the
near future, within the next five years,” he said.  Cutting Costs  China’s new railway chief ordered high-speed bullet trains
yesterday to run slower to help lower fees, according to
spokesman Wang Yongping. The ministry didn’t respond to
telephone calls and a fax from Bloomberg seeking a comment.  The spread on the ministry’s 3.88 percent bonds due in 2020
over similar-maturity government notes reached 102 basis points,
or 1.02 percentage point, on April 13, from a 66-basis point gap
when the security began trading in September, Chinabond prices
show. The 3.6 percent bonds due in 2020 sold by Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe  yielded 80 basis points more than Treasuries
on April 12, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “Repayment is going to be an issue sometime down the road
when the financial situation worsens further,” said Karen Li,
the head of infrastructure research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Hong Kong. “They still have a lot of capex commitments over the
next few years” as many projects are incomplete, she said.  Losing Steam  The nation’s new Rail Minister Sheng Guangzu pushed for the
speed clampdown, said a China Daily report citing an interview
with the minister. A speed cut will pare operating costs as a
train running at 350 kph can use twice as much energy as ones
going at 200 kph, the state-run newspaper said, citing Beijing
Jiaotong’s Zhao.  Railway spending totaled 1.42 trillion yuan over the last
two years, 33 percent more than was invested in the previous
five, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China plans to
add as much as 30,000 kilometers of new track before 2015 to its
91,000-kilometers network, the People’s Daily reported April 13,
citing Minister Sheng.  The ministry received 428.9 billion yuan in bank loans
under China’s financial stimulus package in 2009 to buffer the
nation against the impact of the financial crisis. Fiscal
stimulus helped fuel inflation and the People’s Bank of China
has raised  interest rates  four times since the third quarter to
help drain excess liquidity from the financial system.  Default Swaps  The cost of five-year credit-default swaps protecting
Chinese  government bonds  from default rose 1 basis point to 72
yesterday, down from this year’s high of 80 in January,
according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps insure debt against non-payment, and
traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . A drop signals
improving perceptions of creditworthiness, while an increase
suggests the opposite. London-based CMA is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices from  hedge funds  and other clients.  The yuan, or renminbi, is forecast to gain the most this
year among the currencies of the so-called BRIC economies,
according to median forecasts in Bloomberg surveys.  The currency advanced yesterday to its strongest level in
17 years on speculation the central bank will tighten monetary
policy further to tame inflation. The yuan gained 0.04 percent
to end at 6.5315 per dollar in  Shanghai , according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System, after touching 6.5298, the
strongest level since 1993.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed
at 6.3790 per dollar in  Hong Kong  yesterday, reflecting bets the
yuan will gain 2.4 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Credit Line   The ministry has been promised a bank credit line of as
much as 2 trillion yuan from domestic lenders, according to a
recent bond prospectus. It borrowed 250 billion yuan from China
Development Bank Corp, the state-owned policy lender, during the
last five-year national economic plan which ended in 2010,
according to the bank.  “They can borrow new loans to repay old loans, that’s how
it’s operating,” said Zhao, adding that new rail services may
not attract enough passengers. “It can’t go on like this.”  The 120 billion yuan in bond principal and interest
payments due by the end of this year is more than 40 times its
net income of 2.7 billion yuan in 2009, the latest data compiled
by Bloomberg show. A railway construction fund set up by the
government provides 50 billion yuan a year, according to Zhao.  China may be forced to form a company to absorb all of the
ministry’s debt within the next five years to avert default,
said Zhao. The ministry may be restructured with all its “good
assets” placed into a company that will be sold to investors
via an initial public offering, according to JPMorgan’s Li.  Chinese risk assessors such as China Chengxin International
Credit Rating Co., Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. and China
Lianhe Credit Rating Co. give the ministry their top AAA
ranking.  “Their refinancing ability is very strong,” Zhang Jun, an
analyst at China Chengxin, said from Beijing. “Liquidity may be
weak, but the ministry depends on refinancing, not cash
generated from the operations.”  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors: Hugh Chow  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  