-- Lack of Tune-up May Hamper Wallabies Against Lions, ARU CEO Says
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-24T07:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/lack-of-tune-up-may-hamper-wallabies-against-lions-aru-ceo-says.html
Australia ’s lack of a tune-up match
will handicap the Wallabies in next month’s series opener
against the British and Irish Lions, according to the country’s
top rugby executive.  When the best-of-three contest starts June 22 in Brisbane,
the Lions will have had six games in which to develop
combinations and hone their playing style. The match will be the
Wallabies’ first since Dec. 2 and some on the squad may have
gone three weeks without playing a competitive game.  “I think we are at a pretty substantial disadvantage with
that first Test match,” Australian Rugby Union Chief Executive
Officer Bill Pulver said in a telephone interview. “The Lions
have finished a Six Nations tournament so they’re battle-hardened. They’ll have formed together as a team.”  The Lions, a selection of players from the U.K. and Ireland
who tour every four years, included 15 Welshmen in a 37-man
squad last month after  Wales  won  Europe ’s Six Nations title.
There are 10 Englishmen, nine Irishmen and three Scots.  Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  named his core group of 25
players four days ago. They’ll play two more rounds of the Super
Rugby competition before entering training camp from June 2
ahead of the first Test 20 days later. Another six will be added
to a final 31-man roster to be announced June 11.  The Lions open their tour with an exhibition game against
the Barbarians in  Hong Kong  on June 1 and then travel to Perth
to take on the Western Force four days later. They’ll play
another four matches in the lead up to the Test series.  ‘Brutally Difficult’  “They’re going to play six games before we even get access
to them,” Pulver said of the Lions. “Robbie Deans will have
about 2 1/2 weeks to prepare a team so that first Test is going
to be brutally difficult.”  Deans, who included three rookies in his initial list, said
in announcing the squad May 20 that the Wallabies must “make
the most of the limited preparation time we have” if they’re to
avoid getting “caught short” in the first Test, as happened
the last time the Lions toured Australia in 2001.  Twelve years ago, the Wallabies trailed 29-3 in the opener
before pulling back to lose 29-13. They went on to win the next
two matches to secure their first Test series triumph against
the combined team.  Martin Johnson , the Lions’ captain on that
tour, has said the visiting fans in the first match, decked in
their red jerseys and in full voice at Brisbane’s Gabba stadium,
made the occasion “like playing at home.”  “We scored some late points to make it respectable but the
truth is they smashed us in that first Test,” Pulver added.
“They were much better prepared, so I’m hoping we can put plans
in place to address that this time. But I’m under no illusions
about how difficult that first game is going to be. We know
there’s going to be a sea of red there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  