-- Lagarde Avoids Charges in Sarkozy-Ally Case as IMF Support Holds
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-05-24T22:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/lagarde-averts-being-charged-in-sarkozy-ally-arbitration-probe.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  averted being charged by a Paris
court investigating her decision to allow arbitration that
benefited a supporter of former President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  After two days of questioning, the court named Lagarde --
who was French finance minister under Sarkozy -- a material
witness in the case. The status, while not precluding charges
later, shouldn’t hurt her ability to stay at the IMF helm, said
 Jacob Kirkegaard , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington .  “This is what everyone would have wanted,” Kirkegaard
said in a phone interview. “No one at the IMF board would be
interested in having another divisive decision to make about a
new managing director, that would be hugely disruptive.”  Lagarde, who has denied any wrongdoing, was heard by the
Cour de Justice de la Republique, which focuses on ministers’
actions in office. The court was looking into whether she erred
in agreeing to arbitration to end a dispute involving business
tycoon  Bernard Tapie  that awarded him about $500 million.  “I was able to provide information to demonstrate that I
always acted in the best public interest and in accordance with
the law,” Lagarde, 57, said in a statement in Paris late
yesterday after the court’s hearing.  A lawyer by training, she said she was heading back to
Washington to explain details of the case to the IMF’s board.
The IMF, in a separate statement yesterday, confirmed a meeting
would take place in the coming days.  Board Support  “The executive board has been briefed on this matter
several times and on each occasion expressed confidence in the
managing director’s ability to effectively carry out her
duties,” the 188-country institution said in an e-mailed
statement following the court’s decision.  Lagarde took over the Washington-based fund in 2011 as the
institution was reeling from the arrest of  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who quit the job as he faced allegations including the
attempted rape of a hotel maid in  New York . The charges were
later dropped and he settled the maid’s lawsuit last year.  Lagarde continuing at the IMF “will be seen widely within
the IMF and outside the IMF as a good thing because she is
highly regarded and because the IMF is playing a very strategic
role at the moment in many crucial debates,” said Uri Dadush,
director of international economics at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace in Washington.  Europe’s Recession  The fund is grappling with a recession in the euro area,
contributing to four bailouts in the region, trying to resolve
Egyptian aid talks and facing plans by some emerging countries
to create their own development banks.  In the Tapie case, the businessman, who has also dabbled in
politics and acting, in 2008 won a 385 million-euro ($497
million) arbitration award to settle a dispute over his
company’s sale of German sportswear brand  Adidas AG. (ADS)   He contended that Credit Lyonnais mishandled the 1993 sale
and pursued a claim against the formerly state-owned bank’s
liquidator.  Tapie, a minister for less than a year under former
Socialist President  Francois Mitterrand  in the 1990s, endorsed
Sarkozy’s successful presidential effort in 2007 and failed re-election bid in 2012.  The arbitration court awarded Tapie 45 million euros in
damages on top of 240 million euros for his creditors and about
100 million euros in interest. Lagarde refused to appeal the
decision, saying “a very large majority” of the money would
return to the state through the creditors’ claims.  The court opened its investigation into whether there was
“complicity in forgery” or “complicity in misuse of public
funds” in the case in 2011, soon after Lagarde became IMF head.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  