-- Air Liquide Sees China Investment Pickup as It Signs Major Deal
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-05-24T13:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/air-liquide-sees-china-investment-pickup-as-it-signs-major-deal.html
Air Liquide SA (AI) , the French maker of
industrial gases, said it booked a “major” order in China,
where the country’s recent leadership changes are helping spur
investment.  A 15-year  contract  to provide ammonia and hydrogen to
Fujian Shenyuan New Materials Co. will prompt Air Liquide to
make an investment “in the same ballpark” as the record $450
million deal signed by the Paris-based company in 2010, Asia
Pacific senior Vice President Jean-Marc de Royere said in a
phone interview. “It’s a very big project” booked with
expected returns in line with the group’s policy, he said.  “China’s doing better than six months ago, but remains a
bit soft compared to the very strong economic growth of 2010 and
2011,” the executive said. “Projects are coming back and I
think it’s very linked to the new political leadership” that’s
trying to revive consumption, he said.  President Xi Jinping has pledged to implement policy
changes to improve the economy, while Chinese Premier Li Keqiang
has signalled policy makers are reluctant to use stimulus to
counter a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy because
the risks outweigh the benefits.  China ’s economic  growth  slowed
to 7.7 percent in the first quarter and data this month on
fixed-asset investment and factory production missed forecasts.  China’s industrial markets are “a bit more solid, though
not extraordinary,” the Air Liquide executive said. Steel is
“holding up well” and “intermediate products are doing OK,”
while makers of solar panels “continue to suffer” because of
protectionist measures implemented in its exports markets, he
said.  Healthcare Hunt  The French company, which also makes medical gases, is
looking for acquisition opportunities in the Chinese health-care
market and is working with authorities on a pilot project in
this area, de Royere said. Respiratory illnesses caused by
pollution, smoking, and coal mining have become the third-biggest cause of death in the country, he said.  Air Liquide, which bought a health-care company in
 Australia  this month, is also looking for acquisition
opportunities in  South Korea  and  Japan , the executive said.  Customers in Japan, which include makers of electronics
goods that closed plants last year, shows “no signs of rebound
yet,” de Royere said. “We would expect the yen drop to
percolate into the economy and industry in coming months, and to
prompt a Japanese recovery, but we’re cautious so far.”  Gas Growth  Air Liquide first-quarter revenue fell 2.1 percent to 3.7
billion euros, hurt by the effects of natural-gas prices,
currency shifts, calendar effects, and customer settlements paid
a year earlier, the Paris-based company  said  April 24.  Comparable sales growth of gases and services, which make
up the bulk of the company’s revenue, rose 1 percent in the
Asia-Pacific region to 780 million euros, as revenue gained 5
percent in developing Asian economies including China,
contrasting with a 4 percent drop in advanced economies such as
Japan.  Chief Executive Officer Benoit Potier said in February he
may unveil a strategy this December to adapt to the challenges
of  Europe ’s economic woes, growing industrial capacity in
 emerging markets , cheaper U.S. gas, and rising demand for
health-care services and electronic goods such as tablets.  The shares of Air Liquide were up 1.2 percent to 97.31,
euros at 1:35 p.m. in Paris. They are 2.6 percent this year,
compared to a 8.8 percent gain of the CAC40 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  