-- Taiwan Cuts 2013 GDP Growth Forecast as Global Recovery Falters
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-05-24T08:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/taiwan-cuts-2013-gdp-growth-forecast-as-global-recovery-falters.html
Taiwan  lowered the economic growth
forecast for this year even as it reported a faster expansion in
the first quarter than initially estimated.  Gross domestic product  rose 1.67 percent in the three
months through March from a year earlier, the statistics bureau
said in a revised estimate released in Taipei today. Its
preliminary report last month was 1.54 percent, while the median
in a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists was 1.5 percent.  Central banks from  Australia  to  South Korea  and  Europe  have
cut  interest rates  in recent weeks amid signs global growth is
faltering.  China ’s manufacturing is contracting in May for the
first time in seven months, based on a purchasing managers’
index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, while
Taiwan’s exports and industrial output declined in April.  Taiwan’s monetary authority “will likely hold steady
despite sustained weakness as rates are already in accommodative
territory,” Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in
Sydney, said before the release. “The central bank is worried
about inflating already-elevated property prices.”  The  Taiex stock index  ended down 0.3 percent before the
report. The  Taiwan dollar  was little changed at NT$30.030
against its U.S. counterpart at the 4 p.m. close, according to
Taipei Forex Inc.  The economy grew a revised 3.97 percent in the fourth
quarter, the statistics bureau said today. It cut its 2013
growth estimate to 2.4 percent from 3.59 percent, and lowered
the  inflation  forecast to 1.23 percent from 1.37 percent. Taiwan
expanded a revised 1.32 percent in 2012, the bureau said.  China Ties  President Ma Ying-jeou has sought closer trade and
investment ties with China, Taiwan’s biggest trading partner, to
aid economic expansion. The island has allowed domestic lenders
to conduct  yuan  business, doubled the quota for mainland
visitors, and said Chinese banks can own as much as 20 percent
in some financial institutions.  Taiwan’s  industrial output  fell for a third month in April
as exports weakened. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the world’s
biggest contract manufacturer of electronics, last week posted a
worse-than-expected first-quarter profit as orders from Apple
Inc. slowed.  The central bank held the benchmark  interest rate  at 1.875
percent for a seventh meeting in March and asked lenders to
exercise discipline while extending mortgages in areas where
property prices have risen “to a large extent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  