-- Making Money Behind the Scenes in Payments Is Tough
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-05-24T22:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/making-money-behind-the-scenes-in-payments-is-tough.html
IP Commerce Inc., a startup  backed  by
Venrock Inc. and  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s venture-capital arm, is shutting
its key business, which handles credit-card processing for
companies including  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , citing competition.  The decision to end the processing service, which has also
been used by mobile-payment service provider Square Inc., was
disclosed to partners in an e-mail earlier this month. IP
Commerce, based in Denver, plans to close that part of its
business on June 30, according to the memo, which was obtained
by Bloomberg News.  IP Commerce’s decision could leave two dozen or more
customers seeking other tools needed for processing online and
brick-and-mortar transactions. It underscores the challenges of
breaking into the low-margin payment-processing business, which
is dominated by such existing providers as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
First Data Corp. and WorldPay Ltd.  “As the commoditization of payment-processing services
accelerates, we have determined that it is no longer
economically viable for us to provide payment processing
services,” Charlie Wilson, an executive at IP Commerce, wrote
in the e-mail to customers. “We regret any difficulty this
presents for your business.”  IP Commerce plans to now focus on software for retailers,
software developers and sales teams, Wilson wrote in the memo.  Chip Kahn, the startup’s co-founder, declined to comment.
Aaron Zamost, a spokesman for Square, said the company no longer
uses IP Commerce to process payments. Groupon plans to switch to
processors it already uses, said  Paul Taaffe , a spokesman for
Groupon.  Payments Processing  Intel, Venrock and other backers have invested more than
$50 million in IP Commerce.  In the commerce industry, there’s little room behind the
scenes for profit after credit-card companies and banks take
their cuts of a transaction. Newer entrants in the field, such
as  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal and Jack Dorsey’s Square, have found
success by offering their services directly to consumers.  Vantiv Inc. (VNTV) , based in Symmes Township,  Ohio , develops part
of the technology that powers IP Commerce’s payments processor.
The company, whose stock is up 28 percent this year, will take
over some of the operations of the processing service. Vantiv
shares declined less than 1 percent to $26.11 at the close in
New York today.  “Vantiv and IP Commerce have been working together since
2011,” Andrew Ciafardini, a spokesman for Vantiv, wrote in an
e-mail. “Working with IP Commerce to bring this platform in-house enables Vantiv to enhance the seamless operation of its
single, integrated payments processing platform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Milian in San Francisco at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  