-- Lampert Loses $467 Million After Sears Stock Plunges
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-05-24T21:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/lampert-loses-as-much-as-639-million-after-sears-plunge.html
Edward Lampert , the hedge-fund
manager who took over as chief executive officer of  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  this year, saw the value of his controlling stake
fall $467 million today after a first-quarter loss at the
retailer prompted the biggest stock  decline in six months .  Sears tumbled 14 percent to close at $50.25 in New York
trading, its biggest drop since Nov. 16. The shares had risen
40.6 percent since the start of this year through yesterday.  Sears reported a  first-quarter loss  of $279 million,
compared with a profit of $189 million a year earlier, as costs
related to store closings and severance expenses hurt earnings,
the  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based company said yesterday.
Lampert, who took control of Sears in 2005 after engineering its
 purchase  by discount-retailer Kmart Holdings Corp., in February
replaced Lou D’Ambrosio as CEO. Lampert became the company’s
fifth CEO since merging the two companies eight years ago.  D’Ambrosio cut inventory and debt and focused on analyzing
data from the company’s tens of millions of loyalty-program
customers to boost sales. He stepped down after less than two
years for a family health matter.  Lampert said in a statement yesterday that the company’s
performance “has not been acceptable.” Since the beginning of
last year, Sears has sold stores and spun off smaller-format
locations as Lampert puts an increased emphasis on the customer
rewards program, saying the retailer’s future is as a
“membership company.” More than half of the Sears’s  sales  come
from customers in its  loyalty program .  $1 Salary  Lampert, together with his  hedge funds , held about 55
percent, or 58.9 million shares of Sears, as of April 30,
according to regulatory filings. Today’s decline in shares
reduced the value of Lampert’s holding to about $2.96 billion
from $3.43 billion.  Lampert agreed to serve as CEO on a salary of $1 a year,
effective Feb. 1, according to a regulatory filing in March.
During the first three years of his tenure, he’ll participate in
the company’s annual incentive plan with a target payout of $2
million a year. Lampert will also receive $4.5 million in Sears
stock a year, according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  