-- Arizona Sheriff Violated Latinos’ Rights, Judge Rules
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-05-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/arizona-sheriff-violated-latinos-rights-judge-rules.html
Joe Arpaio, the sheriff of Maricopa
County,  Arizona , violated the constitutional rights of Latinos
who were stopped and detained as part of a crackdown on illegal
immigrants, a federal judge said.  The Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office “has no authority to
detain people based only on reasonable suspicion, or probable
cause, without more, that such persons are in this country
without authorization,” U.S. District Judge G. Murray Snow in
Phoenix said in a 142-page ruling yesterday. “It is not a
violation of federal criminal law to be in this country without
authorization in and of itself.”  The judge, who decided the case after a trial without a
jury that ended Aug. 2, forbade the sheriff’s office from
detaining Latino drivers and passengers only on the suspicion
they are illegal immigrants or to use race or Latino ancestry as
a reason to stop a vehicle.  The sheriff’s office was also ordered not to detain Latinos
stopped for a traffic violation longer than needed to resolve
the violation if there was no reason to believe they broke the
law.  The lawsuit was brought on behalf of all Latinos who, since
January 2007, have been stopped, detained, questioned or
searched by sheriff’s deputies in Maricopa County. The civil
rights case is backed by the American Civil Liberties Union and
the Mexican Legal Defense and Education Fund.  Chris Hegstrom, a spokesman for the Maricopa County
Sheriff’s Office, didn’t immediately return a call yesterday
seeking comment on the ruling. Tim Casey, a lawyer who
represented the sheriff’s office at the trial, had no immediate
comment yesterday.  Next Step  The next step will be to ask the judge to put a mechanism
in a place to make sure the sheriff’s office complies with the
ruling, Cecillia Wang, a lawyer for the ACLU who represented the
plaintiffs at the trial, said yesterday in a phone interview.  The injunction goes to heart of the sheriff’s “reign of
terror,” Wang said.  “He will be held accountable,” Wang said. “He’s not
above the law.”  Arpaio’s department covers Arizona’s biggest county by
population, with 3.8 million residents. His methods, including
saturation patrols or “crime suppression” sweeps in
predominantly Latino areas in and around Phoenix, have made him
a hero to groups seeking a crackdown on illegal entrants to the
U.S. and a target of advocates for immigrants’ rights.  U.S. Lawsuit  The allegations in the class-action case are similar to
those made by the U.S. Justice Department in a civil lawsuit
filed in May of last year against Maricopa County and Arpaio.  The Justice Department, in its lawsuit, accuses the sheriff
of “intentionally and systematically” discriminating against
Latinos. Arpaio, 80, who has been elected five times and served
20 years in office, said in response to the U.S. lawsuit that
President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, is going after him to court
Latino voters.  Arpaio, who calls himself “America’s toughest sheriff,”
testified at last year’s trial that his department doesn’t
arrest people “because of the color of their skin.”  While many deputies had undergone training regarding racial
profiling, according to trial witnesses, Arpaio testified that
he hadn’t gone through the training.  The case began in 2007, when Manuel de Jesus Ortega
Melendres, who was in the U.S. legally on a tourist visa, was
detained by sheriff’s deputies near a Cave Creek church where
day laborers often gathered.  Traffic Stop  A driver had picked up Melendres and two other men and was
driving away from the church when a deputy stopped the car for
speeding. The driver, who was white, wasn’t cited and was
allowed to leave, while the Hispanic men were held. Melendres
said in the lawsuit that a nine-hour detention that followed was
unlawful.  Melendres is one of the five named plaintiffs in the case.
the other four are U.S. citizens.  David Rodriguez, of Mesa, Arizona, testified July 19 that
in December 2007, while “four-wheeling” with his family on a
dirt road near Bartlett Dam, he inadvertently drove onto a
closed road, as did several other vehicles.  Rodriguez said he was cited by a deputy, while the other
drivers, all of whom Rodriguez described as white, weren’t
cited. Rodriguez said he believed he was cited because he is
Hispanic.  “The voices of Sheriff Arpaio’s racial profiling victims
have been heard, Nancy Ramirez, western regional counsel with
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The ‘‘decision vindicates Maricopa County community members
who have long suffered from the sheriff’s discriminatory and
illegal practices,” she said. “We look forward to seeing much
needed reforms implemented at the MCSO.”  The case is Melendres v. Arpaio, 07-02513, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  