-- Harvard’s Faust Sets Principles for Major Fundraising Campaign
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   N a t a l i y a   N e d z h v e t s k a y a
-- 2013-05-24T17:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/harvard-s-faust-sets-principles-for-major-fundraising-campaign.html
Generating “new knowledge” will be
a driving principle in  Harvard University ’s fundraising drive
that will formally start in September, President Drew Faust
said.  The Harvard Campaign, as it will be called, will also focus
on enabling the school to attract top students and faculty,
incorporate digital tools into education, build its campus and
extend its “global reach,” Faust said in a May 16 letter to
faculty and staff obtained today by  Bloomberg News .  University capital campaigns raise funds for buildings and
other major projects, and Harvard has announced plans to replace
its basketball arena, refurbish  student living  quarters, and
resume construction of a science center that was halted after
the financial crisis that began in 2008. While the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based school hasn’t announced a target figure, the
Harvard Crimson student newspaper has reported that it will be
at least $6 billion, citing senior administrators.  “We have been engaged within each school and across the
university as we have considered both what we wish to accomplish
in specific fields and what we can imagine and achieve when we
harness the broader power of one Harvard,” Faust said in the
letter.  University campaigns often extend for several years and
begin with the news that they’ve already raised a significant
portion of their target.  Harvard has reported several recent gifts, including $125
million for the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired
Engineering from billionaire Hansjoerg Wyss; $50 million to
develop treatments from scientific discoveries from the
 Blavatnik Family Foundation ; $30 million for student housing
renewal from the Hutchins Family Foundation; and $40 million for
scholarships and an executive education building at  Harvard
Business School  from the James S.C. Chao and Family Foundation.  “Harvard is dedicated to the generation of new knowledge,
which will increasingly be discovered at the intersection of
disciplines,” Faust said. “As a university, we will advance
discovery and learning across schools and disciplines, across
the natural and social sciences and humanities, in order to
capture the potential of integrated knowledge.”  Other campaign goals listed in Faust’s letter were
exploration of civilizations and values and offering more
opportunities for “hands-on” discovery in engineering and the
arts.  “These principles, and the specific goals they lead us to
pursue, will propel Harvard towards its fifth century of
intellectual distinction, enabling us to solve pressing
problems, to educate leaders, and to generate ideas that meet
the complexities of our times,” she said in the letter.  Harvard’s last capital campaign concluded in 1999 after
raising $2.6 billion. The Harvard Crimson reported yesterday on
the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  