-- Harvard Faculty Wants Involvement in EdX Online Venture
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-05-24T18:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/harvard-faculty-wants-involvement-in-edx-online-teaching-venture.html
Harvard University professors
expressed concerned that HarvardX, the school’s offering on the
EdX online teaching platform founded by Harvard and the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , is operating without the
involvement of its faculty.  Almost 60 professors signed a letter to  Michael Smith , dean
of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, requesting that he form a
committee “to draft a set of ethical and education principles”
that will govern the faculty’s involvement in HarvardX,
according to the letter sent yesterday and reprinted in today’s
 Harvard Crimson .  EdX, which started last year with $60 million, is one of a
number of providers of massive open online courses, or MOOCs,
that are sweeping across higher education. On May 21, EdX said
it was almost doubling to 27 the number of universities offering
courses, expanding in  Europe ,  Australia  and Asia. While some
professors are enthusiastic about the potential to share their
best teaching, others are skeptical, including the faculty of
 Amherst College , which voted last month not to join Edx.  “The Faculty of Arts and Sciences is directly responsible
for the teaching of Harvard undergraduates and Ph.D. students,”
the professors said in the letter. “It is our responsibility to
ensure that HarvardX is consistent with our commitment to our
students on campus, and with our academic mission.”  The letter notes that existing HarvardX faculty committees
are made up mainly of professors outside the arts and sciences
and haven’t addressed the larger questions about the project,
such as its impact on higher education as a whole.  Among the signatories are physicist Lisa Randall, economist
Benjamin Friedman and historian Stephen Greenblatt.  “Smith looks forward to continuing the ongoing dialogue
with these and other members of the FAS faculty,”  Jeff Neal , a
Harvard spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Harvard faculty have
been debating innovations in pedagogy for 375 years and will
continue to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  