-- U.S. Stocks Pare Early Losses as Commodities Extend Slump
-- B y   W i l l   H a d f i e l d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-05-24T20:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/asian-stocks-rise-as-topix-rebounds-aussie-weakens-with-silver.html
U.S. stocks recovered from early
losses for a second day as investors weighed prospects of
economic growth with concern the Federal Reserve will reduce
stimulus efforts. Japanese shares rebounded from their largest
drop since 2011, while commodities fell for a fourth day.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slipped less than 0.1
percent to 1,649.6 at 4 p.m. in New York, paring a 0.8 percent
loss, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average recovered from a 95-point loss to close up 8.6 points at 15,303.1. Japan’s  Topix
Index (TPX)  closed 0.5 percent higher after a 6.9 percent plunge
yesterday. The euro was little changed at $1.2935 after gaining
0.5 percent earlier. Coffee, soybeans and cocoa lost more than
1.5 percent to lead the S&P GSCI  Index (BUX)  of commodities to a
three-week low.  Bookings for U.S. durable goods increased 3.3 percent last
month, pointing to gains in business activity that will help
manufacturing rebound in the second half of the year. In
 Germany , the Ifo institute’s  business-climate index  increased
for the first time in three months, exceeding forecasts. Bank of
Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said he has done enough to
stimulate the economy and has no target for the nation’s stocks
or currency.  “The markets got spooked at the thought the Fed might
taper off QE sooner rather than later,” Michelle Clayman, chief
investment officer at New Amsterdam Partners in New York, which
manages $2.6 billion, said in a phone interview. “Yet if you
look at what the Fed said, that’d happen because the state of
the world will be better.”  Weekly Slump  About 11 stocks retreated for every 10 that rose in the
U.S. Volume of S&P 500 stocks was 23 percent below the 30-day
average before markets close on May 27 for the Memorial Day
holiday. The S&P 500 capped a weekly loss of 1.1 percent, its
first in more than a month, and trimmed its 2013 gain to 15.7
percent.  Energy, telephone and utility companies led losses in eight
of the 10 main industry groups in the S&P 500 today, while
consumer-staples and financial shares advanced. Gap Inc.
retreated 1.7 percent after the retailer forecast annual profit
that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. slumped 8 percent after reducing
its profit forecast for this financial year to a range of $3.15
to $3.25. It had predicted earnings per share of $3.35 to $3.45.
Sears Holdings Corp. plunged 14 percent, the most since
November, as the department-store retailer posted a quarterly
loss. “Our recent financial performance has not been
acceptable,” Chief Executive Officer Edward Lampert said in a
statement.  Dow Recovers  The Dow closed higher as Procter & Gamble Co. rose 4
percent to lead gains after the world’s largest consumer-products maker said it will replace Chief Executive Officer Bob
McDonald with his predecessor, A.G. Lafley, as it struggles to
rekindle growth.  Investors trying to explain the resilience of American
equities during a global selloff may want to consider the pace
that companies are repurchasing shares.  About 79 percent of buyback orders at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s corporate trading desk were active yesterday, the most
this year, according to a note to clients obtained by Bloomberg
News. Companies stepped up purchases as the S&P 500 fell as much
as 3 percent from an  intraday  record reached May 22.  The buybacks may have limited losses in American equities
after shares in  Japan  fell the most in two years and stock
markets from London to Paris and  Frankfurt  saw declines of more
than 2 percent. The S&P 500 closed yesterday down 0.3 percent
after losing as much as 1.2 percent.  Buying Dips  “The overall buy-the-dip mentality is very, very
prevalent,” Jim Welsh, who helps oversee $6 billion at Forward
Management LLC in San Francisco, said in a phone interview.
“When you have corporate buybacks, it’s kind of like a support
underneath the market.”  The Stoxx 600 slipped for a second day following a 2.1
percent plunge yesterday, its worst in 10 months.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG dropped 2.1 percent after
Herbert Stepic offered to resign as chief executive officer. The
lender, the second-largest in eastern Europe, began an internal
review of Stepic’s offshore accounts yesterday. Austria’s
financial-markets regulator has requested information.  The yield on Italian 10-year debt rose 11 basis points to
4.14 percent, while Spanish rates jumped 13 basis points to 4.42
percent.  The yen strengthened against all 16 major peers after
Kuroda’s remarks.  Yen Slump  Japan’s currency has slumped 11 percent this year, for the
worst performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The BOJ said on April
4 that it would double the country’s monetary base by the end of
2014 in an attempt to end deflation. The euro has risen 2.7
percent this year, and the dollar has strengthened 5.1 percent.  Australia ’s dollar fell 1.1 percent to 96.42 U.S. cents,
heading for a third weekly drop. New Zealand’s currency slid 0.7
percent to 80.81 U.S. cents after a government report showed the
nation’s trade surplus for April was smaller than  economists had
estimated .  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index swung between gains and
losses. Lenovo Group Ltd. climbed 3.8 percent in Hong Kong after
saying that its cash reserves of more than $3 billion enable it
to pursue acquisitions to expand into new business areas.
Hungary’s benchmark BUX Index increased 1. percent, while
 Brazil ’s Ibovespa was little changed.  Coffee tumbled to the lowest in more than three years, with
Arabica futures for July losing 2.2 percent to $1.2725 a pound,
as inventories climbed in Europe and the U.S., the world’s
leading consumers, fueling concern that supplies will overwhelm
demand. Soybeans fell the most in three weeks, losing 1.6
percent, as the highest prices this year prompted U.S. farmers
to boost sales and processors offered smaller premiums for
deliveries. Wheat futures also slid while corn rose.  Oil for July delivery decreased 10 cents to $94.15 a barrel
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
May 2. Gold futures for June delivery fell 0.4 percent to settle
at $1,386.60 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Hadfield in  London  at 
 whadfield@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  