-- Asian Stocks Fall on Australia Banks; Japan Shares Climb
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-05-24T09:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/asia-stocks-rise-as-japanese-shares-rebound-from-slump.html
Asian stocks  declined, extending
losses from the biggest decline in a year and a half, as
Australian banks fell.  Japan  shares rose on a volatile day of
trading after the biggest rout since the March 2011 earthquake.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the country’s largest
lender, fell 1.4 percent, as Australian shares posted the
largest weekly drop in a year.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , a computer
maker with $3 billion in cash reserves, added 3.8 percent in
Hong Kong after saying it sees no limit to the size of
acquisitions to bolster its smartphone and tablet businesses.
Tokyo Electric Power Co. led Japanese utilities to the biggest
advance on Japan’s Topix Index, which climbed from a plunge that
yesterday erased $314 billion from the market value of the
nation’s stocks.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.3 percent to 138.22 as
of 5:14 p.m. in Tokyo after erasing a 0.9 percent gain, heading
for a 3 percent decline this week, the most since May 2012.  Japan’s Topix gained 0.5 percent after trading in a range
of more than 6.5 percentage points. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
pared a decline of as much as 3.5 percent to close 0.9 percent
higher. The Nikkei Volatility Index touched a two-year high,
extending yesterday’s 58 percent jump, before retreating.  “The market is going up and down like a roller coaster,”
said Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo,
which oversees the equivalent of $147 billion. “The
fundamentals haven’t changed, but more and more investors are
trading on momentum. It will probably calm down in a week.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, gained 7.2 percent this year through yesterday.
The measure traded at 13.7 times average  estimated earnings ,
compared with 15 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.4
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  slid 0.1 percent. The gauge
yesterday fell 0.3 percent, the first back-to-back drop in a
month, as preliminary data showing a contraction in Chinese
manufacturing outweighed American housing and employment data
and investors digested Federal Reserve stimulus comments.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 1.6 percent, extending
this week’s drop to 3.8 percent, as banks declined and Morgan
Stanley cut its recommendation on the country’s shares.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index dropped 1.4 percent.  Hong Kong ’s
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slid 0.2 percent, Shanghai’s Composite Index
rose 0.6 percent and South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  added 0.2
percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index fell 0.3 percent. Markets in
Singapore, Thailand,  Malaysia  and Sri Lanka are shut today for
holidays.  Australia Banks  Commonwealth Bank of Australia fell 1.4 percent to A$68.77,
extending this week’s decline to 6.1 percent.  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  lost 2 percent to A$29.32. The S&P/ASX 200 Finance Index
lost 5.5 percent this week, the most in a year. Telstra Corp.
sank 1.6 percent to A$4.87, taking its two-day loss to 5.3
percent.  “The market run has been so skewed toward high-yielding
stocks and financials in Australia, and now with worries about
China, foreign investors are withdrawing,” Nader Naeimi,
Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages $126 billion, said by phone.
“Australian shares will underperform this year. There are lots
of reasons for profit taking right now. In Japan, there are
still lots of challenges and structural changes that need to
take place.”  Morgan Stanley downgraded its recommendation on Australian
equities to equal weight from overweight, citing less attractive
valuations and a worsening earnings outlook.  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)  fell 12 percent to a record
low A$3.03 in Sydney after rival Crown Ltd. sold its 10 percent
stake in Echo.  Lenovo Plan  Lenovo added 3.8 percent to HK$7.66 in Hong Kong. The PC
maker is most interested in adding assets to bolster its growing
business for smartphones and tablets, and hardware such as
servers and storage for business computing, Chief Financial
Officer Wong Wai Ming said in a phone interview yesterday.  The Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. is raising the margin
requirements in Japanese  stock futures  after yesterday’s plunge.
The initial margin for Nikkei 225 futures will rise 33 percent
to $3,300 per contract at the close of trading today, Chicago-based CME Group Inc. said in a  statement . Initial margin is the
minimum amount of cash or eligible securities investors must
deposit to cover the risk of default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  