-- Asia Stocks Cap Worst Week Since July; Japan Plunges
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2013-05-24T23:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/asia-stocks-cap-worst-week-since-xxxx-japan-plunges.html
Asian equities  fell the most since
July this week as Chinese manufacturing data missed estimates
and amid concern that the U.S. might begin to unwind stimulus.
Japanese shares had the largest one-day plunge since March 2011.  The Topix Index plummeted 6.9 percent on May 23, wiping
$314 billion from the world’s best-performing stock market this
year. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. led a plunge among
 Japan ’s largest financial companies as the country’s bonds
dropped to a one-year low, stoking concern about the nation’s
balance sheet. A gauge of  Australian banks  fell 6.6 percent in
Sydney, the most since the May 2012 Greek crisis, on speculation
that slowing growth in  China  will undermine the resource-based
economy.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 2.7 percent, the biggest
weekly decline since the week ended July 13, 2012. The gauge
rose 10 percent this year through May 17 amid signs of
improvement in the  U.S. economy  and unprecedented stimulus
efforts in Japan. A measure of Asia-Pacific shares  outside Japan 
dropped 2.6 percent this week, leaving it virtually unchanged
for the year as Chinese data signals a slowdown in the world’s
No. 2 economy.  “The market run has been so skewed toward high-yielding
stocks and financials in  Australia , and now with worries about
China, foreign investors are withdrawing,” Nader Naeimi,
Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages $126 billion, said by phone.
“Australian shares will underperform this year. There are lots
of reasons for profit taking right now. In Japan, there are
still lots of challenges and structural changes that need to
take place.”  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index trades for 13.7 times estimated
earnings. That compares with multiples of 15 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 13.3 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. The
Topix  traded  as much as 24.8 times earnings this week, higher
than 86 percent of days since 2004, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Japan’s broadest equity gauge, still this year’s best
performing major equity benchmark, plunged in record volume on
May 23. It was the first time since April 2005 that every
company on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average retreated.  The slide triggered a halt in Osaka-traded index futures on
May 23 and cut the measure’s 2013 advance to 38 percent from 48
percent. Gains for the Topix remain more than twice as big as in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this year. The measure, which
finished the week 4.7 percent lower, is still up 2.8 percent for
the month.  Abe Promise  Financial shares led the plunge, which JPMorgan Asset
Management and Pinebridge Investments LLC said was overdue.
About $1.2 trillion was added to equities since Nov. 14, when
elections were announced that brought Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
to power on the promise of massive stimulus and  Bank of Japan 
action to end two decades of deflation.  “Everyone is surprised at today’s drop, but it was
overdue,” said Grace Tam, Hong Kong-based global market
strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management Ltd., which oversees
about $1.5 trillion globally and increased holdings of Japanese
shares on May 23. “Many investors looking for an opportunity to
buy can find a good entry point now. It’s a short-term
correction.”  Japanese equities had risen “too much, too fast,”
especially financial stocks, former Ministry of Finance official
 Eisuke Sakakibara , known as “Mr. Yen” for his efforts to
influence exchange rates in the late 1990s, said in a Bloomberg
interview on May 15. Shares needed “some kind of correction”
before resuming their climb, he said.  Nomura Slides  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial plunged 11 percent, the most
among the  30 biggest stocks  on the Topix, as financial shares
led the rout in  Tokyo . Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s No. 1
brokerage, retreated 7.6 percent to 868 yen after more than
tripling since mid-November.  All 44 members of the Topix Real Estate Index, the worst
performing of the benchmark measure’s  33 industries  this week,
declined. Gauges of consumer lenders, brokers and banks dropped
more than 9 percent.  Mitsubishi Estate Co., Japan’s biggest real-estate company,
dropped 10 percent to 2,652 yen. Sun Frontier Fudousan Co., a
property management and  renovation  company, had the biggest drop
for the sector, plunging 26 percent to 86,600 yen.  Elsewhere in the region, Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
dropped 3.8 percent for the week as banks plunged the most in a
year. The Australian dollar has been the worst-performing major
currency in the current quarter, falling 7.5 percent versus the
U.S. currency. It slid 1.1 percent yesterday.  CBA Retreat  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the country’s biggest bank,
hit a record high on May 20 before a four day retreat left it
6.1 percent lower for the week at A$68.77. Westpac Banking
Corp., the No. 2 lender, slid 6.4 percent to A$29.32.  Shares in Hong Kong fell after U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the bank may consider winding back
stimulus and after a preliminary survey from HSBC Holding Plc
and Markit Economics showed manufacturing in China is
contracting.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dropped 2 percent, the most since the
week ended April 5.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier to Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
retreated 1.3 percent to HK$10.98. Belle International Holdings
Ltd., a mainland women’s footwear retailer, plunged 7.7 percent
to HK$11.96, near the lowest in almost a year.  China Resources Power Holdings Co. fell the most in the
 Hang Seng Index , retreating 11 percent to HK$20.20 after the
Economic Information Daily reported May 16 that China may ban
some imports of thermal coal.  Among other regional gauges the Shanghai Composite Index
was little changed, while  Korea ’s Kospi index slid 0.7 percent.
 Singapore ’s Straits Times Index declined 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Gentle in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  