-- Latham & Watkins, Kirkland, Weil Gotshal: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-24T11:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/latham-watkins-kirkland-weil-gotshal-business-of-law.html
Latham & Watkins LLP’s Zachary Fardon
was nominated by President Obama to be U.S. Attorney for the
Northern District of  Illinois  in Chicago. He would replace
Patrick Fitzgerald, who left last June and joined Skadden Arps
Slate Meagher & Flom LLP.  Before joining Latham in 2007, Fardon was a former
assistant U.S. attorney in the Northern District of Illinois
where he was part of the team that tried former Illinois
Governor George Ryan on corruption charges. He also worked as a
U.S. Attorney in the Middle District of  Tennessee , where he
supervised about 30 assistant U.S. attorneys in all federal
criminal and civil matters, his firm bio said. He attended
Vanderbilt University for his undergraduate education and for
law school.  “Zachary Fardon will be an exceptional U.S. Attorney for
the Northern District of Illinois,” U.S. Senator Dick Durbin
said in a statement. He said he expects him to focus on daily
gang and gun violence “plaguing the streets of  Chicago .”  Fardon, who is Latham’s Chicago litigation chair, was
picked from a group of four finalists sent to the president.
They included Jonathan Bunge, a partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP;
Lori Lightfoot, a partner at Mayer Brown LLP; and Gil Soffer, a
partner at Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP and the co-chairman of
that firm’s white collar practice.  The screening committee included co-chairmen David Coar, a
retired U.S. district judge and Kirkland & Ellis partner, and
Mark Filip, a former U.S. deputy attorney general.  At Latham, Fardon’s practice focuses on internal
investigations, government investigations, white collar defense,
and complex business litigation.  Latham spokeswoman Colleen Strasser said Fardon wouldn’t
make any public statements.  “Zach has outstanding experience as a public servant and
as a litigator in private practice,” the firm said in a
statement. “He is an exceptionally talented attorney who
practices with the highest level of integrity and ethical
standards.”  Fardon’s nomination will be voted on by the Senate
Judiciary Committee. If his nomination is approved, it will be
sent to the full Senate for consideration. Until a nominee is
confirmed, Gary Shapiro will continue as Acting U.S. Attorney
for the Northern District of Illinois.  Lawyer Castor Proves White House Bane as Investigative Pit Bull  No one in the White House looks forward to a call from
Steve Castor.  The lawyer in charge of the Republicans’ numerous probes of
the Obama administration -- the Internal Revenue Service
targeting of Tea Party groups, the handling of the attack on the
U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi -- is known for inundating
officials with demands for answers and documents.  His boss, U.S. House of Representatives Oversight and
Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa of  California ,
frequently goes on television to accuse the administration of
stonewalling.  Behind the scenes, Castor and his staff of 35 assemble
details, line up witnesses for the committee to question, and
write voluminous, minutely footnoted reports that boil down
shades-of-gray situations into black-and-white narratives with
heroes and villains.  “We’re in the storytelling business, the business of
putting the pieces together,” Castor says.  Coaxing whistle-blowers to come forward is one of an
investigator’s most important skills, says Castor, who’s been
with the committee for eight years.  Issa’s hearings “lack credibility,” says Representative
Henry Waxman, a California Democrat who once led the committee.  “The purpose of an oversight investigation is not to
simply try and make the president look bad,” Waxman says.  Castor rejects the notion that he’s pushing an anti-Obama
story line.  “We follow the facts,” he says. “This administration is
uncomfortable with oversight.”  Castor, who became the committee’s general counsel this
year, obtained his law degree from George Washington University
in 2001, joining Philadelphia-based Blank Rome LLP that year. In
1998, the  Pennsylvania  State University graduate earned a master
of business administration from Lehigh University in Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania.  For more, click here.  Deals  Six Firms Advise on Rue21 Agreement to Be Acquired by Apax  Kirkland & Ellis LLP, Potter Anderson & Corroon LLP and
Ropes & Gray LLP advised  Rue21 Inc. (RUE) , the operator of more than
900 teen apparel shops, on its agreement to be bought by
private-equity firm Apax Partners in a $1.1 billion deal.
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Richards Layton & Finger PA
advised Apax.  Kirkland advised the special committee of the board of
directors of Rue21. The Kirkland team includes corporate
partners David Fox and David Feirstein, debt finance partner
Ashley Gregory. Potter Anderson’s team was led by partner
Michael B. Tumas. Ropes & Gray partners included Daniel Evans
and Christopher Green.  Simpson Thacher corporate mergers and acquisitions partner
Ryerson Symons is leading his firm’s team advising Apax.
Additional Simpson Thacher partners on the team include Ken
Wallach, capital markets; Gary Mandel, tax; Brian Robbins,
executive compensation and employee benefits; and Lori Lesser,
IP. Richards Layton didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking partner names.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP New York mergers and acquisitions
partners Michael Aiello and Jackie Cohen are representing
 Perella Weinberg , financial adviser to the Rue 21 special
committee.  The purchase price of $42 a share will be paid in cash, the
companies said yesterday in a statement. That represents a 23
percent premium to Rue21’s closing price in New York yesterday.
The deal has been approved by Rue21’s board and the company has
40 days to find a superior offer.  Rue21 has been expanding, with plans to open its 1,000th
store by January and eventually boost its presence to more than
1,700 locations. The chain, based in Warrendale, Pennsylvania,
is projected to more than triple its free cash flow this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “That price is pretty fair,” said Amy Hu Sunderland, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Grandeur Peak Global Advisors LLC,
which oversees $950 million and owns shares of Rue21. “They can
get a lot of cash flow out of it. These guys are not levered at
all, they should be able to get much higher return because they
can lever it up.”  Apax is paying about 9.2 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with the median of 8.4 in a survey
of about 30 comparable deals, the data show.  For more, click here.  Firm News  King & Wood Names Kench New Australian Managing Partner  King & Wood Mallesons appointed Sue Kench as managing
partner in  Australia , the firm said in a statement.  She replaces Tony O’Malley, who agreed to resign
immediately, Bloomberg News reported May 20. He will retire as a
partner at the end of 2013. O’Malley had been with the firm for
13 years. The firm didn’t give a reason for the management
change.  Kench is a partner in the Sidney office and the managing
partner for the firm’s real estate, construction and
infrastructure sector and real estate, construction and
environmental law practice. She has been with the firm for 20
years and was a member of the board that oversaw the firm’s
combination with Chinese firm King & Wood. Australia’s Stephen
Jaques combined last year with King & Wood to form Asia’s
biggest law firm, which now has about 2,200 legal professionals.  “Sue has a firm grasp of the key challenges and
opportunities facing our clients and the right combination of
expertise, experience and energy to lead the business in what is
an increasingly dynamic market,” Stephen Minns, Australian
chairman of King & Wood Mallesons, said in a statement.  Moves  Privacy and Data Security Partner Joins McDermott in Boston  McDermott Will & Emery LLP said Julia B. Jacobson joined
the firm’s Boston office as a partner in the global privacy and
data protection affinity group. She was previously with Bingham
McCutchen LLP.  Jacobson focuses her practice on the legal and regulatory
issues surrounding data and privacy security, including online
privacy policies and terms of use. She advises clients on
advertising law, including consumer and trade promotions,
digital and e-mail marketing and the promotion and sale of goods
across mediums, the firm said. Her practice also includes
software, trademark and merchandise licensing.  “Businesses in every sector are faced with privacy and
data security concerns that continue to grow in complexity and
scope,” Heather Egan Sussman, co-chairwoman of the firm’s
global privacy and data protection affinity group said in a
statement. “These issues carry particular weight for healthcare
and financial services, industries that are highly regulated.
Julia brings a wealth of knowledge and experience in these
fields.”  McDermott’s global data privacy practice includes more than
50 attorneys worldwide who help clients manage that risk. The
firm has more than 1,100 lawyers at offices in the U.S., Europe
and Asia.  Drinker Biddle’s Employee Benefits Practice Gains a Partner  Frances P. LaFleur joined Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP as a
partner in the firm’s employee benefits and executive
compensation practice group in Chicago.  LaFleur has been an in-house counsel for 10 years, most
recently as senior legal counsel for Schneider Electric.
Immediately before that, she was senior counsel for Hillshire
Brands and its predecessor firm, Sara Lee Corp. She was an
associate at Drinker Biddle’s predecessor firm in Chicago,
Gardner Carton & Douglas.  LaFleur will focus her practice on advising clients on
retirement, executive compensation and health and welfare plan
issues, as well as ERISA fiduciary governance matters, the firm
said. She will also be a leader of the firm’s employee benefits
practice for health systems and other tax exempt entities.  Drinker Biddle has 650 lawyers in offices in the U.S. and
 London .  Michael Duffy Rejoins Baker & McKenzie in Chicago  Michael Duffy rejoined Baker & McKenzie LLP’s dispute
resolution practice as a partner in Chicago. He was previously a
partner in the Chicago office of Kirkland & Ellis LLP.  Duffy has been involved in international arbitrations,
represented auditing firms on large malpractice claims and
securities class actions, manufacturers against claims brought
by their dealers and franchisees, the firm said. Duffy, a fluent
Spanish speaker, has represented Latin American and Spanish
clients in U.S. courts and arbitration proceedings.  “Michael’s fluency in Spanish and deep experience advising
Latin American and Spanish clients in litigation matters are
great additions to our growing practice,” Richard Franklin,
chairman of Baker & McKenzie’s North American litigation
practice, said in a statement.  Baker & McKenzie’s dispute resolution practice has more
than 700 lawyers globally and more than 125 attorneys in the
U.S. The firm has more than 4,000 lawyers in 72 offices in 45
countries.  Terrence O’Donnell Joins Dickinson Wright’s Columbus Office  Dickinson Wright PLLC announced that Terrence O’Donnell has
joined the firm’s Columbus, Ohio, office as a member. He was
previously at Bricker & Eckler LLP.  O’Donnell focuses his practice on public policy advocacy at
the statehouse and regulatory compliance. He also has election
law experience.  Dickinson Wright has more than 350 lawyers at 12 offices in
the U.S. and Toronto.  Video  Dewey’s Bankruptcy Lawyer: More Big Law Firms Will Fail  While failed law firms make for notoriously difficult
bankruptcy cases, Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s time in bankruptcy court
was quicker and easier than other notable law firms. Joe Samet,
head of restructuring at Baker & McKenzie LLP, and Al Togut,
founding partner at Togut, Segal & Segal LLP, talk with
Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about why Dewey’s case went so
smoothly compared with others, the prospects for other large law
firm failures and how managing partners can keep their firms out
of bankruptcy. Both Togut and Samet agree that creating a
culture of transparency goes a long way to avoiding a law firm
failure. “Except for a select group of people at the very top,
the rest of the people at the firm have no idea, none, of what’s
going on,” Togut says.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 