-- Australia Lures $21 Billion Bet on Coal Rebound: Energy Markets
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-05-24T09:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/australia-lures-21-billion-bet-on-coal-rebound-energy-markets.html
Coal’s worst slump in seven years has
failed to deter GVK Group and  Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE)  from
pressing ahead with a $21 billion bet on  Australia ’s Galilee
Basin as other companies shelve projects amid rising costs.  GVK, controlled by  India ’s GV Krishna Reddy, plans to have
financing as early as this year for its Alpha mine in
Queensland’s Galilee region and is scheduled to begin exports by
2017. Coal at the Australian port of Newcastle, the Asian
benchmark price, has slid 4.4 percent in 2013 to $86.65 a metric
ton on May 17, extending a  19 percent  slump last year, the most
since 2005, according to IHS McCloskey data.  While Glencore Xstrata Plc is among miners canceling
projects and cutting workers to cope with escalating production
costs and slumping prices, GVK and Adani are preparing to meet
Asian demand that’s forecast to increase 24 percent by 2018.
About 15 percent of Australian coal is extracted at a loss below
$90 a ton, according to  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)   “GVK and Adani have reached a point of no return,” said
Debasish Mishra, a partner and head of the energy practice at
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt in Mumbai. “It’s very
difficult for them to exit.”  Adani, India’s biggest power-station coal importer, and GVK
are the most advanced in a group of companies planning to spend
more than A$33 billion ($32 billion) to export the fuel from the
Galilee region.  Biggest Producer  Covering more than 247,000 square kilometers (154,000
miles) and containing an estimated 14 billion tons of the bulk
commodity, Galilee may become the largest producing area in
Queensland, according to  Aurizon Holdings Ltd. (AZJ) , Australia’s
largest transporter of coal by rail. Five proposed mines may
bring combined capacity of 200 million tons a year, it said on
its  website . Companies in Queensland produced 237 million tons
of thermal and steelmaking coal in 2011, government  data  shows.  Adani is scheduled to start construction this year on the
Carmichael mine as part of its A$6.8 billion project, with first
output set for 2016, according to a Dec. 13  statement  on the
Gujarat, India-based company’s website. Harsh Mishra, chief
executive officer of its Australian unit, declined to be
interviewed for this story.  GVK’s $11 billion plan includes construction of a 495
kilometer rail line to transport the fuel to the Abbot Point
harbor, where it intends to build an export facility to load as
much as 60 million tons a year. GVK and Aurizon signed a non-binding agreement in March to develop the rail and port jointly.  Asian Demand  The Indian company’s Kevin’s Corner mine may start
production about six months after Alpha, according to Mulder.
Kevin’s Corner is  valued  at A$4.2 billion by Australia’s Bureau
of Resources and Energy Economics in Canberra. The two projects
will have combined output of about 62 million tons a year,
according to a presentation on the GVK website.  Australian billionaire  Gina Rinehart ’s Hancock Prospecting
Pty. owns a 21 percent stake in Alpha, the presentation on the
GVK website shows. Waratah Coal, controlled by mining
entrepreneur  Clive Palmer , is also proposing an A$8.8 billion
mine, while  Bandanna Energy Ltd. (BND)  is planning a Galilee project
valued at A$4.2 billion by the bureau.  “To keep the lights on, coal is still going to need to be
produced,” said Paul Mulder, the managing director of
infrastructure and coal at GVK Hancock, the company’s Australian
unit. “In  China , India,  Korea  and  Japan , thermal coal forms a
massive foundation of energy,” he said in an interview from
Brisbane, the capital of Queensland.  Emerging Economies  Asian coal imports are forecast to increase to 824 million
tons by 2018, up from 665 million tons in 2012, the Australian
bureau said in a March  report . Shipments to China are projected
to rise 22 percent, while exports to India are predicted to
increase 83 percent to 185 million tons, it said.  The lower cost and reliability of coal-fired electricity
generation makes the fuel appealing to emerging economies
expecting rapid increases in energy demand, the bureau said.
India, which generates 57 percent of its electricity from coal,
plans to add 118 gigawatts of capacity in the five years ending
March 2017, according to I.A. Khan, an energy adviser at India’s
planning commission.  Coal from Adani’s 60 million ton-a-year Carmichael mine
will be exported to India for use in the company’s power plants,
it said in a December  statement . The Indian group was awarded a
long-term lease to operate Abbot Point in 2011.  Adani Commitment  “The Adani Group stands committed to setting up world-class infrastructure facilities such as a mine, railway and port
in Australia,”  Gautam Adani , chairman of the company, said in
the Dec. 2 statement. India is the world’s third-biggest
importer of the fuel used in power stations behind China and
Japan.  Newcastle coal, the Asian benchmark, may average $100 in
2015 and $99.50 a ton in 2016, according to estimates compiled
by Bloomberg from banks including Credit Suisse Group AG,
Societe Generale SA and Standard Chartered Plc.  Coal has traded  below $90  for 10 weeks, according to data
from IHS McCloskey, a Petersfield, England-based provider.
Prices averaged $94.29 last year after slipping to a three-year
low of $78.05 on Oct. 19.  The slide is driving some producers in Australia to pull
back. The industry is “struggling to remain globally
competitive,” Darren Yeates, acting managing director of Coal &
Allied, a unit of  Rio Tinto  Group, said in a statement on April
22.  Miners Cut  GVK rebounded from a 2.8 percent decline yesterday and rose
1.2 percent to 8.70 rupees at 1:32 p.m. in Mumbai today, paring
this year’s loss to 35.8 percent. Adani Enterprises advanced 1
percent to 221.15 rupees after falling 5.9 percent yesterday.
The stock has declined 18.5 percent this year, compared with a
1.5 percent gain in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex.  Glencore Xstrata, the world’s biggest shipper of the fuel,
halted work on the Balaclava Island export terminal this month
in Queensland, citing poor market conditions, overcapacity and
concerns about the medium-term outlook. The Baar, Switzerland-based company also shut its Brisbane office in March after
flagging in September that it would cut about 600 jobs.  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal company, has
taken control of most of its Australian sites from contractors
to limit losses, the St. Louis-based company said in a statement
announcing its first-quarter earnings last month. Early-stage
projects continue to be deferred, with timing dependent on
market conditions, the company said.  Even Abbot Point, where GVK and Adani plan to export their
coal, hasn’t escaped cutbacks. The  Queensland government  reduced
the scope of a planned A$9 billion expansion in May last year,
citing costs and an increase in capacity that would exceed
demand. Rio Tinto ended talks to take part in the enlargement in
April 2012, citing a weaker global economy.  ‘Increasingly Remote’  Development of the Galilee Basin looks increasingly remote,
Macquarie Group Ltd., Australia’s biggest investment bank, said
in a May 1 research note. Prospects for project paybacks look
extremely poor, the bank said. Further delays are likely unless
“deep pocket” backers are able to ignore conventional
economics, Sydney-based Macquarie said.  Retrenching coal developers are taking a short-term view of
a mature industry with bright long-term prospects, said GVK
Hancock’s Mulder, adding that the company will be able to
deliver coal at a cost of about $55 a ton.  “If you look at what China’s done in the last two years,
going from 2010 to 2012, they’ve become a net importer of coal
of some 250 million tons per year,” he said. “Korea is lifting
and Japan is starting to expand its baseload also. There’s going
to be cyclical up and downs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  