-- Australia Banks Fall Most in Year as Investors Sell Out of Rally
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-24T05:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/australia-banks-fall-most-in-year-as-investors-sell-out-of-rally.html
Australian bank stocks fell the most
in a year as investors sold out of a rally that had driven
financial shares to a record high last month.  The  S&P/ASX 200 Bank index  fell 3.4 percent at 2:55 p.m. in
Sydney, on course for the biggest daily decline since May 18
last year.  Westpac Banking Corp (WBC) , the second-largest lender by
market value, declined the most among the top four banks
dropping 2.8 percent, while  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  fell
2.0 percent.  “Given the strong run in both relative and absolute terms
since the start of the year, the market now appears to be
finding the right price for the banks,” Victor German, a bank
analyst with  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  said by telephone.  Record profits and higher dividend payout ratios have seen
the nation’s financial stocks rise 16 percent this year,
compared with a 6.9 percent gain for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index. The rally pushed bank shares to record highs with  UBS AG (UBSN) 
analysts led by Jonathan Mott calling Commonwealth Bank the most
expensive lender in the world on May 15.  “The market run has been so skewed towards high-yielding
stocks and financials in  Australia , and now with worries about
China, foreign investors are withdrawing,” Nader Naeimi,
Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages $126 billion, said by phone.  The Australian dollar is set for a third weekly decline
amid speculation a strengthening U.S. economy will prompt the
 Federal Reserve  to pare back on its bond-buying program and
after a report yesterday indicated China’s manufacturing is
contracting for the first time in seven months.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  altered its forecast for the Aussie,
saying it will fall to 90 U.S. cents by Dec. 31, compared with a
previous forecast of 95.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  