-- Lawmakers Criticize Turkish Nighttime Alcohol Store Ban
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-05-24T11:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/lawmakers-criticize-turkish-nighttime-alcohol-store-ban.html
Turkish opposition lawmakers said the
government was advancing an Islamist agenda after a law was
passed banning all alcohol advertising together with night-time
alcohol sales at stores. Local businesses and foreign investors
expressed concern.  “The rapid introduction of this bill is both surprising
and disappointing,” Managing Director of  Diageo Plc (DGE)  in Turkey
Galip Yorgancioglu said in an e-mailed statement today. Bendevi
Palandoken, head of a confederation of tradesmen, TESK, said the
law would hit 185,000 buffets licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages, especially after 10 p.m. when supermarkets are
closed, Hurriyet newspaper reported today.  All promotion of alcoholic drinks, including advertising,
will be barred under the legislation, as well as sales at stores
between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m., under a clause added shortly before
the measure passed in parliament in Ankara last night. The law
takes force when signed by President Abdullah Gul, a former
member of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s party.  Erdogan banned alcoholic beverages at municipally run
restaurants when he was Istanbul’s mayor in the 1990s. The new
law is the toughest nationwide curb on alcohol introduced since
the Islamist-rooted Justice and Development Party came to power
more than a decade ago. The prime minister said last month that
ayran, a salted yogurt drink, was Muslim  Turkey ’s national
beverage, rather than anything alcoholic.  ‘Ideological’ Measure  During the parliamentary debate on the bill, opposition
lawmakers accused Erdogan and his party of social engineering.  “This is a religious, ideological enforcement,” said Musa
Cam of the secular Republican People’s Party. “What they want
to do is to redesign the society based on their own beliefs and
culture.”  Diageo, the world’s largest distiller of alcoholic
beverages, paid $2.1 billion for Mey Icki, a producer of the
traditional Turkish spirit raki in 2011.  Yorgancioglu said that in acquiring Mey Icki, Diageo had
been investing “not only in a business with great beverage
alcohol brands, but also in a country that was encouraging of
foreign investment and which promoted its stable regulatory
regime.”  Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  told reporters in Istanbul
that the law may lead to lower tax revenue if it reduces demand
for alcoholic drinks, though he said the government has “no
guess” about the impact. Turkey collects about 8 billion liras
($4.3 billion) a year of alcohol taxes, he said.  Shares Fall  Anadolu Efes (AEFES)  shares dropped 5.6 percent to 28.6 liras at
the 12:30 p.m. midday break in Istanbul, snapping a five-day
advance.  Turk Tuborg (TBORG)  was down 1.3 percent to 2.97 liras.  Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdag said Turkey was merely
copying standards on alcoholic beverages applied in Europe and
the U.S. Addressing a meeting of party members in Ankara today,
Erdogan said the measures conform to Turkish constitutional
clauses designed to protect young people from bad habits.  “We don’t want a generation which is high on alcohol day
and night,” he said.  Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc has repeatedly objected
to drinking scenes in popular soap operas. Violators of the
promotion bans can be fined as much as 200,000 liras.  Erdogan’s party attempted to criminalize adultery in 2004,
before stepping back under pressure from the European Union.  Hasip Kaplan, a Kurdish lawmaker, said the ruling party was
imposing its “own lifestyle” on the nation. He warned the law
will hurt  tourism , which “can’t recover easily once
collapsed,” according to the state-run Anatolia agency.  Turyid, a group representing Turkish restaurants and
entertainment companies, said in a statement on May 16 that
Turkey has Europe’s lowest alcohol consumption at 1.5 liters per
capita.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  