-- Banker Trade Deals, Price-Fixing, U.K. Banks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/banker-trade-deals-price-fixing-u-k-banks-compliance.html
U.S. bankers and insurers are trying
to use trade deals, which can trump existing legislation, to
weaken parts of the Dodd-Frank Act designed to prevent a repeat
of the 2008 financial crisis.  While the companies say they are seeking agreements that
preserve strong regulations and encourage economic growth, their
effort is drawing fire from groups who argue that Wall Street
wants to make the trade negotiations a new front in its three-year campaign to stop or alter the law.  Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat who sits
on the Banking Committee, said in a May 7 statement that there
are “growing murmurs” about Wall Street’s efforts to “do
quietly through trade agreements what they can’t get done in
public view with the lights on and people watching.”  The U.S. has embarked on three major negotiations aimed at
reducing barriers to international commerce, including one with
the European Union covering most types of trade and investment,
and a similar one with Asia-Pacific nations including  Japan . A
third set of talks, covering only services, is under way at the
World Trade Organization.  The  Coalition of Service Industries , a trade association
whose website lists  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Chubb Corp. (CB)  as members,
told the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative in a May 10
letter that “more compatible regulations for services” should
be part of the EU deal.  In separate letters on the EU and Asia-Pacific pacts, the
industry coalition said negotiators should draft rules limiting
what regulators can do in the name of protecting financial
stability. None of the letters specifically mention a desire to
change the Dodd-Frank law.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Price-Fixing Victims to Gain Power to Sue for Damages in EU Plan  The European Union is weighing plans for an EU-wide system
to allow damages claims from price-fixing victims, in a move
that would stop short of forcing nations to allow group
lawsuits.  Proposals on private enforcement actions will seek to
remedy “marked differences” between countries on lawsuits for
compensation in cases of national or EU competition-law
violations, according to draft plans obtained by Bloomberg News.  Such differences “lead to uncertainty concerning the
conditions under which injured parties can exercise the right to
compensation,” according to the draft. “As injured parties
often choose” their own country’s courts “to claim damages,
the discrepancies between the rules of the different member
states lead to an un-level playing field as regards actions for
damages.”  Private damages lawsuits are rare in national courts across
Europe. The Brussels-based European Commission has championed
such lawsuits as a way to compensate victims of illegal
monopolies and cartels ranging from plots to fix air-cargo fuel
and security surcharges to the price of television tubes.  While EU nations won’t be obliged to introduce provisions
for group lawsuits for EU antitrust breaches, such a possibility
could also be “of value” for data-privacy violations as well
as consumer and environment protection, according to separate
guidelines on group lawsuits, also known as collective redress.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for competition commissioner
Joaquin Almunia, declined to comment.  EU Seeks Country-by-Country Tax Disclosure for Large Companies  The European Union will seek to make large companies
disclose the taxes they pay and profits they make on a country-by-country basis as it seeks to crack down on firms evading
their obligations.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, will
seek to put the transparency rules in place “as quickly as
possible,”  Chantal Hughes , his spokeswoman, said in Brussels
yesterday. The measures would also cover subsidies that
companies receive, she said.  Hughes explained that it’s “the equivalent of what we
already do for  banks .”  Barnier’s push comes amid international controversy over
whether companies like  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are taking
excessive advantage of cross-border tax loopholes. EU leaders
vowed this week to investigate “aggressive” tax planning, and
pledged support for tougher corporate transparency rules.  The EU has already taken some steps toward introducing such
country-by-country reporting requirements.  Compliance Action  German Tax Office Finds Possible Fraud in Power, Gas Markets  The  German Federal Central Tax Office  has found signs of
possible tax fraud in Europe’s biggest power and natural gas
market that may be similar to the “value-added tax carousels”
that roiled carbon permit markets.  Tax authorities warned market participants of the cases and
the risks of engaging, wittingly or unwittingly, in illegal
trading activities, in a document dated May 2013 posted on the
website of NetConnect  Germany  GmbH, the German gas market area
manager. Annika Deitmer, a spokeswoman for the Bonn-based tax
office, wasn’t immediately able to confirm the authenticity of
the document. Germany’s  grid regulator , which also posted the
warning on its website, confirmed that the tax office had
circulated the document to market participants.  “All honest market participants must have an interest in
putting an end to wrongdoing by fraudsters as swiftly as
possible,” the tax office said in the  document . “The
predecessor of the value-added tax fraud in the energy market
was the VAT fraud in carbon permit trading.”  VAT fraud in the European carbon permit market involved
chains of bogus import companies set up to reclaim taxes that
had never been paid. A Frankfurt court in 2011 convicted six men
for evading a total of 260 million euros ($335 million) in taxes
on carbon emission trades using the same tactics.  U.K. Banks Poised to Plug Capital Gap Without Share Sales  Britain’s five biggest banks are poised to plug their part
of a 25 billion-pound ($38 billion) capital shortfall identified
by regulators without turning to shareholders for money.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  plan to achieve capital levels required by the U.K.
regulator by shrinking their balance sheets and selling assets,
the firms said in separate statements May 22.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have also ruled out share sales, according to
two people familiar with their plans who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t permitted to talk publicly.
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  said it already meets requirements.  U.K. banks have been seeking ways to strengthen their
balance sheets since the Bank of England said in November it was
concerned that they weren’t holding enough  capital . The
Prudential Regulation Authority, a unit of the central bank,
ordered banks in March to plug the shortfall by the end of the
year to cover bigger potential losses, possible fines for mis-selling and stricter risk models.  Spokesmen at Barclays and HSBC declined to comment. Sarah
Bailey, a spokeswoman for the PRA, declined to give details.
Standard Chartered said in an e-mail that the PRA “confirmed
our understanding” that it already meets capital requirements.  Lloyds reiterated on May 22 that it expects its fully
loaded core Tier 1 capital ratio to exceed 9 percent by the end
of the year and 10 percent by the end of 2014. RBS will have met
the Basel requirements by the end of this year and the Vickers
requirement by the end of 2014, Chief Executive Officer Stephen
Hester said this month, referring to the government-commissioned
report led by John Vickers that recommended a core Tier 1 ratio
of at least 10 percent.  For more, click here.  Courts  Options Market Makers Sue Exchanges Alleging Overcharges  Citadel Securities LLC and three other market makers sued
the biggest options exchanges, claiming they were wrongly
charged fees on trades during a seven-year period.  The companies sued Chicago Board Options Exchange LLC and
four more exchanges saying they systematically overcharged or
wrongly assessed fees on trades from January 2004 to June 2011.  The case centers on pricing incentives adopted by
securities exchanges during the past decade and a half, as
technical advances and regulatory reform squeezed profits in
stock and options trading and the number of markets multiplied.  Joining Citadel in the case are Chicago-based Ronin Capital
LLC, San Francisco-based Group One Trading LP, Susquehanna
Investment Group and Susquehanna Securities.  The defendants in the lawsuit include International
Securities Exchange LLC, the NYSE Euronext-owned NYSE Arca
electronic options exchange and NYSE Amex exchange and
Philadelphia Stock Exchange operated by the  NASDAQ OMX Group. (NDAQ)   Gail Osten and Molly McGregor, spokeswomen for the Chicago
Board Options Exchange and ISE, respectively, yesterday declined
to comment on the allegations.  Rich Adamonis , and Rob Madden, spokesmen for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
and  Nasdaq , respectively, also declined to comment on the suit.  David Pollard, a spokesman for Susquehanna, didn’t respond
to a phone call seeking comment. A voice-mail message left at
Group One Trading’s main office number wasn’t returned.  The case is Citadel Securities LLC v. Chicago Board Options
Exchange Inc., 13CH13246, Cook County Circuit Court, Chancery
Division (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  