-- Bank of Ireland ‘Definitely’ Has Capital for Bad Loans, CEO Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-05-24T11:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/bank-of-ireland-definitely-has-capital-for-bad-loans-ceo-says.html
Bank of Ireland Plc  Chief Executive
Officer Richie Boucher said the nation’s largest lender by
assets has enough capital to absorb bad loan losses.  Every financial gauge for the Dublin-based lender,
including  lending margins, costs, loan losses and deposits are
“moving in the right direction,” Boucher said at an event in
Dublin today. Momentum on all measures has continued
“strongly” from last year into 2013, he said.  “Do we have the capital strength to deal with loan losses
and support our lending activities ambitions?” Boucher said,
adding he’s confident loan losses are declining. “We definitely
do.”  Irish banks, which have required a 64 billion euro ($83
billion) bailout in the past four years, may avoid another state
cash call as they face stress tests later this year, according
to five of seven analysts and economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  earlier this month. Taxpayers injected 4.8 billion euros
into  Bank of Ireland (BKIR)  since 2009.  The lender has also generated 9 billion euros of private
capital during this period, Boucher said. A July 2011 share sale
resulted in five investors including U.S. billionaire  Wilbur
Ross ’s WL Ross & Co. LLC and Toronoto-based Fairfax Holdings
Ltd. taking an almost 35 percent stake in the lender.  Rising Shares  Bank of Ireland shares have risen 89 percent since then to
18.9 euro cents as of 12:19 p.m. in Dublin trading, giving the
company a market value of 5.6 billion euros.  Investment “did not come from the private sector because
they felt sorry for us,” said Boucher, 54.. “It came from
people who have closely studied Ireland and the Bank of Ireland.
They believe in the recovery of Ireland and they believe in the
bank’s ability to support that recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  