-- Barrick Assesses Impact of Chile Resolution on Andes Mine
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   J a m e s   A t t w o o d
-- 2013-05-24T20:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/barrick-s-pascua-lama-fined-16-4-million-by-chile-government.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
largest producer of the metal, is studying details of a Chilean
resolution that imposed a fine and ordered work to safeguard
water supplies at its $8.5 billion Pascua-Lama mining project.  Construction work at the site on the border with Argentina
can’t resume until measures have been taken to prevent
contamination, Chilean environmental agency SMA  said in a
statement  on its website today.  Barrick is “fully committed” to complying with the
resolution, the company said in a statement. The shares fell 2.1
percent after trading resumed following an earlier halt.  Construction on the Chilean side of the mine was stopped by
a Chilean court last month. Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky told the Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit on May 21
that Toronto-based Barrick won’t continue making significant
investments if there’s uncertainty about the project’s future.
He said Barrick has already invested $5 billion in the mine.  “I think Barrick should seriously consider canceling the
project,” Pawel Rajszel, a Toronto-based analyst at Veritas
Investment Research Corp. who has a buy rating on the stock,
said today by phone. “If they do cancel the project then they
will be saving themselves about $2 billion per year over the
next two years and they will suddenly start generating free  cash
flow  right away.”  The 8 billion-peso ($16.4 million) fine, the maximum that
SMA can hand down, can be reduced by 25 percent if paid within
five days, the agency said.  Output Delay  “It’s a lengthy resolution,  Andy Lloyd , a spokesman for
Barrick, said by phone. ‘‘We need to review it in full but we
would expect to provide an update shortly.’’  Today’s ruling comes a month after a court accepted an
injunction filed by indigenous communities concerned by damage
to glaciers in the Andes mountains. Barrick said April 10 that
construction activities in Argentina, where most of the mine’s
critical infrastructure including the processing plant is
located, weren’t affected.  Pascua-Lama is expected to produce 800,000 to 850,000
ounces of gold annually in its first five years of production.
That’s equivalent to about 11 percent of the company’s forecast
output this year. Barrick raised the cost estimate for the
project twice last year and said output would be delayed by more
than a year, until the second half of 2014.  Silver Wheaton  The company said last month it was considering options
including suspending the project. Barrick has made mistakes at
Pascua-Lama, including the way it managed environmental
controls, Sokalsky said May 21.  The shares dropped to C$19.69 in Toronto. Vancouver-based
 Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , which has an agreement to buy 25 percent
of the silver produced at Pascua-Lama, was also halted earlier
today pending Barrick’s announcement. The stock later resumed
trading and closed 0.6 percent higher at C$12.99.  A $16 million fine appears to have an ‘‘immaterial” affect
on valuations when contrasted with Pascua-Lama’s current $8.5
billion price tag, Adam Graf, a New York-based analyst at
analyst at Cowen Securities LLC, said in a note today.  The environmental improvements needed to comply with
Chilean regulations will cost the company about $100 million,
Santiago-based daily Diario Financiero reported May 8.  Barrick said last month it was in the early stage of
studying an alternative development plan to start producing from
a smaller pit in  Argentina .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  