-- Berkshire’s Weschler Holds Almost $150 Million of DaVita
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-24T22:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/berkshire-s-weschler-holds-almost-150-million-of-davita.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , the largest shareholder in  DaVita (DVA)  HealthCare Partners
Inc., said deputy stock picker Ted Weschler has a personal
holding in the dialysis provider valued at almost $150 million.  Weschler has 1.19 million shares, or about 1.1 percent, of
the Denver-based company, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday. The holding was amassed before he joined Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire, according to the document. DaVita
closed yesterday at $125.12 in New York trading.  DaVita jumped 10 percent on May 8, the most since 2009,
after disclosing an agreement that was seen as setting a path
for Berkshire to negotiate for a possible takeover. Berkshire
has a stake of 14 percent. The filing yesterday outlines an
agreement by Weschler, 52, and Berkshire about the separation of
their holdings.  “Berkshire disclaims any beneficial ownership of shares
directly owned by Mr. Weschler or over which he has or shares
trading authority on behalf of his relatives or related trusts,
and Mr. Weschler disclaims any beneficial ownership of shares
owned by Berkshire,” according to the filing.  DaVita was one of the largest holdings at Weschler’s hedge
fund before Buffett announced in 2011 he was joining Berkshire.
Weschler wound down the fund, and now has personal stakes in
some of the companies in which it held equity.  His  holding  in W.R. Grace & Co. was about 3.7 million
shares as of December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The chemical company closed yesterday at $80.03.  Peter Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of  Bloomberg News , has served on DaVita’s board of directors
since 1994. Buffett, 82, is Berkshire’s chairman and chief
executive officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  