-- Bernanke Too Gloomy on Job Market, Mitsubishi’s Herrmann Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-05-24T14:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/bernanke-too-gloomy-on-job-market-mitsubishi-s-herrmann-says.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is too gloomy about the U.S. job market, said  John Herrmann , director of U.S. interest-rate strategy at Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities in  New York .  “We’re surprised that Chairman Bernanke and some people in
the Fed didn’t say: ‘Hey, listen, we are seeing good jobs,’”
Herrmann said in an interview with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” today. “We need someone at the Fed
who is in command to say, ‘look, we are seeing good job
gains.’”  The labor market’s strength is a key factor for Fed
officials who are debating when and how to dial back an $85
billion monthly bond-purchase program designed to spur growth
and hiring. Bernanke indicated May 22 that the Fed is seeking
“real and sustainable” progress in shrinking unemployment
before it begins to pare record stimulus, through such measures
as reducing or tapering monthly bond buying.  Herrmann said that Bernanke “has sort of a
predisposition” and a “negative bias” that the U.S. is under
a constant risk of a slowdown. Private-sector hiring seems
sustainable and may exceed 180,000 a month this year and early
next, Herrmann said.  Employers added 165,000 workers to payrolls in April after
a gain of 138,000 the prior month, according to Labor Department
figures issued earlier this month. The jobless rate dropped to a
four-year low of 7.5 percent as private payrolls increased by
176,000 in April.  As the employment lags in small businesses, Bernanke needs
to encourage Congress and President  Barack Obama  to generate
policies supporting entrepreneurs, Herrmann also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  