-- Bloomsbury Gains on Signs Digital Shift Is Working: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-05-24T16:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/bloomsbury-gains-on-signs-digital-shift-is-working-london-mover.html
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc (BMY) , producer
of J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter books, rose 6.3 percent for its
biggest four-day gain in almost six years as investors bet on
its success with electronic books and more diverse titles.  The stock  rose  7.63 pence to 128.63 pence at the close of
trading in London. About 1.82 million shares changed hands, more
than 10 times the three-month daily average. The stock has
advanced 11 percent this year, giving the company a market value
of 95 million pounds ($143.7 million).  “While traditional print publishing is under pressure
Bloomsbury has transformed its internal structure,” wrote
Steven Liechti, a London-based analyst at Investec Securities,
in a note to clients. “If Bloomsbury can successfully migrate
to sustainable growth and prove its integrated publishing model,
we believe its valuation multiple can increase.”  Liechti reiterated a buy rating on the stock two days ago
and forecast a price target of 183 pence after the publisher
posted a 61 percent increase in e-book sales to 9.1 million
pounds in 2012 while targeting 50 percent of profit from digital
books within five years.  Bloomsbury also plans to increase profit from books on
cooking, sport and natural history by becoming the “number one
publisher of choice” in those categories, the London-based
publisher said on May 21.  “The benefits of the diversification strategy shine
through,” wrote Gareth Davies, an  analyst  at Numis Securities
in  London  who rates the stock a hold, in a note to clients dated
May 21. “What was clear from the results is the benefit of
Bloomsbury’s increasing diversification away from adult and
children’s books.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  