-- BofA Said to Seek Buyers for N.Y., Pennsylvania Branches
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-05-24T14:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/bofa-said-to-seek-buyers-for-n-y-pennsylvania-branches.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S. lender by assets, is seeking buyers for about 40
branches in New York and  Pennsylvania , four people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The offices hold about $1 billion in deposits and could
sell for $20 million to $30 million, said one of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks aren’t public. The
branches are in rural locations in southeastern New York and
northeastern Pennsylvania, one of the people said.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has been closing
or selling outlets since 2011 to lower costs and focus on more
populous markets. The CEO has said the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based firm needs fewer branches as people do more
banking online.  “They’re pulling out of markets they don’t have much
growth in, places that aren’t meaningful to the big banks,”
said Bert Ely, an independent banking consultant in Alexandria,
Virginia. “There aren’t a lot of buyers for them right now, and
so you’re not seeing them sell for huge premiums.”  Banks that expressed interest in the  latest sale  included
FNB Corp. of Hermitage, Pennsylvania, Community Bank System Inc.
of Dewitt, New York, and National Penn Bancshares Inc. of
Boyertown, Pennsylvania, according to one of the people. Other
 potential bidders  probably would be banks with less than $25
billion in assets that already operate in those markets, the
people said.  HSBC Sale  Any deal would include the branches and their deposits,
with Bank of America retaining the loans, according to the
people. A year ago,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  sold more than 100
branches in New York and  Connecticut  to Buffalo-based First
Niagara Financial Group Inc. for about $900 million. That sale
included $9.8 billion of net deposits and about $1.6 billion of
performing loans, according to a regulatory  filing . London-based
HSBC is  Europe ’s largest bank.  Anne Pace, a Bank of America spokeswoman, said the company
had no comment on branch sales. Scott Kingsley, Community Bank’s
chief financial officer, and Jennifer Reel, a spokeswoman for
FNB, didn’t respond to inquiries. National Penn’s Jacklyn
Bingaman declined to comment.  Bank of America had about 6,000 branches when Moynihan
became CEO in 2010 and 5,389 as of March 31, according to
company reports. Moynihan told analysts in April that the bank
will eventually have about 5,000. San Francisco-based  Wells
Fargo & Co ., the biggest U.S. home lender,  reported  6,185 retail
banking outlets at the end of the first quarter.  Moynihan’s bank has announced or completed sales in 2013 of
more than 60 locations to Arvest Bank of Fayetteville,  Arkansas ,
First Financial Corp. of Terre Haute,  Indiana , and Old National
Bancorp of Evansville, Indiana.  Bank of America is willing to trim branches partly because
about 10,000 customers are signing up for mobile banking
services daily, Moynihan has said. The stock has gained 14
percent this year through yesterday, when it closed at $13.21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  