-- California Rejects Tax on Ammunition for Third Time
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-05-24T20:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/california-rejects-tax-on-ammunition-for-third-time.html
California  lawmakers turned down a
proposed tax on ammunition for the third time in a decade, while
keeping alive a bill to require that buyers undergo background
checks.  The decisions were made by the Assembly Appropriations
Committee, determining which legislation would advance to a
floor vote. More than 300 bills were considered today.  The proposals were among a set of gun-control measures
introduced in the wake of the Dec. 14 Connecticut school
shooting that killed 20 children and six educators.  California ’s
firearms laws are already among the most restrictive in the U.S.  Lawmakers in New York,  Colorado , Connecticut and Maryland
passed laws limiting firearms ownership after the killings at
Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown,  Connecticut . Congress
failed to pass new restrictions, despite overwhelming popular
support.  California lawmakers have rejected ammunition taxes twice
in the last decade before shelving the proposed 10 percent tax
today. Opponents  say  that if buyers are held responsible for the
actions of a small number of mentally disturbed people, then all
other products that can be lethally used, such as gasoline and
knives, should be similarly taxed.  California passed the nation’s first assault-weapon ban in
1989 after a gunman with an AK-47 sprayed an elementary school
in Stockton, killing five children and wounding 29. A federal
ban passed in 1994 has since expired and efforts to restore it
have so far stalled in Congress.  Another of the most deadly mass shootings in the U.S.
occurred in California in 1984, when a gunman killed 21 people
at a McDonald’s restaurant in  San Diego .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  