-- Canadian Dollar Falls on Concern Risk Assets Outpaced Economy
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-05-24T21:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/canadian-dollar-falls-on-concern-risk-assets-outpaced-economy.html
The Canadian dollar dropped for a
third week against its U.S. counterpart amid investor concern
that gains in riskier assets have outpaced global economic
growth.  The currency weakened as orders for U.S. durable goods
increased more than forecast in April, adding to speculation the
 Federal Reserve  may slow monetary stimulus this year. Oil,
 Canada ’s biggest export, declined for a second day on signs of
rising U.S. inventories and a global economic slowdown. U.S. and
European stocks fell, while Japanese shares rebounded from their
largest drop since the 2011 earthquake.  “The Canadian dollar is underperforming as commodity
prices continue to dip and the U.S. dollar gets stronger amid
eventual Fed tapering talk, which has weighed on risk assets,”
 Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said by phone from Toronto. The
durable-goods report “supports the idea of potential pullback
from the Fed. And commodities are getting weaker, which suggests
the currency is likely to continue to be soft.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.1 percent to
C$1.0318 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The currency,
which gained 0.6 percent yesterday, the biggest increase on a
closing basis since January, dipped 0.4 percent on the week. One
loonie buys 96.92 U.S. cents.  Options Trading  U.S. dollar-Canada dollar was the third-most actively
traded pair in the over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
market today, totaling $2 billion, or 7 percent, of the $29
billion overall. Dollar-loonie options trading was 17 percent
more than the average of the past five Fridays at a similar time
of day. U.S. dollar-yen was most-traded at $9.6 billion.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was
33,852 on May 21, compared with net shorts of 44,417 a week
earlier.  The S&P GSCI gauge of  raw materials  fell 0.1 percent and
dropped 1.2 percent on the week after reaching a five-week high
May 20. Futures for  crude oil  fell 0.4 percent to $93.87 a
barrel in New York. Standard & Poor’s 500  Index of stocks 
dropped 0.1 percent.  ‘Looking Cheap’  Crude may decline in New York next week on concern that
global economic growth will slow and on speculation U.S. fuel
supplies will be sufficient to meet summer demand, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  Twenty of 32 analysts, or 63 percent, forecast crude will
decrease through May 31. Seven respondents, or 22 percent,
predicted an increase. Five projected no change. Last week, 51
percent of analysts projected a decline.  “The risk sentiment and volatility has taken some of the
edge out of commodity currencies,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities
unit, said in a telephone interview. “Canada’s general trend
has been strong growth, but the U.S. is looking cheap as the
economy turns and we get more whispers of tapering, and that
will continue to reflect on the Canadian dollar.”  U.S. bookings for equipment meant to last at least three
years increased  3.3 percent  last month after dropping 5.9
percent in March, the Commerce Department said in  Washington ,
versus a 1.5 percent increase forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Central Banks  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage
bonds each month to cap borrowing costs. Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said this week it may slow purchases at its next few
meetings if it’s confident of sustained gains in the economy.  As the Fed debates its next move, the highest  inflation-adjusted yields  on Canadian  government bonds  in almost three
months suggest that incoming  Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen
Poloz has room to reverse  Mark Carney ’s tightening bias and cut
 interest rates .  Carney, who leaves as governor of the Bank of Canada on
June 1 to become the Bank of England’s chief, said in January
that there’s still room for more monetary stimulus around the
world if needed, and that the task for central banks is to
achieve “escape velocity” for their economies.  The focus is “turning towards Governor Carney’s last BOC
meeting,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients of the May 29
gathering. “Markets are pricing in no chance of an interest-rate change.”  Weekly Drop  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond yields were
little changed 1.95 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing
in June 2023 traded at C$95.97.  The world’s 11th largest economy will expand 1.6 percent
this year, the slowest growth since the economy contracted 2.8
percent in 2009, according to economist surveyed by Bloomberg.
The U.S economy is expected to grow by 2 percent.  The Canadian dollar fell 0.7 percent this week, the second
weakest performance after the dollar of  Australia , another
commodities exporter, among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S.
dollar dropped 0.3 percent, the euro advanced 0.5 percent and
the yen added 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  