-- Castor Proves White House Bane as Issa’s Pit-Bull Prober
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2013-05-24T03:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/castor-proves-white-house-bane-as-issa-s-pit-bull-prober.html
No one in the White House looks
forward to a call from Steve Castor.  The lawyer in charge of the Republicans’ numerous probes of
the Obama administration -- the  Internal Revenue Service 
targeting of Tea Party groups, the handling of the attack on the
U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi -- is known for inundating
officials with demands for answers and documents.  His boss, U.S. House of Representatives Oversight and
Government Reform Committee Chairman  Darrell Issa  of California,
frequently goes on television to accuse the administration of
stonewalling.  Behind the scenes, Castor and his staff of 35 assemble
details, line up witnesses for the committee to question, and
write voluminous, minutely footnoted reports that boil down
shades-of-gray situations into black-and-white narratives with
heroes and villains.  “We’re in the storytelling business, the business of
putting the pieces together,” Castor says.  Coaxing whistle-blowers to come forward is one of an
investigator’s most important skills, says Castor, who’s been
with the committee for eight years.  Issa’s hearings “lack credibility,” says Representative
Henry Waxman, a California Democrat who once led the committee.  “The purpose of an oversight investigation is not to
simply try and make the president look bad,” Waxman says.  Not Anti-Obama  Castor rejects the notion that he’s pushing an anti-Obama
story line.  “We follow the facts,” he says. “This administration is
uncomfortable with oversight.”  Castor, who became the committee’s general counsel this
year, obtained his law degree from George  Washington  University
in 2001, joining Philadelphia-based Blank Rome LLP that year. In
1998, the  Pennsylvania  State University graduate earned a master
of business administration from  Lehigh University  in Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania.  During Castor’s time with the committee, it has probed  Jack Abramoff , the former lobbyist with Republican ties who was
sentenced to four years in prison for corruption and tax
offenses after pleading guilty in 2006, as well as the U.S.
General Services Administration’s excessive spending on
conferences for employees.  Steriod Probe  The panel has also led efforts to uncover steroid use in
major league professional sports, including hearings focused on
pitching ace  Roger Clemens . Clemens was charged with lying to
Congress and was found not guilty in a 2012  jury trial .  Issa and Republican Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa drove
the congressional investigation of the Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives Bureau’s Operation Fast and Furious, in
which hundreds of weapons were supplied to straw purchasers as a
way to track their routes to Mexican drug gangs. Issa and
Grassley battled with the administration for months over
obtaining documents and details about the program, as they
sought to trace management failures involved.  Last year, Attorney General Eric Holder became the first
cabinet secretary to be held in contempt of Congress, after he
was cited for his refusal to cooperate in the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net . 