-- Chief Swiss Negotiator in U.S. Tax Dispute Resigns
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-05-24T16:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/chief-swiss-negotiator-in-u-s-tax-dispute-resigns.html
Switzerland ’s top negotiator in talks
to resolve a U.S. Justice Department probe of Swiss banks that
allegedly helped Americans dodge taxes will step down at the end
of August.  State Secretary for International Financial Matters Michael Ambuehl, 61, who led negotiations with the U.S. that culminated
in a deal for  UBS AG (UBSN)  in August 2009, will leave the government
to become Professor for Negotiation and Conflict Management at
the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, the Bern-based  Finance Ministry  said in a  statement  on its website today.  While the Swiss government played an important role in the
UBS settlement, since then it has “fumbled every time against
the Americans,” said Hans Geiger, a retired Swiss banker and
professor of banking at the University of Zurich. “It’s a lousy
job. Maybe Ambuehl got tired of it.”  Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf noted “with
regret” Ambuehl’s decision to quit the post he took up in 2010,
the ministry said, adding that the government plans to appoint a
successor in due course. Switzerland has been in talks with the
U.S. for more than two years to settle a Justice Department
investigation of at least 14 financial firms, including Credit
Suisse Group AG and  Julius Baer  Group Ltd., that allegedly
helped Americans hide money from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Bad Timing  “When the captain leaves the ship, that certainly isn’t an
easy situation for the Swiss delegation,” Pirmin Bischof, a
Christian Democrat lawmaker, told SRF radio today.  Widmer-Schlumpf said on May 17 that the signing of an
agreement with the U.S. was imminent, Tages-Anzeiger reported,
citing comments made at a meeting of political party heads.
Still, in January 2012, the minister said an agreement may come
“within the next couple of months,” before adding in September
that U.S. elections would cause delays.  Ambuehl’s resignation “once again shows the glaring
deficiencies in leadership at the head of the Finance
Ministry,” the  Swiss People’s Party  said in an e-mailed
statement. “This resignation really comes at the worst possible
times and raises many questions.”  The  Swiss Bankers Association , which represents 347
financial firms, said it regretted Ambuehl’s departure and
thanked him for his “great commitment” to the country’s
financial center.  Wegelin Indictment  “He wants to get on with his life, I get it, negotiations
have been taking a very long time,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a
London-based banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “Maybe they get
some genius in who can speed things up, but I suspect this will
just slow down things as the new incumbent has to get his head
around all the issues. And the longer it drags on the less
helpful it is for banks.”  Switzerland, the biggest haven for offshore wealth, wants
to prevent another Swiss bank being indicted after Wegelin & Co.
pleaded guilty in a Manhattan federal court in January to
conspiring to help conceal more than $1.2 billion from the IRS.  UBS AG, the biggest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution in 2009
by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered  tax evasion  and
giving the IRS data on more than 250 accounts. That deferred
prosecution agreement and the handover by UBS of a further 4,450
accounts, following the deal brokered by Ambuehl, set a
precedent for current negotiations.  Zuercher Kantonalbank, which is fully owned by the canton
of Zurich, expects to pay a fine as part of a deferred
prosecution agreement, the bank said yesterday.  Credit Suisse (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, set aside
295 million Swiss francs ($307 million) for U.S. tax matters in
the third quarter of 2011. Julius Baer, the country’s third-biggest wealth manager, has said the cost of the investigation
isn’t “reliably assessable.” HSBC Holdings Plc’s Swiss private
bank said last year that fines and penalties relating to a tax-evasion probe by the U.S. “could be significant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  