-- Child Sex-Abuse Victim Demands USA Swimming Change Leadership
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-24T17:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/child-sex-abuse-victim-demands-usa-swimming-change-leadership.html
A woman who was sexually abused by
her award-winning coach is seeking the ouster of  USA Swimming 
leadership she says knew about her case and did nothing.  Rick Curl, USA Swimming’s developmental coach of the year
in 2003, was sentenced yesterday to seven years in prison, for
the abuse of Kelley Davies Currin when she was a teenager in the
1980s. Currin released a statement through her attorney calling
for the resignations of USA Swimming Executive Director Chuck Wielgus and Technical Vice President David Berkoff, as well as
the banning of former U.S. national team coach Mark Schubert,
all of whom she says knew about the abuse before the criminal
charges.  Currin said in the statement that USA Swimming’s leadership
helped create “a culture that protects predator coaches and
vilifies young victims who have the courage to come forward.”  “I have no confidence whatsoever that USA Swimming will
protect swimmers from sex abuse,” said Currin, 43. “Its
leaders have been given ample opportunity to prove to the
country that they are able to put the interests of swimmers
ahead of their own. They have failed and failed in the worst of
ways.”  Wielgus said today in an open letter to USA Swimming’s
300,000 members that the sport’s national governing body began
an immediate investigation into the accusations against Curl
when it was first made aware of them through a third party in
2011, and later filed police reports that initiated the criminal
proceedings. He said USA Swimming was unaware of any wrongdoing
involving Currin before 2011.  ‘Compassion, Concern’  “At USA Swimming, we have the highest levels of compassion
and concern for abuse victims, but we also must adhere to
deliberative processes for those being accused of inappropriate
conduct,” Wielgus said.  Currin, a finalist at the 1988 U.S. Olympic Trials, was
abused by Curl for five years, beginning when she was 13, her
lawyer Robert Allard said in an e-mail. Her parents found out
about the abuse when they read her diary and, after being
advised not to file criminal charges, settled with Curl in 1989.
The coach paid $150,000 for the family’s silence, Allard said.  Currin said in her statement that Berkoff knew about Curl’s
actions in the “late 1980s.” Schubert, she said, knew about
the abuse by 1989, when he became her coach at the  University of
Texas , and told Wielgus on at least three occasions starting in
2007. Wielgus testified that he was aware in 2010 of a
settlement between Curl and a former swimmer, according to
Currin’s statement.  Time Discrepancies  Currin and USA Swimming disagree on the timeline of events
that led to criminal proceedings against Curl. Currin says she
approached the governing body in 2011, while Wielgus said USA
Swimming first made contact with Currin in April 2012, one year
after it began investigating a third-hand report that Curl had
an inappropriate relationship with a minor female swimmer in the
1980s and that a confidential legal settlement had been made.  USA Swimming revoked Curl’s membership in September 2012,
and he was criminally charged one month later. Curl pleaded
guilty in February 2013 to one count of child sexual abuse
involving Currin, according to the  Washington Post , and was
sentenced yesterday at Montgomery County Circuit Court in
Rockville,  Maryland .  Curl isn’t the first swim coach jailed in a high-profile
sexual-abuse proceeding. In 2010, San Jose-area swim coach Andy
King was sentenced to 40 years in prison after pleading no
contest to 20 molestation charges. Nine months after King’s
sentencing, USA Swimming promoted Susan Woessner to the new role
of athletic protection officer.  Leadership Role  “We said it’s a dark time, but we want to come out of this
as a leader in this area,” Woessner said in an interview with
 Bloomberg News  in December 2011. “We re-examined what we were
doing beforehand and said, ‘How can we improve it?’”  Woessner is the director of USA Swimming’s  Safe Sport
Program , formed in 2010 to foster a “fun, healthy and safe
environment for all its members,” according to its website.
That includes managing the organization’s  Code of Conduct ;
background checks for coaches, officials and volunteers who
directly work with children; and education and training programs
on prevent abuse.  Since the program’s creation, 36 members have been
sanctioned for Code of Conduct violations, with 30 of those
banned for life, Wielgus said in his letter.  “We remain committed to responsibly and diligently
addressing any issues we have within our organization,” he
said.  Currin, now married with four children, closed her
statement by urging the U.S. government to intervene if USA
Swimming “continues to demonstrate that it cannot regulate
itself.”  “Enough is enough,” she said. “I am living proof that we
have a deep-rooted problem in the amateur sport of swimming that
requires drastic and immediate action.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  