-- China Copper Output May Drop on Scrap Shortage This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-24T09:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/china-copper-output-said-by-jinchuan-to-fall-500-000-tons.html
Refined copper production in  China 
may fall 500,000 metric tons in 2013, about 9 percent of the
output last year, on a scrap shortage and delayed commissioning
of new facilities, the nation’s third-largest producer said.  “Scrap supply will be even tighter going into June,” said
Chen Jie, head of sales and marketing unit of  Jinchuan Group Co. 
The smelter’s own refined production may fall short of a target
of 600,000 tons this year by at least 100,000 tons, Chen said in
a phone interview today.  Copper in  London  has retreated 8 percent this year on
concern that a slowdown in China’s growth could hurt demand from
the largest user. A 6.4 percent slump in April has kept scrap
dealers unwilling to sell, and China’s ports began tighter
enforcement of existing rules in February to weed out low-grade
scrap, slowing customs procedures.  “Market participants can now feel the tightness as scrap
traders really don’t have much at hand to sell,” Pang Juan, an
analyst at Jinrui Futures Co., said by phone from Shenzhen.
“That will help drive up local prices, and attract more imports
in June.”  Copper for immediate delivery on Shanghai’s Changjiang
Nonferrous Metals Market was quoted at a premium of 500  yuan 
($81) a ton today to the front-month contract on the Shanghai
Futures Exchange.  “Consumption this year is better than last year,” said
Chen, who estimated growth could be 4 percent to 5 percent. “We
may not see the lull season in summer as usual, as demand from
construction of subways, railways and power grids all seem to be
better than last year.”  Good Demand  Plants that previously used scrap copper to make copper rod
have been using refined metal, Chen said. “They also said their
orders books in June are as good as in May, which is quite
unusual, showing demand is fairly good,” he said.  Refined copper demand is expected to grow 7 percent this
year to 8.3 million tons, while production is likely to gain 8
percent to 6.3 million tons, Duan Shaofu, deputy head of the
heavy metals department at the China Nonferrous Metals Industry
Association, said on May 13.  Output at the two biggest Chinese producers,  Jiangxi Copper
Co. (358)  and  Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. (000630) , has been affected
by the shortage, according to Chen. Some planned capacity
additions, including Jinchuan’s 400,000 tons, will be delayed,
further lowering the nation’s output, Chen said.  Chinese copper demand, after the adjustment for stock moves
in the bonded as well as SHFE warehouses, has been growing at 10
percent in the first quarter from a year ago, Macquarie Group
Ltd. said in a research report yesterday.  Copper  inventories  tallied by the Shanghai Futures Exchange
declined to 176,624 tons this week, the lowest level in eight
months, exchange data showed today.  China produced 5.82 million tons of refined copper last
year, of which 32 percent was made from scrap, according to the
industry association.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  