-- Christie Jersey Shore Rebound Belied as Marinas Struggle
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/christie-jersey-shore-rebound-belied-as-marinas-struggle.html
At Great Bay Marina in New Jersey’s
Little Egg Harbor, there’ll be no calls for hamburgers in the
restaurant and few revving motors will drown out seabirds’ cries
this holiday weekend, usually one of the year’s busiest.  Seven months after  Hurricane Sandy  did at least $500,000 in
damage to the marina a half-hour drive north of Atlantic City,
more than 100 of 139 boat slips still need to be replaced. Owner
Tom Paxton hopes the docks, along with his restaurant and bait-and-tackle shop, will fully reopen by the end of June.  As Governor Chris Christie this week marks the restoration
of beachfront boardwalks and stars in a $25 million advertising
drive to assure visitors that the Jersey Shore is ready for
them, Paxton, 64, says the recovery has bypassed him. He has
received little from insurance, and he and his wife have wiped
out their $102,000 retirement account to pay for rebuilding.  “They keep saying the Jersey Shore is open for business,
but that’s only the boardwalk, that’s all they seem to really
care about,” said Paxton, who has owned the marina since 1973.
His employees are his wife, daughter and son-in-law. “The
little guys like us just get swept away.”  Sandy, the biggest Atlantic storm on  record , left many New
Jersey marinas damaged and some owners say their insurance won’t
cover it all. They’re also handling fewer customers as people
focus on wrecked homes before their watercraft.  Family Businesses  Most boatyards are “mom-and-pop” operations with fewer
than 15 employees, often handed down in the family, said Melissa
Danko, executive director of the Marine Trades Association of
New Jersey. The struggle to recover threatens the state boating
industry, which the National Marine Manufacturers Association
has said generates $2.2 billion a year in economic activity.  “These businesses are unique -- they’re not businesses
that can relocate,” Danko said by telephone from Manasquan.
“There is definitely some uncertainty if they can stay in
business.”  Christie, a first-term Republican who is seeking a second
in November, has said the state’s recovery from the Oct. 29
storm will determine whether he wins re-election.  The governor told reporters in the shore town of Belmar on
May 22 that his current focus is drawing tourists’ attention to
the open boardwalks, the gateways to beachfront arcades, pizza
parlors and saltwater-taffy shops. New Jersey’s travel and
tourism industry employs more than 500,000 workers, or about 10
percent of all jobs in the state, according to his office.  Boardwalk Business  “Boardwalks are opening all over New Jersey, and I’m going
to try to be at every one of them,” Christie said. “We need to
make sure that we rebuild the tourism industry in this state, at
the Jersey Shore, now.”  Sandy victims have so far received $3.5 billion from the
National Flood Insurance Program, while the U.S. Small Business
Administration loaned $776 million to homeowners, renters and
businesses, according to information from Christie’s office.  Marina owners say that while their flood insurance covers
buildings, the policies generally exclude docks, fuel pumps and
other boating necessities.  Fred Brueggemann, owner of Key Harbor Marina in Waretown,
north of Little Egg Harbor, said by telephone that he thought
his fencing and fuel pumps were insured. Instead, he learned
those items were excluded in the event of flooding, a caveat
that was “hidden” in the policy.  90% Uncovered  “You think you’re covered for something and you’re really
not,” said Brueggemann, 51. He said his policy will cover
roughly 10 percent of about $1 million in damage done by Sandy.  Others are borrowing to rebuild. Roy and Gail Voss, owners
of Good Luck Point Marina in nearby Bayville, are tapping a
$150,000 bank credit line they had secured before the storm. It
cost more than $20,000 to remove 100 tons of debris, including
pieces of Barnegat Bay homes swept in by the wind and waves.  Applying for a Small Business Administration loan is a
cumbersome process with daunting paperwork, said Paxton and
Brueggemann. “They should just disband,” Brueggemann said of
the agency. “They don’t want to give money to you.”  Kathy Cook, an SBA spokeswoman in Atlanta, said the
agency’s disaster loan program’s requirements are similar to
those used by banks.  Applications for small-business grants, under a federal
community-development program for Sandy recovery, only became
available this month, said Danko, at the Marine Trades group.  Fewer Customers  Meanwhile, boat owners are also coping with Sandy-related
losses, curbing business for marinas and slowing their recovery.  “I’ve been fishing a couple times -- there weren’t many
people out,” said Whiting resident Harry Brehm, 71, who renamed
his boat Survivor because it escaped Sandy unscathed at nearby
Good Luck Point.  Usually by Memorial Day weekend, about 100 boats have been
launched from his marina, said Tom Beaton, owner of David Beaton
& Sons in Brick, New Jersey. This year, he has handled just 15.  Beaton’s boatyard is across the bay from Mantoloking, a
barrier-beach borough where fewer than 100 people have returned,
said Chris Nelson, a community spokesman. All of its more than
500 homes were damaged, and about 38 await demolition, he said.  “Their homes are wrecked,” said Beaton, 57, whose
grandfather started his business. “They’re not worrying about
their boats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 