-- Citigroup Presses AMR to Decide on Credit-Card Tie
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-05-24T20:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/citigroup-presses-amr-to-decide-on-credit-card-tie.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  asked the judge
overseeing  American Airlines’ (AAMRQ)  bankruptcy to force the carrier to
decide by July 2 whether to retain the bank’s partnership in its
loyalty credit-card and mileage program or risk a multibillion-dollar claim.  American and its parent, AMR Corp., have had enough time to
decide on maintaining the agreement, which can be rejected as
part of the bankruptcy, Citigroup said in a filing today in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  American’s AAdvantage loyalty program has about 69 million
members and will regain its ranking as the industry’s largest
when the Fort Worth, Texas-based airline merges with US Airways
Group Inc. The two carriers have been negotiating with banks
including Citigroup and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to provide a branded credit
card once they combine.  Under the contract, Citigroup loaned American $1 billion in
2009 to pre-purchase miles in its AAdvantage plan, a transaction
secured by the program’s assets, airport flight slots and gates
and route authorities, the New York-based bank said.  Rejecting the agreement will create a “multibillion-dollar
secured damages claim” against AMR, endangering the airline’s
ability to repay creditors and  shareholders  at the levels set in
its reorganization plan and costing it “material amounts of
annual revenue in the coming years that could not be fully
replaced,” Citigroup said in the filing.  Sean Collins , a spokesman for American Airlines, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment on the bank’s
filing.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  