-- Copper Declines for Second Straight Day on China Outlook
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-05-24T18:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/copper-climbs-amid-mine-supply-concern-falling-stockpiles.html
Copper futures declined for the
second straight day on signs of slowing economic growth in
 China , the world’s biggest consumer of industrial metal.  Yesterday, the  Purchasing Managers ’ Index from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed a preliminary reading
of 49.6 for May, below the level of 50 separating growth and
contraction, driving copper down 2.3 percent, the most in three
weeks. A day earlier, the metal rose on concern that a deadly
accident at the second-biggest mine may crimp supplies.  “The weak Chinese numbers hung heavily over the metals
group and seemed to be dwarfing concern about the legitimate
supply bottlenecks that have cropped up in the copper complex
the last few weeks,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at INTL FCStone in
New York, said in a report. “It remains to be seen if China
will invest more in urbanization projects.”  Copper futures for July delivery fell 0.3 percent to settle
at $3.2955 a pound at 1:12 p.m. on the Comex in New York. This
week, the price declined 0.8 percent, the second straight drop.  Richard Adkerson, the chief executive officer of  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , said yesterday that it’s too early
to say how long an investigation will take into a tunnel
collapse that killed 28 people at the  Grasberg  site in
Indonesia. A month ago, Rio Tinto Group suspended mining at
Bingham Canyon in  Utah .  Vedanta Resources Plc, controlled by billionaire Anil
Agarwal, said that its Konkola Copper Mines unit in Zambia plans
to cut 24 percent of the workforce. BHP Billiton Ltd.’s
Escondida site in Chile is the largest  copper mine .  “Supply concerns continue to offer an element of support
to the metal,” Cailey Barker, an analyst at Numis Securities
Ltd. in London, said in a report.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months dropped less than 0.1 percent to $7,299 a metric ton
($3.31 a pound). Aluminum, zinc, and nickel declined, while tin
and lead gained.  On May 27, the LME will be closed and Comex floor trading
will be shut for national holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  