-- Coronavirus, Playboy, C&C, Argo: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/coronavirus-playboy-c-c-argo-intellectual-property.html
The novel coronavirus found in  Saudi
Arabia  has been patented by scientists outside the country,
Deputy Health Minister Ziad Memish told the World Health
Assembly in Geneva.  The virus was sent from the country without proper
permission, Memish yesterday told the assembly, the top
decision-making body of the  World Health Organization . Companies
that make antivirals and vaccines have already signed deals with
the patent holder, Memish said.  Albert Osterhaus and  Ron Fouchier , scientists at Erasmus
Medical Center in the Netherlands, said they patented the
coronavirus, calling the process a “normal thing to do.” No
agreements have been signed with any companies and they are
sharing the virus freely with other laboratories that request
it, they said in an interview.  The virus has sickened at least 44 people globally since
last year, including 22 deaths. In a Saudi Arabian outbreak, at
least 10 deaths have been reported, according to the WHO.
Laboratory-confirmed cases have also been reported in  Jordan ,
Qatar, the United Arab Emirates,  France , the U.K., Germany and
Tunisia, the United Nations health agency said.  Coronaviruses are a family of pathogens that cause
illnesses ranging from the common cold to SARS, which sickened
more than 8,000 people in 2002 and 2003, according to the WHO.
While the new virus is related to the one that causes SARS, it
appears far less transmissible, the WHO has said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Playboy’s Bunny Can Remain on Energy Drink for Now, Court Says  Playboy Enterprises failed to win a court order that would
bar the use of the Playboy rabbit trademark on an energy drink
made by a unit of  CirTran Corp. (CIRC)   In a May 15 ruling, U.S. District Judge Robert W. Gettleman
said that the trademark and licensing-contract dispute in his
court must be stayed until resolution of a parallel action in
 Illinois  state court.  The dispute between West Valley City, Utah-based CirTran
and Playboy has also played out in federal  bankruptcy court .
Origins of the conflict are a 2006 license granting CirTran’s
Play Beverages unit a license to use the Playboy name and bunny-head logo on its product.  The parties “characterize the terms of the license
agreement slightly differently,” leading to the court cases,
Gettleman said in his ruling. CirTran alleged that Playboy
disrupted its business operations and distribution networks, and
Playboy said CirTran violated the terms of the license and thus
was no longer authorized to use the logo and trademark.  Given that the state court had initial jurisdiction over
the dispute, and has “invested significant time in
familiarizing itself with the facts of this dispute and has
advanced greater discover and ruled on substantive motions,”
the judge put the federal case on hold.  Because the case is stayed, Gettleman rejected Playboy’s
request for a court order barring CirTran’s use of the marks.
His ruling was without prejudice, opening the door to a future
request from Chicago-based Playboy once the state-court case is
resolved.  Playboy was acquired by Icon Acquisition Holdings Inc. in
March 2011.  The case is Playboy Enterprises International Inc. v. Play
Beverages LLC, 13-cv-00826, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois ( Chicago ).  C&C Unit Seeks to Halt Coffee Roaster’s Use of Woodchuck Logo  C&C Group Plc (GCC) ’s Vermont Hard Cider unit, a maker of the
largest-selling brand of fermented apple cider beverages in the
U.S., sued a Vermont coffee roaster for trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed in federal court in
Rutland, Vermont, Woodchuck Coffee Roasters of South Burlington
is accused of infringing the cider company’s “woodchuck”
trademarks.  Vermont Hard Cider has been selling hard cider under the
Woodchuck brand since 1991, the company said. It has used the
mark on a wide range of promotional products and in ads in
addition to the product label. It initially registered the
Woodchuck trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in
2001, and has several subsequent registrations and one pending
application.  The company claims that the coffee roaster is using a label
that is “strikingly similar” to the one used on the cider
products, both containing a woodchuck -- a member of the ground-squirrel family -- sitting on its haunches. The only
differences, the cider company says, is that the coffee
company’s woodchuck is holding a coffee cup, while the woodchuck
on the cider label is holding an apple.  Woodchuck Coffee Roasters’ use of a similar name and logo
will “inevitably” cause consumer confusion, the cider company
said. Already it has begun to receive queries from some
customers about whether it has gone into the coffee business.  Vermont Cider claims the coffee roaster’s use of the
woodchuck name and logo is willful and deliberate, part of
efforts to have instant  brand recognition  and to trade on the
cider company’s reputation and goodwill.  The two companies have engaged in discussions to no avail,
with the coffee roaster taking the position that once the
Vermont secretary of state approved the business name, it had
the “absolute right” to use the woodchuck marks with its
coffee, Vermont Cider said in its pleadings.  Following C&C Group’s acquisition of Vermont Cider in
December, Woodchuck Coffee “suddenly demanded a six-figure
monetary payment for ceasing use of the Woodchuck marks,”
according to court papers.  The coffee roaster didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment.  Vermont Cider asked the court for an order halting further
infringement of its marks and for the destruction of all
infringing items, together with awards of money damages,
attorney fees, litigation costs and the cost of remedial
advertising.  The case is  Vermont  Hard Cider Co. v. Woodchuck Coffee
Roasters LLC, 13-cv-00078, U.S. District Court, District of
Vermont (Rutland).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Dotcom Wants Patent-Licensing Revenue to Fund Court Fight  Kim Dotcom, the founder of the cloud-storage service
Megaupload.com, is claiming he holds a patent on a method of
securing online services known as two-factor authentication and
he’d like some licensing income from companies that use the
technology, Cnet News  reported .  Presently fighting extradition from  New Zealand  to the U.S.
in a criminal copyright case, Dotcom said that while he believed
in sharing knowledge and ideas for the good of humanity, he
might file a patent-infringement case because he needs the money
for his legal defense, according to Cnet News.  Dotcom’s patent 6,078,908 was issued to him in June 2000
under his former name, Kim Schmitz, the news service reported.  He used Twitter Inc.’s short-message service to say that he
would use licensing revenue from the patent to fight the
criminal copyright case to the end because he’s innocent of the
charges, according to Cnet News.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  BankcorpSouth Bank, Argo Data Case Won’t Move to State Court  BankcorpSouth Bank of Tupelo,  Mississippi , and Richardson,
Texas-based Argo Data Resource Corp.’s removal of a trade
secrets case from  Texas  state court to federal court was
appropriate, a federal judge in  Dallas  ruled.  Spear Marketing Inc. of Dallas sued the two companies in
August, claiming they misappropriated trade secrets related to a
cash-management system known as VaultWorks.  The two defendants sought removal of the case to federal
court, claiming that all the claims made against them were pre-empted by federal copyright law.  Spear Marketing opposed the removal and sought to have the
case returned to state court. It argues that its claims of
trade-secret theft fell outside copyright law’s subject matter.  In her May 16 ruling, U.S. District Judge Jane J. Boyle
ruled that the trade-secret theft claims were based, at least
partly, on the alleged reproduction, distribution or display of
Spear Marketing’s trade secrets and confidential information.
They were therefore “equivalent and at least partly preempted
by the Copyright Act,” she said.  As a result, she denied Spear Marketing’s request to move
the case back to state court.  The case is Spear Marketing Inc. v. BankcorpSouth Bank, 12-cv-00358, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  Obituary  Oblon Spivak Firm’s Name Partner Gregory J. Maier Dies  Gregory J. Maier, name partner in Alexandria, Virginia’s
Oblon Spivak McClelland Maier & Neustadt LLP died yesterday, the
firm said in a  statement .  Maier, who was born in 1943, had served both as president
of the IP specialty firm and as managing partner of its
electrical and mechanical patent-prosecution groups. He also was
a past chairman of the  American Bar Association ’s Section of
 Intellectual Property  Law.  Before he was a lawyer, he was a patent examiner at the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and worked at the Office of
Naval Research.  He had an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from the University of Rochester and a law degree from
 Georgetown University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  