-- Corporate Bond Sales Slow in Europe on Fed Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-05-24T11:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/corporate-bond-sales-slow-in-europe-on-fed-stimulus-speculation.html
Sales of corporate bonds in Europe
fell to the lowest in nearly two months this week as concern the
Federal Reserve will taper asset purchases roiled markets.  U.K. tour operator  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  and French real
estate investment company  Gecina SA (GFC)  were among companies that
sold 8.4 billion euros ($10.9 billion) of bonds, down from 19.5
billion euros last week and the least since the week ending
April 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of
insuring the debt rose, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
credit-default swamps climbing 4.5 basis points to 96.  Fed chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank may
begin tapering bond purchases “in the next few meetings” as
long as the U.S. economy continues to grow. Disappointing
manufacturing data in China added to market turmoil while a
public holiday in parts of Europe also slowed sales.  “There’s been a perceptible change in sentiment to the
negative, driven by evolving interpretations of the Fed’s and
other central banks’ policies as well as weaker data coming out
of  China ,” said Richard Phelan, head of European credit
research at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “We’ve had an
environment of steady tightening and large amount of new issues
since the beginning of the year but now people are paying closer
attention to the underlying credit performance and earnings
misses.”  Since the beginning of the year, analysts have lowered
their projections for 2013 earnings of companies in the Euro
Stoxx 50 Index by 6.4 percent to 232.51 euros per share as of
May 23.  Junk Issuance  Sales of high-yield bonds totaled 1.9 billion euros this
week, up from 700 million euros the previous period, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies sold a record 43.4 billion euros of junk debt
this year as borrowing costs fell, with the average yield
investors demand to hold speculative-grade debt falling to 5.07
percent, just above an all-time low of 5.01 percent reached May
10, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro High Yield
Constrained  Index. (SX5E)   “The high-yield market, in particular, is positioned for a
multiyear bonanza of new issuance,” said Phelan. “In terms of
this week’s slowdown in new issuance, I’d say it’s merely a
lull.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  