-- Crack in Metro-North Tracks Repaired at Train Derailment
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-24T17:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/crack-in-metro-north-tracks-repaired-at-train-derailment.html
The rails where a Metro-North
Railroad train derailed May 17 in  Connecticut  had been repaired
a month before the accident that snarled commuters and injured
at least 75 people.  Maintenance records showed that a cracked rail was
discovered in April at the spot where one train jumped the track
and was struck by a second train on an adjacent rail in the city
of Bridgeport, the  National Transportation Safety Board  said in
an e-mail statement.  Metro-North is inspecting all the “joint bars” on its
main line tracks, the NTSB said. The joint bar, which connects
two sections of rail together, was the piece that work crews
discovered cracked last month.  After the accident, the rail was found cracked at the
joint, the NTSB said in a Twitter posting May 18. The NTSB has
taken that section to its lab for evaluation.  Broken rail can cause a derailment, though a train going
off the rails can also damage track, Allan Zarembski, director
of the railroad engineering and safety program at the  University
of Delaware , said in an interview.  The engineer of the train that derailed, which was
traveling eastbound, told investigators he saw “what he
described as an unusual condition on the track” just before the
accident, the investigative agency said. The NTSB didn’t
describe what the engineer had spotted.  Choked Commute  The eastbound train came to a stop before a second
westbound trail struck it and slid alongside the rail cars, the
NTSB said. The engineer on the second train had applied the
brakes before the collision.  Adam Lisberg, a spokesman for the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , which oversees the railroad, declined
to comment on the report in an e-mail.  Metro-North resumed limited runs on the tracks between  New
York  and  New Haven , Connecticut, on May 21. Regular service
returned the next day after crews repaired 2,000 feet (610
meters) of destroyed track and removed the 16 cars involved in
the accident.  As many as 30,000 Metro-North users had to find
alternatives during their commutes and Connecticut Governor
Dannel P. Malloy urged people to stay home.  The same lines are used by Amtrak, which halted service
between New York and New Haven. The U.S. national railroad lost
$5 million in revenue during the closing, Joseph Boardman, chief
executive officer of  Amtrak , said in an interview May 21 after
testifying at a congressional hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  