-- Crystal Palace Faces Watford in Playoff Worth $181 Million
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-24T12:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/crystal-palace-faces-watford-in-playoff-worth-181-million-1-.html
The playoff between Crystal Palace
and Watford will earn the winner about 120 million pounds ($181
million) when it is promoted from English soccer’s Championship,
according to accountant Deloitte LLP.  The Eagles and Hornets meet at Wembley Stadium in  London  in
three days, with the winner earning a spot in the Premier League
for next season. The victor joins  Cardiff City  and Hull City,
who were automatically promoted as the top two finishers in the
Championship, in moving up to  England ’s top division.  Teams promoted to the world’s richest soccer league can
expect a revenue increase of more than 60 million pounds in
2013-14, Deloitte estimates. Approximately 55 million pounds of
that comes from the Premier League’s 3.02 billion-pound
television contract that begins next season.  Clubs also receive a minimum 60 million pounds over the
following four seasons if they drop straight back down. Over the
past decade, 17 of the 30 promoted teams have managed to remain
in the Premier League after their first season.  “The continued increase in the value of promotion to the
Premier League provides newly promoted clubs the opportunity to
make strategic investment on and off the pitch,” Adam Bull,
senior consultant in Deloitte’s Sports Business Group, said in a
statement. “Inevitably, the short-term priority is usually
investment in the playing side of the business, but clubs need
to also look to the medium and long-term.”  Crystal Palace, which finished fifth this year, last played
in the Premier League in the 2004-05 season. Watford, which
finished five points head of Palace in third, was relegated from
the top flight in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 