-- Cuomo Long Island Power Solution Penalizes Bonds: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/cuomo-long-island-power-solution-penalizes-bonds-muni-credit.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s plan
to fix the Long Island Power Authority, which left thousands of
customers in the dark for weeks after Hurricane Sandy, isn’t
winning over municipal-bond investors.  On May 21, eight days after Cuomo announced the plan, tax-exempt LIPA bonds callable in nine years traded at an average
yield 2.2 percentage points above top-rated bonds, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That was the most in at least three months.  Under the Democratic governor’s proposal, which requires
legislative approval,  Newark , New Jersey-based  Public Service
Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG)  will take over LIPA operations on Jan. 1,
and as much as half of the authority’s $7 billion of municipal
debt will be refinanced. LIPA’s electric rates, which are among
the nation’s highest, will be frozen through 2015 and state
regulators will review any increases.  “To start off with saying we’re not going to have any rate
increases for three years when there’s a lot of capital needs --
the math doesn’t work for me,” said Howard Cure, director of
muni research at New York-based  Evercore Wealth Management LLC (EVR) ,
which oversees $4.7 billion.  Knockout Blow  Sandy struck the region Oct. 29, knocking out power to 1
million LIPA customers, or 90 percent, as falling trees downed
transmission lines and substations flooded. A week later,
200,000 customers still were without power.  Last week, Moody’s Investors Service lowered the ratings on
LIPA bonds backed by customer revenue one step to Baa1, three
levels above junk, and gave the debt a negative outlook. The
political and media scrutiny following Sandy will make it
difficult for the utility to improve its finances and
operations, particularly if those actions would require rate
increases, Moody’s said in a statement.  LIPA has “little if any cushion for the unforeseen events
that seem to occur every year,” Moody’s said.  “We are disappointed by Moody’s actions considering the
aggressive steps LIPA” has taken to raise liquidity, Mark
Gross, a spokesman for the Uniondale, New York-based nonprofit
municipal electric provider, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We continue to work with federal and state government
towards full and timely” Federal Emergency Management Agency
reimbursement for Sandy expenses as well as funds for projects
protecting against future storms, he said.  Reimbursement Request  LIPA has received $257 million of the $800 million it
expects from FEMA reimbursement, Gross said.  Any delay in FEMA funds is “problematic,” said Laura Schumacher, a Moody’s analyst in  New York .  LIPA has about $335 million of cash on hand, representing
about 37 days of liquidity as of Dec. 31, the rating company
said. Taking into account $100 million of commercial paper, the
number of days of cash on hand rises to 48.  According to a commission convened by Cuomo to investigate
LIPA’s handling of the storm aftermath, the key to the utility’s
failings was a “dysfunctional” management structure.  The authority, which was set up in 1985, owns Long Island’s
electrical lines and contracted with London-based  National Grid
Plc (NG/)  to operate them. Under such divided management, LIPA let
consultants guide spending and failed to replace aging poles or
trim trees as recommended in state studies.  ‘Better Way’  “LIPA has been a problem for a very long time, and it was
on full display during  Hurricane Sandy ,” Cuomo said when he
announced his plan. “We need a new and better way.”  Public Service Enterprise Group would take over LIPA’s
operations, leaving it a holding company with no day-to-day
responsibilities. PSEG will control capital and operating
budgets, storm preparedness and response,  call centers , computer
systems and  customer service .  To help relieve LIPA’s $7 billion debt burden, the plan
calls for a new entity to issue bonds backed by a new customer
charge. The securities would be structured to have higher
ratings, lowering borrowing costs and generating savings.  “The state is claiming rates will go down,” Cure said.
“I’m a little dubious in that the users of the utility are
still paying the securitized debt.”  Cure said some investors have shown interest in LIPA bonds,
and speculated that they are looking to buy securities that will
be paid off in the restructuring.  Rate Independence  The proposal would remove management dysfunction while 
providing improved oversight, Rich Azzopardi, a Cuomo 
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.   ``Rating agencies are primarily focused on LIPA's board 
retaining its authority to set rates and comply with bond 
covenants, which our proposal does,'' Azzopardi said. ``This 
should provide great comfort to bondholders.''  The proposal would also eliminate a franchise tax of about
$26 million annually that LIPA pays the state, and would cap
payments LIPA makes in lieu of taxes to municipalities starting
in 2015 at 2 percent per year. The Department of Public Service
would review rates and  capital spending .  “It’s hard to imagine politics not getting involved,”
Cure said. “There’s a lot of pressure on both parties to give
some rate relief.”  Most public power agencies can set rates independently,
said Jeff Panger, a  Standard & Poor’s  analyst in New York.  “The current proposal, if it comes about, will constrain
the rate-setting autonomy and flexibility that LIPA has beyond
what is generally seen by other public-power entities,” he
said.  LIPA’s total average electric rate of 18.2 cents per
kilowatt hour is among the nation’s highest, according to a  2011
report  by the Brattle Group, a consulting firm based in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Debt Cost  One of the primary drivers is the cost of servicing $6.7
billion of debt LIPA issued in 1998 to finance the acquisition
of the  Long Island  Lighting Co., an investor-owned utility.
Lilco spent $6 billion to build the Shoreham nuclear power plant
in Suffolk County from 1973 to 1984. The site never opened
because of community opposition.  State Senator Michael Ranzenhofer, a Republican whose
district sits between Buffalo and Rochester and who heads the
chamber’s authorities committee, said he’s reviewing Cuomo’s
proposal and shares the same concern as the rating companies.  “There’s the concern with LIPA being able to manage its
finances and pay off its debt,” Ranzenhofer said in a May 22
telephone interview. “We need to move quickly, but also
deliberatively, to make sure that the proper actions are
taken.”  Columbus Issue   In the broader market, municipalities led by Columbus,
 Ohio , are set to offer $1.9 billion of debt in next week’s
holiday-shortened calendar, the slowest period since January.  Columbus plans to offer about $369 million of general
obligations to refinance higher-cost debt as municipal yields
are the highest in six weeks.  At  1.88 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are
still below the  2.02 percent  interest rate for similar-maturity
Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two yields, at 93 percent, has been below
100 percent on all but one day since May 2. The lower the
figure, the more costly munis are compared with federal
obligations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  