-- Czech $10 Billion Nuclear Project Splits Cabinet Parties
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-05-24T12:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/czech-10-billion-nuclear-project-splits-cabinet-parties.html
Czech government parties clashed over
a $10 billion project to build new nuclear reactors as the plan
pit the finance minister against the prime minister.  The expansion of the Temelin nuclear power plant is
becoming a focus of political disputes one year before general
elections after Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek said he has
doubts the project is an “efficient” investment. Premier Petr
Necas likened Kalousek’s comments to those of an “accountant”
failing to address long-term strategy.  CEZ AS, the Czech Republic’s largest power utility, is in
the process of choosing a company to build two new units with at
least 2,000 megawatts of capacity at Temelin. Westinghouse
Electric Co. and a Russian-Czech group led by Rosatom Corp. are
bidding, while  Areva SA (AREVA) ’s offer was excluded in October. The
Prague-based and state-controlled CEZ plans to sign the contract
by the end of 2013.  “Original calculations for Temelin were based on much
higher electricity prices than what they are now,” Kalousek
said, according to a transcript of an interview published by
Hospodarske Noviny today. “The second criterion is the price.
And I have to say that we were very unpleasantly surprised with
bids from both contenders.”  Kalousek is a member of the TOP09 party, whose priorities
include curbing the budget  deficit  below the European Union’s
limit of 3 percent of economic output. Necas leads the Civic
Democratic Party, which fostered austerity measures such as
raising some taxes to curb growth in state debt.  Compensation System  CEZ wants to negotiate a compensation system with the
government that would ensure the power plant’s profitability.
Necas said yesterday the country’s energy strategy is “hard to
imagine” without building new reactors at Temelin. The nation
must replace 1,800 megawatts of power-generating capacity from
expired conventional energy sources by 2020, Necas said.  CEZ Chief Executive Officer Daniel Benes said today in
Warsaw that Temelin will be built “because it’s necessary.”  Kalousek’s comments were his personal views and not the
government’s position, Necas said today at a news conference
aired by public broadcaster Czech Television.  “There is a big difference between an accountant, a
politician whose intellectual horizon reaches an annual account
book or one election term, and a statesman, who is thinking
about what will be happening in the country in about year
2030,” Necas said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  