-- Dallas Cowboy Brent Remains Free on Bail in Crash Case
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-05-24T17:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/dallas-cowboy-brent-remains-free-on-bail-in-crash-case.html
Dallas  Cowboys football player Josh
Brent, charged with intoxication manslaughter for a car crash
that killed teammate  Jerry Brown , was allowed to remain free on
bail after prosecutors said he failed to comply with bond terms.  At a hearing today, Dallas County Judge  Robert Burns 
ordered additional sobriety monitoring of the defendant and
admonished him for failing to be home at 3 a.m. so data from his
existing alcohol monitor could be downloaded.  “You need to be home when you need to be home,” the judge
told Brent, 25. He also ordered the defendant to undergo
urinalysis immediately after the hearing.  The fatal accident happened Dec. 8 when the car, which was
moving at a high rate of speed, flipped at least once after
hitting a curb, according to police. Brent had a blood-alcohol
level more than twice the legal limit for operating a  motor
vehicle , the Dallas Morning News has reported.  Brent was indicted in December and faces as long as 20
years in prison if he’s found guilty. The defensive lineman’s
trial is scheduled for Sept. 23.  Bail terms required him to post a $100,000 bond. He was
forbidden from consuming alcohol and required to wear the ankle
bracelet, which monitors his blood-alcohol level.  Dallas prosecutors in court papers filed yesterday said
Brent missed two bond-supervision appointments, may have
tampered with the electronic monitor and “repetitively” failed
to download data from the device.  Daily Download  Larry Vanderwoude, chief executive officer of Recovery
Healthcare Corp., the company that operates the monitor,
testified today that Brent needed to be home at 3 a.m. and near
his bedroom for the device to download daily results to a modem.
He said Brent wasn’t home or near the device 22 times since the
monitoring began in December.  According to Assistant Criminal District Attorney Gary
McDonald, the additional sobriety monitor that the judge ordered
added today is a portable device that measures alcohol on a
person’s breath, captures the person’s image and sends the data
to monitors. First Assistant District Attorney Heath Harris
asked the judge today to add the second device and didn’t
reiterate yesterday’s request that the bond be revoked.  Jeff Kelly, a county bond supervision officer, testified
that Brent has been undergoing drug and alcohol treatment. He
said Brent missed two appointments to meet him in late April and
early May. He said Brent told him his driver had failed to pick
him up. Brent doesn’t have a driver’s license, he testified.  Not Typical  Kelly said on cross-examination that Brent was getting more
scrutiny than was typical.  “This is a little unusual,” he said.  Brent’s attorney George Milner told the judge today that
his client is being “singled out” and said his bond conditions
shouldn’t change.  Harris said he was satisfied with today’s decision. He also
called the accusation that Brent was being treated too harshly
“ridiculous.”  “This guy is a repeat alcohol offender who killed someone
in our county,” he said. “We take that seriously.”  Brent was in his third season in the  National Football
League  after playing at the  University of Illinois . He started
five games last season. Brown, who also attended  Illinois ,
joined the Cowboys’ practice squad on Oct. 24. He had yet to
appear on the active roster.  The case is State of  Texas  v. Brent, F12-35545, Criminal
District Court, Dallas County, Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@texaswordworks.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  