-- Dealers Absorbing Junk Bonds as ETF Demand Drops: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-05-24T14:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/dealers-absorbing-junk-bonds-as-etf-demand-drops-credit-markets.html
Wall Street banks are expanding
holdings of speculative-grade bonds as prices fall from record
highs with investors retreating from exchange-traded funds that
buy the debt.  The 21 primary dealers that do business with the  Federal
Reserve  increased their net positions in junk-rated debt by 37
percent to $7.7 billion in the two weeks ended May 15, the
highest since the central bank started reporting more detailed
holdings data for the period ended April 3. U.S. high-yield
funds reported $400 million of withdrawals last week, the
second-most this year, led by $520 million pulled from ETFs,
according to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   “ETFs tend to be the driver of big volume,” Guy LeBas,
chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview. The job of a dealer
“is to buy bonds when people want to sell,” he said.  The dealers are soaking up supply as firms from  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  predict demand will return. Even
with banks facing new limits on risk-taking and higher  capital
requirements  since the credit crisis, the pullback from
investors is prodding them to act in their traditional roles of
facilitating trading with their own money as they underwrite an
unprecedented volume of new speculative-grade debt.  Prices Drop  The average price for  junk bonds  in the U.S. has fallen
1.06 cents to 106.2 cents on the dollar after reaching a record
107.2 on May 9, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index data show.
Shares of the biggest high-yield ETF, BlackRock Inc.’s $15.8
billion  iShares iBoxx High-Yield Corporate Bond Fund , declined
1.2 percent to $94.89 during the period as outstanding shares in
the fund dropped 2.1 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Speculative-grade borrowers issued $17.2 billion of new
debt in the week ended May 17, the most since March 22, as they
sought to take advantage of a fifth year of benchmark  interest
rates  held at about zero, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Junk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  Dealer Reversal  The expanding junk debt on bank balance sheets marks a
reversal from April, when they cut net holdings by 24 percent to
$5.63 billion, Fed data show. Banks have been reducing
inventories amid global banking regulations that make riskier
securities more expensive to own and the so-called Volcker rule
in the U.S. that limits how much risk a lender can take with its
own money.  “The increasing regulation of the banking sector is
causing bank-balance sheets to shrink,” Stephen Siderow,
president and co-founder of BlueMountain Capital Management LLC,
a credit-focused hedge-fund firm, said May 21 at the Bloomberg
Link Canada Economic Summit in Toronto. “As a result, more
capital is flowing from savers’ hands to borrowers’ hands
through alternative means.”  Primary dealers reduced their corporate-debt inventories by
76 percent since peaking in October 2007 at $235 billion to $56
billion as of March 27, when the Fed revamped the way it
calculates and reports their holdings. Prior to April 3, the
central bank didn’t break down the data into ratings categories
and it included some mortgage-related debt.  Expanded Market  Dealer junk-bond holdings had fallen to as low as $5.63
billion on May 1, down $1.8 billion from April 3, Fed data show.  The firms’ net holdings, which cancel out positions in
which banks take opposite bets on the direction of a security’s
value, account for about 0.7 percent of the dollar-denominated
 junk-debt market , which has swelled to include $1.1 trillion of
notes, according to Fed and Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  The dealers have increased their investment-grade bond
holdings by 11 percent this month, to $13.1 billion on May 15,
Fed data released yesterday show. BlackRock’s $23.4 billion ETF
that focuses on those notes reported about $336 million of
withdrawals in the week ended May 15, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Trading volumes  have been rising, with the average daily
amount of investment-grade bonds traded 14.5 percent higher
during April and May compared with the same period last year,
JPMorgan strategists led by  Eric Beinstein  in  New York  said in a
report today.  Junk Gains  The reason is likely a combination of a “more positive
market environment generally where investors and dealers are
more comfortable trading actively as they did pre-crisis,” as
well as the effect of Fed stimulus, the analysts said.  High-yield bonds have posted average annualized gains of 21
percent since 2008 after the Fed pumped more than $2.5 trillion
into the financial system to spur economic growth. Yields on
dollar-denominated junk bonds plunged to an unprecedented 5.98
percent on May 9, down from 19.5 percent at the end of 2008.  Even with dealers taking on more of the debt, the overall
plunge in inventories has lengthened the time it takes to buy
and sell bonds as demand outstrips supply, according to Todd Youngberg, head of global high-yield fixed-income at Aviva
Investors in  Chicago .  “You trade in much smaller bite sizes these days,” he
said in a telephone interview. “Liquidity suffers a little bit
as a result of that.”  ‘Liquidity Mismatch’  Investors from retirees to pension plans and insurance
companies are funneling cash into speculative-grade bonds,
allowing companies to sell $188.8 billion of the notes in the
U.S. this year, Bloomberg data show. More than 70 percent of the
newly issued bonds are purchased by mutual funds, which are
geared at individuals who may buy or sell their shares on a
daily basis, according to BlueMountain’s Siderow.  That’s creating a “liquidity mismatch” because the funds
buy longer-term debt, Siderow said. “Banks used to hold much
greater inventory of bonds on their balance sheets and be
liquidity providers to the market,” he said.  The new Fed data may not reflect the biggest banks’
capacity to facilitate trading in a sell-off, since the lenders
may have significantly larger portfolios of high-yield bonds
that are offset with hedges, Barclays strategists said in a May
17 report.  “When the market feels a little softer it’s a bit more
likely dealers will have to provide that liquidity and expand
their balance sheets,” Bradley Rogoff, head of global credit
strategy at Barclays in New York, said in a telephone interview.  ‘So Much Demand’  While  market sentiment  for high-yield bonds will eventually
deteriorate, it won’t likely reverse anytime soon as central
banks from the U.S. to  Japan  maintain bond-purchasing programs
to stimulate the global economy, Youngberg said.  “There’s just so much demand for high yield it’s
outstripping supply,” he said. “People think it’s painful now
when they can’t buy; wait until they can’t sell.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost to protect against
corporate bond losses in the U.S. and  Europe  climbed to the
highest in more than three weeks as a bigger-than-estimated
increase in U.S. durable goods orders fueled concern that an
expanding economy will prompt the Fed to scale back its stimulus
efforts.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and Vitol SA, the world’s
two biggest oil traders, raised $8.3 billion in loans to fund
their crude-purchase deal with  OAO Rosneft. (ROSN)   Credit Benchmarks  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
2.1 basis points to a mid-price of 75.3 basis points as of 10:01
a.m. in New York, the highest since May 1, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The index has climbed 5 basis points this
week, poised for the biggest weekly jump since the period ended
March 22.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125
companies with investment-grade ratings, rose 5.6 to 98.2 and is
up 7 on the week.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.45 basis point to 15.5 basis
points. The gauge widens when investors seek the perceived
safety of  government securities  and narrows when they favor
assets such as corporate bonds.  Petrobras Bonds  Bonds of Petroleo Brasileiro SA are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 7.1 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Petrobras, as the Brazilian state-run oil producer is
known, sold $11 billion of bonds abroad last week, the most ever
for an emerging-market issuer.  Glencore and Vitol’s five-year loan increased from $7.5
billion after 10 to 15 lenders joined the facility, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the terms are private. Further banks have the
option to commit to the deal, which can be increased to as much
as $10 billion.  Specially-created companies are raising the prepayment
loan, which will be backed by a portion of future  oil production 
of Moscow-based Rosneft, Bloomberg data show. Russia’s largest
oil company signed contracts and will receive a prepayment of as
much as $10 billion for 67 million tonnes of crude, according to
a March 6 statement.  The loan pays interest at 210 basis points, or 2.1
percentage points, more than the London interbank offered rate,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  