-- Deep Earth Plans Canada’s First Geothermal Power Amid Oil Wells
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-05-24T21:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/deep-earth-plans-canada-s-first-geothermal-power-amid-oil-wells.html
Deep Earth Energy Production Corp. , a
closely help developer, is planning  Canada ’s first geothermal
power plant that will tap into heat resources underneath oil and
natural gas fields in Saskatchewan, according to Chief Executive
Officer Kirsten Marcia.  The project may cost C$35 million ($33.9 million) and would
have 5 megawatts of generating capacity, Marcia said today in a
telephone interview. Construction is expected to begin in 2014.  The region is already home to oil and gas production
companies that have studied the geology and documented reserves
of heat energy needed to run geothermal power plants since the
1950s. Deep Earth may eventually build additional facilities in
the area, some with as much as 20 megawatts of capacity, Marcia
said.  “We’re drilling into a giant, deep hot ocean that’s
already well known,” she said. “This is a 45-story-thick deep,
hot aquifer that literally goes for hundreds of kilometers.”  Deep Earth, based in Saskatoon, Canada, plans to tap into
heat resources at least 2 miles (3.2 kilometers) below the
surface in the Williston Basin, an area encompassing parts of
Montana, North and South Dakota and Saskatchewan.  The region has about 35,000 wells and oil and gas producers
bring up large amounts of heated fluids that are reinjected into
the ground, Marcia said. “The oil and gas industry today is a
hot water industry with a 5 to 10 percent oil cut,” she said.
“This is wasted energy that for 60 years has been ignored.”  Geothermal Systems  Deep Earth’s  power plants  will use binary-cycle technology,
in which heat from geothermal fluids is harnessed to produce
vapor that drives a turbine.  SaskPower International Inc. is expected to buy the
electricity, though no contract has been finalized, Marcia said.
Saskatchewan’s government-owned utility plans to contribute to a
C$2.2 million engineering  study  this year to evaluate the
region’s geothermal-energy potential.  Deep Earth has raised about C$2 million from investors in
Saskatchewan, Alberta and Ontario with experience in drilling
and resource development, Marcia said. She wouldn’t name them.  The U.S. is the world’s top producer of geothermal power,
and “it looks quite odd that Canada doesn’t have a single
megawatt yet,” Marcia said. “Canada is late to the party.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  