-- Delta Sharpens NYC Fight With $1.4 Billion JFK Terminal
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-05-24T20:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/delta-sharpens-nyc-fight-with-1-4-billion-jfk-terminal.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  sharpened the
jockeying for the highest-paying passengers in  New York , the
biggest U.S. aviation market, as it opened a $1.4 billion
terminal at  John F. Kennedy International Airport .  A venture with Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., in which Delta
is taking a 49 percent stake, will include seven daily JFK
flights to  London ’s Heathrow airport once the purchase is
completed this year, President Ed Bastian said in an interview
before today’s inauguration of the international facility.  “JFK is going to be a big driver for us in getting
international seats, a big driver in the Virgin transaction, a
big driver for us in New York with banks and financial service
providers,” he said May 22 at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters. “Today since we’re a relatively small player in
that market, we don’t have a frequency pattern that appeals to
the business traveler.”  Wooing corporate fliers in the nation’s financial capital
is part of Delta’s strategy to focus on travelers who buy the
priciest tickets. No carrier dominates  service  across New York’s
three major airports, where government controls curb growth and
force airlines to fight each other for passengers.  JFK is a critical piece in Delta’s plan, and its aging
facilities there had become a liability in an industry where
carriers set themselves apart through creature comforts such as
upscale food at terminal restaurants and quiet lounges.  Competitor Upgrades  JetBlue Airways Corp.’s Terminal 5 at JFK opened in 2008
and cost $743 million, and American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) 
spent $1.3 billion on a Kennedy terminal in 2007. Continental
Airlines, a United Continental predecessor, invested $1.4
billion in 2001 at  New Jersey ’s Newark Liberty airport and the
combined company announced today that it’s offering lie-flat
seats on all long-haul, international flights from New York.  Delta hired Harry Olsen, who built the $1.5 billion
baseball stadium for the  New York Yankees , to oversee the
project, which adds 16 international gates, automated baggage
screening, more customs inspection booths, and an airport lounge
as big as five basketball courts.  In a second phase of construction, another 11 gates will be
added to connect passengers to international flights, at a cost
of $175 million. The first phase cost about $1.2 billion.  Delta Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  promised the
airline would undertake another Kennedy expansion when demand
warrants.  Third Phase  “We want to keep investing and someday build a third
phase,” Anderson said at today’s ceremony.  Delta has doubled its workforce in New York over the past
six years, to 7,000 people, and will bring more growth in the
coming years, said Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who is the majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  The new terminal allows Delta to demolish the adjacent
1960s-era Terminal 3, a saucer-shaped building previously known
as the Pan Am Worldport, which a Delta executive once said
passengers equated to a “third-world country” because the
facility was so dilapidated and worn. That space will be used
for aircraft parking.  Delta climbed 2.4 percent to $18.93 at the close of trading
in New York. The stock previously  advanced  56 percent this year,
outpacing a 16 percent gain by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  