-- Dollar Erases Losses as Durable-Goods Orders Rise; Rand Weakens
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-24T21:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/dollar-pares-losses-as-u-s-durable-goods-orders-beat-forecast.html
The dollar erased losses against the
euro, trimming a weekly decline, as a higher-than-forecast
increase in orders for U.S.  durable goods  added to speculation
the Federal Reserve may slow monetary stimulus this year.  The 17-nation currency rose earlier after industry data
showed German business confidence unexpectedly increased in May,
adding to optimism the region’s biggest economy is improving.
The yen extended its biggest weekly gain versus the dollar in
almost a year after Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said
the central bank had announced sufficient monetary easing. South
Africa’s rand slid on concern labor unrest will curb growth.  “If anything, it gave maybe a little bit of momentum back,
but it’s not a game changer,”  Fabian Eliasson , vice president
of corporate foreign-exchange sales at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York, said of the durable-goods data’s effect on the
dollar. “Yen, in the case now, is due for a correction.”  The greenback was little changed at $1.2932 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York after falling 0.5 percent earlier and
appreciating as much as 0.2 percent. It declined 0.7 percent
this week.  The yen climbed 0.7 percent to 101.31 per dollar. It gained
1.9 percent this week, the most since June 1. Against the euro,
the Japanese currency rallied 0.7 percent to 131.01.  Yen Bets  Futures traders increased to the highest level since July
2007 their bets that the yen will drop against the U.S. dollar,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers by hedge
funds and other large speculators on a decline in the yen
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
95,186 on May 21, compared 88,407 a week earlier.  South  Africa ’s currency fell, extending a third weekly
decline, amid concern that labor talks scheduled for June will
spark more unrest in the mining industry, which accounts for
more than 50 percent of exports in Africa’s largest economy. The
rand weakened 0.5 percent to 9.5762 per dollar. It dropped 1.8
percent this week.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $29 billion, compared with $40 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg.  Volume in options on the dollar-yen exchange rate was $10
billion, the largest share of trades at 33 percent. Euro-dollar
options were the second most-actively traded, at $5.5 billion,
or 19 percent.  Below Average  Dollar-yen options trading was 27 percent below the average
for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to  Bloomberg (GRIFPBUS)  analysis. Options trading in the euro
versus the U.S. currency was 29 percent higher than the average.  The JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index, based on three-month
futures options on Group of Seven nations’ currencies, slipped
from the highest level in almost two months. It declined to 10
percent after touching 10.1 percent yesterday, the highest since
Feb. 27. The average over the past year is 8.8 percent.  Bookings for equipment meant to last at least three years
rose 3.3 percent last month, U.S. Commerce Department data
showed, compared with the median forecast of 1.5 percent in a
Bloomberg survey. The orders dropped by a revised 5.9 percent in
March. Excluding the more volatile transportation equipment
component, durable-goods  orders climbed  1.3 percent, the first
gain in three months.  ‘Pretty Resilient’  “Better data in the U.S. shows that capital expenditures
are still pretty resilient,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
“The stronger U.S data potentially is portending an earlier-than-expected tapering” of Fed bond-buying under the
quantitative-easing stimulus strategy.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage
bonds each month to cap borrowing costs. Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said this week it may slow purchases at its next few
meetings if it’s confident of sustained gains in the economy.  The euro reached $1.2993, approaching its one-week high on
May 22 of $1.2998, as the Ifo institute’s German  business
climate index  improved to 105.7 from 104.4 in April. A Bloomberg
survey predicted it would remain unchanged. GfK AG said its
consumer-sentiment index will increase to 6.5 next month from
6.2 in May. That would be the highest since September 2007.  While risks stemming from Europe’s debt crisis persist, the
German economy will gather pace in the current quarter, the
Bundesbank said this week. Factory orders surged for a second
month in March and exports increased.  Yen Gains  The yen rose for a second day versus the dollar as Kuroda
said the BOJ will implement flexible money-market operations and
that he wants to avoid increasing volatility in bond markets.  The currency’s rally is “a bit of an equity play and
positioning before the long weekend,” said Peter Gorra, chief
dealer in New York at BNP Paribas SA. Markets are “thinner than
normal due to early bond-market closing and long weekend.”  Financial markets in the U.S. and U.K. will be shut for
public holidays on May 27.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)   stock average  gained 0.9 percent today
after sliding as much as 3.5 percent. It tumbled 7.3 percent
yesterday, the most since the aftermath of the nation’s March
2011 earthquake and tsunami.  The yen has slumped 12 percent this year, the worst
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as the Bank of Japan doubled
monthly bond purchases in April to end deflation. The euro has
gained 2.8 percent and the dollar has advanced 5.1 percent.  The Australian dollar added to a third weekly loss as HSBC
Holdings Plc said the currency will weaken to 90 U.S. cents by
year-end, compared with a previous forecast for 95.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said yesterday it remained bearish
on the Aussie, expecting it to weaken to 90 cents in 12 months.  The Aussie dollar dropped 1 percent today and 0.8 percent
this week to 96.52 U.S. cents. It touched 95.94 cents yesterday,
the lowest level since June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  