-- LDP Alters Abe’s Constitutional Pledge in Japan Election Plans
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-05-24T06:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/ldp-alters-abe-s-constitutional-pledge-in-japan-election-plans.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
ruling Liberal Democratic Party is changing its strategy for
rewriting the country’s pacifist constitution ahead of
parliamentary elections in July, a party executive said.  The LDP will omit from its platform Abe’s pledge to first
make it easier to overhaul the constitution by lowering the bar
for enacting amendments, party policy chief Sanae Takaichi said
today in  Tokyo . Abe has repeatedly called for changing Article
96 of the charter to allow parliament to pass amendments by a
simple majority rather than the current two-thirds.  “This isn’t about what may or may not come of Article 96,
but about constitutional reform, which is firmly written into
the platform,” Takaichi told reporters.  While polls show backing for Abe’s policies to revive the
world’s third-largest economy, voters are less supportive of his
goal to revise the constitution. With bond yields rising and
stocks fluctuating, the debate over how to amend the document is
a distraction for an LDP aiming for a majority in the upper
house elections, political analyst Aiji Tanaka said.  “He’s taking the safer path,” said Tanaka, a professor of
political science at Waseda University in Tokyo. “What he wants
to do is win the upper house election and get rid of the hung
parliament so he can pass various bills. If he starts to push
Article 96 at a time like this, it could sully his image and
affect the scale of victory.”  Japanese stocks yesterday fell the most since the March
2011 earthquake and nuclear disaster, with the benchmark  Topix
Index (TPX)  losing 6.9 percent. The index today gained 0.5 percent.
Ten-year Japanese bond yields were unchanged at 0.835 percent
after rising to 1 percent yesterday for the first time in more
than a year.  ‘Public Pledge’  During a visit to  Turkey  on May 3, Abe told reporters that
revising Article 96 “will be a public pledge in the upcoming
upper house election.”  The prime minister advocates revising the constitution for
the first time as part of plans to strengthen the military as
 Japan  confronts a territorial conflict with  China  and threats
from North Korea’s nuclear program. The U.S.-drafted document
was imposed on Japan after World War II and the LDP has
advocated changing it since the party was founded in 1955.  Seven percent of respondents in an April 23 Mainichi
newspaper poll said constitutional reform was the most important
issue in the July election, compared with 35 percent who cited
the economy. No margin of error was provided.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  