-- Health Net Takes Risk With California Rates, Analyst Says
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-05-24T20:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/health-net-takes-risk-with-california-rates-analyst-says.html
Health insurer  Health Net Inc. (HNT) ’s low
 California  premiums run the risk of attracting a sicker
clientele that may backfire by driving up its medical costs.  Health Net’s rates were the lowest across  Southern
California  in the new online insurance markets outlined by state
regulators yesterday, Scott Fidel, a Deutsche Bank analyst, told
clients today in a research note. With the markets projected to
skew toward a sicker population next year, offering the most
attractive rates may leave the carrier vulnerable, he said.  “Given the underwriting challenges that Health Net has
faced historically in the California individual market, we were
not expecting to see the company charge out of the gates with
the lowest exchange price points across SoCal,” Fidel said.
“The company’s low premiums could create the potential” for a
flood of high-cost membership.  California is setting up the insurance exchanges under
President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 Affordable Care Act and yesterday
announced it had chosen 13 insurers to participate. As many as
5.3 million people may be eligible to buy government-subsidized
plans on the new markets, which will cater to small businesses
and people not covered on the job.  Health Net, based in  Woodland Hills , California, reduced
its annual profit  forecast  twice in 2012, blaming claims-processing problems and higher-than-anticipated medical costs
among its members. Its shares fell 20 percent last year.  Narrow Network  Health Net  declined  2.2 percent to $31 at the close in New
York, its biggest one-day loss in five weeks. The shares had
gained 30 percent this year through yesterday after the company
reported first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  The insurer will offer a premium for a middle-income 40-year-old customer in Northern Los Angeles that’s 12 percent
cheaper than any other plan, Fidel said, citing a state report.
In the San Diego area, Health Net’s premium will be 13 percent
below the nearest competitor, Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)   Health Net’s policies will offer a narrow network of
doctors designed to keep costs down. Nonetheless, “the company
has spoken cautiously about the difficult regulatory and
operational climate” in California, Fidel said. “In this
context, we are surprised.”  Health Net Response  Deutsche Bank’s analysis doesn’t take into account changes
that have occurred in the insurance market, said Brad Kieffer, a
Health Net spokesman.  The health law imposes fees on all insurers that are
intended to help those that get stuck with unusually costly
customers and has other regulations meant to spread the risk,
Kieffer said. Health Net has been able to negotiate good rates
with providers while collaborating with them to improve care, he
said.  “Those tailored networks have served us well in the
past,” he said by telephone. “We believe this approach
positions us well in the future in the exchange world.”  Not all analysts were as concerned as Deutsche Bank’s
Fidel.  Health Net’s rates leave it “well-positioned in important
So-Cal county regions,” Brian Wright, a Monness Crespi Hardt &
Co. analyst in  New York , said in a research note. The company’s
narrow networks typically achieve 30 percent lower costs than
traditional HMO plans, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  