-- Echo Falls Most on Record After Crown Sells Stake: Sydney Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-05-24T07:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/echo-slumps-to-record-after-crown-sells-10-stake-sydney-mover.html
Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) , holder
of Sydney’s only casino license, fell the most on record after
rival  Crown Ltd. (CWN)  sold its 10 percent stake saying it wanted to
end speculation over its intentions.  Shares in the Brisbane-based company dropped 12 percent to
A$3.03 at the close in Sydney, their sharpest drop since a June
2011 listing. Crown sold its 82.6 million shares at A$3.20 each,
a 7 percent discount to their close yesterday, the Melbourne-based company controlled by billionaire  James Packer  said in a
regulatory statement.  Crown and Echo have submitted rival plans to the New South
Wales government for casino investments on adjacent stretches of
Sydney’s harbor shore, only one of which will be allowed to go
ahead. Crown took a 10 percent holding in Echo early last year,
and the state government agreed in October to study its proposal
for a hotel and casino targeting high-rolling Asian gamblers at
the Barangaroo development site.  “Crown’s decision to exit its stake in Echo likely
reflects an increased degree of confidence in its ability to
secure Barangaroo,” Nick Berry, a Sydney-based analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Crown’s board decided it should pursue the project
“without speculation surrounding its Echo shareholding”, the
company said in an e-mailed statement today. The proposed hotel
is a “once in a life time project for our company,” Packer
said in the statement. “Our objective and our ambition is to
build the world’s best six-star hotel resort on Sydney
Harbour.”  Crown will book a loss of about A$35 million on the
investment, Nomura’s Berry wrote, based on the A$10 million gain
in the shares’ value from A$254 million last March to A$264
million, set against about A$45 million in cash paid for new
shares in Echo’s capital raising last June.  The rationale for selling now, rather than after the state
government decides which casino application to grant, was
“difficult to understand”, Mark Bryan, an analyst at Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in a note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  