-- Most Emerging Stocks Drop as Commodity Producers Tumble
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-24T21:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/emerging-market-stocks-rebound-from-biggest-slump-in-10-months.html
Most emerging stocks fell, capping a
second weekly drop, as a slump in commodities sank producers
from OAO Gazprom to Vale SA.  Hungary ’s benchmark index jumped to
a three-month high as the nation published its budget plans.  Gazprom,  Russia ’s state-controlled natural gas producer,
retreated 1.5 percent, while iron-ore producer Vale slumped for
a third day. Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii AS,  Turkey ’s
biggest brewer, tumbled 7.6 percent after the nation’s
parliament approved a law banning retail alcohol sales at night
and promotion of alcoholic drinks. OTP Bank Nyrt. paced gains in
Hungary and the forint extended its advance.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose less than 0.1 percent
to 1,026.68 as 375 stocks fell, while 326 rose. The measure
dropped 1.8 percent for the week. The S&P GSCI Index of
commodities slid a fourth day as signs of a rebounding U.S.
economy revived concern that the  Federal Reserve  will scale back
asset purchases. Chinese manufacturing contracted for the first
time in seven months, data showed this week.  “The general concern is that we start to see a bit of a
pullback from what the Fed’s been doing,” Sean Lynch, the
Omaha, Nebraska-based global investment strategist for Wells
Fargo Private Bank, said by phone. His firm oversees about $170
billion. “The two big things to worry about in emerging markets
are rising rates in the U.S. and a China slowdown, and we saw a
little bit of that this week.”  Four out of  10 groups  in the developing-nation measure fell
as consumer staple and raw-material shares had the biggest
losses. The broad index has dropped 2.7 percent this year,
compared with an 12 percent jump in the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund retreated 0.9 percent to $42.27. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 5.2 percent to 21.47.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa rose 0.1 percent, extending its weekly
advance to 2.3 percent. Vale retreated 0.8 percent, while
Brookfield Incorporacoes SA paced gains among homebuilders. The
Mexican IPC index rose less than 0.1 percent today, trimming its
biggest weekly loss since March.  Russian equities fell a second week as oil, the nation’s
main exporter, retreated on signs of a global economic slowdown.
Gazprom dropped to a one-month low.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index slid a
second day after reaching a record on May 22.  Anadolu Efes (AEFES)  sank
the most since September 2011. Otokar Otomotiv ve Savunma Sanayi
AS, a Turkish producer of civilian and military vehicles, rose
to an all-time high after Hurriyet Daily News reported the
company could sell tanks to  Saudi Arabia .  Poland, Hungary  The Budapest Stock Exchange Index rose as OTP Bank Nyrt.,
Hungary’s largest lender jumped to the highest price since Aug.
2011. Poland’s benchmark index added 1.1 percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
dropped to a one-month low, while the Shanghai Composite Index
added 0.6 percent.  India ’s S&P  BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  swung between gains
and losses at least 20 times before closing 0.2 percent higher.
 Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  climbed 4.5 percent after yesterday reporting a
lower-than-estimated quarterly loss.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 278 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified
Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  