-- Employee Stock Ownership Plans Seen Threatened by Reform: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-05-24T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/employee-stock-ownership-plans-seen-threatened-by-reform-taxes.html
Representative Pat Tiberi may have
given promoters of employee stock ownership plans for certain
kinds of companies an excuse for concern at a hearing on  tax
reform  last week: He praised them.  It was a surprise that Tiberi, the  Ohio Republican  who runs
the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Select Revenue
Measures, mentioned the stock ownership plans and S corporations
at all, Bloomberg BNA reported. That may point to a potential
threat the tax-favored plans face as congressional tax-writers
prepare to revamp the Internal Revenue Code.  Participants in so-called ESOPs -- which were allowed to
form in S corporations beginning in the late 1990s -- are aware
that a broad swath of tax provisions are a topic of discussion
in tax reform, particularly tax expenditures and the treatment
of such passthrough businesses, said Michael Keeling, president
of the ESOP Association, which advocates for the plans.  “They see that there’s a lot of reviewing going on,”
Keeling told Bloomberg BNA.  House Republicans  have made rewriting the  tax code  a chief
priority. Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the Ways and
Means Committee, wants the biggest tax overhaul in decades. He
has released draft proposals for revamping narrow areas of the
tax laws. His drafts so far represent a small portion of the law
and aren’t fully spelled out. He wants his committee to pass a
bill by the end of the year that would raise just as much money
as the current tax system generates.  The government  collects  $6.1 trillion in tax receipts from
S corporations, with more than 40 percent of it from wholesale
and retail companies, according to the National Small Business
Association.  Meaningfully Tagged  The small business  draft  for tax reform that was the topic
of the May 15 hearing doesn’t delve into ESOPs and S
corporations. Still, the Obama administration, and the Simpson-Bowles deficit reduction commission, proposed limits on the size
of S corporations, which could affect ESOPs, Keeling said.  Perhaps more ominous to some supporters, Keeling said, the
congressional Joint Committee on Taxation pointed out more than
once that ESOPs receive special treatment as tax-exempt trusts
in its own explanation of the  Ways and Means Committee ’s
proposal on passthrough entities.  “When JCT puts something on paper, it’s meaningful,”
Keeling said.  Congress expanded ESOPs to S corporations in 1996 and 1997.
Profits attributable to an ESOP’s ownership of stock in an S
corporation aren’t subject to federal income tax, according to
the National Center for Employee Ownership. A 30 percent ESOP
pays no tax on 30 percent of its income; a 100 percent ESOP pays
no tax at all, often on state taxes as well, the center said.  Taking Off  Congress created the tax break to encourage the creation of
ESOPs, and the experiment has been a success, lawmakers and the
plan’s supporters say.  Congress further modified the law in 2000 to prevent the
creation of ESOPs for just a handful of people in a corporation.  “That’s when things really began to take off,” Keeling
said. In January 1998, the ESOP Association had no membership
among S corporations; now about 78 percent of its membership
consists of S corporations, which number about 1,500, he said.  “The ESOP community is energized and realizes there is a
potential for change,” Keeling said.  The association wrote to the Ways and Means working group
on pensions and retirement in March, defending the plans and
noting that companies with ESOPs shed fewer workers during the
recession and have been more productive and profitable than
other businesses.  Tiberi’s Remarks  At the hearing, Tiberi said he didn’t want to do anything
in tax reform that would have a detrimental effect on ESOPs and
S corporations, a change in the tax law that he said has won
approval from Democrats and Republicans.  “I’m not sure I would tinker with that,” said witness
Thomas Nichols, a tax attorney with Meissner Tierney Fisher and
Nichols. “It seems to be working very well.”  The issue is more active in the House than in the Senate,
where the Finance Committee’s direction on ESOPs is unclear,
Keeling said.  “The House has been so much more transparent,” he said,
with the working groups and public posting of comments to the
committee. Generally, Keeling said, he expects the discussions
around tax reform in 2013 are not just for show.  “Tax reform is a very real thing going on,” Keeling said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  