-- Merkel Urged to Defuse EU-China Solar Spat in Talks With Li
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-05-24T12:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/merkel-urged-to-defuse-eu-china-solar-spat-in-talks-with-li.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  was
pressed to use a meeting with Chinese Prime Minister  Li Keqiang 
to defuse a looming European Union trade conflict with China
over its solar products.  Merkel, who meets Li on May 26 in Berlin, should speak out
against EU import duties that may be imposed on Chinese solar
products, the Alliance for Affordable Solar Energy, a Brussels-based lobby group, said today in an e-mailed statement. Merkel
should “actively push” for a mutual solution as tariffs would
hurt jobs and undermine solar energy growth, the group said.  The EU is poised to penalize imports of Chinese solar
products after  Solarworld AG (SWV) , Germany’s biggest panel maker,
lodged an anti-dumping complaint with the European Commission.
Import tariffs would hurt manufacturers such as China’s  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and raise costs to build  power plants  in Europe, the
world’s largest market for solar products and one largely
supplied by Chinese manufacturers.  Europe and China must try to find “amicable and fair”
agreements on trade matters that both sides can live with,
Merkel’s spokesman Steffen Seibert said today at a regular
government press conference in Berlin. Merkel will raise solar
and telecom trade issues with Li during his two-day visit to
Germany, Seibert said last week.  Solarworld’s complaint and the ensuing EU inquiry that is
expected to culminate in preliminary penalties highlight trade
tensions with China over solar companies, which have grabbed
market share from European rivals that once dominated the
industry. Their fast expansion in recent years has led to a
glut, gutting margins and tipping dozens of companies into
bankruptcy, including  Germany ’s Q-Cells SE, once the biggest
solar cell-maker.  Aside from the German-Chinese talks, the Obama
administration has engaged in preliminary talks with the EU and
China to settle the solar dispute, according to people familiar
with the discussions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  