-- Met Director Decries Detroit Bid to Pillage Own Museum
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-05-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/met-director-decries-detroit-bid-to-pillage-own-museum.html
The  Metropolitan Museum  of Art has
joined the  Detroit Institute of Arts  in opposing any plan for
the Michigan city to sell billions of dollars of museum
masterpieces to plug a deficit.  “Even in the darkest days of  New York  City’s fiscal crisis
of 1975, and the national economic meltdown of 2008, the
cultural treasures closely identified with our own city were
never on the table,”  Thomas Campbell , the Met’s director and
chief executive, said in a statement.  The Detroit museum has about 60,000 works, including art by
Giovanni Bellini, Rembrandt, Van Gogh and Picasso. While it’s
operated by an independent nonprofit organization, the city owns
the land, building and art. (For a slideshow of some works from
the museum collection,  click here ).  “There’s no question the collection is worth into the
billions of dollars,” said New York dealer Richard Feigen.  Amid declining population and rising unemployment, Detroit
Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr called the city “clearly
insolvent” in a May 12 report.  With an accumulated deficit of $327 million as of June 2012
and $15 billion in pension and other obligations, the city
“will evaluate all options,” including selling “non-core
assets,” he said.  Inventory Requested  DIA Chief Operating Officer Annmarie Erickson said that Orr
requested the museum’s inventory.  “We have been informed that he is looking at the  Detroit 
Institute of Arts collection,” she said in a telephone
interview.  Orr has no plan sell the art, or any of the city’s assets,
said his spokesman, Bill Nowling. He added that creditors may
try to force a liquidation of assets should Orr pursue a Chapter
9 municipal bankruptcy.  “We fully recognize the cultural significance of the DIA
and all other cultural institutions in the city to the city and
the region,” Nowling said in a phone interview. “Kevyn has a
fiduciary responsibility to determine the value of all the
assets of the city to determine and rationalize their value. Our
creditors would demand that of us anyway.”  Diego Rivera  The collection includes Diego Rivera’s 27-panel fresco
“Detroit Industry,” which occupies a sky-lit garden court and
is a tribute to the city’s labor force of the 1930s. Rivera
considered it his most successful work.  Vincent  Van Gogh ’s 1887 self-portrait in a yellow straw hat
was the first painting by the Dutch artist to enter a U.S.
museum collection. His 1888 “Portrait of Postman Roulin,”
depicts Joseph-Etienne Roulin, the painter’s bearded friend in
Arles,  France , where Van Gogh moved that year.  Auguste Rodin’s iconic “The Thinker” greets visitors
outside the main entrance. Cast in 1904, the large bronze of a
nude man atop a granite pedestal weighs 14,000 pounds.  At least three paintings -- the postman, “The Wedding
Dance” by Pieter Bruegel the Elder, and “Madonna and Child”
by Giovanni Bellini -- could each fetch more than $150 million.  “You are talking about works of such exceptional
significance, they would be comparable in value to pieces like
Picasso’s ‘Le Reve’ and Cezanne’s ‘Card Players,’” said Beverly
Schreiber Jacoby, valuation specialist and president of New
York-based  BSJ Fine Art .  Hedge-fund manager  Steven A. Cohen  bought “Le Reve” for
$150 million last year. In 2011, the royal family of Qatar paid
more than $250 million for “Card Players,” according to  Vanity
Fair .  Public Trust  To protect its collection, the museum hired  Richard Levin ,
a bankruptcy specialist at Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP. Erickson
said the art is held in public trust and the museum can sell an
artwork only to raise the money to buy another.  Detroit City Councilman James Tate said some city residents
favor improved police protection over preserving the museum,
while others decry the threat to the city jewel. He said the
possible sale jarred many in the suburbs who usually view
Detroit as a distant problem.  “You can’t just push aside Detroit and not realize that
what happens here affects everyone,” he said.  Todd Levin , a Detroit-born, New York-based art adviser with
Levin Art Group, said the sale of the museum’s art is unlikely.  “The guy who has been charged with paying back $15 billion
has to show he’s putting everything on the table,” he said.  Muse highlights include U.S. and London  Weekend 
recommendations, Philip Boroff on  theater .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  