-- EU Parliament’s Groote Plans No Own Amendments to Carbon Plan
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-05-24T14:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/eu-parliament-s-groote-plans-no-own-amendments-to-carbon-plan.html
Matthias Groote, the lawmaker in
charge of a carbon market rescue plan in the European
Parliament, doesn’t plan to submit any new amendments to the
draft measure before a vote next month and will seek a
compromise.  “I will table nothing,” Groote, a German Socialist member
of the EU assembly and chairman of its environment committee,
said via mobile phone today. Members of the environment panel
can propose amendments to the carbon plan until May 27.  The committee is scheduled to vote June 19 on the European
Commission’s proposal to enable temporary curbs in the supply of
carbon permits in the world’s biggest emissions trading system.
Its opinion will be a recommendation for the full Parliament,
which is due to decide on the fix in the first week of July
after rejecting it in the first vote in April.  The commission’s strategy to help lift carbon prices from
record lows has divided EU member states, policy makers and the
industry. EU emission permits for this year slumped as much as
45 percent on April 16, the biggest drop ever, after lawmakers
voted against the plan to delay some auctions of the allowances.  EU permits for delivery in December reversed an earlier
decline after Groote’s comments. The contracts traded 1.2
percent higher at 3.44 euros ($4.45) a metric ton on ICE Futures
Europe at 2:36 p.m. in  London  after earlier dropping as much as
3.8 percent.  Details on the June 19 vote will be decided at a later
stage, Groote said. The European  People’s Party , the biggest
political group in the Parliament, will be seeking to block the
proposal again, according to its member Eija-Riitta Korhola.  “The EPP’s first priority is rejection,” Korhola, who
leads work on the draft measure in the EPP, said on her Twitter
Inc. account yesterday. The group may consider amendments to
restrict the commission’s carbon fix proposal if its plan to
block it fails, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  