-- European Stocks Fall for Second Day Amid Stimulus Debate
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-05-24T15:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/european-stock-index-futures-rise-before-u-s-data.html
European stocks  fell, posting their
first weekly decline in more than a month, as speculation that
central banks will reduce stimulus measures overshadowed a
bigger-than-forecast increase in U.S. durable-goods orders.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  dropped 2.1 percent after
its chief executive officer offered to quit. Next Plc retreated
2.4 percent as Morgan Stanley lowered its rating of the shares.
Telecom Italia SpA lost 3.4 percent after delaying a decision to
spin off its fixed-line network. International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA slid 2 percent after its British Airways unit
suspended short-haul services from London’s Heathrow.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent to 303.35 at
the close in London. The gauge lost 1.7 percent this week, the
first weekly decline since April 19, as the  Federal Reserve 
signaled it will scale back stimulus if the economy improves.  “The past two days show how sentiment has shifted as
people realize markets are inflated and close to bubble
territory rather than following the real economy,” Hugo Fontinha, an investment manager at  State Street Global Advisors ,
said by phone. “It will be a great concern when the Fed tapers
its quantitative easing policy and will definitely give a shock
to the markets, though that may still be a while away.”  U.S. Economy  U.S. orders for  durable goods  climbed 3.3 percent in April
after falling by the most in seven months in March, figures from
the Commerce Department showed. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
had estimated a 1.5 percent gain.  In  Germany ,  business confidence  increased for the first
time in three months. The Ifo institute’s business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, advanced to 105.7
in May from 104.4 in April. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
predicted sentiment to remain unchanged.  “Economic data is generally moving in the right direction,
and the key markers of economic health in the U.S. are still
showing signs of life,” said Chris Ford, who helps oversee
about $150 billion as co-head of global equities at Pictet Asset
Management in London. “Stocks are no longer screamingly cheap,
but there’s nothing to suggest the market can’t trade at these
levels or indeed move higher from here.”  National benchmark indexes declined in 12 of the 18
western-European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 0.6 percent
and  France ’s CAC 40 slipped 0.3 percent, while Germany’s DAX
decreased 0.6 percent.  Raiffeisen CEO  Raiffeisen Bank International lost 2.1 percent to 26.43
euros. Herbert Stepic offered to resign as the CEO of the
Vienna-based lender, a day after officials began a probe into
his investments through offshore accounts.  Next Plc (NXT)  dropped 2.4 percent to 4,580 pence. Morgan Stanley
cut the U.K. retailer to underweight, a recommendation similar
to sell, saying the stock is  expensive . Next jumped this week to
its highest price since at least 1988 and has rallied 24 percent
this year.  Telecom Italia SpA lost 3.4 percent to 62.9 euro cents as
the company delayed a decision over a proposed spinoff of its
fixed-line network. Its board of directors, after a meeting in
 Rome  yesterday, will gather on May 30 to take a final call on
the plan, Milan-based Telecom Italia said.  HSBC slid 2.1 percent to 726 pence, contributing the most
to a decline in the  Bloomberg European 500 Index. (BE500)  The Telegraph
reported, without citing anyone, that the lender’s $1.9 billion
settlement with the U.S. government in a money-laundering case
may be rejected by a judge. HSBC said in a statement it is
actively supporting steps taken by regulators.  Flight Cancellation  IAG dropped 2 percent to 273 pence in London. BA canceled
all short-haul flights in London through to 4 p.m. today as
 Heathrow airport  temporarily closed its two runways after an
engine fault on a BA jetliner.  SAP AG slipped 3.2 percent to 58.68 euros after saying its
chief of cloud computing is leaving as part of the company’s
changes to management. Lars Dalgaard, who is also founder of
SuccessFactors Inc., a software provider it bought last year, is
stepping down effective June 1 to become an investor, SAP said
in a statement.  A gauge of technology companies was the worst performer
among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600. STMicroelectronics NV
retreated 1.6 percent to 7.19 euros and Software AG lost 1.3
percent to 26.13 euros.  Smiths Group Plc advanced 1.5 percent to 1,355 pence after
saying it expects higher second-half sales compared with a year
earlier, driven by an increase in orders. So-called underlying
revenue increased in all of its divisions in the first nine
months of the year, the maker of airport-security scanners said.  Shares of National Bank of Greece SA were suspended today
to allow for a reverse share split to take effect. The lender
said in a statement yesterday trading will resume on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  