-- Lewis Lapham: Orgy of Looting Came After Boxer Rebellion
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2013-05-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/lewis-lapham-orgy-of-looting-came-after-boxer-rebellion.html
“Kill the Foreigners!” was the
motto of  China ’s red-sashed Boxers, as they were dismissively
known in the west. Members of the Righteous Fists of Harmony
opposed imperialism and Christianity and took up arms to drive
out their representatives. An eight-nation alliance that
included the U.S., Germany and Japan invaded China and, after a
quick victory, divided up Beijing.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  The occupiers regarded themselves as morally and ethically
superior to the barbaric Asian hordes. Still, alliance troops
practiced widespread rape, torture and murder, as well as
uncontrolled looting. “Soldiers of all nations joined the
orgy,” reported an American Marine.  Charles Henry Martin, future Congressman and Oregon
governor, bragged to his wife that he’d gotten three sable
coats, one silver fox and a cloak of ermine and astrakhan, among
many other luxuries.  In their sector, the British openly organized a daily
auction of stolen goods, while the tireless Japanese
appropriated tons of silver ingots.  The 1901 Boxer Protocol provided for Chinese restitution to
the victors of $355 million over a 39-year period. By 1940, the
total payout was estimated at $600 million to $700 million.  I spoke with David Silbey, author of “The Boxer Rebellion
and the Great Game in China,” on the following topics:  1. Colonialism’s Burden  2. Century of Humiliation  3. Secret Societies  4. Kill the Foreigners  5. Rape and Looting  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for  Bloomberg News .)  Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg’s NYC  Weekend  and
 Greg Evans  on  movies .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in  New York  at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 