-- Afghan Taliban Guerrillas Kill One in Attack on UN Site in Kabul
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-05-24T17:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/explosions-gunfire-in-kabul-in-second-attack-this-month-1-.html
Taliban guerrillas stormed a Kabul
guesthouse used by the UN International Organization for
Migration, killing an Afghan policeman and wounding eight other
people, including United Nations personnel, police said.  The attack was the second major strike in the city in the
past eight days.  Four Taliban militants armed with heavy and light weapons
stormed the guesthouse after a suicide car bomber targeted the
entrance gate of the UN agency, Kabul Police Chief Ayub Salangi
said in a phone interview. Three of the attackers were shot dead
by police and another was continuing to resist apprehension five
hours into the incident, he said.  Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed claimed responsibility
in an e-mailed statement that said a squad of Taliban guerrillas
targeted a guesthouse used by the CIA to train Afghan spies. The
claims couldn’t be verified, and the Taliban routinely
exaggerate the success of their attacks.  A suicide car bomber on May 16 killed six Americans -– four
U.S. civilian contractors and two U.S. troops -- and eight
Afghan civilians in an attack that targeted a military convoy as
it drove through Kabul. Hizb-e-Islami, a guerrilla group led by
a former Afghan prime minister, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, and allied
with the Taliban, took responsibility.  Four days later, at least 13 people, including the chief of
a northern provincial council, died as a suicide bomber on foot
detonated his vest as the official entered his office.  Hostilities by the Taliban and other insurgents escalated
in the first three months of the year as the spring fighting
season began. Attacks  increased  47 percent in the first quarter
of the year, the  Afghanistan  NGO Safety Office, an organization
that provides advice to aid agencies, said in a report.  India Visit  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  was in  India  this week, and
he handed the government in  New Delhi  a “wish-list” of
assistance, according to an interview he gave to the ANI News
Agency. India is a major aid donor to Afghanistan, something
that has concerned Pakistan which fears a strategic encirclement
by its neighbor and rival.  Clashes between Afghan and Pakistani security forces
erupted twice in a week earlier this month amid renewed tension
over their disputed frontier, a further complication for U.S.
efforts to stabilize the region after a near 12-year war with
the Taliban.  President  Barack Obama  has said the bulk of the 66,000 U.S.
forces now in Afghanistan will return home by the end of 2014,
after which a smaller number of troops may continue to train and
advise Afghan forces and carry out counterterrorism operations.
While he hasn’t yet said how many U.S. troops will remain after
2014, the U.S. has indicated that about 8,000 to 12,000 allied
troops are likely to stay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  