-- Fed 1st Quarter Payment to Treasury Down 36% From Year Ago
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-05-24T16:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/fed-s-payments-to-treasury-down-36-in-1st-quarter-from-year-ago.html
Profits on the Federal Reserve’s
balance sheet, which are handed over to the Treasury, were down
36 percent in the first quarter of 2013 from a year earlier, as
the central bank’s interest income dropped.  The Fed returned $15.3 billion to the Treasury so far this
year, down from $23.8 billion in the same period last year. The
results were disclosed in the Fed’s unaudited quarterly
financial report released today in  Washington .  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has expanded the central
bank’s balance sheet to a record  $3.4 trillion  through three
rounds of large-scale asset purchases designed to lower the 7.5
percent unemployment rate and reverse the damage from the
longest and deepest recession since the Great Depression.  The central bank receives interest payments on its holdings
of government securities and mortgage debt. This income is used
to fund the operations of the Fed’s board of governors and 12
regional reserve banks and the remainder returned to the
Treasury. The Fed said yesterday it had set its budget for all
of 2013 at $5.07 billion.  Net interest income in the first three months declined to
$18.3 billion from $19.9 billion a year ago, led by a drop in
income on the central bank’s holdings of housing debt. Income
was also lower this year because the Fed last year booked a
$4.28 billion gain, which wasn’t repeated this year, on the
wind-down of rescue facilities created during the financial
crisis.  Income Rising  Profits may rise over 2013 and 2014 as the central bank
continues its large-scale asset purchases. A January paper from
a group of Fed economists led by Seth Carpenter, a senior
associate director in the Fed’s division of monetary affairs,
estimated that interest income could climb to a record of more
than $100 billion in 2014.  Last year, the Fed remitted $88.4 billion to the U.S.
Treasury.  As the Fed begins to normalize its policies in coming
years, its profits are likely to dwindle and may disappear as
interest rates rise, according to the Carpenter paper. Bonds
decline in value as interest rates rise, which would cause
losses on the central bank’s balance sheet. Meanwhile, the Fed
pays out interest on excess reserves, and those payments would
climb along with higher interest rates.  Ending Remittances  Carpenter and his co-authors estimated that remittances to
the Treasury could fall to zero for about four years under a
baseline scenario in which rates rise gradually. Under a more
aggressive interest-rate increase scenario, remittances could be
halted for about six years.  Fed Governor Jerome Powell  argued  in a March speech that
such losses wouldn’t prevent the central bank from pursuing its
objectives and Bernanke has said that the losses will be small
compared to the gains in growth and job creation that the Fed
has achieved.  “An extended period of zero remittances could certainly
bring the Federal Reserve under criticism from the public and
the Congress,” Powell said. “The question is whether the
Federal Reserve would permit inflation and thereby abandon its
post in the face of such criticism. There is no reason to expect
that to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  