-- Fibria Said to Seek $500 Million of Land Sales: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-05-24T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/fibria-said-to-seek-500-million-of-land-sales-corporate-brazil.html
Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s
largest pulp maker, plans to raise about 1 billion reais ($500
million) through land sales to pay debt, a step toward restoring
an investment-grade credit rating, according to a person with
knowledge of the proposal.  Fibria is in talks with local and U.S. pension funds to
sell as much as 250,000 hectares (618,000 acres) of land, an
area twice the size of  New York  city, said the person, who asked
not to be named because the talks are private. A deal where
investors would partner to buy the land and lease it back to
Fibria for eucalyptus farming could be announced this year, the
person said.  The land sale would help Fibria, a supplier of raw material
for tissue paper to Procter & Gamble Co. and  Kimberly-Clark
Corp. (KMB) , speed up the reduction of its  net debt  to 2.5 times
earnings before items, a level Standard & Poor’s requires to
give it an investment grade, Chief Financial Officer Guilherme Cavalcanti said.  “The land sale would accelerate our plans to regain the
investment grade,” Cavalcanti, 44, said in an interview in Sao
Paulo. He declined to disclose how much the company may raise or
who it’s in talks with. “Our focus is to cut debt, regain the
investment grade and prepare ourselves for a future
consolidation, either through an expansion or through
acquisitions.”  The company, formed by Votorantim Celulose & Papel SA’s
bailout of Aracruz Celulose SA in 2009, is looking to cut net
debt from about three times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization at the end of March. Standard &
Poor’s said on March 15 it may raise the company’s BB+ rating,
one level below  investment grade , if the company cuts debt to
levels closer to 2.5 times Ebitda.  Plant Sales  Fibria has already raised $3.6 billion through the sale of
assets and shares in the past four years and brought net debt
down to a three-year low of 7.3 billion reais in the first
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That included
the sale of Fibria’s Piracicaba paper plant to  Japan ’s OJI Paper
Co. and its Guaiba pulp unit to  Chile ’s Empresas CMPC SA.  “I like the Fibria story,” Victor Penna, a Sao Paulo-based equity analyst at Banco do Brasil SA who rates the stock
the equivalent of hold, said by telephone yesterday. “They’ve
delivered on their promises and as soon as they regain the
investment grade it’s a no-brainer that they will resume
growth.”  Fibria is trading at about 29 times estimated 2013
earnings, compared with a ratio of 42 for Suzano Papel &
Celulose SA, the country’s second-largest producer, and 20 for
paper maker Klabin SA. Eleven analysts rate Fibria a hold, while
three say sell and two recommend buying the stock.  Stock Decline  The  shares  have declined 2.2 percent in Sao Paulo this
year, compared with a 9.1 percent increase for Suzano and 5.6
percent for Klabin.  The pulpmaker is seeking investors who will agree to lease
the land back in long-term accords to ensure supplies of
eucalyptus trees for its four mills in Brazil, including its
Aracruz unit, the world’s largest pulp plant, Cavalcanti said.
Fibria is also considering selling scrubland that was being
saved for future forestry use, he said.  The investment-grade rating will likely be achieved with or
without the land sales at some point next year because rising
pulp prices are helping the company generate free cash flow to
pay off debt, he said. Fibria has generated positive cash flows
for the past five quarters.  “I’m not in a hurry to sell,” Cavalcanti said. “We will
only sell for the right price.”  Pulp Prices  Pulp prices  will remain near a 21-month high as mill
closures from  Brazil  to  Norway , coupled with low inventories,
prevent supplies from outpacing demand, Henri Philippe van Keer,
Fibria’s commercial and logistics director, said in the same
interview. Average prices reached $816.72 per ton in the week
ended May 21, the highest since the end of August 2011,
according to Helsinki- based FOEX Indexes Ltd.’s BHKP global
pulp price index.  “Prices should hold at these attractive levels as demand
is holding too, even amid new capacities coming online,” Felipe
Silveira, an equity analyst at brokerage Coinvalores in Sao
Paulo who has a hold recommendation on the stock, said by
telephone yesterday.  The obligations the company plans to pay earlier with
proceeds from land sales include its $1.87 billion of 2020
bonds, the company’s most costly debt with a 7.5 percent coupon.
Exercising an option to buy back the securities at 103.75 cents
to the dollar in 2015 would help Fibria cut average borrowing
costs currently at about 4.8 percent, Cavalcanti said.  Borrowing Costs  An investment-grade rating would allow Fibria to sell 10-year bonds at 4.25 percent, or one percentage point lower than
investors would probably demand now, Cavalcanti said.  The biggest risk for Fibria is that it may be
underestimating the impact that new plants coming online in the
second half of this year may have on prices, Banco do Brasil’s
Penna said. Prices of pulp to European clients may drop to about
$760 a ton by December, he said.  “Plant closures are not happening at the same speed as
openings, and I can’t see why pulp prices wouldn’t drop by year-end,” he said.  Fibria is also taking steps to be ready for an acquisition
or an investment in a new mill by the end of next year,
Cavalcanti said. An acquisition, which can be paid mostly with
shares to avoid large cash disbursements and generate savings,
would be more attractive than spending on a new unit, he said.  “We plan to resume growth with an eye on returns and the
other on debt management,” he said. “The debt chapter will
soon be a closed chapter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  