-- First TD Buyback in 6 Years Seen Helping Stock: Corporate Canada
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-05-24T12:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/first-td-buyback-in-6-years-seen-helping-stock-corporate-canada.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s first share
buyback in more than six years adds to a 10-year high in
Canadian capital repurchases as companies try to soften the blow
of underperforming stock prices.  Toronto-Dominion, the country’s second-largest bank by
assets, said yesterday it set aside C$1 billion (C$971 million)
to repurchase 12 million shares, or 1.3 percent, of its stock
starting next month, the first common share buyback since 2006.  TD joins companies including food group  George Weston Ltd. (WN) ,
rewards program owner  Aimia Inc. (AIM)  and insurer  Intact Financial
Corp. (IFC)  offering to buy back shares.  National Bank of Canada (NA) , the
country’s sixth-largest lender, said today it plans to buy back
as much as 2 percent of its shares starting in June.  “In the case of a slow-growth economic environment where
you can’t grow your business, then it seems the reasonable way
to enhance shareholder value is through stock buybacks or
dividend increases,” Anish Chopra, a fund manager at TD Asset
Management Ltd., said in phone interview from Toronto yesterday.  Companies on  Canada ’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index have repurchased C$22.1 billion of treasury
stock and shares on average in each of the past two years
through yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the highest two-year period in at least 10 years.  By comparison, U.S. companies in the S&P 500 have purchased
an average of $366.2 billion in stock in the same period, which
is a four-year high, the data show.  Lagging U.S.  Buybacks can add to earnings per share for companies by
paring the number of shares outstanding and reducing the amount
of dividends paid out.  The repurchases come as Canadian stocks lag behind their
U.S. peers. The Canadian benchmark has risen 1.8 percent this
year, compared with a 16 percent rise in the S&P 500 index, and
is on track for its third year of underperformance against the
U.S.  The S&P/TSX is expected to rise 4.6 percent in 2013,
according to the average year-end estimates of seven strategists
surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with an expected 14 percent
jump for the S&P 500, according to a separate survey.  To be sure, not all firms and investors are in favor of
buybacks.  “It’s not a prudent use of the company’s liquidity at this
point,” David Pathe, chief executive officer of  Sherritt
International Corp. (S) , said yesterday at the company’s annual
shareholder meeting in Toronto. “If we bought back shares any
benefit that we created in the share price would be fleeting and
I think it would just simply increase the risk for the remainder
of the shareholder base of the company.”  Dividend Better  Sherritt, a diversified mining and energy company, had
faced calls from Scott Leckie, principal with Takota Asset
Management Inc., to begin a share-buyback program. Takota, which
held an undisclosed position in the company, said in a May 7
statement that Sherritt’s share price was “heavily discounted
relative to the intrinsic value of its business.”  John Stephenson, a fund manager with First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto, said there’s no long-term benefit to
investors from a share buyback.  “You’re better off with a consistent dividend policy,”
said Stephenson, whose firm manages C$2.7 billion. “That’s
where you get the biggest bang for your buck.”  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  and Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce are among the country’s lenders using
buybacks in the past year along with dividend increases while
global peers focus on rebuilding their balance sheets to meet
regulators’ higher capital standards.  Unofficial Slogan  A market in which “give me dividends or give me death!”
has become the unofficial slogan gives banks food for thought on
how best to deploy the excess capital that continues to
accumulate, Sumit Malhotra, an analyst with Macquarie Capital
Markets, wrote in a May 21 note.  Canadian banks “are continuing to be the global leaders
and are so well positioned with strong balance sheets and strong
capital,” Colleen Johnston, TD’s chief financial officer, said
yesterday in an interview. “We’re in a position where we can
start thinking about capital deployment.”  Royal Bank, Canada’s largest lender, said in October it
planned to repurchase 30 million shares, or 2.1 percent of its
stock, over a year.  Bank of Montreal , the fourth-largest lender,
said in January it would buy 15 million shares, or 2.3 percent
of its float. CIBC said in February it bought back 3.34 million
shares under its September plan to repurchase 2 percent of its
stock.  The use of buybacks and dividends as well as flexibility
and the ability to adapt to changing markets are all important
factors when considering a potential investment in any company,
TD’s Chopra said  “Once you’ve increased your dividend to a certain level it
generally stays there, as companies and management teams are
reluctant to reduce that,” Chopra said. “But they have much
more flexibility with a buyback program because you can choose
not to renew it, modify it or time purchases. It gives you more
flexibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  