-- Fisher Says BOE Policy Makers Must Keep Up Economic Stimulus
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-24T09:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/fisher-says-boe-policy-makers-must-keep-up-support-for-economy.html
Bank of England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said policy makers must continue to provide support to
the British economy as companies and consumers reduce debts and
rebuild confidence.  “My policy vote has been driven by the need to continue
supporting the required real adjustments -- which still have
much to work through -- but cautiously, so as not to risk
inflation expectations becoming deanchored,” Fisher said in a
speech today in Cardiff, Wales. “Faster growth in the near-term
might actually help keep inflation down for a while as
productivity growth picks up.”  Fisher, along with Governor  Mervyn King  and  David Miles ,
was defeated in a push for more stimulus at the May 8-9 meeting
of the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee. While the economy
returned to growth in the first quarter and Fisher noted today
that there are signs of the beginning of a recovery, he said
“boom conditions” are still some way off.  “It is likely that growth will continue to be below the
previous trend until more of the real adjustments to balance
sheets across the economy have been made,” he said. “That
includes households, the public sector, banks and other
businesses. In my view we are maybe two thirds to three quarters
of the way through in each case.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar today and
was trading at $1.5109 as of 10:14 a.m. London time.  ‘Slow’ QE  Speaking to reporters after the event hosted by the Cardiff
Breakfast Club, Fisher repeated his proposal for a potential
prolonged period of “slow” bond purchases tied to the economic
outlook.  “We should be doing a slow amount of QE over a period of
time,” he said. “Twenty-five billion pounds over three months
is a slow rate, so that would be what you’d kick off with and
then you would stop when conditions were looking a lot better.”  Still, he said he didn’t want the BOE to mimic the  Federal
Reserve ’s position of continuing for an indefinite period.  “It’s sensible to say you’re going to do it for three
months, six months, because you get a natural review point,”
Fisher said. “I think the Americans are finding it a bit hard
as we’ve seen recently to get out because they’ve got this
indefinite horizon.”  Rate Cuts  In his speech, Fisher signaled that QE remains his
preferred stimulus, saying he’s not convinced about the merit of
cutting the  key interest rate , already at a record low of 0.5
percent.  “Further cuts in rates may not feed through to higher
consumption in the normal way and some of the effects could even
be perverse,” he said. “We may well find that getting rates
back to normal is part of re-establishing economic activity at
potential in due course.”  Barclays Plc economist  Simon Hayes  in London said Fisher’s
view “implies that the chances of a  bank rate  cut on the
arrival of new BOE Governor  Mark Carney  are rather low.” Carney
is due to take over in July after King retires.  Fisher also defended the BOE’s  quantitative-easing program 
-- through which it has bought 375 billion pounds ($566 billion)
of bonds -- and said external factors were mostly to blame for
above-target inflation, citing energy prices and the
depreciation of the pound. He added that he has been more
concerned about the risk of deflation in the past five years.  Consumer-price growth  was 2.4 percent in April, its 41st
straight month above the 2 percent goal, and the BOE forecasts
that it will only slow to the target in the second half of 2015.  “If QE has contributed to inflation still being somewhat
over target, that seems to me a much better outcome than the
alternative of a deeper recession and a greater risk of
deflation,” Fisher said.  “We have had our critics over the past few years and an
open debate on monetary policy is to be welcomed,” he said.
“But I have not heard anyone suggest a more convincing or
attractive policy stance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  