-- Fox Reality Chief Darnell Exits After ‘Idol’ Rating Slide
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-05-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/fox-reality-chief-darnell-to-depart-after-idol-ratings-slide.html
News Corp.’s Fox broadcast unit said
its reality-TV chief Mike Darnell has decided to step down after
18 years at the network as audience ratings decline for
“ American Idol ,” its most-watched program.  Darnell said in a statement yesterday he will depart in
June when his current deal expires even though the network
offered him a new long-term contract. Fox, based in  Los Angeles ,
didn’t name a replacement.  Fox is losing a key executive as the network seeks to
revive “Idol,” which had been TV’s most popular show until
last year. The show averaged 13.2 million viewers this season, a
decline of 23 percent from a year ago, according to Nielsen
data. Darnell joined Fox in 1994 and developed specials that
came to define the network, including “When Animals Attack!”
and “Breaking the Magician’s Code: Magic’s Biggest Secrets
Finally Revealed,” before reality shows became a mainstay.  “I’ve been in reality since before it was even called
that, and it has truly been an amazing ride,” Darnell said in
the statement. “However, the world has changed drastically over
the last few years and now with hundreds of channels and
limitless ways to watch television, I’ve decided this was the
perfect time to take advantage of the rapidly changing
marketplace.”  Darnell said in a phone interview yesterday that he hasn’t
decided whether to start his own production company.  “There’s a lot on the table,” he said. “I don’t like
change very much, but I really thought about this, I talked with
my wife and came to this decision. It’s a big leap for me.”  Personal Decision  Darnell is leaving as Fox looks to rework “Idol” for a
third time since  Simon Cowell , one of the original judges,
departed in 2010 to start “The X Factor.” Darnell said his
resignation isn’t connected to the show’s ratings.  “This is a personal decision,” he said. “I like ‘Idol.’
It’s a brand and a phenomenon. There will be good seasons and
bad seasons, but it will prevail because audiences want it to
work.”  In addition to “Idol,” Darnell helped bring reality and
competition series including “The X Factor,” “So You Think
You Can Dance” and “Hell’s Kitchen,” among many others, to
the network. He also had a role in developing animated shows
including “Family Guy” and “Futurama.”  “Mike took risks at a critical time and was a pioneering
force in shaping the reality programming genre that exists
today,”  Rupert Murdoch , chairman and chief executive officer of
News Corp., said in the statement. “He’s a smart and fearless
executive who will be missed.”  Critics Groan  Darnell delighted in television that made critics, censors
and parents groups groan, including “The Swan,” “Alien
Autopsy: Fact or Fiction?,” “Who Wants to Marry a Multi-Millionaire?,” “Man vs. Beast,” “Busted on the Job,” and
“World’s Scariest Police Chases.”  He oversaw shows including “Are You Smarter Than a 5th
Grader?,” “Joe Millionaire,” “The Simple Life,” “My Big
Fat Obnoxious Fiance,” “Trading Spouses” and “Temptation
Island.”  “Mike has been a trailblazer for the entire industry and
has made innumerable contributions to the growth and success of
the network over the past two decades,” said Peter Rice,
chairman of Fox Networks Group. “While we wish he would’ve
stayed forever, we regretfully accept his decision.”  News Corp. (NWSA) , based in  New York , gained 0.7 percent to $33.09
at the close in New York yesterday. The stock has climbed 30
percent this year, compared with a 16 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Darnell has one more month at the network and said he
doesn’t plan to sit back in that time.  “There’s still a couple things on the shelf,” he said.
“Maybe they’ll let me dust one of those off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  