-- France Faces Greater Threats as U.S. Pulls Back, Hollande Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-05-24T09:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/france-faces-greater-threats-as-u-s-pulls-back-hollande-says.html
Continued threats from  Africa  and the
 Middle East  at a time when the U.S. is pulling back from its
engagements led to France’s decision to spare its military from
spending cuts, French President  Francois Hollande  said.  “The U.S. is disengaging from theaters where it had been
active these recent years,” Hollande said in a speech at a
military college in Paris today. “Europe is confronted, country
by country, by budgetary problems that have led many of its
members to reduce their military efforts.”  The French government said last month that it was
maintaining military spending at about 30 billion euros ($39
billion) a year through 2019, rejecting proposals from some in
the  Finance Ministry  that  defense spending  play a greater role
in efforts to trim the  budget deficit . France will spend 371
billion euros this year, and Hollande has said he wants to cut
12 billion euros a year over his five-year term.  “Defense is a heavy investment for the country,” Hollande
said. “I made my choices with the sole criterion the national
interest. I must prepare my country for the challenges it could
face. The world is not safer than it was yesterday.”  Hollande said military spending will focus on “adjusting
to the threats of today and tomorrow,” with greater spending on
drones, spy satellites, cargo aircraft, refueling tankers and
multi-role frigates.  Military Size  The army will be reduced in size to about 66,000 deployable
soldiers by 2019, down from about 80,000.  Hollande said none of France’s major arms programs will be
halted, citing  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ’s Rafale fighter jet,
Eurocopter SA’s  Tiger and NH-90, Barracuda submarines and Felin
battlefield systems, though he didn’t say how many would be
ordered.  Hollande said 100 countries have “saluted” France’s
intervention in  Mali  earlier this year.  “More than ever, France needs strong defense to stay what
she is: an independent country, a reliable ally and power whose
military has been called upon without break for 10 years,”
Hollande said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  