-- German Consumer Sentiment to Reach 5-Year High in June, GfK Says
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-05-24T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/german-consumer-sentiment-to-reach-5-year-high-in-june-gfk-says.html
German  consumer confidence  will jump
to the highest in more than 5 1/2 years in June as low
unemployment and receding inflation encourage households to
spend, GfK AG said.  The market research company forecast today that its
 consumer-sentiment index , based on a survey of about 2,000
people, will increase to 6.5 next month from 6.2 in May. That
would be the highest since September 2007. Economists expected
the index to remain unchanged, according to the median of 26
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  “High-level employment, solid wage deals and easing
inflation are supporting sentiment,” Nuremberg-based GfK said
in an e-mailed statement. “In addition, the positive
development of the consumer climate is bolstered by a low
propensity to save, which has reached a new historic low.”  The German economy, Europe’s largest, grew just 0.1 percent
in the first quarter, less than economists forecast, as severe
winter weather damped construction and investment. Growth was
driven “almost exclusively” by household spending, the Federal
Statistics Office said. At 6.9 percent, the unemployment rate
remains near a two-decade low, and unions are winning bigger pay
increases for workers.  GfK’s measure of economic expectations rose to minus 0.2 in
May from minus 1.5 in April. An index measuring income
expectations jumped to 33.9 from 30.8, while a gauge of
consumers’ willingness to buy increased to 37.7 from 37.6.  “The German economy can recover further in the course of
the year, but the process will probably be rather slow,” GfK
said, adding that exports to the euro area “will probably
develop moderately.”  The European Central Bank this month cut its  benchmark
interest rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent as a recession in
the 17-nation euro region extended to a sixth straight quarter
and inflation fell to 1.2 percent in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  