-- German Ifo Sentiment Rises for First Time Since February
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-05-24T10:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/german-ifo-sentiment-rises-for-first-time-since-february.html
German business confidence increased
in May for the first time in three months, adding to signs that
growth in  Europe ’s largest economy is gathering pace.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 105.7 from 104.4 in
April. That’s the first gain since February. Economists
predicted sentiment to remain unchanged, according to the median
of 44 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey .  The German economy, Europe’s largest, grew just 0.1 percent
in the first quarter after a 0.7 percent contraction in the
final three months of 2012 as an unusually long winter damped
construction and investment. While risks stemming from Europe’s
debt crisis persist, the economy will gather pace in the current
quarter, the Bundesbank said this week. Factory orders surged
for a second month in March and exports increased.  Today’s “numbers are pretty good,”  Holger Schmieding ,
chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “After the weak first
quarter was distorted by a harsh winter we will see a
significant bounce in the second quarter.”  Ifo’s gauge of executives’ expectations remained unchanged
at 101.6, while a measure of current business conditions
increased to 110 from 107.3.  Consumer Confidence  The euro jumped more than half a cent after the release and
traded at $1.2961 at 12:04 p.m. in  Frankfurt . European stocks
declined for a second day after the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
yesterday dropped the most in 10 months. It slid 0.4 percent
today to 302.89.  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index is down 0.8
percent at 8286.14.  First-quarter growth in Germany was driven mainly by
household spending, which rose 0.8 percent from the final three
months of 2012, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said
today. At the same time, construction fell 2.1 percent and
 capital investment  dropped 1.5 percent.  German  consumer confidence  will jump to the highest in more
than 5 1/2 years in June as low unemployment and receding
inflation encourage households to spend, GfK AG said today.  “The German economy can recover further in the course of
the year, but the process will probably be rather slow,” GfK
said, adding that exports to the euro area “will probably
develop moderately.”  The 17-nation euro economy, Germany’s biggest export
market, shrank 0.2 percent in the first three months this year.
It was the sixth straight contraction, making the current
recession the longest in the currency’s 14-year history.  ECB Action  The  European Central Bank  cut its  benchmark interest rate 
to a record low of 0.5 percent on May 2 and President  Mario Draghi  said he stands ready to act again if the economic outlook
deteriorates.  “Our measures gave breathing space from markets driven by
panic,” he said yesterday at a speech in London. “Today we are
seeing some encouraging signs of tangible improvements in
financial conditions.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank forecasts the euro-area
economy will shrink 0.5 percent this year before growing 1
percent in 2014. That compares with the Bundesbank’s prediction
of 0.4 percent growth in Germany this year.  “We should not get carried away by a month of better data
flow,” said Evelyn Herrmann, an economist at BNP Paribas in
London. “The underlying momentum is weaker than we previously
thought it should be at this time of the year.”  ‘Challenging’ Climate  Puma SE (PUM) , Europe’s second-largest maker of sporting goods,
on May 14 cut its revenue and profit forecasts for this year
after reporting first-quarter earnings that trailed analysts’
estimates. The “business climate in Europe remains
challenging,” the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company said in
a statement.  Some German companies are compensating for weaker demand in
Europe with sales to faster growing markets abroad.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , Europe’s largest postal service, on May
14 reported profit that beat analysts’ predictions because of
growth at express-delivery businesses in  emerging markets .  “The German economy will expand for the rest of the year
but we should get ready for very low growth numbers,” said
Anatoli Annenkov, an economist at Societe Generale SA in  London .
“Uncertainty will continue to weigh on exports to the euro
area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  