-- German First-Quarter Growth Damped by Construction, Investment
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-24T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/german-first-quarter-growth-damped-by-construction-investment.html
The German economy’s return to growth
in the first quarter was hampered by declines in construction
activity and investment as a severe winter and a recession in
 Europe  damped demand.  Construction fell 2.1 percent from the fourth quarter and
capital investment dropped 1.5 percent, the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said today.  Gross domestic product  increased
0.1 percent, the office said, confirming a May 15 estimate. From
a year earlier, the economy shrank 0.2 percent when adjusted for
working days.  With the 17-nation euro area mired in recession and the
coldest March in a quarter-century freezing building activity,
Europe’s largest economy has relied on domestic demand to haul
it back to growth. GDP fell 0.7 percent in the fourth quarter of
2012.  “The somewhat disappointing first-quarter result was due
mainly to the cold weather and the sensitivity of companies to
developments in the rest of Europe,” said Gerd Hassel, an
economist at BHF Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “While that uncertainty
hasn’t quite fully dissipated yet, there should be a rebound in
construction activity in the second quarter and we could see
better-than-expected results.”  Household spending rose 0.8 percent in the first quarter,
while public spending fell 0.1 percent, today’s report showed.
Exports declined 1.8 percent and imports dropped 2.1 percent.
Domestic demand didn’t add to growth as stronger consumption was
offset by weaker investment, while net trade contributed 0.1
percentage point to GDP.  European Recession  The Bundesbank, which in December predicted growth of 0.4
percent this year and 1.9 percent in 2014, will publish new
forecasts next month.  The  euro-area economy  shrank more than economists forecast
in the three months through March, extending its recession to a
record sixth quarter. GDP in the region fell 0.2 percent after a
decline of 0.6 percent in the previous quarter.  Poor economic data prompted the  European Central Bank  to
cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent
this month, and President  Mario Draghi  has said he’s ready to
lower borrowing costs again if the economy worsens. Still, the
Frankfurt-based central bank predicts a gradual recovery in the
second half of the year.  Puma SE (PUM) , Europe’s second-largest maker of sporting goods,
cut its revenue and profit forecasts for this year on May 14,
citing a “challenging” business environment in Europe and
disappointing sales in  China .  Business Confidence  While surveys of purchasing managers still point to a
contraction in euro-area activity, data released yesterday were
better than economists anticipated. German business confidence
probably remained unchanged this month after falling in April
and March, according to a Bloomberg News survey. That report is
due at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  “The first half has been very sluggish for the global
economy and  Germany  will feel some pain from that,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“However, we still believe in the scenario of a recovery later
this year as less austerity in the euro area may take some of
the weight off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  