-- Gleacher Fires Chief Executive Thomas Hughes, COO John Griff
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-05-24T19:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/gleacher-fires-chief-executive-thomas-hughes-coo-john-griff-1-.html
Gleacher & Co. fired Chief Executive
Officer Thomas J. Hughes and Chief Operating Officer John Griff
a day after the struggling brokerage’s biggest shareholder took
control of the board.  The terminations are immediate, New York-based Gleacher
said today in a regulatory filing. MatlinPatterson Global
Advisors LLC, a private-equity firm holding a 29 percent stake,
elected its own slate of directors at Gleacher's annual meeting
yesterday following a feud with Hughes over future strategy.  Gleacher has cut staff after failing to sell itself amid
losses that totaled $198.4 million since 2009. The firm said
last month it will shut the fixed-income business that generated
most of its revenue. Earlier this month, the company reported a
wider first-quarter loss and said its prospects are “highly
uncertain.”  Hughes, Griff and MatlinPatterson officials didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment. Hughes previously
said he’s serving the best interests of employees and
shareholders and that he had the previous board’s support.  MatlinPatterson said May 2 that Gleacher should fire the
two executives because of the brokerage’s “disappointing
results.” Gleacher should should wind down, pursue a merger or
sale or reinvest assets in a more promising venture,
MatlinPatterson said.  Clinton Group Inc. , a New York-based investment firm that’s
part of a coalition of activist stakeholders, said in a
regulatory filing last month that Gleacher should seek a “rapid
rebirth” as an asset manager.  Hughes was named CEO of Gleacher in May 2011, according to
the firm’s  website . He previously was a special adviser to the
board of directors of LNR Property LLC, a commercial real estate
finance company. Griff, who become COO in July 2011, was
previously strategic adviser to the CEO of LNR Property Corp.,
according to the  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  