-- Goldman Sachs Buyback Orders Reach Highest Level of Year
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-05-24T20:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/goldman-sachs-buyback-orders-reach-highest-level-of-year.html
Investors trying to explain the
resilience of American equities during a global selloff may want
to consider the pace that companies are repurchasing shares.  About 79 percent of buyback orders at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s corporate trading desk were active yesterday, the most
this year, according to a note to clients obtained by  Bloomberg
News . Companies stepped up purchases as the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell as much as 3 percent from an intraday record
reached May 22.  The buybacks may have limited losses in American equities
after shares in  Japan  fell the most in two years and stock
markets from  London  to Paris and Frankfurt saw declines of more
than 2 percent. The  S&P 500  closed yesterday down 0.3 percent,
trimming gains to 16 percent in 2013.  “The overall buy-the-dip mentality is very, very
prevalent,” Jim Welsh, who helps oversee $6 billion at Forward
Management LLC in  San Francisco , said in a phone interview.
“When you have corporate buybacks, it’s kind of like a support
underneath the market.”  The S&P 500 slipped 0.1 percent to 1,649.60 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , paring losses after falling as much as 0.8 percent.  $275 Billion  Companies authorize buybacks and carry them out from time
to time through brokerages as a way to reduce outstanding stock
and increase per-share earnings. U.S. firms have announced about
$275 billion of repurchases this quarter, the highest total in
more than five years,  Jeffrey Kleintop , chief market strategist
at  LPL Financial Holdings Inc. (LPLA) , wrote in a report this week.  Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the largest provider of supplemental health
insurance, plans to buy back $600 million in stock this year,
Chief Executive Officer Dan Amos said at a presentation to
investors this week.  Merck & Co., the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, reached a
deal to repurchase $5 billion of its shares from Goldman Sachs
as part of a buyback program announced earlier this month,
according to a statement on May 21.  “A lot of these corporate buybacks are on autopilots, in
other words, the board authorized X amount of purchases and
these will be done over many months,” Forward’s Welsh said.
“Whether or not it’s to the discretion of Goldman or the
investment bank, I don’t know. I do believe the amount of stock
buybacks have definitely been helpful to the overall market.”  The Nasdaq Buyback Achievers Index, which consists of
companies that repurchased at least 5 percent of their shares in
the previous 12 months, has tripled since March 2009. That
compares with the 144 percent gain in the S&P 500.  Shares in the S&P 500 are trading at about 15 times
estimates for 2013 earnings, above the five-year average of
about 13 times, according to a May 20 note from  David Kostin ,
the chief U.S. equity strategist at Goldman Sachs in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  