-- Li Praises German-led Recovery as China Urges Crisis Resolution
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2013-05-24T14:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/li-praises-german-led-recovery-as-china-urges-crisis-resolution.html
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang praised
Germany’s leadership during the debt crisis while urging  Europe 
to resolve its fiscal woes and ensure euro-area stability.  Li, writing in an op-ed in Germany’s Die Zeit newspaper
before a May 26 meeting in Berlin with  Chancellor Angela Merkel ,
said that  China  will import about $10 trillion of goods and
invest $500 billion overseas in the coming five years. That
leaves “great potential to be tapped” for expanding ties
between China and Germany, he said.  “China is a firm supporter of EU integration,” Li said in
an English translation of the text released by the official
Xinhua News Agency. “We hope that the EU will successfully
address the debt issue and that the  euro zone  will enjoy
monetary stability.” China “appreciates what Germany has done
to promote recovery in Europe,” he said.  Li is visiting Germany and neighboring  Switzerland  as part
of his first overseas trip since taking office. Chinese-German
two-way trade is worth more than $160 billion, Li said. He
cautioned that the global economy still faces “uncertainties
and growing protectionism,” as well as risks to the
international monetary and financial system.  “China and  Germany , as two major responsible countries,
should unequivocally support free trade, oppose protectionism
and step up international cooperation,” he said.  China also needs to do its own homework, he said.  “China has now entered a deep-water zone where tough
challenges need to be tackled,” Li said, citing reforms that he
said “we will fully deepen” in administration, fiscal policy,
taxation, finance and pricing. China will continue to improve
its intellectual property rights and ensure “a level playing
field for all businesses,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  