-- IDB Bondholders Seek to Wrest Control From Businessman Dankner
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-05-24T14:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/idb-bondholders-seek-to-wrest-control-from-businessman-dankner.html
Bondholder representatives of IDB
Development Corp. and its parent are seeking to take over the
Israeli investment company’s shares and wrest control from
Chairman Nochi Dankner.  IDB Development and IDB Holding Corp. said they received a
copy of the bondholder plan and will be contesting it, according
to a filing to the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange and an e-mailed
statement. The accord requires court approval, the Globes
business daily reported on its website.  Dankner has spent the past 15 years building the family
business that made its fortune in table salt and real estate and
includes  Israel ’s biggest supermarket chain,  Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) , and
the largest mobile operator,  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)   “The risk of Dankner losing control of the IDB group of
companies has increased dramatically,” Richard Gussow, a senior
analyst for DS Securities & Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said
today by phone. “I don’t see any immediate impact on IDB
subsidiaries Shufersal or Cellcom from the change of
ownership.”  IDB Holding, which has been seeking funds to meet payments
on about 2.06 billion shekels ($557 million) in debt, is in
debt-settlement talks with bondholders. The company in March
proposed a debt arrangement to transfer 15 percent of its shares
to bondholders and to make a 500 million-shekel cash injection.
IDB Development owes 6 billion shekels to bondholders and banks.  The bondholder representatives serve investors including
Psagot Investment House Ltd, Phoenix Holdings Ltd. and York
Capital Management LP, according to an e-mailed statement. Banks
which also hold IDB debt will have to agree to the deal. IDB
said today it intends to present IDB Holding bondholders a
“much better offer.”  IDB Holding shares fell 2.6 percent in  Tel Aviv  yesterday,
bringing a decline this year to 17 percent. That compares with a
gain of 2.5 percent for the benchmark Tel Aviv 25 Index.
Israel’s market is closed today for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  