-- IEA Warns Merkel to Reduce Cost of German Clean-Energy Switch
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-05-24T10:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/iea-warns-merkel-to-reduce-cost-of-german-clean-energy-switch.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government
should take steps to contain the cost of the German energy
switch from nuclear power to renewables, the  International
Energy Agency  said.  German consumers have so far borne the brunt through power
bills that have been inflated by renewable power subsidies while
large consumers have been shielded from the increased costs, the
Paris-based adviser said in a  study  released today. The costs
need to be “minimized and allocated fairly and equitably,” the
agency said in the report.  Merkel has been trying to prevent a voter backlash before
the Sept. 22 elections after costs to expand clean energy surged
as the country seeks to more than triple the share of renewables
in its power mix by 2050 while phasing out nuclear generation.
Consumers in  Europe ’s biggest economy have seen power bills
climb this year after a fee they pay for renewables jumped 47
percent to a record.  “The fact that German electricity prices are among the
highest in Europe, despite relatively low wholesale prices, must
serve as a warning signal,” IEA Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven said in an e-mailed statement. “The German
government should maintain its policy course based on a
predictable and stable regulatory framework while actively
seeking means to reduce the costs.”  While the agency warned against retroactive cuts to
subsidies that would discourage investment, it recommended
creating incentives for renewable suppliers to connect to the
grid where it’s most cost-effective.  Germany  should also speed
up expansion of its electricity grid and strengthen the position
of natural gas as the use of more-polluting coal is increasing,
van der Hoeven said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  