-- Military Should Run Drone Strikes, Colin Powell Says
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-05-25T04:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/military-should-run-drone-strikes-colin-powell-says.html
U.S. drone strikes should be limited
to targets that present a “real, immediate threat to us” and
conducted by the military rather than the CIA, former Secretary
of State  Colin Powell  said.  “Drones are a very, very effective weapon and we will
continue to use them, but in a more circumscribed manner to make
sure that we are going after the high-value targets that present
a real, immediate threat to us,” Powell said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend.  The comments by Powell, also a former chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, are the first time he has spoken publicly about
the unmanned aircraft known as drones. His remarks went further
than the steps President  Barack Obama   outlined  in a May 23
speech to tighten the rules governing how drone strikes will be
conducted.  Powell, 76, said the Pentagon should be responsible for
operating drone strikes after a period in which the Central
Intelligence Agency directed many such attacks. The CIA has
targeted alleged terrorists in places that aren’t overt war
zones, such as Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia.  “The CIA didn’t do this kind of targeted assassination
just a few years ago,” Powell said. “And then because of 9/11
and what we were going through for the last years, they took
more and more responsibility.”  Along with giving the military full authority, Obama should
work with Congress to revise the rules, Powell said.  Tighter Rules  Obama, calling the drone campaign justified, pledged to
work with Congress to add scrutiny to the program and
administration officials said the military instead of the CIA
will be the lead authority for such strikes. Powell said
authority for drone use should be shifted immediately and
exclusively to the Defense Department.  “This doesn’t mean the CIA has nothing to do with it,”
Powell said. “The intelligence will come from the CIA and other
sources and then be fed into the  Department of Defense .”  Powell praised Obama’s speech as “balanced,” and credited
him for seeking to be “more careful of the use of force,
especially with respect to drones.”  While drone attacks have been effective against their
targets, they have stoked a backlash against the U.S.,
particularly when they cause civilian deaths. Powell said he was
recently reminded by a Pakistani “senior officer” about the
unintended consequences of the CIA drone strikes.  Killing Villagers  “He said if you make a mistake and you end up killing 10
or 15 villagers or 20 villagers, in addition to the person
you’re after, you have created 20 new enemies,” Powell said.  Obama signed new presidential policy guidelines that give a
bigger role for the drone program to the military rather than
the CIA and set standards to be applied in carrying out strikes.
Those include not using drones when a target can be captured and
only when there is an imminent threat.  Powell in his comments cautioned against military
involvement in  Syria  and praised Secretary of State  John Kerry ’s
efforts “to create a diplomatic environment that will permit a
political solution” in the country where a civil war has raged
for more than two years.  Powell said he opposes steps such as creating a no-fly
zone, which has been advocated by some U.S. lawmakers including
Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona .  “This is the time for caution,” Powell said.  ‘Pathological Liar’  Powell said he has negotiated in the past with Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, and he termed him a “pathological
liar.”  “So I’ve got no trust for him, but at the time I’m not
sure what replaces him,” Powell said. “The conflict will not
be over just because he suddenly walks away. I think a new
conflict will emerge, and we’ll have to determine what role we
will play in resolving that.”  Commenting on the furor among Republican lawmakers over the
administration’s talking points following the attack last year
in which four U.S. diplomats were killed in Benghazi,  Libya ,
Powell said: “I don’t think it’s a full-fledged scandal.”  “All the chatter about the talking points, I don’t care
about the talking points,” Powell said.  “I’m more interested in what was known before with respect
to the risks they were about to accept and what was done on the
ground to negate that risk,” he said. “That’s what we ought to
be looking at.”  Handling Leaks  Powell said that during his time in government he was
mindful of the need to seek the “right balance” between
informing the public and keeping secrets, particularly when
disclosure might put troops or others at risk. Still, he said
that based on what he has read, the Obama administration went
“perhaps over the line” in its efforts to track leaks to the
Associated Press and Fox News.  With instances of alleged sexual assaults in the military
drawing attention, Powell said military officials know they must
get these kinds of problems under control.  The military justice system does work for such cases, he
said. “I can tell you in my experience as a commander we take
it very, very seriously,” he said.  On the large backlog of veterans’ claims, Powell said he
has confidence that Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki
is making headway dealing with that problem.  “General Shinseki has said he needs another couple of
years to work on the backlog,” Powell said. “I have confidence
that he will get it done.”  Vietnam Wall  Powell was interviewed in front of the  Vietnam Veterans
Memorial Wall  in  Washington , where the names of 58,286 Americans
died in that war are inscribed in black granite. Powell, who
served in that conflict, said that one lesson of that war is the
need to have a “a clear understanding” of political objectives
and of enemy motivation before committing U.S. forces.  Powell, a Republican who endorsed Obama in 2008 and in
2012, said that the president “has done reasonably well” at
start of second term. Powell said he hopes Obama succeeds in
efforts with Congress to revise  immigration  laws.  The economy is improving, though steps to deal with the
nation’s budget deficit require action, he said.  “We have got to fix our fiscal situation and our economy
if we’re going to be able to do anything else in the world,”
Powell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  