-- Indian Rupee Set for Third Weekly Drop on Fed Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-05-24T05:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/indian-rupee-set-for-third-weekly-drop-on-fed-stimulus-outlook.html
India ’s rupee is poised for a third
weekly decline after the  Federal Reserve  indicated it may slow
debt purchases, fueling concern that fund flows to  emerging
markets  will reduce. Bonds gained for an eighth week.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 that the
central bank may cut the pace of bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing, in the next few meetings if policy makers
see indications of sustained economic growth. Foreign investors
have bought $14.5 billion more of Indian shares than they have
sold this year, an increase of 69 percent from a year earlier,
helping meet dollar demand as a record current-account deficit
pressures the currency.  “Concerns that inflows will be affected if the Fed reduces
stimulus are keeping the rupee subdued,” said  Paresh Nayar ,
head of money markets and currency at FirstRand Ltd. in Mumbai.
“India needs sustained capital flows to offset the shortfall in
the current account.”  The rupee weakened 1.5 percent this week and 0.3 percent
today to 55.75 per dollar as of 10:18 a.m. in Mumbai, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 56.0145 yesterday, the
lowest level since Sept. 6.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 42 basis points,
or 0.42 percentage point, this week to 8.89 percent.  India’s current account  deficit  reached a record $32.5
billion in the three months through December, official data
show.  Easing Inflation  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 56.66 per
dollar, compared with 55.79 at the end of last week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable
contracts were at 56.61 versus 55.94. Forwards are agreements to
buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  India’s wholesale price  index  climbed 4.89 percent in April
from a year earlier, the least since November 2009, official
data showed last week, spurring speculation of further central
bank rate cuts. The  Reserve Bank  of India has reduced the
repurchase rate by 75 basis points this year to 7.25 percent.  The yield on the 8.15 percent government bonds June 2022
dropped six basis points this week to 7.36 percent in Mumbai.
The rate fell three basis points today.  The five-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract
used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose three
basis point this week to 6.79 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The fundamentals are for lower bond yields and swap rates
amidst sluggish growth momentum and easing inflation of late,”
Citigroup analysts including Singapore-based Gaurav Garg wrote
in a research note. “We recommend being long rupee bonds and
receive five-year swaps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  