-- Italian Bank Earnings to Remain Low Over 3 Years, Prometeia Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-05-24T14:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/italian-bank-earnings-to-remain-low-over-3-years-prometeia-says.html
Earnings of Italian banks will remain
low over the next three years as the country’s economy struggles
to recover and lenders are forced to meet stricter European
capital rules, according to research group  Prometeia .  Italian banks may generate profit of 21 billion euros ($27
billion) from 2013 to 2015, about a third of the 61 billion
euros in net income in the 2005-2007 period, the Bologna-based
institute said in a report. Lenders in the country may report
about 2.4 billion euros of profit this year, Prometeia said.  “The external environment, market conditions and
restructuring measures required by tougher regulation will hurt
banks’ profitability,” Prometeia Deputy Chairman Giuseppe Lusignani said at today’s presentation in Milan. Banks will
further reduce costs to offset higher provisions and lower
margins, he said.  Italy ’s longest recession in two decades is depressing
interest rates and hurting margins for lenders in the country,
including  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s two
biggest banks. Italian companies and households are struggling
to repay debts, forcing banks to set aside more money for bad
loans.  Loan-loss provisions through 2015 may reach 48 billion
euros, according to Prometeia, and return on equity may rise
from 0.9 percent this year to 3.9 percent in 2015. The institute
expects net interest income to decline 1.5 percent this year,
while banks’ operating costs may decline 3.9 percent.  Capital Gap  Some of the 13 banks listed on the Italian stock exchange
still need a total of 4 billion euros to meet the Basel III
capital target, Lusignani said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which
represents central banks and regulators in 27 nations and sets
capital standards worldwide, will force lenders to have common
equity equal to at least 7 percent of assets, weighted according
to their risk, by 2019.  “There are lenders in our universe that still need capital
to meet the 7 percent common equity target,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  