-- Mitsubishi Motors Plans to Reduce Capital to Offset Losses
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-05-24T08:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/mitsubishi-motors-plans-to-reorganize-capital-to-offset-losses.html
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  plans to
reorganize its capital to help unload the worst accumulated
losses in the automotive industry.  The carmaker will decrease its capital by 75 percent to
165.7 billion yen ($1.6 billion) and cancel all of its 433.2
billion yen in capital reserves, it said in a  statement  today.
The Tokyo-based company also plans to ease restrictions on its
ability to issue shares, among proposals subject to approval
from  shareholders  at next month’s annual general meeting.  The move is designed to help Mitsubishi Motors, which
stopped paying dividends in 1998, shore up its  balance sheet  and
resume returning cash to shareholders. The company has been
seeking to restore confidence in its cars for more than a decade
after saying it covered up safety defects and customer
complaints, alienating consumers to the point that it required a
540 billion yen bailout in 2005.  “Even if they erase the accumulated loss and streamline
their financials, if they don’t have a clear growth strategy
toward the future, it will be difficult to raise money,” said
Mitsushige Akino, chief  fund manager  at Ichiyoshi Asset
Management Co.  Mitsubishi Motors rose 2.5 percent to close at 162 yen in
Tokyo before the announcement. Yesterday, the  stock  had its
biggest decline since July 2004 amid a rout in Japanese shares.  The company also announced a 1-for-10 reverse stock split.  Paying Dividends  “If they can really start paying dividends again, that
could lead to gains in their share prices,”  Satoru Takada , a
Tokyo-based analyst at Toward the Infinite World Inc. “Today’s
announcement is still the first steps and what the markets need
is information on a strategy from the company or signs that
 sales  are going to grow, that they will be profitable.”  Mitsubishi group companies -- Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc.,  Mitsubishi Corp (8058)  and  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd (7011) 
-- now own  36 percent  of the automaker’s outstanding shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after bailing it out,
partly by buying preferred stock convertible into common shares.  Like most Japanese exporters, Mitsubishi Motors is
benefiting from a weaker yen that increases the value of
overseas  sales . The company is forecasting net income will rise
32 percent to a record 50 billion yen in the fiscal year ending
March 2014.  Accumulated Losses  That’s not enough to make up for Mitsubishi Motors’
accumulated losses -- ranging from 688 billion yen to 924.6
billion yen, depending on its consolidated or non-consolidated
statements. Those are the biggest retained losses by any
carmaker in the world, according data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, the company is looking to expand. Last year, it
began production at a third factory in  Thailand  as demand
increases in  Southeast Asia . It aims to double sales in China
this year with its venture with  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (2238)   In Japan, where minicars have taken up about 40 percent of
the new car sales, Mitsubishi Motors has teamed up with  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  to develop vehicles with small engines.  “It’s a good time for them to erase accumulated loss as
the yen is turning weaker and business in  Asia  is expanding,”
Satoshi Nagashima, senior partner at Roland Berger Strategy
Consultants. “If they can make sure of the  profits  this current
fiscal year, the possibility of paying dividends will be greatly
increased.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in  Tokyo  at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  