-- Jet Airways Posts Wider-Than-Estimated Quarterly Loss
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-24T19:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/jet-air-posts-wider-than-estimated-quarterly-loss-as-costs-rose.html
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the
nation’s biggest publicly traded airline, reported quarterly
loss that was wider than analysts estimated as aircraft lease
costs increased and it had a one-time expense.  The  net loss  widened to 4.96 billion rupees ($89 million)
in the three months ended March from a loss of 2.98 billion
rupees a year earlier, the Mumbai-based carrier said in a
statement yesterday. The median of five  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg was for a loss of 106 million rupees.  Jet Airways yesterday won shareholders’ approval to sell a
stake in the airline to Etihad Airways PJSC in an effort to pare
debt and expand operations amid competition from discount
carriers. Airlines in  India  carried fewer passengers in the
quarter as slower pace of economic growth damped  travel demand .  Revenue declined to 39.2 billion rupees from 40.4 billion
rupees. The carrier had a one-time expense on salary arrears of
1.6 billion rupees in the quarter and aircraft lease costs
increased 42 percent to 3.4 billion rupees, the company said.  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) , the nation’s only listed discount carrier,
narrowed losses during the period to 1.86 billion rupees from
2.49 billion rupees a year ago after winning more passengers,
according to a statement from the Chennai-based company.  Jet Airways declined 4.3 percent, the biggest drop since
March 4, to 561.15 rupees at the close of trading yesterday in
Mumbai, before the results were announced. SpiceJet gained 2.6
percent. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex advanced 0.2 percent.  Shareholder Approval  Stockholders of Jet Airways approved preferential allotment
of 27.3 million shares in the airline to Etihad for 20.6 billion
rupees, or at 754.74 rupees apiece, Jet Airways said in a
separate exchange filing. The transaction is subject to
approvals from India’s  Foreign Investment Promotion Board  and
the nation’s antitrust regulator.  The partnership with Etihad will help improve the operating
cash flows and bring cost synergies, Jet Airways said in its
earnings statement.  Etihad in February said it agreed to buy and lease back
three pairs of  London ’s Heathrow airport slots to Jet Airways.  The  Indian carrier  said yesterday that it had bought out
its frequent-flier unit Jet Privilege Pvt. in December. Etihad
may invest in Jet Airways’ loyalty program, according to the
Sydney-based CAPA Centre for Aviation.  Jet Airways winning Etihad funds is the first deal signed
by an Indian carrier since India changed rules in September to
allow a maximum of 49 percent investment by an overseas airline.  Domestic passengers carried by airlines in India declined
1.5 percent to 14.9 million in the three months ended March,
according to the  Directorate General of Civil Aviation . India’s
statistics office has estimated the nation’s gross domestic
product expanded 5 percent in the year ended March, the weakest
pace in a decade.  Malaysia’s  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  won approval in March from a
government panel to hold a 49 percent stake in a new airline
venture with Tata Sons Ltd. The company has applied for
permission to start operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  