-- JPMorgan Is Hired by Russia to Promote Sovereign Credit Rating
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-05-24T10:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/jpmorgan-is-hired-by-russia-to-promote-sovereign-credit-rating.html
Russia’s  Finance Ministry  hired
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  the biggest U.S. lender, to help boost the
country’s standing among credit-rating companies.  JPMorgan was chosen after beating proposals from other
investment banks, the ministry said in a  statement  on its
website, without naming the other firms. Natalia Shchetinina, a
JPMorgan spokeswoman in Moscow, declined to comment.  Russia has long complained of bias by the three U.S. rating
companies that dominate the industry. President  Vladimir Putin 
said in 2011 the rankings given to Russia were an “outrage”
that increased borrowing costs for domestic companies and the
government. The country has “more than earned” an upgrade,
Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said in June.  The world’s largest energy exporter last had its debt score
changed by one of the three U.S. companies in February 2009,
when  Fitch Ratings  cut it one level to BBB, three steps below A
and two above junk. That came three months after  Standard &
Poor’s  did the same. Moody’s Investors Service has held Russia
at Baa1, the third-lowest investment grade, since July 2008.  S&P and Moody’s have said Russia’s reliance on oil revenue,
which makes the budget vulnerable to swings in commodity prices,
outweighs the low level of sovereign debt. Russia plans to
follow last year’s sale of $7 billion in euro bonds with another
offering of the same amount in 2013.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in February it had been hired
by the government to burnish Russia’s image overseas and attract
institutional investors. The New York-based bank signed a three-year agreement with the  Economy Ministry  and the Russian Direct
Investment Fund to advise on issues such as communicating
government decisions and setting up meetings with investors,
according to Sergei Arsenyev, Goldman Sachs’s managing director
of  investment banking  in Moscow.  Goldman Sachs and New York-based JPMorgan are on a list of
23 foreign and domestic banks selected to advise Russia on its 1
trillion-ruble ($33 billion) privatization program. Last year
both American investment banks helped advise OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s largest lender, on a $5.2 billion equity sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  