-- Kerry Says Israel Can Act on Settlements to Revive Talks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-05-24T12:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/kerry-says-israel-can-act-on-settlements-to-revive-talks.html
Israel ’s government can take action
over Jewish settlements on the West Bank to help meet
Palestinian concerns that are an obstacle to reviving peace
talks, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said.  “The government has an ability to make a difference here
in the next months,” Kerry told reporters at a press conference
in Tel Aviv today. “It is my hope that they will.”  He was addressing efforts by Israeli authorities to
legalize four unsanctioned Jewish settlement outposts in the
West Bank, highlighted by Peace Now last week. The Israeli
activist group cited documents from a court case over the
outposts that showed the government is examining legal
arrangements for the buildings.  Palestinians have refused to restart talks, which broke
down more than two years ago, unless Israel freezes the
construction of settlements in occupied territories. Kerry,
speaking after two days of talks with leaders from both sides,
said today that there’s no “artificial” timetable for a
resumption, though he added that leaders must soon make “hard
decisions.”  The top U.S. diplomat criticized the election in  Iran ,
where more than 600 would-be candidates for the June 14
presidential vote were excluded by the Guardian Council, after
they were vetted for commitment to the Islamic republic.  The process makes it “highly unlikely” that candidates
will represent change or a fair choice, Kerry said. He also
noted complaints by the International Atomic Energy Agency over
lack of access to Iranian nuclear sites, saying the issue is
“very very much on our radar screen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Holland in Istanbul at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  