-- HKMEx’s Cheung Quits All Hong Kong Public Service Posts
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-05-24T16:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/hkmex-s-cheung-quits-all-hong-kong-public-service-posts.html
Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange
Chairman  Barry Cheung  resigned from all public service
positions, including the city’s Cabinet, because he’s under
police investigation, the government said.  Leung Chun-ying, the city’s chief executive, accepted
Cheung’s resignation and said the police and Securities and
Futures Commission will “impartially” probe the HKMEx and
Cheung, according to a  statement  yesterday.  Cheung, reached by mobile phone yesterday, declined to
comment. Cheung, who ran the 2012 election campaign for Leung,
had earlier this week taken a leave of absence from his public
positions.  The HKMEx surrendered its trading license in the week ended
May 18, telling the  Securities and Futures Commission  that
trading revenues couldn’t support operating expenses. The
 regulator  found “serious” suspected irregularities in the
exchanges’s financial affairs and referred the case to the
police.  Yesterday, three men arrested as part of the probe were
charged with having false documents including letters related to
a $460 million check and $11 million of funds. Kowloon City
Magistrate Clement Lee denied bail to the men, all from mainland
 China , and adjourned the hearing. No mention of HKMEx was made
in the charges or in court.  Cheung, the founder and largest shareholder of the HKMEx,
said previously that the three aren’t current or former
employees.  In addition to the Cabinet, known as the Executive Council,
Cheung quit the Urban Renewal Authority, the Standing Committee
on Disciplined Services Salaries and Conditions of Service, the
Commission on Strategic Development and the Long Term Housing
Strategy Steering Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  