-- Krona Falls Amid Bets Riksbank Will Cut Rates: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-05-24T09:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/krona-falls-amid-bets-riksbank-will-cut-rates-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden ’s krona weakened to its lowest
level against the euro in more than a week after consumer and
manufacturing confidence unexpectedly slumped in May, prompting
economists to predict the Riksbank will cut rates in July.  The krona sank as much as 0.4 percent against the euro to
8.6330, its weakest level since May 15, and traded at 8.6121 as
of 11:12 a.m. in Stockholm.  “Growth in the economy appears to be sluggish and
prospects for the second quarter are bleaker than expected,”
Nordea Bank AB said in a note today. “This in turn implies that
a rate cut in July is coming closer.”  Sweden’s central bank, which announces its next rate
decision on July 3, last month postponed tightening plans by
about a year to late 2014 after krona gains prevented the bank
reaching its inflation target. The Riksbank resisted calls to
cut its repo rate, arguing the move would fuel record household
debt levels. The bank said then economic growth prospects “are
gradually brightening.”  Today’s confidence data paint a different picture. An index
measuring  consumer confidence  in the largest Nordic economy fell
to 3.6 in May from 5.2 the previous month, the National
Institute of  Economic Research  said. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had predicted a 6.5 reading. A gauge of manufacturing
confidence sank to minus 15 from a revised minus 9.  “After some positive signs for manufacturing and export
orders recently, today’s figure stand out as a big surprise,”
Anders Brunstedt, an economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB, said
in a  note . “Retail industry saw some weakening in the May
barometer, passing zero on its way from 1 in April to -1 in May.
This is hardly a significant change, but looking at the trend in
2013, retail industry prospects seem to worsen admittedly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  