-- N.Y.-N.J. Port Authority Said to Fire Treasurer for Taking Gifts
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-05-24T20:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/n-y-n-j-port-authority-said-to-fire-treasurer-for-taking-gifts.html
The  Port Authority  of  New York  and
 New Jersey  fired its treasurer and two of her staff members for
accepting meals and theater tickets on local and international
trips, said a person familiar with the matter.  Treasurer Anne Marie Mulligan, who worked at the agency for
35 years and oversaw bond issuance and insurance, was fired
after an internal probe, said the person, who wasn’t authorized
to speak publicly because the investigation was private.
Assistant Treasurer Veronica Biddle and John Huxel, the agency’s
risk manager, were also dismissed.  The Port Authority, controlled by New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, and Republican Governor  Chris Christie  of New
Jersey, operates the region’s three major airports and the World
Trade Center site.  “After learning the findings of an Inspector General
investigation, the Port Authority immediately moved to terminate
its top three Treasury employees,” the Port Authority said in
an e-mailed statement. “The agency’s swift action demonstrates
its commitment to ensuring its personnel adhere to the highest
standards of performance, integrity and stewardship of the
public’s trust.”  Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth McCarthy will take on
Mulligan’s responsibilities, the agency said.  The gifts were given by insurance company employees in New
York City, London and Zurich in the past year, the person said.  The inspector general began probing the Treasury employees
after another worker who was fired alerted them to the
inappropriate behavior, the person said.  “We’re aware of it,”  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for
Christie, said by telephone from his office in Trenton. Matt
Wing, a spokesman for Cuomo, declined to comment.  The firings were reported earlier by the New York Post.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  