-- Nadal Draws Brands, Williams Plays Tatishvili at French Open
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-24T10:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/nadal-draws-brands-williams-plays-tatishvili-at-french-open.html
Defending champion  Rafael Nadal  of
Spain will start his quest to win eight French Open
championships against 60th-ranked Daniel Brands of Germany.  Nadal, the third seed and men’s tournament favorite, made
his comeback to the tennis tour in February after missing seven
months with a knee injury. He said at the draw held today at
 Roland Garros  that he’s “very happy,” to be back at his most
successful Grand Slam event.  Men’s top seed Novak Djokovic of Serbia, who has yet to win
at Roland Garros, was drawn against 57th-ranked David Goffin of
Belgium. Nadal and Djokovic were drawn in the same half, meaning
there won’t be a repeat of last year’s final between the two as
they’re now scheduled to meet in the semi-finals.  Second-seeded  Roger Federer  of Switzerland, the 2009
champion, was drawn in the opposite half to Nadal and will face
a qualifier.  Britain’s  Andy Murray , the U.S. Open champion, withdrew
from Roland Garros earlier this week with a lower-back injury.  In the women’s draw, tournament favorite Serena Williams
starts against 83rd-ranked Anna Tatishvili of Georgia. The 31-year-old American, the women’s top seed, lost in the first round
of Roland Garros last year. Her only win in Paris was in 2002.  Defending champion Maria Sharapova of Russia, the second
seed, was drawn against 42nd-ranked Su-Wei Hsieh of Chinese
Taipei. Also drawn in Sharapova’s half was Australian Open
champion  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus, the third seed, who will
play Russia’s Elena Vesnina.  Former champion Li Na of China meets Spain’s Anabel Medina
Garrigues while  Venus Williams , a five-time Wimbledon champion,
plays Poland’s Urszula Radwanska.  The French Open, the world’s only clay-court major, starts
May 26 at Roland Garros in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Danielle Rossingh at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net  