-- Nadal 0n Course for French Open Semi Against Djokovic
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-24T11:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/nadal-0n-course-for-french-open-semi-against-djokovic.html
Defending champion  Rafael Nadal  of
Spain may have to play men’s top seed Novak Djokovic in the
semifinals as he seeks a record eighth  French Open  tennis title.  Nadal, the third seed and men’s tournament favorite, will
play his first round against 60th-ranked Daniel Brands of
Germany. Australian Open champion Djokovic of Serbia, who has
yet to win Roland Garros, was drawn against 57th-ranked David
Goffin of Belgium in his first round. Nadal and Djokovic were
drawn in the same half, meaning there won’t be a repeat of last
year’s final between the two as they’re scheduled to meet in the
last four.  Nadal made his comeback to the tennis tour in February
after missing seven months with a knee injury. He said at the
draw held today at  Roland Garros  that he’s “very happy,” to be
back at his most successful Grand Slam event.  Djokovic may have to overcome Grigor Dimitrov in the third
round, the No. 26 seed from Bulgaria who knocked him out of his
opening round of the Madrid Masters earlier this month.  Second-seeded  Roger Federer  of Switzerland, the 2009
champion, was drawn in the opposite half to Nadal and Djokovic
and will face a qualifier. Also in Federer’s half, fourth-seeded
David Ferrer of Spain plays Australia’s Marinko Matosevic and
fifth-seeded Czech Tomas Berdych meets France’s Gael Monfils.
 Sam Querrey , the highest-seeded American man at No. 18, plays
Slovakia’s Lukas Lacko.  Britain’s  Andy Murray , the U.S. Open champion, withdrew
from Roland Garros earlier this week with a lower-back injury.  Women’s Event  In the women’s draw, tournament favorite  Serena Williams 
starts against 83rd-ranked Anna Tatishvili of Georgia. The 31-year-old American, the women’s top seed, lost in the first round
of Roland Garros last year. Her only title in Paris was in 2002.  Defending champion  Maria Sharapova  of Russia, the second
seed, was drawn against 42nd-ranked Su-Wei Hsieh of Chinese
Taipei. Also drawn in Sharapova’s half was Australian Open
champion Victoria Azarenka of Belarus, the third seed, who will
play Russia’s Elena Vesnina.  Former champion Li Na of China meets Spain’s Anabel Medina
Garrigues while  Venus Williams , a five-time Wimbledon champion,
plays Poland’s Urszula Radwanska. Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark,
a former world No. 1 who has recently struggled, faces Laura
Robson, a former junior Wimbledon champion from Britain. Sloane Stephens of the U.S., who beat Serena Williams at the Australian
Open to reach the last four, starts against Italy’s Karin Knapp.  The  French Open , the world’s only clay-court major, starts
May 26 at Roland Garros in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  