-- News Corp. Will Write Down Print Division as Cash Flow Slows
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-05-25T16:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/news-corp-to-write-down-publishing-unit-by-up-to-1-4-billion.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company
controlled by billionaire Rupert Murdoch, said it will write
down the value of its soon-to-be-independent publishing business
by $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion this quarter, blaming slowing
 cash flow  from its Australian and U.S. newspapers.  News Corp. revised its outlook and strategy for the
Australian publishing business -- and to a lesser degree, the
U.S. operations -- and now expects them to generate less cash
than anticipated, the company said yesterday in  a filing . As a
result, “the fair value of these reporting units declined below
their respective carrying values.”  The writedown comes as New York-based News Corp. prepares
to break off publishing from its entertainment operations 
next month. Murdoch agreed to the split last year under 
pressure from shareholders, who wanted the faster-growing
entertainment division to trade separately.  News Corp. has written down its publishing assets before,
as an industrywide advertising slump takes a toll on the once-lucrative newspaper business. Its chain of Australian
newspapers, the genesis of Murdoch’s media empire, has been hit
especially hard. News Corp. restructured the business last year
and cut jobs in a bid to improve profitability.  The company’s total publishing business reported a net loss
of $1.89 billion in the last fiscal year, which ended June 30.
The loss included $2.6 billion in writedowns, mostly reductions
in the value of newspapers. News Corp. also wrote down the value
of its Dow Jones & Co. division by $2.8 billion in 2009. Murdoch
bought Dow Jones from the Bancroft family for $5.2 billion in
December 2007, acquiring the Wall Street Journal and Dow Jones
Newswires as part of the purchase.  Board Changes  News Corp. also announced a new slate of board members for
each company yesterday, as well as a $500 million stock
repurchasing fund for the publishing business.  The board authorized News Corp.’s split into two companies,
with investors getting one share in the newspaper unit for every
four News Corp. shares they own, according to a separate
statement yesterday. After the split on June 28, the publishing
company will retain the News Corp. name, while the TV and film
assets become 21st Century Fox.  The buyback fund provides an option for the debt-free
newspaper company as it determines how to use the $2.6 billion
cash balance it will have following the split.  Seeking Improvements  “Both Fox and the new News Corp. have some attractive
qualities,”  Michael Morris , a media analyst with Davenport &
Co., said in an interview. “With the new News Corp., investors
will focus on whether there are opportunities to improve the
economics of the publishing business.”  The publishing group will benefit from the growth of
Australian businesses in television and real-estate listings,
Morris said. Earnings dropped 35 percent last quarter from a
year earlier in the unit, which also prints the Times and Sun
newspapers in the U.K.  There was no information on what kind of dividends the
publishing company will pay out once it becomes public.  News Corp. climbed less than 1 percent to $33.09 at the
close in  New York . The shares have climbed 30 percent this year.  Murdoch will be chairman and chief executive officer of
21st Century Fox and executive chairman of the new News Corp.
His children, James and Lachlan, will be on both boards.  Board Makeup  New members of 21st Century Fox’s board include Delphine Arnault, deputy general manager at Christian Dior Couture;
Jacques Nasser, former CEO of Ford Motor Co. and now an adviser
at One Equity Partners LLP; and Robert Silberman, executive
chairman of  Strayer Education Inc. (STRA)   On the publishing company’s board, the new faces are John Elkann, chairman of automaker  Fiat SpA (F) ; Ana Paula Pessoa, a
partner at public-relations firm Brunswick Group; Masroor Siddiqui, managing partner of investment firm Naya Management
LLP; and Robert Thomson, CEO of the new News Corp.  News Corp.’s board also added a provision meant to allow
shareholders to ward off a hostile takeover during the time
around the split. Each share of the publishing company will
include a right to purchase $180 worth of stock for $90,
triggered when any investor acquires 15 percent or more of the
voting shares from yesterday forward. For the entertainment
division, the price is $300 worth of stock for $150.  The rights will expire a year from yesterday for 21st
Century Fox and a year from the separation for the new News
Corp.  Rupert Murdoch , through the Murdoch Family Trust and
personal holdings, is the biggest investor in News Corp.,
controlling about 39 percent of voting shares while owning about
13.5 percent of total shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  