-- News Corp.’s Publishing Unit Gets $500 Million Buyback Fund
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-05-24T20:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/news-corp-s-newspaper-company-to-start-500-million-buyback.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , set to split in two this
June, announced a new slate of board members for each company as
well as a $500 million stock repurchasing fund for the
publishing business.  The board authorized News Corp.’s split into two companies,
with investors getting one share in the newspaper unit for every
four News Corp. shares they own, according to a statement today.
After the split on June 28, the publishing company will retain
the News Corp. name, while the TV and film assets become 21st
Century Fox.  The buyback fund provides an option for the debt-free
newspaper company as it determines how to use the $2.6 billion
cash balance it will have following the split. Chief Executive
Officer Rupert Murdoch agreed last year to chip off the
declining publishing unit from the entertainment business.  “Both Fox and the new News Corp. have some attractive
qualities,” Michael Morris, a media analyst with Davenport &
Co., said in an interview. “With the new News Corp., investors
will focus on whether there are opportunities to improve the
economics of the publishing business.”  The publishing group will benefit from the growth of
Australian businesses in television and real-estate listings,
Morris said. Earnings dropped 35 percent last quarter from a
year earlier in the unit, which also prints the Wall Street
Journal and the Sun newspaper.  There was no information on what kind of dividends the
publishing company will pay out once it becomes public.  News Corp. climbed less than 1 percent to $33.09 at the
close in New York. The shares have climbed 30 percent this year.  New Faces  Murdoch will be chairman and CEO of 21st Century Fox and
executive chairman of the new News Corp. His children, James and
Lachlan, will be on both boards. New members of 21st Century
Fox’s board include Delphine Arnault, deputy general manager at
Christian Dior Couture; Jacques Nasser, former CEO of Ford Motor
Co. and now an adviser at One Equity Partners LLP; and Robert Silberman, executive chairman of  Strayer Education Inc. (STRA)   On the publishing company’s board, the new faces are John Elkann, chairman of automaker  Fiat SpA (F) ; Ana Paula Pessoa, a
partner at public-relations firm Brunswick Group; Masroor Siddiqui, managing partner of investment firm Naya Management
LLP; and Robert Thomson, CEO of the new News Corp.  Takeover Provision  News Corp.’s board also added a provision meant to allow
shareholders to ward off a hostile takeover during the time
around the split. Each share of the publishing company will
include a right to purchase $180 worth of stock for $90,
triggered when any investor acquires 15 percent or more of the
voting shares from today forward. For the entertainment
division, the price is $300 worth of stock for $150.  The rights will expire a year from today for 21st Century
Fox and a year from the separation for the new News Corp.  Rupert Murdoch, through the Murdoch Family Trust and
personal holdings, is the biggest investor in News Corp.,
controlling about 39 percent of voting shares while owning about
13.5 percent of total shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  