-- Neymar May Be Europe-Bound as Santos Accepts Two Offers
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-25T12:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/neymar-wants-to-complete-santos-contract-as-barcelona-negotiates.html
Neymar,  Brazil ’s most marketable
soccer player, is on the verge of leaving for Europe after his
team Santos last night accepted two offers for the striker.  Santos had been in talks with officials from Spanish
champion Barcelona, which wants the 21-year-old to move to
Europe and join world player of the year Lionel Messi in its
attack next season. Reports in local media said Santos had also
agreed a fee with Real Madrid.  “In the face of the offers and the player’s contract, the
management committee of the club decided to sell the player,”
Santos said on its website.  Earlier in the day the 21-year-old’s manager, Eduardo Musa,
said in a telephone interview that Neymar would prefer to see
out his contract with Santos, play the World Cup on home soil
and then leave for Europe, “but if some proposal is good for
him he can change his mind.”  Neymar, who has 138 goals in 229 games for Santos, has been
coveted by soccer’s biggest clubs since making Santos’s first
team while still a teenager. With a mixture of speed and skill,
he’s become a starter for the Brazilian national team.  In 2011, a goal he scored in a league game against Flamengo
was voted the best goal in professional soccer by global
governing body FIFA. That same year he helped Santos land South
America’s top club competition, the Libertadores Cup, for the
first time since 1963.  ‘Definitive Decision’  Neymar’s contract runs through 2014 and after that he’ll be
able to leave the club without a transfer fee. Musa said Neymar
isn’t interested in extending his contract with Santos, a club
that Pele starred for during much of his career.  “At a meeting with the representatives of Santos FC’s
management committee, the forward Neymar Jr was informed about
the proposals received by the club and will analyze them in the
coming days before making a definitive decision,” Santos said
in a later statement.  Santos Vice President Odilio Rodrigues said this week that
the coastal club rejected a second bid from Barcelona. Folha de
S.Paulo reported on May 22 that after Barcelona’s initial offer
of 18 million euros ($23 million) was rejected, the Spanish team
came back with an offer that also included two exhibition games.
The newspaper said that Neymar’s contract has a 65 million euro
($84 million) buyout clause.  Folha said today Santos accepted Barcelona’s offer after it
upped its bid to 74 million reais ($36 million)  Ignoring Publicity  Musa said Neymar has been ignoring all the publicity
surrounding the talks with Barcelona and is focused on his
team’s first game of the Brazilian season against Flamengo in
two days. Santos has given up home-field advantage to stage the
game in Brasilia, which is using the match to inaugurate its
World Cup stadium.  Neymar is one of Brazil’s most recognizable celebrities,
with sponsorship deals with multinationals including  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Unilever NV. (UNA)  Billionaire  Eike Batista 
recruited Neymar for his venture with IMG Worldwide Inc. that
will steer his career in Brazil and beyond. France Football
magazine said he’s the fifth-highest earning soccer player with
total income of 20 million euros per year  Complicating a possible transfer is the involvement of two
funds that have invested in the transfer rights. While Santos
will get 55 percent of any fee, the remainder will go to
supermarket chain owner Delcir Sonda, whose company DIS in 2009
paid 5.5 million reais ($2.7 million) for a 40 percent stake in
Neymar’s transfer rights, and a company called Terceira Estrela
Investimentos S.A, which paid 3.5 million reais for a 5 percent
stake in 2011.  Soaring Revenue  Neymar’s fame has helped Santos’s revenue soar.  Since his debut in 2009, sales at Santos have grown to
199.8 million reais from 70.4 million reais, according to data
compiled by Amir Somoggi, a management consultant to Santos and
other top Brazilian clubs. Sponsorship receipts grew to 50.3
million reais in 2012 from 17.8 million reais in 2009 and ticket
revenue almost doubled to 17.4 million reais during the same
time, according to his figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  