-- Niger Vows to Intensify Fight Against Militants After Bombings
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2013-05-24T08:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/niger-vows-to-intensify-fight-against-militants-after-bombings.html
Niger  said it will step up its fight
against Islamist militants in the country as a group linked to
al-Qaeda said it took part in twin suicide car bombings
yesterday that killed at least 23 people.  Eighteen soldiers died in an attack on a military base in
Agadez, 738 kilometers (459 miles) northeast of the capital,
Niamey, while at least 13 employees of French nuclear company
 Areva SA (AREVA)  were injured in a simultaneous explosion at a mine it
operates in the town of Arlit. The attack was the first of its
kind in Niger, which accounts for 40 percent of France’s uranium
imports, according to Stratfor, the Texas-based consulting firm.  “What happened at Agadez and Arlit indicates that we need
more determination, more money and more action,” Niger Foreign
Minister Mohammed Bazoum said in an interview with Radio France
International. “I don’t think that Niger is targeted most
specifically, but we are part of a group of countries that are
all threatened in this region.”  Niger is the world’s  fourth-biggest  producer of uranium,
the fuel used in nuclear  power plants , according to the website
of the  World Nuclear Association . The West African nation shares
borders with  Mali , where French military forces intervened
earlier this year to fight Islamist rebels, and  Libya , where
conflict after the overthrow of  Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011 led to a
proliferation of weapons and armed groups.  ‘One-Eyed’  Mokhtar Belmokhtar, leader of the al-Moulathamoun Islamist
movement linked to al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, said his
group participated in yesterday’s attacks, ANI Mauritania
reported, citing a statement by Belmokhtar. The former Algerian
soldier, who the UN says has experience in training camps in
 Afghanistan , is also known as Bellawar, or “One-Eyed,” and was
involved in taking hostages at the In Amenas gas complex in
 Algeria  in January.  Forces in Niger stepped up “security on all of our sites
following the assault at about 5:30 a.m. local time at the
Somair uranium mine near Arlit in the north,” Areva said in a
statement.  The company, which produced more than 4,500 metric tons of
uranium in Niger last year out of total production of 9,760
tons, increased security measures at its sites in Niger after
seven workers employed by the company and a unit of  Vinci SA (DG) 
were kidnapped in 2010, and again as French military forces
intervened in Mali.  Uranium Mining  Areva owns 63.6 percent of Somair, the company that
operates the mine, and the government of Niger owns the rest.
The site produced 3,000 tons of uranium last year, the company
said in December.  The French company also owns 34 percent of Cominak, another
uranium mine in Niger, and is in talks to sell part of its
majority stake in Imouraren SA, a third production site being
developed in the country, to China National Nuclear Corp.  The attacks may affect the eventual sale price of the mine,
Philip de Pontet, head of Africa research at Eurasia Group, said
in an e-mailed research note.  “That asset may have already lost some of its value and
Areva’s security spending will escalate sharply just to contain
the threat to Somair and its other asset Cominak,” De Pontet
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  