-- No Cracks in Toronto Finances as Ford Fights Allegations
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-24T20:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/no-cracks-in-toronto-finances-as-ford-fights-allegations.html
Toronto Mayor Rob Ford’s allegations
of cocaine use, which has become material for U.S. late-night
comedy sketches and prompted calls for his resignation, hasn’t
impaired the city’s finances.  More than two years into Ford’s tenure, which has included
reports he was video-taped inhaling  crack cocaine , a conflict-of-interest lawsuit, and a photograph of him reading briefing
notes while driving, Moody’s Investors Service has praised  North
America ’s fourth-largest city for reducing spending and cutting
debt.  “I don’t really think the political circus matters, I
think it’s really the fact that the funding of Toronto seems to
be on a more stable basis,” said John Braive, vice chairman at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC Global Asset
Management, which oversees $50 billion of fixed-income assets
including Toronto’s bonds. “The budget looks like it’s under
better control than it’s been for a number of years.”  The Toronto Star newspaper said on May 16 two of its
reporters watched a cellphone video allegedly showing Ford
smoking from a crack cocaine pipe. U.S. website Gawker was the
first to  report  on the video and is trying to raise $200,000 to
buy it.  Bloomberg News  hasn’t seen the video and can’t verify its
authenticity.  “I do not use crack cocaine nor am I an addict of crack
cocaine” Ford said today. He couldn’t comment on a video he has
not seen “or does not exist,” Ford said, and declined to
answer media questions.  Leadership Credibility  The Toronto Police say they are reviewing allegations
against the mayor while an executive committee of city council
today urged the mayor to address them.  “The allegations need to be addressed openly and
transparently,” the committee wrote in a letter, signed by
Deputy Mayor Doug Holyday and five councilors.  “Certainly it’s undermining the credibility of his
leadership,” said John Johnston, chief strategist at the
Toronto-based investment-management firm Davis Rea Ltd., which
doesn’t hold the city’s bonds. “From an investor’s perspective
his leadership has been good in the sense that he has brought
spending down.”  The controversy hasn’t affected the city’s C$4.6 billion of
bonds, which are beating  Vancouver ’s debt and an index of
Canadian provincial issuers. Relative yields on Toronto’s C$500
million of 3.5 percent bonds due in December 2021 are trading at
their narrowest since they were issued. The spread to government
debt has fallen to 115 basis points from 143.5 basis points in
November 2011.  Spending Cuts  Toronto bonds, rated Aa1 at Moody's, are up 2.1 percent
this year compared with 1.5 percent for Vancouver, according
to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. Canadian cities and
provinces returned an average 0.6 percent, the index shows.  As other provincial governments struggle to tame deficits
amid slowing growth and shrinking revenues, Toronto in 2012 cut
spending for the first time since it was amalgamated with five
surrounding suburbs in 1998 while its debt burden is half the
average of other Canadian cities, Moody’s said in a May 15
report.  “If you are a bondholder, there is lots going on out there
in terms of the mayor, but in terms of what influences us, it’s
really what is the underlying budget position of the city, and
it’s improved,” Braive said by phone.  Building Boom  The city’s net debt to total revenue is 37 percent,
compared with an average of about 65 percent to 70 percent for
Canadian cities, Moody’s said in its annual review on the city,
a day before the video allegation broke. That compares with
 Montreal ’s at 97 percent and  Quebec City  at 127 percent,
according to the most recent data, Jennifer Wong, an analyst at
Moody’s, said in a phone interview yesterday.  “The mayor is facing difficulties and controversies but
it’s important to note the city possesses strengths that
underpin the high investment-grade rating,” Wong said. “We
expect the city will continue with the progress they’ve made
over the last few years.”  Toronto is in the midst of a building boom with 112 high-rises under construction, more than any other city in the world,
according to  Emporis.com . It has overtaken  Chicago  as the
fourth-largest North American city with a population of 2.79
million, according to a statement from the city in March. Home
to the country’s five-largest banks, two of the biggest insurers
and its largest wireless operator, Toronto’s economy is driven
by financial services. Still,  unemployment  averaging 8.4 percent
in the three months to April was higher than Ontario’s at 7.7
percent.  Court Ruling  Ford, 43, was elected in October 2010 to lead  Canada ’s
biggest city on a promise to “stop the gravy train.” He
slashed council budgets by 42 percent and outsourced half the
city’s residential waste collection to the private sector. He
has halted bike lanes, eliminated a vehicle registration  fee  and
waged a battle to expand the city’s transit through subways in a
bid to turn back the “war on the car.”  In January he won an appeal of a court ruling that had
found him in conflict of interest over donations collected for
his high school football charity. He has been photographed
reading a briefing while driving on a city expressway and gave
up on a public weight-loss campaign to trim his 330-pound frame
which he dubbed “Cut the Waist.”  Field Day  “There were initial successes at the beginning of his
mandate, but then the personal behavior began to overshadow
that,” said  Richard Leblanc , associate professor of law,
corporate governance and ethics at  York University  in Toronto.
“It’s unfortunate because he had a trajectory there that’s now
been diminished. It’s not sustainable or recoverable. His
credibility has been so diminished, in a corporate context,
that’s why a CEO is fired. They cannot operate.”  While the city’s debt has taken Ford’s controversies in
stride, Toronto’s reputation has taken a beating that may slow
investment, Leblanc said.  “ Jon Stewart , American comedians have had a field day with
this,” he said. “From an investment and jobs point of view,
people will refrain from investing and brokering deals because
they believe the mayor can’t get the votes. You’re waiting for
the next mayor with the authority and gravitas to make deals.”  Ford has remained largely silent on the video as packs of
media have trailed him from  City Hall  to doughnut shops. He has
been let go from coaching the Don Bosco Eagles football team,
his chief of staff Mark Towhey left yesterday and calls are
mounting for him to address the allegations head on and resign.  The Toronto Star, whom Ford has accused of having a
vendetta against him,  said  yesterday in an editorial, it’s time
for him to leave.  ’’A CEO would have been fired a long time ago,’’ Leblanc
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  