-- Nomura, Morgan Stanley Said to Be Lead Banks for Suntory IPO
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-05-24T10:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/nomura-morgan-stanley-said-to-be-lead-banks-for-suntory-ipo-2-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were selected as the lead banks to
manage Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd.’s initial public offering,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Suntory Holdings Ltd. plans to list its unit’s shares on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange as early as July and may release the
details of the offering next week, said the people, who asked
not to be identified before the announcement. Suntory expects to
raise about 300 billion yen ($3 billion) to 500 billion yen by
selling as much as 50 percent of the unit to domestic and global
investors, the people said.  The IPO is set to be the biggest in  Japan  this year apart
from real estate investment trusts. It comes after merger talks
between Suntory and Kirin Holdings Co. failed in 2010 due to
differing opinions on the merger ratio. Suntory has since been
exploring ways to fund acquisitions that would help it expand
outside of Japan, where the population is declining.  “Growth in the overseas market through M&A -- that will be
an equity story that Suntory can draw to convince investors,”
said Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset
Management Co. “It will be the biggest IPO in a long time, and
various investors will be interested.”  Suntory may follow Kirin and  Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. (2502) ,
which have sought growth through overseas deals as the shrinking
population damps domestic demand.  Overseas Acquisitions  Today’s news reports on the IPO “are not based on any
announcements from Suntory Group,” the Osaka-based company said
in a statement on its website. “Nothing has been decided at the
moment” on the details of the offering, said Naoko Tsuda, a
Tokyo-based spokeswoman.  Spokesmen for global coordinators Nomura, Morgan Stanley
and JPMorgan declined to comment.  Suntory has focused overseas acquisitions on non-alcohol
beverages over the past five years. The company bought France-based Orangina Schweppes Group in 2009 and paid 600 million
euros in 2009 for New Zealand’s Frucor Beverages Group Ltd.  Profit at Suntory Holdings will increase 45 percent to 53
billion yen for the year ending Dec. 31, the company forecast in
February. Revenue is projected to rise 9.1 percent to 2.02
trillion yen.  A financial-market rally is fueling appetite for share
sales in Japan. The benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  has climbed 39 percent
this year on the back of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies to
stimulate the world’s third-largest economy.  Nomura, Japan’s biggest brokerage, said in January that it
expects IPOs will climb to a six-year high. About 60 Japanese
companies will announce debut share sales in 2013, a 25 percent
increase from last year and the most since 121 in 2007,
according to the Tokyo-based bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  