-- Nordea Tells Clients Bond Dominance Is Assured: Nordic Credit
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-05-24T10:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/nordea-tells-clients-bond-dominance-is-assured-nordic-credit.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  is telling clients to
rest assured Scandinavia’s biggest lender will dominate
underwriting in the region’s fledgling corporate debt market.  “We’re the leading bank in each of the Nordic markets,
which means, per default, that we have to be the leading finance
and bond house in the region,” Casper von Koskull, head of
wholesale banking at the Stockholm-based bank, said yesterday in
an interview. “It’s a business opportunity as well as an
obligation to our clients.”  Nordea topped last year’s ranking of Scandinavian
underwriters of corporate bonds, followed by SEB AB and  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year,
it’s slipped down the chart to be overtaken by SEB, which
reclaimed the underwriting supremacy it enjoyed in 2011.  Banks are fighting for dominance in a market that promises
to free up their balance sheets from regulatory capital
requirements while generating lucrative fees from companies
eager for funds. Nordea Chief Executive Officer Christian Clausen, who is also the president of the European Banking
Federation, has urged lenders to target “capital light”
business models in response to stricter global requirements.  Doing Both  Nordea underwrote $6.6 billion of the $50.5 billion in non-financial corporate debt issued in  Scandinavia  in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year, the bank has
arranged debt sales equivalent to $2.4 billion, 14 percent less
than SEB.  “I’m not driving lending away from our balance sheet into
bonds,” Koskull said. “I want to be able to do both and use
them as complements. We’ll continue to do both, depending on
what serves the client best rather than saying I need the bond
to improve my balance sheet.”  As companies in the region respond to a lack of bank
credit, local lenders are winning more business than their
international rivals.  Sweden ’s four biggest banks arranged about
three-quarters of the debt sold by non-financial firms in the
largest Nordic economy last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The top-ranked global underwriter in 2012,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , saw the number of bond issues in Sweden fall in 2012 to
four from 10 a year earlier. Underwriting at Sweden’s four
biggest banks rose 33 percent in the same period. This year,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  was the highest-ranked non-Nordic bank to underwrite debt in the region, followed by
JPMorgan, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Satisfying Investors  Demand for high-yielding debt sold by companies based in
Scandinavia’s AAA rated economies is growing, according to ING
Investment Management. Issuers can’t print bonds fast enough to
satisfy investors, Timothy Dowling, lead manager of ING’s global
high-yield portfolio, said in an interview this month.  The region is stepping up efforts to accommodate the trend
and bring investors and issuers together. In Sweden, securities
dealers are creating a new framework due to be completed next
month for the country’s high-yield debt market. The goal is to
add protection for bondholders and stimulate demand. In  Denmark ,
the government is working on a plan to allow banks to bundle and
sell small and medium-sized companies’ debt to boost liquidity.  Corporate issuance in  Norway  jumped last year to a record
96 billion kroner, according to Nordea. To aid transparency,
Norway’s Fund and Asset Management Association and the Norwegian
Trustee, which acts as an agent for investors, said last month
they will set up a pricing service for bonds.  Investors inside the region are also looking at corporate
bonds as an alternative to stocks, Koskull said.  “Swedish investors are moving away from a strong equity
weighting and are starting to build more credit and fixed income
portfolios, which is one of the interest trends we’ve seen in
the region,” he said. “The Danish bond market was the last one
to take off, but it’s just another result of investors looking
for diversification and yield.”  Nordea is “bullish on debt markets” and “much less so on
equities and initial public offerings,” Koskull said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  