-- Obama Tells Navy Graduates They Must Uphold High Standards
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-24T17:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/obama-tells-navy-graduates-they-must-uphold-highest-standards-.html
President  Barack Obama  challenged
graduates of the U.S. Naval Academy to uphold the honor of the
armed forces, saying reports of sexual assaults in the military
and misconduct on the battlefield threaten to tarnish the
public’s trust.  Obama said misdeeds and “wild risk-taking” in the
financial industry, scandals in government and cynicism in
politics have helped breed doubts about the nation’s
institutions. While the military retains the esteem of
Americans, the president said that can be eroded as well.  “We need you to uphold the highest standards of integrity
and character,” the president said at a commencement ceremony
for 841 men and 206 women who graduated from the  academy  in
Annapolis,  Maryland . “It only takes the misconduct of a few to
further erode the people’s trust in their government.”  The president’s remarks followed by a day his speech in
Washington where he revised U.S. counterterrorism strategy with
a policy that would rein in the secret drone strike program and
move again toward closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. It
marked a shift toward a day when the broad war against terrorist
groups would wind down.  Still, Obama said today, “We need to stay ready for the
full range of threats.” Even with budget restraints, the U.S.
“will always maintain our military superiority.”  Obama made reference to a spate of cases involving alleged
sexual improprieties that have roiled the military.  Recent Cases  The most recent involved an Army sergeant at the U.S.
Military Academy at  West Point  who allegedly videotaped female
cadets without their consent while they showered. Earlier this
month, three officers assigned to programs to prevent sexual
abuse were removed from their posts after accusations of
wrongdoing.  Lawmakers from both parties, led by women in the House of
Representatives and Senate, are demanding that the military
change its system so that independent military prosecutors,
instead of commanding officers, pursue sexual assault cases and
other major crimes.  “Institutions do not fail in a vacuum,” Obama said.
“Institutions are made up of people,” and the misconduct of a
few can have ripple effects.  “Those who commit sexual assault are not only committing a
crime, they threaten the trust and discipline that make our
military strong,” he said.  Blue Angels  The graduation ceremonies were missing one element today:
There’s no traditional flyover from the Navy’s Blue Angels,
whose high-speed precision timing have wowed crowds since 1946.  The U.S. Navy announced April 9 the cancellation of 32 Blue
Angel performances that had been scheduled this year because of
automatic  federal budget  cuts, known as sequestration. The
cancellation saves the Navy about $20 million a year,
spokeswoman Katie Kelly said.  The pilots, based at the Naval Air Station in  Pensacola ,
 Florida , are conducting only minimum flight hours to remain
qualified in their F/A-18 Hornets, the Navy said.  The Naval Academy was founded in 1845 by then-Secretary
George Bancroft. Its alumni include former President  Jimmy Carter  and former Senator  James Webb  of Virginia, both
Democrats, and former Republican presidential candidate and
current U.S. Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona .  Obama’s speech today was his third and final commencement
address this year. He also spoke at the graduations at Morehouse
College in Atlanta on May 19 and  Ohio State University  in
Columbus on May 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  