-- Obama Said to Visit N.J. Shore to See Hurricane Recovery
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-05-24T14:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/obama-said-to-visit-n-j-shore-to-see-hurricane-recovery.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to visit
the New Jersey shore next week to inspect hurricane-ravaged
coastal areas as the state’s tourism season begins.  Governor Chris Christie, 50, a Republican seeking a second
term in November, will join Obama on the May 28 tour, according
to a White House official who asked not to be identified because
the trip hadn’t been formally announced. Shore communities have
been rebuilding since  Hurricane Sandy  swept through Oct. 29,
leaving a trail of death and destruction.  The visit by Obama, a Democrat Christie embraced when he
arrived to survey the damage days after the storm, may boost the
re-election bid of the governor, who has focused his campaign on
Sandy recovery. A voter survey in March showed that 44 percent
of Democrats said he deserved another four years, and 45 percent
of Democrats had a favorable view of him in a  poll  last month.  “The fact of the matter is, he’s the president of the
United States and if he wants to come here and see the people of
New Jersey, I’m the governor,” Christie told Matt Lauer, host
of NBC-TV’s “Today” show on the Seaside Heights boardwalk
today. “I will be here to welcome him.”  The president’s tour of the Garden State is set for the day
after the long Memorial Day holiday weekend in the U.S.,
traditionally the start of the tourism season along the New
Jersey shore. Christie has said he expects the state to be “up
and running” to handle the influx of vacationers, which had
been seen as a crucial milestone in the recovery effort.  Christie’s Edge  “We need to make sure that we rebuild the tourism industry
in this state, at the Jersey Shore,” Christie said during a May
22 visit to the seaside town of Belmar. New Jersey’s travel and
tourism industry employs more than 500,000 workers, or about 10
percent of all jobs in the state, according to his office.  Sandy, which came ashore near Atlantic City, killed dozens
of people and destroyed 365,000 homes in the state. Christie has
said it will cost $36.9 billion for repairs and to prevent
devastation from future storms.  Christie was excluded from the Conservative Political
Action Conference’s meeting in Washington in March in part
because he had praised Obama’s leadership during Sandy,
according to a person familiar with the group’s decision.  Left Out  Christie also had angered CPAC organizers when he
criticized House Speaker John Boehner, a Republican from  Ohio ,
for failing to bring a Sandy aid package to a floor vote,
according to the person, who asked not to be identified and
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about internal group
decision-making. The governor had spoken last year to the group,
which draws some of the Republican Party’s most prominent
members, many of them who espouse a free-market economy and
smaller government.  The governor said today that he wasn’t concerned about the
political implications of being seen again with Obama.  Christie holds an edge of more than 30 percentage points in
recent voter surveys over state Senator Barbara Buono, a
Metuchen Democrat. He refuted claims last week by Democrats that
his appearance in a $25 million advertising campaign to promote
the state to visitors was designed to advance his candidacy. He
said the ads, which are federally funded, are to let people know
that New Jersey and its communities are open for business.  During his visit, Obama will discuss the importance of
offering economic opportunity to hard-hit families, according to
the White House official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  