-- Obama Picks Two U.S. Senate Aides as Next SEC Commissioners
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-05-24T02:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/obama-nominates-two-u-s-senate-aides-as-next-sec-commissioners.html
Kara M. Stein and Michael S. Piwowar,
both senior U.S. Senate aides, were nominated today by President
 Barack Obama  to join the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Stein would replace Elisse B. Walter as a Democratic
commissioner and Piwowar would succeed Troy A. Paredes as a
Republican appointee on the five-member commission that oversees
the country’s capital markets, according to a news release
issued by the White House. Stein has served as a top aide to
Senator  Jack Reed , a Rhode Island Democrat, and Piwowar has been
chief Republican economist on the Senate Banking Committee.  Stein and Piwowar, whose nominations must be confirmed by
the Senate, would join a commission adjusting to new priorities
under Chairman Mary Jo White, who was sworn in last month. The
agency is under pressure to finish rules mandated by the 2010
Dodd-Frank law, which both Stein and Piwowar worked on as Senate
staff members.  Stein was a top aide to Reed last year when he was chairman
of a Senate securities and insurance subcommittee. If Piwowar is
confirmed, he would be the only economist on a five-member
commission that historically has been made up of lawyers.  Both nominees were hailed by Senator  Tim Johnson , chairman
of the banking committee, and Senator  Mike Crapo , the top
Republican on the panel. Johnson said he would move the
nominations through his committee, which will hold a hearing on
them.  Experience Praised  In a statement, Johnson said Stein worked for Reed on the
committee for more than a decade. Crapo said Piwowar has
“thoroughly demonstrated his understanding of these complex
issues” during his time as a Senate aide and, previously, a
White House economic adviser.  “Both of their experiences will serve them well as they
work to fulfill the SEC’s mission of protecting investors and
ensuring a fair marketplace,” said Johnson, a South Dakota
Democrat.  Walter, whose term has expired, can serve until the end of
the year. Paredes’ term expires in June, and the former law
professor has told people he is eager to return to academia.  Piwowar, who also previously worked as a staff economist at
the SEC, holds a Ph.D in finance from  Pennsylvania State
University . He would join the commission as it seeks to improve
its use of economic analysis in rulemaking.  Stein has law degree from  Yale University , according to the
State Bar of  Texas .  Economic Analysis  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the District of Columbia
Circuit cited inadequate economic analysis when it invalidated
an SEC rule in July 2011 that sought to make it easier for
shareholders to oust board members.  Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the
 Consumer Federation of America , said Stein and Piwowar appear to
be “a very good pairing for investors.” Roper, who has worked
with Stein over the years, said Stein guided Reed’s examination
of high-frequency traders and other market-regulation questions.  “Given the importance of those issues, that is something
she’ll bring,” Roper said. “She is just really solid and an
outstanding selection. It’s very encouraging.”  Stein and Piwowar should have no trouble getting Senate
confirmation due to their experience as staff members, said Mark A. Calabria, a former Republican banking committee aide who
worked with both of them.  The pair also could bridge some divides at the commission,
which sometimes has voted along party lines, Calabria said.  “You are going to have a Republican and a Democrat on the
commission who know each other and have a working
relationship,” said Calabria, now director of financial
regulation studies at the  Cato Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  