-- Loblaw Said to Seek $387 Million for Canadian Property IPO
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-24T21:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/loblaw-files-to-spin-off-75-of-property-in-choice-reit-ipo.html
Loblaw Cos. (L) , Canada’s largest grocery
chain by market value, is seeking to raise about C$400 million
($387 million) in an initial public offering of its Choice
Properties Real Estate Investment Trust, according to two people
familiar with the transaction.  Loblaw created the REIT to spin off about 75 percent of its
real estate, the Brampton, Ontario-based grocer said today in a
statement. Properties include 415 stores, one office complex and
nine warehouses totaling 35.3 million square feet. The REIT will
sell units for C$10 each, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the terms aren’t public.  George Weston Ltd. (WN) , the parent of Loblaw, will acquire an
additional C$200 million of the REIT units on completion of the
sale, which is being led by Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
Royal Bank of  Canada  and Toronto-Dominion Bank, the company
said.  Choice Properties will also will sell senior unsecured
debentures, with proceeds used to repay debt owed to Loblaw.
That sale is led by CIBC, Royal Bank, TD and Bank of Montreal.  Loblaw rose 0.8 percent to close at C$49.53 in Toronto
trading.  Julija Hunter, a Loblaw spokeswoman, and Kim Lee, who
represents the REIT, didn’t immediately return messages seeking
comment.  Biggest REIT  John Morrison, Choice Properties chief executive officer,
was CEO of Primaris Real Estate Investment Trust from 2009 until
the company was acquired by a group led by H&R REIT and KingSett
Capital Inc. in April.  The grocery retailer disclosed plans in December to spin
off property valued at more than C$7 billion in what it said
would be one of the country’s largest REITs. The company said it
could use the proceeds to pay down debt or buy back shares.  A C$400 million initial sale would make Choice Properties
Canada’s largest REIT public offering, surpassing the C$270
million raised in Dundee International REIT’s July 2011 sale,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This would be the
largest Canadian-listed IPO since  Gibson Energy Inc. (GEI)  raised
C$500 million in June 2011, Bloomberg data show.  REITs, which receive preferential tax treatment from the
government, are companies that invest in income-producing real
estate and pay out most of their income to investors through
unit distributions.  Hudson Bay  Loblaw joins Canada’s biggest retailers in adopting a REIT
for its properties. Canadian Tire Corp., the country’s largest
sporting goods chain, said May 9 that it will create a C$3.5
billion REIT holding about 250 properties with 18 million square
feet.  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC) , Canada’s oldest company, is also mulling
a REIT “sometime in the future,” CEO  Richard Baker  said last
month.  Empire Co., parent of Canadian grocery chain Sobeys, spun
off properties into an investment trust called  Crombie REIT (CRR-U)  in
March 2006 through a C$204.8 million IPO. Crombie REIT gained 44
properties with about 7.2 million square feet, Empire said in a
statement at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  