-- Holder Involved in Move to Seek Fox Reporter’s Records
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-05-25T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/holder-involved-in-move-to-seek-fox-reporter-s-records.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
participated in the decision to ask for a search warrant for a
Fox News reporter’s e-mails as part of a leak investigation, the
Justice Department said.  Holder took part in prosecutors’ deliberations over whether
to seek the warrant as part of their probe into a 2009 leak on
North Korea’s nuclear program, the department said yesterday in
a statement. A federal magistrate judge approved the request.  “After extensive deliberations, and after following all
applicable laws, regulations and policies, the department sought
an appropriately tailored search warrant under the Privacy
Protection Act,” the agency said.  Holder and the department are under fire from lawmakers and
media organizations for actions taken in two probes of national-security leaks. Fox News and the Associated Press had records
seized during investigations into the sources for stories that
dealt with intelligence issues.  The U.S. attorney’s office in  Washington  informed the
Associated Press on May 10 that prosecutors had obtained
telephone records without first alerting the news service.
Investigators in the case are focused on a leak of details about
an intelligence operation in Yemen.  Less than two weeks later, it was disclosed in a court
filing that the Justice Department, in a separate leak
investigation regarding classified information about North
Korea, got a warrant to search Fox News reporter James Rosen’s
personal e-mail and obtained his telephone records.  Reviewing Procedures  Holder recused himself from the AP probe because he was
interviewed by the FBI as part of it. He is conducting a review
of the guidelines followed by prosecutors in cases that involve
journalists, at the request of President  Barack Obama .  “Attorney General Holder understands the concerns that
have been raised by the media,” the Justice Department said.  Obama said he is “troubled by the possibility that leak
investigations may chill the investigative journalism that holds
our government accountable,” in a May 23 speech in which he
announced the review.  Holder plans to meet with media organizations as part of
the review, according to the Justice Department. Obama and
Holder have said they support a bipartisan Senate bill designed
to protect media source material from government investigations.  That bill, sponsored by Senator Charles Schumer, a New York
Democrat, includes an exception in certain national security
cases.  Companies React  Senior officials at Fox, a unit of  News Corp. (NWSA) , and AP have
pushed back against the scope of the department’s
investigations.  Roger Ailes, the chairman and chief executive officer of
Fox News, sent a memo to employees that questioned “whether the
federal government is meeting its constitutional obligation to
preserve and protect a free press in the United States.”  Gary B. Pruitt, AP’s president said the department’s
“actions are unconstitutional” in a May 19 appearance on CBS
Corp.’s “Face the Nation” television program. The news service
is a nonprofit cooperative owned by U.S. newspapers and
broadcasters.  “We don’t question their right to conduct these sort of
investigations, we just think they went about it the wrong way -
- so sweeping, so secretively, so abusively and harassingly and
overbroad,” Pruitt said. “It is an unconstitutional act.”  Subpoena Decision  Deputy Attorney General James Cole, who took over
supervising the AP probe after Holder recused himself, said in a
May 14 letter to the news organization that the department
doesn’t “take lightly the decision to issue subpoenas” for
media telephone records.  Cole said the investigation into national security leaks
included more than 550 interviews and the review of tens of
thousands of documents before the department sought AP records.  “We understand your position that these subpoenas should
have been more narrowly drawn, but in fact, consistent with
department policy, the subpoenas were limited in both time and
scope,” Cole wrote.  Former Justice Department officials have come to the
defense of the decisions made in the case, citing threats to
national security and concerns that leaks would chill
relationships with allies.  “They were right to take it to the next stage when they
still needed more to make a case against the leaker,” former
Attorney General William P. Barr, Jamie Gorelick, a former
deputy attorney general, and Kenneth Wainstein, former assistant
attorney general for national security, said in a May 20 article
published in the  New York  Times.  “If the Justice Department had not done so, it would have
defaulted on its obligation to protect the American people,”
the three wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  