-- Holder Starved of U.S. Justice Deputies as Obama Nominees Stall
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-05-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/holder-starved-of-u-s-justice-deputies-as-obama-nominees-stall.html
A combination of executive and
congressional inaction has left U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder without permanent appointees in at least six top
positions inside the Justice Department, even as he faces
increased criticism from U.S. lawmakers.  Holder, a cabinet holdover from President  Barack Obama ’s
first term, lacks Senate-confirmed heads atop three of agency’s
eight divisions. The confirmed leaders of two others are in the
process of departing. His legislative and legal policy offices
also are without Senate-confirmed officeholders.  The leadership vacuum highlights a problem that has plagued
federal agencies during the Obama administration, as a lengthy
vetting process and Republican roadblocks leave key positions
unfilled, according to current and former congressional and
Justice Department officials.  “It’s a toxic combination of the unwillingness of people
to go through the process, the extra layer of scrutiny potential
nominees are facing on Capitol Hill and in the White House, and
the willingness of Republicans to block just about any
nominee,” said Jim Manley, a former senior aide to Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid. “I don’t know whether the Lord
Himself could get confirmed at this point.”  Holder, 62, also will soon be without Federal Bureau of
Investigation Director Robert Mueller, who departs in September
after 12 years on the job. The administration may name his
successor, who must also face Senate scrutiny, in the coming
weeks, according to two people familiar with the decision who
asked for anonymity because they weren’t authorized to discuss
personnel deliberations.  Rocky Relationship  The contentious relationship between Holder and
congressional Republicans has escalated over the past two weeks.  He is a target for criticism for the government’s decision
to seize the phone records of Associated Press reporters as part
of an investigation into the leak about an intelligence
operation. Holder, who said his deputy signed off on the
subpoenas of the phone records, has recused himself from the
Justice Department’s probe into the matter.  Republican lawmakers continue to call for his resignation
over a botched federal gun operation known as Fast and Furious,
in which federal agents lost track of more than 2,000 firearms.
Two of the guns were found at the scene of the 2010 killing in
 Arizona  of a U.S. Border Patrol agent while others turned up in
 Mexico .  The candidacy of an Obama nominee for one of Holder’s top
deputies at the department has stalled because of lawmaker
opposition and a second nomination has not been considered by
the Senate.  Acting Roles  Tony West has been nominated to be the department’s third-ranked official and Stuart Delery was nominated in March to lead
the department’s civil division. Both are serving as the acting
officials. Neither has received a committee vote on their
nominations, though the Judiciary Committee held its hearing on
West’s nomination yesterday.  West’s nomination to be associate attorney general has
languished since last September, as Republicans led by Iowa
Senator Charles Grassley request more than 1,000 documents
concerning the role he played in persuading officials in St.
Paul,  Minnesota , to drop a Supreme Court case that risked
undermining a Justice Department enforcement tool in housing
discrimination cases.  The delayed confirmations “matter enormously,” Robert
Raben, a former assistant attorney general in President Bill Clinton’s Justice Department, who said potential replacements
face a tough path through the confirmation process.  Morale Impact  “It matters for authority, for morale and when it is
coupled with attacks from Capitol Hill on the nominee, it’s an
enormous time suck,” Raben said.  The slow pace on Capitol Hill has been matched by the White
House, which hasn’t named nominees for key positions at the
department, including a replacement for  Lisa Monaco , former head
of the national security division.  Monaco  moved to the White
House in March to serve as Obama’s top counterterrorism and
homeland security aide.  Monaco may not be in the White House for long. She is one
of the leading contenders for the soon-to-be open FBI director
position, according to the two people who asked for anonymity.
The FBI choice has narrowed between Monaco, who played a leading
role in the investigation into the April Boston Marathon
bombing, and James Comey, a former deputy attorney general in
President George W. Bush’s administration, according to the
people.  ‘Thoroughly Vetted’  The administration’s candidates for FBI director were
reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Matt Lehrich, a White House spokesman, said all
appointments are “thoroughly vetted” and the administration
continues to have “full confidence” in the Justice
Department’s ability to do its work.  “It is unfortunate that congressional Republicans have
openly gone to extraordinary lengths to obstruct the
confirmation process for the president’s nominees, which slows
down the process from beginning to end,” Lehrich said in an e-mail.  Lanny Breuer, the head of the criminal division for nearly
four years, also left in March. Mythili Raman, Breuer’s chief of
staff and top deputy, is running division on an acting basis
until Obama nominates a full-time replacement.  Holder’s Tenure  The continuity brought by Raman, as well as the permanence
of having nominees like West and Delery placed in the “acting”
roles helps relieve some of the concerns raised by the open
positions, according to Matt Miller, a former spokesman for
Holder.  The unfilled positions “are clearly a problem, but it’s a
problem that is alleviated somewhat when you have these people
in place,” said Miller, now a partner in the Washington office
of policy and crisis management firm Vianovo.  The Obama administration has yet to nominate candidates for
the assistant attorney general positions at the legislative
affairs office and the Office of Legal Counsel.  The department “remains fully committed” to fulfilling
its mission, said Nanda Chitre, a Justice Department
spokeswoman.  “It’s essential to move forward with a timely confirmation
process to fill the remaining vacancies in leadership positions
and strengthen our ability to meet future challenges,” Chitre
said in a statement.  Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat and
senior member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said
uncertainty about how long Holder himself will stay in the job
may have complicated the search for deputies.  “They may want the new attorney general to have a say in
who is on the team,” Whitehouse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  