-- Olive Oil Displaces Debt at Heart of European Bottleneck
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-05-24T04:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/olive-oil-displaces-debt-at-heart-of-european-bottleneck.html
It had the same ingredients as
 Europe ’s debt-crisis drama: a battle between north and south,
British defiance, media jeering, and murky decision-making
starring a cast of unidentified technocrats.  The conflict was put to rest yesterday: the European Union
decreed that restaurants in its 27-nation market can continue to
put refillable olive-oil bottles on tables, dropping a ban that
was scheduled to take effect in 2014.  A week after a little-known committee endorsed the mandate,
EU Agriculture Commissioner Dacian Ciolos scuttled it, pledging
instead a regulation that “takes account of the lives of
everyone, not only some, to avoid this sort of
misunderstanding.”  The olive oil caper of 2013 will go down in history along
with now-retracted bans on misshapen vegetables and criminal
penalties for grocery-store disregard of the metric system as
examples of European rules run amok -- even if many tales of EU
over-regulation are more fiction than fact.  Single-use receptacles “would have cost us a lot of
money,” said Damien Vanderhoeven, chef-owner at  Coriandre , a
Brussels restaurant that graces its tables with hard-to-find
oils from Europe’s 1.9 million olive groves.  It all started last July with an  Action Plan for the EU
Olive Oil Sector , meant to boost quality, end overproduction,
bolster incomes of family producers and protect consumers from
buying substandard olive oil misleadingly or fraudulently
labeled as the good, “extra virgin” stuff.  Oil Superpower  While its global political ambitions have waned, the EU is
the world’s lone remaining olive-oil superpower, accounting for
73 percent of production and 66 percent of consumption of a
product in vogue as the staple of heart-healthy diets, EU data
show.  The six-plank plan was welcomed by  Greece ,  Portugal ,  Spain 
and  Italy , which combine to produce more than 97 percent of the
EU’s olive oil, much of it subsidized by the bloc’s 58 billion-euro ($75 billion) farming budget. From 2006 to 2009, for
example, EU payments made up 48 percent of the average Greek
olive grower’s income.  Plank two of the Action Plan contained the non-refillable-bottle idea. It would have required restaurants to put olive oil
in “packages that cannot be re-used.” So instead of a corked
bottle, sometimes with a pouring spout, sometimes adorned with a
Mediterranean motif, the dining public would get a single-use
jar, jug, flacon or plastic package.  By February, an EU majority was coalescing around the
proposals. On May 14, agricultural attaches from 15 countries
voted in favor -- enough to keep the idea alive but short of the
supermajority needed to ram it through.  Skeptics’ ‘Grist’  It was “grist for the mill of euroskeptics,”  France ’s Le
Figaro newspaper wrote.  The vote echoed the split between more productive northern
creditor economies and less competitive southern debtor
economies that has scarred Europe since the fiscal crisis broke
out in 2009. Now northern consumers and southern producers were
squaring off over olive-oil jugs.  The hardline debt-crisis trio --  Germany , the Netherlands
and  Finland  -- voted against the ban, along with six others.
Britain, Belgium and  Hungary  abstained. The 15 in favor included
the five countries -- Greece, Portugal, Spain, Cyprus and olive-oil consuming Ireland -- drawing on debt-crisis aid.  “Save the jugs,” LYMEC, the youth wing of the pan-European Liberal party, reacted in a May 21 press release. It
argued that the packaging industry would win and smaller
businesses lose, to say nothing of restaurant-goers being
deprived of the authentic bread-dipping experience.  British Concerns  As the olive-oil diplomacy shifted into overdrive, a
prominent role went to Britain, a longtime opponent of what it
sees as excessive EU regulation. One milestone in that campaign
was the overturning in 2007 of a ban on the use of pounds and
ounces in favor of metric measures on food labels (ignoring the
fact that an earlier British government had been on board).  Coming at a sensitive time, with the U.K. debating pulling
out of the EU, olive oil escalated into a matter of state. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  addressed it after an EU summit in
Brussels two days ago, saying: “This is exactly the sort of
thing that Europe shouldn’t even be discussing, that shouldn’t
even be on the table -- to make a forced pun.”  All eyes turned to the  European Commission , the bloc’s
executive agency and target of much British criticism. It was
entrusted with the final decision in the wake of last week’s
inconclusive vote. Ciolos, a Romanian with degrees in agronomy
and horticultural engineering, saw the writing on the wall.  Abandoning the southern European olive-oil lobby, Ciolos
decided that consumers deserve “the same level of importance.”  It wouldn’t be wise, he told reporters yesterday, “to
force a decision because some  member states  are in favor and the
others are against.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  