-- Too-Big-to-Fail Banks in Denmark Hit by Bail-In Reality Check
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-05-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/too-big-to-fail-banks-in-denmark-hit-by-bail-in-reality-check.html
Demands by  Denmark ’s biggest banks
that they be excluded from the nation’s bail-in legislation are
out of step with reality, according to the country’s central
bank.  “A wish for more explicit government guarantees would be
rather uniquely Danish,” Per Callesen, deputy governor of
Denmark’s central bank, said yesterday in an interview in
Copenhagen. “I haven’t heard indications from elsewhere that
this would be the preferred route to go down.”  The six lenders identified by a government committee as
systemically important for the Danish economy say they need to
be shielded from the country’s bail-in legislation for their
too-big-to-fail designation to be meaningful.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,
Denmark’s biggest lender, argues the additional  capital costs 
they face should be matched by explicit guarantees of state
support, just like in neighboring  Sweden .  Moody’s Investors Service said in April that proposals
naming Denmark’s systemically important financial institutions
and their capital requirements won’t prompt ratings upgrades.
The banks will continue to get only one notch in Moody’s
systemic support analysis. Swedish banks enjoy three notches.
The rating company gives  Danske Bank a Baa1  grade, compared with
an Aa3 rating for  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  of Sweden. Danske says the
lower rating adds to funding costs at a time when they’re being
asked to raise additional capital.  The Swedes  “What we say is not that different from what the Swedes
say,” Callesen said. They “insist that banks must be very well
capitalized, further than we’ve contemplated. If banks want to
compare to Sweden they should acknowledge the size of the
Swedish capital requirement.”  The March proposals require Denmark’s biggest banks to hold
at least 10.5 percent in core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted assets. Sweden’s four biggest banks need to hold at
least 12 percent from 2015.  Denmark’s banks have also argued the government’s goal of
pushing ahead with its too-big-to-fail regulatory framework
before the European Union has formulated common standards will
put them at a competitive disadvantage. According to the central
bank, the country can’t afford to wait any longer.  “Denmark needs to move quickly on regulating Sifis as
Denmark won’t be the first mover,” Callesen said. “The U.K.,
 Switzerland  and Sweden already moved ahead and, like these
countries, Denmark has a very large and particularly
concentrated banking sector.”  Oversized Banks  Denmark’s bank industry has assets that are about four
times its gross domestic product. Danske Bank alone has a
balance sheet that’s almost twice Denmark’s $300 billion GDP.  Callesen also rejected industry warnings that stricter
 capital requirements  will restrict the flow of credit to
businesses and households and hurt Denmark’s recovery. The
economy contracted 0.7 percent in the final quarter of last
year, according to the latest set of gross domestic product data
published by the statistics office.  “It’s not at all certain that there is a future negative
short-term impact,” Callesen said. “Given what we’ve learned
since the crisis, it’s pretty obvious that banks with high
capital levels have lower funding costs and less demand from
owners for returns.”  Lowering bank taxes or redesigning the deposit insurance
fund are better ways of saving banks money than reducing capital
requirements, the central bank said in a May 22 analysis,
echoing a recommendation by the  International Monetary Fund .  IMF Proposal  The IMF said in December Denmark should consider
introducing risk-adjusted deposit insurance premiums. The
government has said it wants to raise banks’ payroll taxes to
counter a proposed reduction in the corporate  tax rate .  The central bank, which served on the Sifi committee, is
speaking out ahead of a May 29 meeting arranged by the industry
to persuade lawmakers to stop Denmark imposing stricter capital
rules than the rest of  Europe .  The business ministry is still drafting enabling
legislation that’s now in consultation with lawmakers. Central
bank Governor Lars Rohde urged Business Minister Annette Vilhelmsen in the May 22 letter to adopt the proposals as soon
as possible, calling claims that the requirements would drive
bank costs higher “a bad argument.” More capital will reduce
the risk of financial crises, he said.  “Anybody arguing that raising capital requirements would
raise funding costs -- they have the heavy burden of proof,”
Callesen said. “There are no good reasons why this should limit
future lending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  