-- Horace Mann Issues Apology for Decades of Abuse by Teachers
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-05-24T22:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/horace-mann-issues-apology-for-decades-of-abuse-by-teachers.html
Horace Mann School , an elite prep
school in  New York  City, issued an apology for decades of abuse
of students by teachers and administrators, without agreeing to
the independent investigation sought by victims.  Mediators will prepare an independent summary of the
reported sexual abuses, without naming the 31 alumni who
described encounters with former teachers and administrators
that happened between 1962 and 1996, according to a  letter  today
on the school’s website.  “We sincerely apologize for the harm that was caused by
the teachers and administrators who abused anyone during their
years at Horace Mann School,”  Thomas Kelly , the head of school,
and Steven Friedman, chairman of the board of trustees, wrote in
the letter. “These unconscionable betrayals of trust never
should have happened. But they did, and now we, as a school,
must fully accept this reality.”  Last month, the Bronx district attorney said the alleged
sexual abuse of students at  Horace Mann , in the Riverdale
section of the Bronx, took place too long ago to be prosecuted.  The board of trustees and Kelly agreed to mediation, and
settlements have been reached with the majority of the 31
individuals who came forward without resort to litigation,
according to the letter. The school does not have the authority
to compel those identified as abusers who are still living to
respond to the allegations, according to the letter.  Attorney  Gloria Allred , who says she represents 22 men and
three women who said they were victims of crimes including anal
and vaginal rape by more than a dozen teachers and
administrators, last month asked for an “independent and
transparent” probe.  The scandal was disclosed in a June 2012 New York Times
Magazine article written by a former Horace Mann student.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 