-- U.K. Police Make 10th Arrest in Probe of Murdered Soldier
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y ,   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/hospitalized-london-terror-suspects-face-wait-for-charges.html
London  police probing British soldier
Lee Rigby’s murder last week in broad daylight made their 10th
arrest as the government vowed to review its powers to counter
extremist groups.  A 50-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of conspiracy
to murder, the Metropolitan Police Service said in a statement
yesterday. A task force on terrorism will consider whether the
state needs wider authority to ban such organizations and
prevent the messages of extremist preachers from reaching the
public, U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May said May 26 on the BBC’s
“Andrew Marr Show.”  “We need to look at whether we need banning orders” for
organizations that don’t meet the current criteria, May said.
“When things like this happen, we do need to look at whether
things need to be learned.” She cited Anjem Choudary, former
leader of the banned Islamist organization Al Muhajiroun, as
someone whose public comments should be scrutinized.  The main suspects in Rigby’s death, a 22-year-old man and
28-year-old man, remain hospitalized in stable condition after
being shot during their arrest. A similar attack was carried out
in Paris May 25 when a 23-year-old French soldier was stabbed
while patrolling near the Metro station in La Defense, a
business district on the western edge of  France ’s capital.  Eight other suspects have been arrested in the London case,
six of whom were released. Of the six, four have been bailed,
pending further enquiries.  Knives, Cleavers  As part of the arrest yesterday, an address in south east
London was also being searched, police said. Rigby was stabbed
with knives and cleavers in the neighborhood of Woolwich, across
the street from an army barracks.  The U.K. government will review whether the country’s
intelligence services missed clues leading up to the May 22
attack in which Lee Rigby died.  The Metropolitan Police Service’s Counter Terrorism Command
on May 24  arrested  a 31-year-old man at the BBC’s premises “on
suspicion of the commission, preparation or instigation of acts
of terrorism.” He remains in custody at a south London police
station after police were granted a warrant of further detention
of the man until May 31. The arrest is not connected to the
murder of the British soldier, police said.  The  BBC  said a man was arrested after being interviewed for
the broadcaster’s Newsnight program on May 24.  Social Media  “We are pursuing a significant amount of CCTV, social
media, forensic and intelligence opportunities and have active
lines of inquiry,” Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant
Commissioner Stuart Osborne said in an e-mailed statement on May
26. “This remains an ongoing investigation focused upon public
safety and identifying any others that may be involved.”  The hospitalization of the two suspects has given police
extra time to investigate the soldier’s killing before facing a
deadline to charge them. While police usually have 36 hours to
file charges or seek an extension from a judge, the countdown
doesn’t start until the suspects appear in a police station for
questioning.  Rigby’s death has heightened tensions over security and
Islamic extremism in a city that was targeted by four suicide
bombers who killed 52 people in a coordinated attack on
Underground trains and a bus in  2005 . Two unexploded car bombs
were found in central London in 2007.  Bloodied Hands  “It looks like it’s wider than just a couple of lone
wolves,” Alan Johnson, a Labour Party lawmaker and former home
secretary, said on the “Andrew Marr Show” after arrests in the
case were made the evening before.  Video footage  broadcast by ITV News showed a man, his hands
covered in blood and holding a cleaver and a knife, speaking
after the attack. “We must fight them as they fight us,” he
said in a London accent. “An eye for an eye, a tooth for a
tooth. Your people will never be safe. Remove your government,
they don’t care about you.”  The U.K. will review “what’s being beamed into people’s
homes,” May said. “There is no doubt that people are able to
watch things through the Internet that can lead to
radicalization.”  The BBC and other U.K. media identified the main suspects
as Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale. In 2010, the former
was arrested in  Kenya  and later deported after officials had
reason to believe he was planning to train with al-Shabab Somali
militants, Boniface Mwaniki, Kenya’s anti-terrorism police unit
chief, told the Associated Press on May 26. Kenyan government
spokesman Muthui Kariuki told the news service the suspect was
arrested under a different name and handed over to British
authorities in Kenya.  Holy War  The  Independent newspaper reported  that Adebolajo was known
to belong to Al Muhajiroun, which favors the imposition of
Islamic law and publicly celebrated the Sept. 11 attacks in the
U.S. He went by the name of Mujahid -- a Muslim engaged in holy
war -- until two years ago, Choudary was cited as saying by the
newspaper.  May said Choudary “has disgusting views,” and that “we
need to see how those views are presented” to the public.  Investigators in the case arrested a 22-year-old man on May
26 in north London on suspicion of conspiracy to murder, the
Metropolitan Police Service said in an e-mailed statement. He
was being held in custody at a south London police station, the
force said. Three men in their 20s were arrested May 25 in
connection with the soldier’s death and were bailed to return to
a south London police station, police said yesterday.  500 Officers  The day after Rigby’s killing, two women, 29 and 31, and a
29-year-old man were arrested as part of the investigation. The
women were released without charge and the man is free on bail,
police said in e-mailed statements.  Around 500 police officers and other investigators,
including members of counterterrorism units from forces around
the country, are working on the case, May said.  Rigby, father of a 2-year-old son, was a drummer in the 2nd
Battalion of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers. A fan of the
Manchester United soccer team, he served as a machine gunner in
Cyprus and then in 2009 as a member of a fire support group in
Helmand province,  Afghanistan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in London via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  