-- Philippine Peso Set for Worst Week in Nine Months as Stocks Drop
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-05-24T04:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/philippine-peso-set-for-worst-week-in-nine-months-as-stocks-drop.html
The Philippine peso was headed for
its biggest weekly loss in nine months on speculation an
improving U.S. economy will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to rein
in monetary stimulus. Bonds and stocks declined.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is “closely monitoring” any
unwinding of stimulus by advanced economies that may lead to
outflows, Governor Amando Tetangco told reporters today in
 Manila . Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the central
bank may taper monthly bond buying if it’s confident of
sustained economic gains. First-quarter growth in the
 Philippines  was probably on track to meet this year’s goal of 6
percent to 7 percent, Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio
Balisacan said before the data is released on May 30.  “We’re seeing some profit-taking in stocks and bonds, in
part triggered by speculation on the Fed exit,” said Emilio
Neri, an economist at Bank of the Philippine Islands in Manila.
“Funds will probably reinstate in a while. We see the momentum
in Philippine growth supported during the first quarter.”  The peso dropped 1.1 percent this week to 41.635 per dollar
at the noon trading break in Manila, the biggest drop since the
five days ended Aug. 17, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
local currency touched 41.69 yesterday, the weakest since Oct.
2. The peso rose 0.1 percent today.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 88 basis points
from yesterday to 5.79 percent. It’s still up 145 basis points,
or 1.45 percentage points, for the week.  ‘Valuation Issues’  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 rose 18 basis points this week to this month’s high of 3.93
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The
 Philippine Stock Exchange (PCOMP)  Index declined 0.7 percent today, set
for a 0.3 percent weekly loss.  Philippine stocks are expensive, Chris Eoyang, managing
director for global economics, commodities and strategy research
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in Manila yesterday.
“Tactically underweight Philippines because of valuation
issues,” he said.  Bangko Sentral, in a memo posted on its website this week,
said it will limit access to its special-deposit accounts by
banning certain types of funds held by trust entities. The
central bank reduced the  interest rate  on $45 billion in the
 accounts  three times this year to 2 percent, while keeping its
 benchmark overnight  rate at a record-low 3.5 percent.  The central bank doesn’t expect a significant reduction in
the amount of funds in its special-deposit accounts even after
tightening restrictions on access, Tetangco said today. Any
outflows from Fed unwinding won’t be massive and the Philippines
has monetary tools to cope, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  