-- Porto to Sell Moutinho, Rodriguez to Monaco for $91 Million
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-24T16:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/porto-will-sell-moutinho-rodriguez-to-monaco-for-91-million.html
Portuguese soccer champion Porto
agreed to sell midfielder Joao Moutinho and forward James
Rodriguez to  Monaco  for 70 million euros ($91 million).  Porto, which last week secured its 27th league title, will
sell Rodriguez for 45 million euros and Moutinho for 25 million
euros, the club said in a statement to the Portuguese stock
exchange.  Monaco, owned by Russian billionaire  Dmitry Rybolovlev , won
promotion to  France ’s top division, where it will play next
season.  Porto earlier this year started buying back economic rights
of the two players from investors who would get a percentage of
the transfer fee. According to a company report, the team in
September 2012 owned 85 percent of the rights to the 26-year-old
Moutinho, who was signed from rival Sporting Lisbon for 11
million euros in 2010, and 55 percent of the rights for
Rodriguez, a 21-year-old Colombian attacker bought from
Argentina’s Banfield for 5.1 million euros the same year.  In February, the Dragons paid 8.75 million euros to Gol
Football Luxembourg to buy back the 35 percent of Rodriguez it
sold to the company for 2.5 million euros in November 2010. The
agreement meant Porto controlled 90 percent of Rodriguez’s
rights prior to his sale to Monaco. It’s unclear who holds the
outstanding 10 percent stake.  Sporting Lisbon should receive about 3.5 million euros from 
Porto as part of a sell-on agreement in its transfer of Moutinho.  Soccer Funds  In January, Porto paid 3.3 million euros to Soccer Invest
Fund, controlled by Iranian-British businessman  Kia Joorabchian ,
to reacquire the remaining 15 percent of Moutinho’s rights. In
August 2011, it paid the company 4 million euros to buy back
22.5 percent of the central midfielder.  Such deals are commonplace in  Portugal , where clubs sell
stakes in players to investors to raise working capital.
Soccer’s governing body FIFA is being lobbied by groups
including England’s Premier League and European soccer body UEFA
to ban the practice, which originated in  South America .  Moutinho had been linked for the last two transfer windows
with a move to Tottenham, while Rodriguez had been discussed in
British media as a target for  Manchester United .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  