-- Pound Declines Fourth Week Versus Euro as German Sentiment Rises
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-24T16:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/pound-set-for-third-weekly-decline-before-u-k-home-loans-data.html
The pound declined for a fourth week
against the euro as an improvement in German business confidence
and speculation the Bank of England will boost stimulus sapped
demand for the U.K. currency.  Sterling headed for its biggest weekly drop versus the euro
in three months as data this week showed British retail sales
unexpectedly fell in April and inflation slowed more than
economists forecast. U.K. policy makers must continue to provide
support to the economy to rebuild confidence, Bank of England
Markets Director Paul Fisher said in a speech today. U.K.
government bonds rose.  “We’ve had better data on the euro side with the German
Ifo,” said Steve Barrow, head of Group-of-10 research at
Standard Bank Plc in  London . “The U.K. data flow has really
damaged sterling this week, maybe a little more than expected.”  The pound rose 0.2 percent to 85.42 pence per euro at
5:01 p.m. London time after sliding to 85.97 pence, the weakest
level since April 17. The U.K. currency has dropped 1 percent
this week, the most since the period ended Feb. 22. Sterling was
little changed at $1.5121 after dropping to $1.5014 yesterday,
the lowest since March 14.  Sterling pared its weekly loss versus the euro today as a
German gross-domestic-product report showed construction
activity and investment both dropped in the first quarter.  “The trade situation in German first-quarter GDP was poor,
as was investment,” said Melinda Burgess, a currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in London. “There are still
worries around the economy.”  German Sentiment  The Ifo institute’s German business climate index, based on
a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 105.7 from 104.4 in
April. Economists predicted it would remain unchanged, according
to a Bloomberg News survey.  The pound has weakened 3 percent this year, the second-worst performer after the yen among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 5.1 percent and the euro rose 2.7 percent.  Fisher, speaking to reporters in Cardiff,  Wales , repeated
his proposal for a potential prolonged period of “slow” bond
purchases, or quantitative easing, tied to the economic outlook.  “We should be doing a slow amount of QE over a period of
time,” he said after an event hosted by the Cardiff Breakfast
Club. “Twenty-five billion pounds over three months is a slow
rate, so that would be what you’d kick off with and then you
would stop when conditions were looking a lot better.”  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.90 percent. The 1.75 percent bond
due in September 2022 gained 0.125, or 1.25 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 98.755.  U.K. gilts handed investors a loss of 1.8 percent this
month through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bunds dropped 1.1 percent and Treasuries fell
1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  