-- Rangers Defeat Bruins in Overtime to Avoid NHL Ouster; Kings Win
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-05-24T05:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/rangers-beat-bruins-4-3-in-overtime-to-avoid-elimination-in-nhl.html
The New York Rangers beat the Boston
Bruins 4-3 in overtime to avoid elimination from the first
National Hockey League playoff series between the teams in 40
years.  In the Western Conference, the Detroit Red Wings shut out
the  Chicago  Blackhawks to take a 3-1 lead in their playoff
series, while the Los Angeles Kings beat the San Jose Sharks 3-0
and now lead that series three games to two.  The Bruins lead the best-of-seven series by three games to
one and can advance to the Eastern Conference finals with a home
win tomorrow.  “They are a tough team and are defending pretty hard,”
Rangers coach John Tortorella told reporters. “We stuck with it
and found a way to win a game.”  The teams are vying for the right to play the Pittsburgh
Penguins or the Ottawa Senators for a place in the Stanley Cup
finals. The Penguins lead their series three games to one and
can eliminate the Senators with a home win today.  After a scoreless first period at Madison Square Garden in
New York, the Bruins moved ahead with a pair of power-play
goals, by Nathan Horton and Torey Krug. New York’s Carl Hagelin
scored to make it 2-1 at the end of the second period.  ‘Another Level’  Derek Stepan tied it for the Rangers one minute, 15 seconds
into the third period. Tyler Seguin restored  Boston ’s lead with
11:54 to play and Brian Boyle tied it again with 10 minutes
remaining.  “I still think we need to keep on getting to another
level,” Tortorella said. “We certainly did in the third
period. Step made a huge play for us early on and I thought it
gave us some life.”  Chris Kreider got the winning goal 7:03 into overtime.  “We did show some character,” said Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist. “It was tough though, probably the ugliest goal I
have ever seen turned it around for us, and that’s hockey. A
save or a goal or one shift can change everything. Tonight it
was an ugly goal.”  Jakub Kindl scored a power-play goal in the second period
and Daniel Cleary added one in the third for the Red Wings on
their home ice at Joe Louis Arena. Jimmy Howard had 28 saves for
the shutout.  The Red Wings can eliminate the Blackhawks in Game 5
tomorrow in Chicago.  At Staples Center, Anze Kopitar scored with two minutes
left in the second period and Slava Voynov and Jeff Carter had
goals in the final period for the Kings. Jonathan Quick stopped
24 shots for his second shutout of the series.  The series moves to San Jose,  California , for Game 6 on May
26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  