-- Treasuries Advance as Highest Yields in Two Months Renew Demand
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-05-24T18:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/treasuries-advance-as-highest-yields-in-two-months-renew-demand.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose as the
highest yields since March bolstered demand while investors
debated whether the economy is strengthening enough for the
 Federal Reserve  to consider slowing stimulus measures.  Benchmark  10-year yields  declined after climbing yesterday
to the highest level since March 14 and volatility increased to
the most in six months after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
earlier this week the central bank may cut the pace of asset
purchases if policy makers see indications of sustained growth.
A government report showed U.S. durable-goods  orders (DGNOCHNG)  rose more
than forecast in April.  “We’re at the top of the range,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in  New York  of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co. “It’s probably a good buying opportunity at
these levels. The Fed’s still in buying $85 billion a month.
They haven’t tapered that as of yet.”  The  10-year yield  fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 2.01 percent at 2 p.m. in New York. The yield rose to
2.07 percent yesterday. The price of the 1.75 percent note due
in May 2023 rose 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face value, to 97
22/32. The yield climbed six basis points this week in the
security’s fourth consecutive five-day loss since four weeks
ended in August.  Orders for durable goods, those meant to last at least
three years, increased 3.3 percent last month after dropping 5.9
percent in March, the Commerce Department said today in
 Washington . The median forecast from 78 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected a 1.5 percent increase.  Re-Calibrated Views  “The  bond market  has re-calibrated its views of where fair
value is in yields relative to continued expectations of the Fed
pulling back some stimulus,” said  Adrian Miller , director of
fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York.
“This seems to be the appropriate level.”  Bernanke said in testimony to the  U.S. Congress  on May 22
that the central bank may reduce its stimulus at some point.
“If we see continued improvement, and we have confidence that
that is going to be sustained, then we could in -- in the next
few meetings -- we could take a step down in our pace of
purchases,” he said.  Treasury volatility as measured by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s  MOVE index  increased to 68.22 yesterday, the highest
level since Nov. 6.  Data-Dependent  “The Fed have made it very clear that their monetary
policy is data dependent, so sensitivity to data will be even
greater than normal,” said  Peter Chatwell , a senior fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole SA in London. “The selloff
in Treasuries is to be expected when equity markets are reaching
new highs, but undoubtedly the move was multiplied by Bernanke’s
comments.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell for three days after
rising to a record this week.  Treasuries lost investors 1.4 percent this month through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. German bunds dropped 1.1 percent.  Business confidence in  Germany  climbed in May, adding to
signs that growth in  Europe ’s largest economy is gathering pace.
The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a survey of
7,000 executives, rose to 105.7 from 104.4 in April. Analysts
predicted sentiment would remain unchanged, according to the
median of 44 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  TIPS Sale  Treasury Inflation Protected Securities rose yesterday
after non-primary dealers bought about 69 percent of the $13
billion of the securities issued. The government’s offering of
the notes drew a  high yield  of minus 0.225 percent, compared
with minus 0.602 percent at the March 21 offering, the biggest
jump since the January 2011 sale of the maturity. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount of securities offered, was 2.52.  The yield on current 10-year TIPS was little changed at
negative 0.28 percent after dropping two basis points yesterday.  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 56.8 percent of the 10-year TIPS
auctioned yesterday, the highest level since November 2010. They
purchased 51.3 percent at the March sale. The average for the
past 10 offerings is 44.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  