-- Rostowski Says Poles Shouldn’t Pay More on Debt Than Czechs
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   M a t t   W i n k l e r
-- 2013-05-24T11:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/rostowski-says-poles-shouldn-t-pay-more-on-debt-than-czechs.html
Polish Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski spoke on the difference between Polish and Czech bond
yields, economic slowdown and monetary policy.  The following are selected comments from his May 22
interview in Warsaw:  On Polish and Czech bonds:  “Poland has been undervalued. There’s no reason why we
should be paying a penny more on our bonds than the Czechs. On
domestic debt the current difference is probably due to the
level of the official interest rate. The difference is much
smaller on euro-denominated debt.”  “Still, there shouldn’t be any difference at all. In fact,
it should be the other way round. Even though our debt-to-GDP
ratio is higher than for the Czech Republic, our growth
potential is much stronger. Poland’s position has been steadily
improving and I see no reason why it shouldn’t equalize with the
Czech Republic in terms of sovereign-debt yields.”  Why economy is responding differently now than during 2009:  “One thing that has gone wrong is monetary policy, which
has been dramatically behind the curve compared with other
countries. Since 2009,  Hungary , the Czech Republic, the euro
zone and the United States have all had improvement in the
structural deficit and reduction in real interest rates.”  “Poland has had by far the biggest improvement in the
structural deficit in Europe with the exception of some so-called ‘program’ countries like  Portugal , but instead of an
offsetting reduction in real interest rates, it has had an
increase.”  “This fiscal deficit tightening has put a lot of downward
pressure on inflation, leaving a great deal of space for the
Monetary Policy Council to reduce real interest rates
appropriately. They haven’t done it. In fact, the real interest
rate has increased.”  On interest rates:  “I don’t see any reason why Polish interest rates
shouldn’t be closer to the level where ECB currently stands. It
doesn’t have to be 0.05 percent as in the Czech Republic, but
there is clearly lot of room to cut. Real interest rates are
already negative for 20 of 27 EU members.”  On Monetary Policy Council’s remit:  “The remit of the Polish central bank is largely written
into the constitution. It’s practically impossible to change and
could carry reputational costs.”  On budget consolidation:  “We’ve managed to tighten the structural deficit by almost
six percentage points of GDP through growth. We held expenditure
extremely tight and raised taxes only slightly. I’m sure public
investment will help economic growth as we go into the new EU
budget perspective next year. We’re way ahead of the curve in
preparations for that and expect the money to start flowing on
the similar scale to 2009.”  “Our policy over the last two-three years has been to
reduce the structural fiscal deficit and take advantage of
growth to reduce the actual fiscal deficit. In the current
situation we may actually want to carry on reducing the
structural balance while allowing automatic stabilizers to
work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Winkler in  New York  at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  