-- Russian Retail-Sales Growth Unexpectedly Slowed to 4.1%
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-05-24T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/russian-retail-sales-growth-unexpectedly-slowed-to-4-1-.html
Russian  consumer spending  grew slower
than economists estimated, adding to evidence the economy of the
world’s biggest energy exporter is decelerating.  Retail sales  grew 4.1 percent in April from a year earlier,
down from 4.4 percent in March, the Federal Statistics service
said today in an e-mailed statement. That missed the median
estimate of 18 economists for a 4.5 percent increase.
Unemployment fell for a third month to 5.6 percent from 5.7
percent, missing the 5.5 percent forecast in a separate poll.  A European recession that extended to a record sixth
quarter is pushing  Russia  to become more dependent on domestic
demand as weaker growth prospects have been feeding through to
industry. Job gains and increasing wages have underpinned
consumer spending, which accounts for about half of the economy,
benefiting retailers including  OAO Magnit (MGNT)  and  X5 Retail Group (FIVE) ,
the country’s largest grocery chains by revenue.  “The April data might still be on the weaker side,”
Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for Russia at Bank of
America Corp. in Moscow and the top forecaster on the country’s
retail sales and investment, said by phone before the release.
Even so, “consumer demand will likely remain resilient,
supported by unemployment being very low.”  Russian stocks have suffered this year, lagging behind
emerging-market peers. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks had its
worst drop in more than a year yesterday, taking its 2013 slide
to 6.4 percent, compared with a 2.7 percent loss for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index.  Economy Slows  Gross domestic product expanded at the weakest pace in the
first quarter since the economy began growing again at the start
of 2010. Consumer-price growth accelerated to 7.2 percent in
April, more than a percentage point above the central bank’s
target range. That has kept policy makers from easing their main
lending rates.  GDP grew 2.3 percent in March from a year earlier, the
 Economy Ministry  estimated last month. Expansion in the first
quarter was 1.6 percent from a year earlier, according to the
statistics service, higher than the ministry’s forecast for a
1.1 percent advance.  The consumer and investment data will be major factors in
shaping the Economy Ministry’s estimate for April’s GDP growth,
according to Clemens Grafe, chief economist for Russia at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Moscow.  Fixed-capital investment fell for a second month to 0.7
percent from a year earlier after shrinking 0.8 percent in
March. The median estimate of 16 forecasts was for a 2 percent
increase.  “All our current problems happen because of the external
situation,” Alexei Devyatov, chief economist at UralSib
Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by phone before data release.
“A recession in  Europe  is deeper than expected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  