-- Russian Standard Bank Said to Postpone Bond Sale Day After MTS
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-05-24T15:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/russian-standard-bank-said-to-postpone-bond-sale-day-after-mts.html
ZAO Russian  Standard Bank  became the
second issuer in the country to postpone a bond sale in as many
days because of rising yields, according to two people with
knowledge of the offering.  The lender controlled by billionaire Roustam Tariko delayed
the issue because of negative market developments overnight and
plans to revisit the market as soon as conditions stabilize,
said the people, who asked not to be identified as the
information isn’t publicly released.  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) ,
Russia’s largest mobile-phone company, shelved a sale of ruble-denominated Eurobonds yesterday, another person said.  The yield on Russian Standard’s existing dollar bonds
redeemable by investors in July 2015 jumped to the highest level
in more than a month yesterday as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  triggered speculation U.S. stimulus may be tapered.
A slump in Russian government Eurobonds due April 2042 lifted
yields nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.723
percent yesterday, the highest level since the start of April,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The main factor was the jump in volatility in the
markets,” Dmitry Poliakov, an analyst at Sberbank Investment
Research in Moscow, by e-mail today.  Russian Standard Bank’s press-service didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed request for comment. The bank had planned
10 1/2 year subordinated dollar bonds callable in 5 1/2 years at
a yield of around 10 percent, according to one of the people.
MTS sold $500 million of 10-year bonds at 5 percent before
postponing placement of the ruble-denominated Eurobond tranche,
according to people familiar with the plans.  Russia ’s government was planning to pick organizers for a
Eurobond sale to raise as much as $7 billion as soon as this
week, Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  