-- Saks at Priciest Means KKR Mulls Neiman Merger: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-05-24T14:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/saks-at-priciest-means-kkr-mulls-neiman-merger-real-m-a.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the buyout firm weighing
an investment in Saks Inc., may need to get creative to extract
more value from what’s already the most expensive U.S.
department-store stock.  Saks, which is exploring options including a sale,  surged 
this week to the highest level since 2008 after  Bloomberg News 
reported that KKR is considering an investment in the $2.3
billion luxury retailer and may seek a merger with closely held
rival Neiman Marcus Inc., which is studying a sale. The gain
left New York-based Saks at a higher price relative to earnings
and free  cash flow  than any of its U.S. peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While financial investors typically seek to take companies
private, Citigroup Inc. said a leveraged buyout of Saks may
yield a return of just 9.5 percent, less than half the goal
private-equity firms usually target. Instead, KKR may view a
tie-up of Saks and  Neiman Marcus  as a way to generate higher
returns, with Frost Investment Advisors LLC seeing a merger
offering the opportunity to close overlapping stores and
increase purchasing power.  Saks’s rich valuation, at a time when  U.S. stocks  are at a
record high, means “private-equity firms are going to have to
look for opportunities that may not have been on their typical
formula list,” said Scott Rostan, founder of New York-based
Training The Street, which teaches new hires at investment banks
how to structure mergers and acquisitions. “The traditional
bread-and-butter leveraged buyout is not going to be that easy.
They’re going to have to be more creative. With Neiman, you’ve
got a willing participant. KKR may see a combination of  Saks (SKS)  and
Neiman as a more formidable competitor down the road.”  Weighing Options  Saks hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to explore strategic
alternatives, including a sale, two people with knowledge of the
matter said this week. Dallas-based Neiman Marcus is also on the
block, with private-equity owners TPG Capital and Warburg Pincus
LLC exploring a sale or public offering of the luxury chain,
people familiar with the matter said this month. The firms
acquired Neiman Marcus in 2005 for about $5.1 billion.  KKR is weighing an investment in Saks, people with
knowledge of the matter said this week, though it wasn’t
immediately clear whether the buyout firm had approached the
retailer. It may seek a merger with Neiman Marcus, the people
said.  Representatives for Saks, KKR, TPG and Warburg declined to
comment.  Saks Surge  Saks shares rose May 22 to a more than five-year high of
$15.50. It closed yesterday at $15.49, leaving it with a price-earnings  ratio  of 35, the highest among U.S. department stores
that have market capitalizations larger than $1 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Saks’s  free cash flow  multiple of 49
also tops the group, which had a median multiple of 19
yesterday, the data show.  Today, Saks shares fell 0.6 percent to $15.40 at 10:08 a.m.
 New York  time.  The stock’s recent gains diminish the potential return a
buyer such as KKR would earn in an LBO of Saks,  Deborah Weinswig , a New York-based analyst at Citigroup, wrote in a note
to clients yesterday.  Weinswig estimates that a buyout price of $20 a share -- 46
percent higher than Saks’s level before reports surfaced that it
was weighing a sale -- would earn an internal rate of return of
9.5 percent. Financial buyers usually look for targets than can
provide an IRR of at least 20 percent, she said.  ‘Quite Expensive’  “Saks is quite expensive,”  Paul Swinand , a Chicago-based
analyst at Morningstar Inc., said in a phone interview. “With
the price appreciation, it’d be hard to justify the multiples.
You’d have to take on out-of-range leverage levels and lower
rates of return, and you start pushing all these models to
justify the takeover price.”  Merging Saks with Neiman Marcus instead would create an
upscale department-store chain with more than $7 billion in
annual sales, second only to Nordstrom Inc., data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  A merger also offers cost-cutting opportunities that could
bolster value and profitability, said Nikhill Patel, an analyst
at San Antonio-based Frost, which oversees about $9 billion and
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, held Neiman Marcus
bonds and Saks stock as of March 31.  “It’s a great potential merger,” Patel said in a phone
interview. “Some of the advantages that we like in the
combination include savings from combining the buying teams, the
bargaining power and also the ability to leverage best practices
among the two companies.”  Margin Improvement  Patel estimated that after a tie-up of Saks and Neiman
Marcus, about $80 million in costs could be eliminated.  That could help improve Saks’s margins, which have lagged
behind peers including Neiman Marcus, said Maria Mendelsberg, a
Denver-based  fund manager  at Cambiar Investors LLC, which
oversees about $8 billion including Saks shares.  Saks’s  profit margin  of 2 percent in the latest fiscal year
compares with 3.2 percent at Neiman Marcus and 6.1 percent for
Nordstrom, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  KKR or another buyout firm may be able to earn a high
enough return from taking Saks private if it sells and leases
back some of the company’s real estate, according to Matt Lockridge, a Dallas-based  money manager  and consumer stocks
analyst at Westwood Holdings Group Inc., which oversees $15
billion and owns Saks shares.  Saks Appeal  Lockridge said estimates for the value of the real estate,
including the flagship store on Fifth Avenue in New York, are as
high as $1.8 billion, more than three-quarters of Saks’s market
capitalization.  “Either a merger with Neiman or a buyout of Saks would
work, but Saks on a standalone basis would be an interesting
long-term investment,” Lockridge said in a phone interview. He
said a takeover offer should be more than $20 a share.  Still, while low  interest rates  in the U.S. benefit
private-equity firms borrowing funds for deals, targets have
gotten more expensive. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index touched
its highest price-earnings valuation this week in more than
three years as the index reached a new high, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Given the high prices, financial buyers on the prowl may
seek alternatives to traditional buyouts. With a substantial KKR
investment as opposed to an LBO offer, Saks and the private-equity firm could team up to acquire the retailer’s larger rival
Neiman Marcus, Rostan of Training The Street said.  “Saks probably wouldn’t have the financial heft to buy
Neiman Marcus,” he said. “A substantial investment from KKR
could be a way of getting it to work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  