-- SAP Said to End Talks to Buy Jive Software in Past Month
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-05-24T19:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/sap-said-to-end-talks-to-buy-jive-software-in-past-month.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s largest maker of
business-management software, held discussions within recent
weeks to acquire  Jive Software Inc. (JIVE) , which has a market value of
more than $1 billion, people familiar with the matter said.  SAP quit talks with Jive, which makes social-networking
applications for businesses, after a thorough review of the
company, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
matter is private. SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , decided
Jive’s products overlapped too much with its own and wouldn’t
add enough market share, one of the people said. SAP is a
customer of Jive, according to Jive’s  website .  Jive shares rose as much as 8.8 percent to $17.16 on the
news, the most since November, to give the company a market
valuation of about $1.1 billion.  Software companies are trying to foster client loyalty by
integrating collaboration tools for employees reminiscent of
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social networking platform. SAP last year
released its own tool, called Jam, that’s based on code garnered
from its acquisition of SuccessFactors Inc. Forrester Research
estimated in 2011 that the market for social enterprise software
would grow about 60 percent a year and reach $6.4 billion by
2016.  “Investors may be thinking that SAP was not the only
potential suitor with whom Jive was talking,” Michael Nemeroff,
an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, said in an e-mail. He rates Jive shares outperform with a $25 target price.
“I think Oracle and IBM would like to own this.”  Oracle, IBM  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  has bought online marketing companies
including Eloqua Inc. and Vitrue Inc. International Business
Machines Corp. last year bought Kenexa Corp., which lets
businesses recruit workers through social media.  SAP spokesman Daniel Reinhardt declined to comment, as did
Amanda Pires, a spokeswoman for Palo Alto, California-based
Jive.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, and James Sciales, a spokesman for
Armonk, New York-based IBM, also had no comment.  Jive, which provides businesses with social-networking
software that helps employees communicate and collaborate on
projects, reported first-quarter revenue of $33.9 million. The
company posted a net loss for the quarter of $16.6 million. Jive
went public in December 2011, raising $161 million.  Last month, SAP said that sales of its new software
licenses, an indicator of future revenue, had risen 3 percent to
657 million euros ($849 million), a significant slowdown from
the 9 percent growth it posted the previous quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  