-- SAP Cloud Chief Dalgaard Leaving as Part of Overhaul
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-05-24T13:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/sap-overhauls-management-to-focus-on-cloud-database.html
SAP AG (SAP)  said its cloud-computing chief
and founder of SuccessFactors Inc., a software provider it
bought last year, is leaving the company as part of a management
overhaul.  Lars Dalgaard is stepping down effective June 1 to become
an investor, the world’s largest maker of enterprise-management
software said today in a statement. Danish-born Dalgaard, who
had joined SAP’s executive board after the acquisition last
year, will keep advising the Walldorf, Germany-based company.  Co-Chief Executive Officers Jim Hagemann Snabe and  Bill McDermott  are trying to stay ahead of  Oracle (ORCL)  Corp. while fending
off  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  as well as smaller Web-based rivals.
Like Oracle and Salesforce.com, SAP is pushing online software
to lower entrance barriers for clients and reduce the computing
capacities companies need to maintain on their own premises.  “Dalgaard did a good job integrating SuccessFactors into
SAP and it makes sense that the company is looking to take its
cloud services to the next step,” said Heinz Steffen, an
analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg,  Germany . “The positive
thing is that Dalgaard is still an adviser.”  SAP  shares  fell 2.5 percent to 59.15 euros at 3:54 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , valuing SAP at 72.6 billion euros ($94 billion). The
stock gained 28 percent in the past 12 months through yesterday.  Bob Calderoni, head of another company SAP bought last
year, Ariba Inc., will now oversee the cloud-computing business.  Database Push  “There will be zero business disruption,” McDermott said
on a conference call. While Dalgaard “is pursuing his ambition
he will remain a key adviser and ever loyal to SAP.”  SAP also announced other management changes to sharpen its
focus on the faster-growing parts of its business, including
cloud-computing and  database software . Vishal Sikka, an
executive board member, will lead a development organization
overseeing innovation throughout the company. Human-resources
head Luisa Delgado is leaving to become CEO of another company.  To increase its push into new areas, SAP last year paid
$4.3 billion for Ariba, which provides a platform for companies
to trade products online via the so-called cloud, and $3.4
billion for SuccessFactors. SAP said this month it plans to
offer even its largest programs via the Web, reducing the time
and cost for deployment compared with software installed on
customers’ own machines.  ‘Great Story’  The company is also investing in database software. Hana, a
database that the company says is the fastest-growing product
it’s ever sold, cuts the time needed to analyze data and carry
out transactions by orders of magnitude. Hana applications --
mostly developed with customers and startups -- range from
weather simulations to predicting track conditions for Formula
One racing teams to planning cancer treatments.  “SAP has a great story with Hana and its cloud offering so
this move to adjust its management structure to concentrate on
these products makes sense and will help them grow even faster
in the coming years,” said Wolfgang Donie, an analyst at
Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale in Hanover.  This year, SAP’s net income is projected to reach 3.7
billion euros, double its level in 2010, while revenue is
estimated to reach 17.7 billion euros, an increase of about 90
percent compared with 2006,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. The
software maker plans to boost sales to more than 20 billion
euros in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  