-- HSBC Says ‘Worrying’ Countries Act Unilaterally on Rules
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-05-24T11:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/hsbc-says-worrying-countries-act-unilaterally-on-rules-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman  Douglas Flint  said it’s “worrying” that more countries are acting
unilaterally on regulation as financial oversight undergoes its
biggest change since the Great Depression of the 1930s.  “This puts at risk globally consistent regulation and also
risks ‘balkanizing’ firms’ capital and liquidity resources,”
Flint told shareholders at the bank’s annual meeting in London
today. “This risks a retreat from globalization and greater
financial exclusion -- neither consistent with the pursuit of
growth.” He didn’t mention specific countries.  Flint’s comments come as  Peter Sands , chief executive
officer of  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the other U.K. bank that
gains most of its profit in Asia, said yesterday British banks
face an “avalanche” of regulation with rules imposed
“increasingly at the national level.”  Separately, HSBC agreed on Dec. 11 to settle U.S. charges
that it helped Mexican and Colombian drug cartels launder
millions of dollars in trafficking proceeds and set aside $1.9
billion for settlements, while increasing spending on compliance
by $500 million in 2012.  “We were humbled and horrified to discover failings of
such magnitude,” Flint, 57, told shareholders. “We have
apologized unreservedly to all our stakeholders and have paid
huge penalties both in monetary cost and reputational damage.
And I take this opportunity to apologize again in person.”  HSBC on March 4 increased its 2012 dividend by 10 percent
from 2011 to 45 cents a share. The payout ratio will remain at
40 percent to 60 percent of earnings for the next three-year
period, the bank said today.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  