-- Singapore Dim Sum Debt Planned as Yuan Clearing Spreads
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-05-24T03:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/singapore-dim-sum-debt-planned-as-yuan-clearing-spreads.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. are planning the first-ever sales of yuan-denominated bonds in Singapore as the city competes with Hong
Kong and Taiwan as an offshore hub for the currency.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, will manage an offering by its
Singapore branch of the securities, a person familiar with the
matter said today, asking not to be identified because the
details are private. DBS, Southeast Asia’s largest bank, plans
to issue its first offshore yuan bond in Singapore “shortly,”
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398) ’s Singapore
branch will start yuan clearing services from May 27, it said in
a press release yesterday. Offshore debt sales in the currency
of Asia’s biggest economy may reach as much as 360 billion  yuan 
($59 billion) this year, according to estimates from HSBC.
Taiwan became the second location for such note sales this year
when Chinatrust Commercial Bank raised 1 billion yuan in
February, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a big leap for Singapore in becoming an offshore
yuan hub,” said Ho Man Chun, economist and strategist at Bank
of Communications Co.’s Hong Kong branch. “There’ll be pretty
good demand for yuan services,” he said by telephone today,
adding that Hong Kong will face “strong competition” from the
city.  HSBC’s notes will be cleared through Central Depository
Pte, a unit of  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , the person said. ICBC
was appointed as Singapore’s  renminbi  clearing bank by the
People’s Bank of China on Feb. 8, according to a statement on
the Singapore monetary authority’s website.  The Hong Kong regulator’s CMU unit and Bank of China Hong
Kong Ltd. provide that infrastructure in Hong Kong, while  Taiwan 
Depository & Clearing Corp. and Bank of China’s Taipei branch
operate in Taiwan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  