-- Slovenian Leaders Agree on Debt Ceiling as Bond Yields Advance
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-05-24T07:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/slovenian-leaders-agree-on-debt-ceiling-as-bond-yields-advance.html
Leaders of Slovenian political
parties agreed to endorse a cap on public spending to restore
credibility and convince investors and the European Union that
the nation can pull itself out of the financial hole it faces.  Heads of coalition and opposition parties said they will
vote today to pass constitutional amendments adding a debt
ceiling from 2015 as well as limiting the scope for a
referendum, Positive Slovenia, the main coalition party of Prime
Minister Alenka Bratusek, said in a statement. Lawmakers in the
capital Ljubljana are set to vote on both measures today.  The party “gave its support to include the fiscal rule in
the constitution with the provision that an accompanying
legislation ensures a gradual balancing of the budget in a way
that Slovenia remains a welfare and solidarity state,” Positive
Slovenia said in a statement late yesterday. SDS, the main
opposition party of former premier  Janez Jansa , said “it’s a
historic agreement on limiting borrowing.”  Slovenia, struggling with a banking crisis and its second
recession since 2009, is pushing forward  with an economic
overhaul including a 900 million-euro ($1.2 billion) bank
recapitalization plan that seeks to reassure markets the country
can pull through without outside assistance.  The yield on the dollar-denominated bonds maturing in 2022
dropped to 5.44 percent at 8:35 a.m. in Ljubljana, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, after reaching 5.51 percent
yesterday, the highest level in more than three weeks.  Constitutional Cap  Slovenian leaders have been haggling over inserting the
debt limit into the constitution for several months as the euro
member was pushed to the fore of the  European debt crisis  in
March after the bailout of Cyprus.  The government is on course to create a so-called bad bank
to begin cleaning up lenders’ balance sheets starting next
month. It’s also pushing ahead with a plan to sell state assets,
including Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. and Telekom Slovenije
d.d., starting in September, according to Finance Minister Uros Cufer.  Slovenia, which became the first former communist nation to
adopt the euro 2007, saw its debt more than double to 54 percent
of gross domestic product at the end of last year from 22
percent in 2008. The debt-to-GDP ratio will surge to 71 percent
next year before eventually settling at about 55 percent, Cufer
said on May 9 when he presented the overhaul program.  “Adoption of the fiscal rule and hopes of a more ambitious
program of fiscal consolidation as a result should be well
received by the market, and by the European Commission,”
Timothy Ash, an emerging-markets economist at Standard Bank Plc
in  London  said by e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  