-- Soldiers Turn Entrepreneurs as One Million Exit Military
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-05-24T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/soldiers-turn-entrepreneurs-as-1-million-exit-military.html
Robert Rummells, a U.S. Army Ranger
for 22 years, says it was a natural transition when he opened a
Mosquito Joe pest-control franchise in Richmond,  Virginia ,
earlier this month.  “I’m an outdoor type of guy, and I didn’t want to be
chained to my computer in an office, talking on the phone,”
said the 49-year-old, who tried jobs such as installing
equipment at a  community college  and simulated firearms training
after retiring from the military in 2009. “I learned I needed
to work for myself.”  As more former service personnel turn to entrepreneurship,
they’re generating jobs that are helping to cut the unemployment
rate for veterans to a four-year low of 6.2 percent in April,
lower than the 6.9 percent rate for adult non-veterans. The
boost to the labor market matters: More than a million Americans
are projected by the White House to transition out of the
military through 2015.  One growing option is franchising. Veteran-owned franchise
openings reported last year increased by 11,469 compared with
6,081 in 2010, according to the International Franchise
Association, a Washington-based trade organization.  “People who come from the military like to belong to
systems,” said Mary Thompson, 49, a logistics officer for the
Marine Corps from 1984 to 1992 and now president of Waco, Texas-based Mr. Rooter LLC, an all-franchised plumbing and drain
cleaning company.  Good Match  Veterans are “a good match” given the discipline required
to manage a franchise, said Thompson, who was chairman until
February of  VetFran , a special program by the IFA to encourage
entrepreneurship by veterans. “There are just so many skills
that translate over.”  To emphasize hiring, the IFA along with partners such as
the White House, Department of  Veterans Affairs  and  Small
Business Administration , set a goal to employ 80,000 former
military personnel and spouses in franchising by 2014. An
October 2012 survey commissioned by IFA showed 64,880 had found
jobs in the industry since November 2011, when the Operation
Enduring Opportunity campaign began.  “Veterans do well in the franchising arena,” said Rhett Jeppson, associate administrator of SBA’s  office  of veterans
business development and a lieutenant colonel in the Marine
Corps Reserve. “It’s a way to provide opportunities for them,
especially if jobs aren’t available.”  The leadership and improvisation skills developed by the
Israeli military in high-stakes situations produces
“battlefield entrepreneurs,” one reason the nation has
prospered, authors  Dan Senor  and  Saul Singer  wrote in their 2009
book “Start-Up Nation: The Story of Israel’s Economic
Miracle.”  Entrepreneurial Skills  As tens of thousands of U.S. veterans return home, linking
them up so “our business community is literate about their
skills and how they are applicable in an entrepreneurial
setting,” will be critical, Senor, a foreign policy adviser to
former presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in February 2011.  Veterans own about 2.4 million businesses, or 9 percent of
all U.S. businesses, employing 5.8 million workers, data from
the SBA show. More former military personnel may consider
starting a business as hiring elsewhere remains uneven.  Payroll Gains  Payrolls nationally climbed in April by 165,000 workers,
after gains of 138,000 in March and 332,000 in February, Labor
Department data showed. The  unemployment rate  for Americans 16
and older fell last month to a four-year low of 7.5 percent.  Automatic  federal budget  cuts that began March 1 threaten
to restrain some employment initiatives. The SBA’s Boots to
Business program -- a public-private partnership to provide
entrepreneurship training for those transitioning out of the
military -- is awaiting funding for a national rollout this
year, Jeppson said.  While veterans can tap lending programs supported by the
SBA such as Patriot Express, banks remain cautious about smaller
borrowers, Jeppson said. About 75 percent of veteran franchisees
have just one unit, according to IFA’s 2012 survey.  The transition from the military can sometimes be
difficult, especially for recent veterans. Joblessness for those
who served in  Iraq  or Afghanistan since October 2001 was 10.9
percent in August 2012, the latest Labor Department figures
available show.  Frustrating Experience  Kevin Safley, who served with the National Guard in Iraq
in 2004 and 2005 and between 2009 and 2010, said he had a “very
frustrating” experience when he returned to find his job as
fleet maintenance manager at a crane company in  Portland ,
 Oregon , was gone. Even with a mechanical engineering degree, he
said, employers were reluctant to hire someone who could be
called back to duty or offered very low wages.  “The only thing I wanted to do was work a 40-hour week and
enjoy the weekend but that wasn’t happening,” said Safley, 37.  When he turned to franchising, his credit history was a
hurdle, he said. He eventually got an SBA loan as a service-disabled veteran to open a Cottman Transmission auto care
franchise in  Vancouver ,  Washington , last year.  “It’s been rough, I’m still learning,” Safley said. “But
we’re making money, and there are lots of customers. If I don’t
give up, things will work out.”  More awareness campaigns to highlight entrepreneurship as
“a viable alternative” will spur business ownership among
veterans, said John Ondik, an instructor at the Wharton Small
Business Development Center in Philadelphia.  First Movers  Once there are more signs the economy is improving, small
firms “are going to be first movers” in hiring, while larger
establishments typically try overtime and other ways to postpone
adding workers, said Ondik, who retired from the U.S. Navy
Reserve in 2008.  Among franchise owners, veterans are 30 percent more likely
than non-veterans to have hired a former service member,
according to the IFA 2012 survey of 791 businesses. Yet 80
percent of franchisees weren’t aware of special tax credits for
employers who hire ex-military people.  The services background clicked when David Povlitz, 64,
founder of Anago Cleaning Systems and a veteran who was in  South
Korea  in the late 1960s, met 66-year-old Terry Mollica, who
served in the  Vietnam war . He signed on Mollica in 1991, and
they’ve expanded the commercial cleaning business to more than
2,000 U.S. franchises. Anago employs 20 people at its corporate
office in  Pompano Beach ,  Florida .  Survival Training  The success “goes back to my survival training in the
military,” said Povlitz, who had to rely on his savings to
start the franchise after exhausting his veterans’ benefits
years earlier. “It’s not a get-rich-quick scheme. Nothing is
easy, but there are opportunities out there.”  Michael Lambert, a 41-year-old former Marine, is trying
something new as he prepares for the June 13 opening of a Valpak
direct marketing and coupon franchise in Lubbock,  Texas . He gave
up a government contracting job in Denver when he moved so his
wife could join her family’s farming business.  “It’s a whole different paradigm,” said Lambert. He has
to reach out to local companies to build sales, in contrast with
his prior, intelligence-related work that he couldn’t discuss
with anyone. He plans to hire two full-time workers to expand
after a year. “Now, this is up to me and my ability. There’s a
lot on the line.”  Veteran Discounts  Army veteran Dave Leonard, who is opening a Bach To Rock
music school in Wayne,  Pennsylvania , said as a veteran he got
discounts worth about $40,000 on franchising and licensing costs
and a royalty waiver for the first six months from the
franchisor. Marketing and logistical support also made the
business an attractive choice, besides his love of music. His
Gibson J-45 guitar traveled with him when he was shipped out to
South Korea in 1966 and is around almost five decades later.  Franchising “offers a middle ground, where you’re running
your own business but you also have a partner,” said Leonard,
67, who is interviewing teachers for instruments such as piano
and drums ahead of the July 15 opening. “Initially, I’ll need
five to 10 people on staff, part time.”  Rummells, the former Army Ranger, says work has begun in
earnest after his bright yellow van, outfitted for bug-control
equipment, arrived this month. He snagged 15 customers at one
trade show, is working on a contract for an outdoor wedding in
July and looking forward to more business.  “It feels like I’m on patrol,” he said. “This time, I
have a new enemy. Mosquitoes, ticks and fleas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  