-- Sony Seeks to Raise 150 Billion Yen From Retail Bonds
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-05-24T05:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/sony-seeks-to-raise-150-billion-yen-from-retail-bonds.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , the maker of Bravia
televisions, is seeking to raise 150 billion yen ($1.5 billion)
in its first sale of bonds targeting individual investors.  The five-year notes will be priced to yield 0.8 percent to
1.4 percent, the Tokyo-based company said in a filing with
 Japan ’s  Finance Ministry  today. Terms will be set on June 7
before Sony offers the debt to investors from June 10 to June
18, it said.  The TV maker joins  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  in planning to market
bonds to Japan’s retail investors as it seeks to capitalize on
its brand name to diversify funding. Shares of Sony, which will
release a new PlayStation 4 console this year, have more than
doubled since December as it benefits from a slumping yen and
billionaire  Daniel Loeb ’s proposal for an initial public
offering of its entertainment assets.  “It’s good for Sony to have increased diversity in its
investor pool,” said Damian Thong, an analyst at Macquarie
Securities Ltd. in Tokyo, who has an outperform rating on the
company’s stock. The funds may help with development of the PS4
or be invested in Sony’s image sensor business, he said.  Sony is strengthening its financial position by accessing
new funding sources, spokeswoman  Mami Imada  said by phone today.
Proceeds from the offering will be used to repay maturing debt
and invest in equipment, she said.  Game Margin  Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  said last week Sony
will continue focusing on imaging products, mobile devices and
games to revive the company’s unprofitable electronics
operation.  Earlier this week, Sony cut its profit margin target for
the game business to 2 percent for the year ending March 2015
from 8 percent projected a year ago, citing expenses for
promoting the new PS4 console for introduction by year’s end.  Sony this month said net income  may rise  16 percent to 50
billion yen in the year started April 1 as the Tokyo-based
company forecasts a 10 percent increase in sales.  The company last sold bonds in November when it raised 150
billion yen in a sale to institutions of zero-coupon convertible
notes due 2017, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s top TV maker cut jobs and sold assets to post its
first annual profit in five years even as its main electronics
business continued to lose money in the year ended March.  Negative Outlook  Moody’s Investors Service rates Sony debt at Baa3, the risk
assessor’s lowest  investment grade , while  Standard & Poor’s  has
a BBB rating, which is two levels above junk, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Both have a negative outlook on Sony.  Loeb’s proposal by itself probably won’t solve the group’s
credit weaknesses, said  Fitch Ratings , which rates Sony at BB-,
or the third-highest non-investment grade, in a May 16
statement.  “Monetising a small minority of the entertainment business
will neither tighten the group’s strategic focus nor provide
sufficient impetus to transform the electronics business,”
Fitch said.  The company plans to spend 180 billion yen in  capital
investment , down 4.6 percent from a year earlier, it said May 9.
Sony doesn’t disclose details of its investment plan, Imada said
today.  Sony has 10.7 billion yen of bonds and 78 billion yen in
loans coming due this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  SoftBank, the Japanese carrier bidding to take over  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  in a $20.1 billion deal, plans to sell 400 billion
yen of bonds next month targeting individual investors to fund
the purchase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in  Tokyo  at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  