-- South Africa’s Ruling ANC Draws Battle Lines With AMCU Union
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a   a n d   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2013-05-24T10:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/south-africa-s-ruling-anc-draws-battle-lines-with-amcu-union.html
South Africa’s ruling African
National Congress has criticized a union that has won members
from a labor organization allied to the ANC that used to be the
country’s biggest.  “Newly formed mining unions supported by the ultra-leftist
groupings” display growing “anarchy” that will result in job
losses and slowing expansion, ANC Treasurer-General Zweli Mkhize
said yesterday.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union has
displaced the National Union of Mineworkers to speak for the
most employees at the world’s three largest platinum producers.
The NUM is an affiliate of the Congress of South African Trade
Unions, part of the ruling alliance that’s led by the ANC. Union
rivalry has led to the deaths of at least 46 workers, cut mine
output and helped make the rand the worst performer among
emerging-market currencies against the dollar this year.  “The ANC is definitely drawing the battle lines here,”
Susan Booysen, a political analyst with Johannesburg’s
University of Witwatersrand, said by phone today. “It’s mostly
that they are portraying an image of wanting to protect the
economy. They are slightly protective of the territory that
Cosatu occupies -- that is a very volatile territory at the
moment.”  Membership Figures  The NUM has lost 37,000 members to the AMCU, NUM General
Secretary Frans Baleni said on Johannesburg-based SAfm radio
today. The Cosatu affiliate had 310,382 members in September,
making it the biggest group in the labor federation, while the
National Union of Metalworkers, which is also part of the
organization, was second-largest with 291,025, according to a
report on the  federation’s website .  The NUM is at risk of losing close to 60 percent of its
membership, the South African Press Association reported
yesterday, citing a union secretariat report.  Today’s figures mean the Numsa has overtaken the NUM as the
largest union in Cosatu, which had 2.2 million members in
September. The AMCU has 120,000 members, union President Joseph Mathunjwa said on May 9. It represents 41 percent of miners at
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s biggest producer of
the metal, more than 50 percent at  Impala Platinum Ltd. (IMP) , the
second-largest, and 70 percent of lower-category employees at
 Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third, according to the companies.  “The NUM is not popular at the moment and they are not
realistic, they are losing territory and this is also a
contributor to the volatility,” Booysen said.  In the gold and coal industries, the NUM this week asked
for wage increases ranging from 10 percent to as much as 61
percent for entry-level miners.  Inflation (SACPIYOY)  was 5.9 percent in
April. Talks will start through the Chamber of Mines in June.  The rand slipped 0.3 percent to 9.5579 per dollar by 11:31
a.m. in Johannesburg, extending the drop this year to 11
percent, the most against the dollar among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net ;
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  