-- State Department Releases Keystone Pipeline Comments
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-24T05:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/state-department-releases-keystone-pipeline-comments.html
The U.S. State Department released
about 100,000 public comments it has received on  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone XL pipeline, the first batch of more
than 1.2 million submitted to the agency on the project.  The comments on a draft environmental impact study were
posted yesterday on  a government website  a month after the State
Department reversed an earlier decision not to release them. The
agency said last night in a statement that it would publish
comments in similarly sized batches on a weekly basis.  TransCanada’s $5.3 billion project awaits approval from the
State Department, which has jurisdiction because the pipeline
crosses the U.S. border with  Canada . The Calgary-based company’s
proposal is supported by labor unions and the  energy industry 
and opposed by environmental groups fighting  climate change .  Keystone is designed to carry a type of heavy crude called
bitumen from  Alberta  to refineries along the U.S. Gulf Coast.
Combined with oil extracted from shale formations in  North
Dakota , the line would transport about 830,000 barrels a day,
crossing six U.S. states.  Some of the comments submitted to the department came as
form letters from groups that back or object to the pipeline.
The Institute for Energy Research, a Washington-based nonprofit
that favors freely functioning energy markets, urged the agency
to expedite the project’s approval.  “The Keystone XL pipeline would increase America’s energy
security and strengthen our relationship with Canada,”
according to the institute’s comment, addressed to Secretary of
State  John Kerry . “The only thing stopping this common sense
project is the federal government.”  ‘Environmental Destruction’  Pipeline opponents, including the National Audubon Society
and the  Natural Resources Defense Council , also submitted their
concerns that the project could cause harm to the environment.  “Building the Keystone XL pipeline can only lead to more
environmental destruction along its route, damaging habitat,
water supplies, and fouling our wildlife,” wrote the National
Audubon Society in its submission.  Obama initially denied a permit for Keystone in January
2012, citing concerns that it might be a threat to the
ecologically sensitive Sand Hills region in Nebraska.
TransCanada resubmitted its plan in May with a new route from
the Canadian border to connect to a pipeline in  Steele City ,
 Nebraska .  The draft State Department environmental impact statement
concluded the Alberta oil would find its way to customers with
or without Keystone. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
has said the department’s review wasn’t thorough enough.  National Interest  After the State Department issues a final environmental
assessment, it will determine whether Keystone is in the
national interest by evaluating issues such as economic impact,
trade and relations with foreign governments.  Canadian officials have stepped up lobbying to win a U.S.
permit for the project, which would relieve an oil glut in
Alberta and increase revenue to the province.  Daniel Kessler, a spokesman for 350.org, a pipeline
opponent, said the group expects a final decision by October.  On May 22, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a
Republican-backed bill seeking to approve Keystone, the eighth
time congressional Republicans have advanced legislation
promoting the pipeline.  The House measure is unlikely to become law as the Senate,
where Democrats have the majority, isn’t considering similar
legislation, and President  Barack Obama ’s administration has
threatened a veto should the bill emerge from Congress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  