-- Stockholm Police Seek Reinforcements After Fifth Night of Riots
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-05-24T06:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/stockholm-police-seek-reinforcements-after-fifth-night-of-riots.html
Stockholm  police are asking for
reinforcements to help end riots that have spread through the
Swedish capital’s most ethnically mixed areas.  About 30 cars burned overnight in Stockholm’s western and
southern suburbs as unrest that started in Husby, north of the
capital, continued for a fifth night, police spokesman Kjell
Lindgren said by phone. Schools were also set on fire, he said.
Rioters are showing their anger over a police shooting more than
a week ago of a 69-year-old local resident, according to
Megafonen, a group that says it represents Husby residents.  “It has been a tough night for police and emergency
forces,” Lindgren said. Officers have been “attacked with
stones. These events obviously drain our resources and we have
asked for help.”  The unrest has plagued Stockholm’s poorest suburbs, where
high rises built in the 1970s are mostly inhabited by immigrant
families. Of the 12,000 people living in Husby, where the riots
started, 60 percent were born outside  Sweden  making them part of
a demographic that is burdened by twice the national jobless
rate. Sweden has suffered similar bouts of unrest before. In
2008, rioters clashed with police outside the southern Swedish
city of Malmoe. Back then, the violence also spread to Husby.  ‘Extremely Angry’  Local residents are “extremely angry and sad,” Adam
Khoder, a member of Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt ’s Moderate
Party for the Rinkeby-Kista council, which is a part of
Stockholm’s local government, said yesterday. The acts of
violence that have plagued outer Stockholm this week are “not
normal,” he said.  There were similar scenes on Tuesday and Wednesday, when
about 30 cars were set on fire in areas with some of Sweden’s
highest immigration rates. A Husby school and cultural center
were set alight while garbage cans burned across other suburbs.
A school was set on fire in Skaerholmen and a police station and
buildings in central Jakobsberg were vandalized.  Khoder said a lack of education and employment was probably
to blame for the extreme reaction by the youths, who police say
are mostly aged around 20.  “It is important to mention that many of them did not come
from Husby and that this is about a few criminal youths, not
entire neighborhoods,” Khoder said.  The family of the 69-year-old man who was shot dead by
police has urged rioters to stop.  Dead Man  It’s “the wrong way to react,” said Risto Kajanto, the
dead man’s brother in-law, according to Swedish tabloid
 Aftonbladet . “We must discuss with the police and get along --
violence only feeds more violence.”  Police need to acknowledge the shooting was a “mistake,”
Kajanto said. The deceased man, who emigrated from  Portugal  in
the 1970s with his wife, who came from  Finland , had been out
eating in a restaurant on the day he was killed, according to
Aftonbladet. After their meal, the two were threatened by a
group of youths, prompting the man to go home in search of a
knife. He was later shot by police in his apartment, according
to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  