-- U.K. Lamaker’s Wife Bercow Loses Case Over Pedophile Comment
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-05-24T10:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/u-k-lamaker-s-wife-bercow-loses-case-over-pedophile-comment.html
Alistair McAlpine, the former U.K.
politician wrongly identified as a pedophile by the BBC, won a
libel lawsuit in  London  against Sally Bercow, the wife of the
U.K. House of Commons speaker.  Bercow’s post on her Twitter page linking him to the story
was defamatory, Judge George Tugendhat said in his ruling today.
Bercow settled the dispute with McAlpine for an undisclosed
amount, his lawyers said in a statement today.  “I find that the Tweet meant, in its natural and ordinary
defamatory meaning, that the claimant was a pedophile who was
guilty of sexually abusing boys living in care,” the judge
said.  Bercow, who is married to John Bercow, wrote a Twitter post
in November asking why McAlpine, a member of the British House
of Lords, was trending on the website. The  BBC  apologized and
agreed to pay McAlpine, a former Conservative Party treasurer,
185,000 pounds ($280,000) over the story last year. Before the
broadcaster retracted the story, McAlpine was the subject of
thousands of tweets linking him to the story.  “The judgment shows the importance of choosing your words
carefully when tweeting,” Niri Shan, a media lawyer at Taylor
Wessing LLP who is not involved in the case, said in an e-mail.  Bercow apologized today for distress she caused.  “To say I’m surprised and disappointed by this is an
understatement,” she said in a statement. “However, I will
accept the ruling as the end of the matter.”  A lawyer for McAlpine, Andrew Reid, said the “failure of
Mrs. Bercow to admit that her tweet was defamatory caused
considerable unnecessary pain and suffering” to McAlpine and
his family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  