-- U.K. Stocks Drop for Second Day as Investors Consider Fed
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-05-24T15:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/u-k-stocks-little-changed-before-u-s-durable-goods-data.html
U.K. stocks  fell, posting their
biggest two-day drop in 10 months, as investors digested this
week’s monetary-policy announcements from the Federal Reserve.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest bank, slid 2.1 percent.
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  declined 2 percent
as it canceled some of its flights following a disruption caused
by one of its planes at Heathrow airport.  Next Plc (NXT)  retreated 2.4
percent as Morgan Stanley cut its recommendation on the shares.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slipped 42.45 points, or 0.6 percent, to
6,654.34 at the close in London. The equity benchmark sank 2.1
percent yesterday amid concern the Fed will scale back stimulus
and as Chinese manufacturing unexpectedly contracted. The
measure lost 1 percent this week, trimming its rally in 2013 to
 13 percent . The broader FTSE All-Share Index lost 0.7 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index was little changed.  “It looks like we’ll either see an economic downturn in
the U.S. or monetary stimulus is going to slow,” said Guy Foster, London-based head of portfolio strategy at Brewin
Dolphin Securities Ltd., which oversees about $39 billion.
“We’ve seen a withdrawal of forward guidance from the Fed as it
refuses to confirm when tapering might start. That uncertainty
should take some heat out of equities.”  Durable Goods  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
 orders  for durable goods climbed 3.3 percent in April, following
a revised 5.9 percent drop in March. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had forecast a gain of 1.5 percent.  In  Germany , a measure of business confidence rose in May
for the first time in three months. The Ifo institute’s  business
climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased
to 105.7 from 104.4 in April. Economists had predicted that the
gauge would remain unchanged.  HSBC slipped 2.1 percent to 726 pence after the Daily
Telegraph reported, without citing anyone, that the lender’s
$1.9 billion settlement with the U.S. government in a money-laundering case may be rejected by a judge. HSBC said in a
statement that it supports the steps taken by regulators.  “The last two years have been extremely damaging to HSBC’s
reputation,” Chairman Douglas Flint said at a shareholder
meeting. “The circumstances leading to major U.S. regulatory
and law-enforcement investigations of HSBC caused us grave
concern.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc fell 3 percent to 327 pence.  British Airways  IAG, which owns British Airways, slipped 2 percent to 273
pence. The airline canceled all its short-haul services through
4 p.m. after one of its planes was evacuated on the runway at
 London ’s Heathrow airport. British Airways said it will carry
out a full investigation of what it called an “engine technical
fault.”  Next dropped 2.4 percent to 4,580 pence as Morgan Stanley
cut its recommendation on the shares to underweight, the
equivalent of sell, from equal weight. The brokerage cited high
valuations after a rally. Next traded at 15 times estimated
earnings as of May 21, when it climbed to a record level, from
13 times earnings in February, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Smiths Group Plc advanced 1.5 percent to 1,355 pence after
saying in a trading update that it expects higher second-half
sales compared with a year earlier, driven by an increase in
orders. So-called underlying revenue increased in all of its
divisions in the first nine months of the year, the maker of
airport-security scanners said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  