-- UN Secretary General Ban Says Congo Has Best Chance for Peace
-- B y   S a u l   B u t e r a
-- 2013-05-24T14:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/un-secretary-general-ban-says-congo-has-best-chance-for-peace.html
United Nations Secretary General Ban
Ki-Moon said  Democratic Republic  of Congo has the “best
chance” to stop further conflict in the east provided its
government and regional actors fulfill a commitment to peace.  The government of Congo in February signed an agreement
with 10 other African nations, regional bodies and the UN to
bring stability to the conflict-ridden region.  It represents “the best chance for peace in many years”
for eastern Congo, Ban said today in Kigali, the capital of
neighboring  Rwanda . “All parties should live up to their
responsibilities and success will be attained.”  Ban’s trip coincides with an outbreak of fighting this week
outside of Goma, the trading hub of eastern Congo, with clashes
between rebels from the M23 group and government soldiers. In
November, the fighters controlled the city for about 11 days
before withdrawing under international pressure.  Ban arrived in Congo on May 22 along with World Bank
President Jim Yong Kim who announced $1 billion of new funding
for the African Great Lakes region to boost trade, expand the
road network and construct power-generation plants. They are
also due to visit  Uganda  during the trip.  Rwanda and Uganda have been accused by UN experts of
supporting the rebels in eastern Congo, where there are deposits
of tin ore, gold, tungsten and coltan, a mineral used in laptops
and mobile phones. They both deny the charges.  Strengthened Mandate  The UN is deploying a new brigade of African troops with a
strengthened mandate to attack M23 rebels and other armed groups
in eastern Congo, joining a peacekeeping force already there.  Ban called leaders in the region to honor this year’s peace
accord including Rwandan President  Paul Kagame . Rwanda is a
signatory to the accord and it has a seat on the UN Security
Council.  “Rwanda is critical to the framework’s substance,” Ban
said. “I am appealing to all leaders to play their part in
implementing and reaching their commitments.”  Eastern Congo has been plagued by fighting since the
perpetrators of Rwanda’s 1994 genocide fled over the border to
Congo along with millions of refugees.  Two wars followed, in which soldiers from at least seven
African countries fought on Congolese soil. A peace agreement
was signed in 2003, though more than a dozen foreign and
Congolese rebel groups remain in the country’s east.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saul Butera in Nairobi at 
 sbutera2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  