-- Hungary Stocks Advance on EU Report, Draft Law: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-24T16:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/hungary-stocks-advance-on-eu-report-draft-law-budapest-mover.html
Hungary ’s stocks rose to a three-month high and the forint rallied amid investor speculation the
nation will escape the European Commission’s excessive-deficit
procedure.  The benchmark BUX stock  index  gained 1 percent to
19,183.32, the highest since Feb. 19, after a draft law showed
the government may introduce a tax on advertisements to help
lift the deficit procedure. The currency appreciated 0.6 percent
to 289 per euro by 4:21 p.m. in Budapest, bringing its advance
this week to 0.7 percent.  The European Commission will recommend an exit on May 29,
news website Bruxinfo reported, citing people it didn’t
identify. Ending the procedure, which has been in place since
Hungary joined the European Union in 2004, would avert the
threat of a cut in development aid. The government would also be
able to drop a plan to raise taxes on banks and energy companies
to boost revenue, according to analysts at Erste Group Bank AG
including Jozsef Miro in Budapest.  The news on the excessive-deficit procedure is “certainly
supporting” stocks, Sandor Nemet, a Budapest-based trader at
Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt., said by phone today. “Hungary’s
investor image has changed somewhat; the growth outlook has
improved.”  Raising Taxes  While Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said this week he
supported raising bank or energy taxes to ensure exit from the
procedure, the draft bill published on the economy ministry’s
website today didn’t mention any levies other than advertising.  Recent measures by Hungary, which include a cut in spending
by ministries and a potential reduction of investments on
building stadiums, will probably be enough to convince the
Commission to allow an exit, Phoenix Kalen and Mohammed Kazmi,
London-based analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, wrote in a
research report.  The BUX index has advanced 2.6 percent since Hungary’s
economy posted its first quarterly increase in more than a year
on May 15, supporting Orban’s quest to end EU budget monitoring.
The gauge increased 2.2 percent this week.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, rose 1.3 percent
to 5,125 forint today, the strongest level since August 2011.
Gedeon  Richter Nyrt ., Hungary’s biggest drugmaker, jumped 2.9
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  