-- Uralkali Delay May Damp Canpotex’s China-Price Growth, VTB Says
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-05-24T11:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/uralkali-delay-may-damp-canpotex-s-china-price-growth-vtb-says.html
OAO Uralkali’s plan to skip a second-half potash contract with  China  reduces the scope for rival
supplier Canpotex Ltd. to raise prices for the Asian country in
the last six months of 2013, a VTB Capital analyst said.  Uralkali, the biggest producer by volume, has no plans to
sign a six-month deal with China replacing the one ending in
June because of its customer’s high stockpiles and low prices,
Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner told Interfax. The
Berezniki, Russia-based producer may instead send the crop
nutrient to China for sales in the spot market, VTB Capital’s
Elena Sakhnova said.  Baumgertner’s company has an advantage in that its location
makes it the only global potash supplier able to deliver to
China by rail. Canpotex Ltd., which exports for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan,  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  and  Agrium Inc (AGU) , relies on seaborne
cargoes, which are bound by long-term contracts.  “Should the company really skip signing a contract for the
second half with China, Uralkali is very likely to boost rail
shipments, as the spot price in China is close to the first
half-contract price,” VTB’s Sakhnova said by phone in Moscow.
“As a result, Canpotex may be forced to roll over the first-half contract price of $400 per ton to the rest the year just to
be able to sell its potash to China.”  Baumgertner expects a new deal with China to be signed in
November or December covering shipments in 2014, Interfax
reported. Uralkali’s press office confirmed his comments.  Very Possible  China and  India , the two largest buyers, put off purchases
of the fertilizer last year as stockpiles grew. Belarusian
Potash Co., which trades the nutrient for Uralkali and
Belaruskali, signed an accord with China in January for first-half shipments, agreeing to a $70-a-ton discount on the previous
price of $470 after Canpotex reached a similar deal in December.  A scenario that sees Uralkali supplying China with spot
cargoes in the second-half of 2013 is “very possible,”
Konstantin Yuminov, an analyst at Raiffeisen Bank in Moscow,
said by phone.  China imported about 3.4 million tons of potash in the
first half and needs to buy about 3 million tons more from
overseas producers this year to cover its needs, according to
VTB Capital’s estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  