-- Turkey Bans Retail Alcohol Sales at Night, Promotion of Drinking
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-05-24T08:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/turkey-bans-retail-alcohol-sales-at-night-promotion-of-drinking.html
Turkey ’s parliament approved a law
banning retail alcohol sales at night and promotion of alcoholic
drinks as opposition lawmakers accused Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  of pushing an Islamist agenda.  All advertisement and promotion of alcohol will be barred
under the law, and sales at stores banned between 10 p.m. and 6
a.m. under a clause added shortly before the measure passed the
parliament in Ankara last night. President  Abdullah Gul , a
former member of Erdogan’s party, must sign the legislation
before it is published in the Official Gazette and takes effect.  Erdogan banned alcoholic beverages at municipally run
restaurants when he was Istanbul’s mayor in the 1990s. The new
law is the toughest nationwide curb on alcohol introduced since
his Islamist-rooted  Justice and Development Party  came to power
more than a decade ago. The premier said last month that ayran,
a salted yogurt drink, was predominantly Muslim Turkey’s
national beverage, rather than anything alcoholic.  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest distiller of alcoholic
beverages, expressed concern over proposed curbs. Diageo paid
$2.1 billion in 2011 for Mey Icki, a producer of the traditional
Turkish spirit raki. The London-based company said yesterday
that it had invested in “a company with strong alcoholic
trademarks and in a country which was encouraging foreign
investments.”  Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  told reporters in Istanbul
that the law may lead to lower  tax revenue  if it reduces demand
for alcoholic drinks, though he said the government has “no
guess” about the extent. Turkey collects about 8 billion liras
($4.3 billion) a year of alcohol taxes, he said.  Imposing Lifestyle  In the parliament debate, opposition lawmakers accused
Erdogan and his party of social engineering.  “This is a religious, ideological enforcement,” said Musa
Cam of the secular  Republican People’s Party . “What they want
to do is to redesign the society based on their own beliefs and
culture.”  Hasip Kaplan, a Kurdish lawmaker, said the ruling party was
imposing its “own lifestyle” on the nation. He warned that the
law will hurt  tourism , which “can’t recover easily once
collapsed,” according to the state-run Anatolia agency.  Sureyya Sadi Bilgic, a lawmaker from Erdogan’s party, said
the bill was “never intended to curb freedoms of drinking” and
only aims to protect children and youths from bad habits.  Soap Operas  Turkish alcoholic drinks will carry health warnings on
packaging under the law, which also forbids television programs
from encouraging the use of alcohol. Deputy Prime Minister
Bulent Arinc has repeatedly objected to drinking scenes in
popular soap operas. Violators of the promotion bans can be
fined as much as 200,000 liras ($108,000).  The law will hurt business and exceeds its stated mandate
of protecting minors, Turyid, a group representing Turkish
restaurants and entertainment companies, said in a statement on
May 16. It said Turkey has  Europe ’s lowest alcohol consumption
at 1.5 liters per capita.  Erdogan’s party attempted to criminalize adultery in 2004,
before stepping back under pressure from the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  