-- Valeant Said to Be Near to Acquiring Bausch & Lomb
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-27T13:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/valeant-said-to-be-close-to-acquiring-bausch-lomb.html
(Corrects amount of Warburg’s return and dividend in fifth
paragraph of story publish May 25.)  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International
Inc. (VRX) , Canada’s largest drugmaker, is close to acquiring Bausch &
Lomb Holdings Inc., the eye-care company owned by Warburg Pincus
LLC, for about $9 billion, said a person with knowledge of the
negotiations.  A deal may be announced as early as next week, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. Bausch & Lomb, bought by Warburg in a 2007 leveraged
buyout, filed in March for an initial public offering after an
earlier effort to sell itself for at least $10 billion stalled,
people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Valeant is actively seeking acquisitions of companies with
solid cash flows in high-growth areas, Chief Executive Officer
Mike Pearson said on a conference call with investors earlier
this month. The Bausch & Lomb deal would be the largest of 15
acquisitions for Montreal-based Valeant since it was created in
a 2010 merger of its U.S. predecessor and  Canada ’s Biovail Corp.  “They have got to continue to feed the machine that is
their stock price and right now investors are craving these
acquisitions,” Corey Davis, an analyst at Jefferies LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “They don’t need to do
this right now, but given that this is their core competency and
it feels like an Oklahoma land grab in specialty pharma, they
should strike while the iron is hot.”  Warburg Return  Warburg invested about $1.7 billion of equity in the 2007
buyout, a person with knowledge of the matter said. A sale at $9
billion, including debt, would give the private-equity firm a
total return of about $4.9 billion, about three times its
outlay. That includes $673 million from a dividend in March.  Adam Grossberg, a spokesman for Bausch & Lomb, said it is
focused on building the best global eye-health company and
declined to comment further. Laurie Little, a spokeswoman for
Valeant, and Jeffrey Smith, a Warburg Pincus spokesman, declined
to comment.  Valeant gained 13 percent to $84.47 yesterday in New York,
its highest price since 1994. The shares have advanced 76
percent in the past 12 months.  At $9 billion including debt, Rochester, New York-based
Bausch & Lomb would be valued at about 21 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $429.5 million
in the year through December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Bausch & Lomb reported adjusted Ebitda of $643.1
million for the period, excluding costs from stock-based
compensation and recent acquisitions.  Deal Value  The buyout values the company at 14 times those adjusted
earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Separately, Bausch & Lomb said yesterday in a statement
that its Ista Pharmaceuticals Inc. subsidiary, which makes eye
treatments, pleaded guilty to federal charges involving drug
sales. It will pay about $34 million in fines and is barred from
participating in U.S. health insurance programs in connection
with the settlement of allegations from January 2006 to March
2011, before Ista’s 2012 acquisition by Bausch & Lomb.  Bausch & Lomb’s eye medicines fit with Valeant’s strategy
to focus on niche areas of medicine that don’t require a large
infrastructure or sales force, Davis said. Valeant will likely
be looking to cut costs and fire workers at Bausch & Lomb to
increase the profitability of its products, he said.  Cutting Excess  “The reason they are so successful and like deals like
this is because they are able to cut the fat and get value out
of the synergies,” Davis said. “Whether $9 billion makes sense
is going to depend on how much they can cut.”  Valeant last month was said to be in talks to merge with
Parsippany, New Jersey-based  Actavis Inc. (ACT) , the largest U.S.
generic-drug maker, according to people familiar with the
matter. Actavis on May 20 said it agreed to buy  Warner Chilcott
Plc  for about $5 billion in a stock deal.  Valeant’s  largest purchase  to date was a $2.4 billion deal
for Medicis, a skin-care company, after it failed in 2011 to buy
drugmaker Cephalon Inc. with a bid of about $5.7 billion.  Even before the merger with Biovail, Valeant’s Pearson had
acquired more than three dozen products or companies since
taking over in 2008. Pearson last year said his strategy has
been to mix large and small deals and focus on areas such as
dermatology and ophthalmology. Bausch & Lomb makes items such as
contact lenses, eye-care solutions and prescription medicines.  Valeant’s most recent deal was an April purchase of Obagi
Medical Products Inc., the maker of prescription skin-care
products, for about $418 million. The company has a wide range
of drugs, including the antidepressant Wellbutrin XL, over-the-counter products and medical devices. Valeant reported $3.5
billion in 2012 revenue and had $413.7 million in  cash  and near
cash as of March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc, based in  London , sells Wellbutrin XL
and splits profits with Valeant. Mylan Inc. and Actavis also
make generic versions.  The Valeant deal for Bausch & Lomb was reported earlier by
the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  