-- Vestas Calls in Fraud Squad to Probe Ex CFO’s India Deals
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-05-24T14:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/vestas-calls-in-fraud-squad-to-probe-ex-cfo-s-india-deals.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  called in
 Denmark ’s fraud squad to probe deals it says former Chief
Financial Officer Henrik Noerremark made in India, which led the
turbine maker to set aside $24 million to cover possible losses.  The State Prosecutor for Serious Economic and International
Crime became involved in the case in December, Vestas said today
in a statement. Lawyers and internal auditors had previously
been unable to conclude what the money was spent on, it said.  Noerremark quit in February last year, and Vestas said in
October it ended his severance agreement because of two deals he
reached in India without the knowledge of the board or Chief
Executive Officer Ditlev Engel.  “The Vestas board wants to have all aspects of this case
investigated and the missing money returned,” Chairman Bert
Nordberg said in the statement. The company hasn’t mentioned the
fraud-squad probe until now “out of consideration for the
investigation,” he said.  The two deals involve a waiver by Noerremark of two debt
agreements with an unspecified Indian company that totaled 4.4
million euros, and a 14.5 million-euro investment in a possible
project in  India  by another company in the group, Vestas said.  “The investigations were completed without the lawyers or
the auditors being able to find any further clarification of
what the money was spent on,” Nordberg said. “The board
requested the fraud squad to initiate an investigation and at
the same time we informed the former CFO that the board intends
to hold him responsible for the losses.”  Morten Samuelsson, Noerremark’s lawyer, said his client
denies the accusations and welcomes the police investigation.  “We’re confident that the police will exonerate him, and
then we’ll proceed with a civil case” against Vestas to claim
back Noerremark’s severance pay, Samuelsson said today by
telephone from Copenhagen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  