-- Visa, MasterCard Sue Interchange-Fee Settlement Drop Outs
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/visa-mastercard-sue-swipe-fee-deal-dropouts-seek-ruling.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  sued
trade groups and retailers that rejected a $7.25 billion
settlement in a price-fixing suit and asked a court to rule that
the card companies’ fee practices weren’t illegal.  The settlement, described by plaintiffs in that case as the
largest in an antitrust lawsuit, would end an eight-year legal
battle over the swipe, or interchange, fees charged to merchants
when customers use credit cards to pay. The plaintiffs accused
Visa and MasterCard, the two largest U.S. payment-card firms, of
illegally fixing the fees.  Visa, MasterCard and several banks said in a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, that
their suit is “necessary to prevent the continuation of
endless, wasteful litigation.” They seek to bar the trade
groups and retailers from seeking antitrust damages for the fee
practices.  Under the proposed settlement agreement, Visa, MasterCard
and major banks can back out of the deal if retailers dropping
out make up more than 25 percent of the companies’ total credit
card payment volume. The top 100 merchants in the U.S. represent
about 25 percent of the total volume, according to a July
analysis by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. Of those, about 15 have
already agreed to their own settlement with Visa, based in
Foster City,  California , and Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard.  ‘Vocal Opponents’  Parties targeted by the suit include the  National
Association of Convenience Stores , the National Grocers
Association, the National Restaurant Association, Affiliated
Foods Midwest Cooperative and D’Agostino Supermarkets Inc. All
of them were part of litigation leading to the proposed
settlement and now are “among the most vocal opponents” of the
deal, according to the complaint.  Dozens of other retailers, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and  Target Corp. (TGT) , also oppose the accord. They have claimed it
falls short of providing recovery for the billions of dollars in
fees collected over the years and contains provisions giving the
card companies freedom to raise rates in the future.  A group of 17 retailers led by Target filed their own
lawsuit on May 23 in Manhattan federal court seeking damages for
the swipe fees.  Jeffrey Shinder, a lawyer for retailers and trade groups
named in the suit along with other companies opposed to the
settlement, declined to immediately comment on the complaint
filed yesterday.  ‘Legal Defects’  In a statement in November, Shinder said the settlement had
“fatal legal defects.” At the time, the entities targeted by
yesterday’s lawsuit were announcing their opposition to the
accord. Shinder has argued in previous hearings before U.S.
District Judge John Gleeson that legal releases, protecting the
card firms and banks from future lawsuits, are particularly
unfair.  The settlement received tentative approval from Gleeson in
November. A hearing on final approval is set for Sept. 12.  “After years of negotiation, the same retailer trade
groups that willingly agreed to a multibillion dollar settlement
are now turning around and demanding even more,” said Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman for a coalition representing the interests
of the payment card industry. “Enough is enough -- these tired
old arguments and this battle needs to be put to bed.”  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  