-- Warburg Would Get Threefold Return in Bausch Transaction
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-27T13:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/warburg-would-reap-threefold-return-in-bausch-transaction.html
(Corrects to show return would be about threefold in first
paragraph, and dollar amounts for return and dividend in fourth
paragraph in story published May 25.)  Warburg Pincus LLC would reap about a
threefold return on its $1.7 billion equity investment in Bausch
& Lomb Inc. if talks to sell the eye-care company for $9 billion
bear fruit, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The private-equity firm, based in  New York , is close to a
deal to sell the company it bought six years ago to  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) ,  Canada ’s largest drugmaker,
according to a second person briefed on the situation.  Warburg invested about $1.7 billion in a 2007 going-private
transaction valued at $4.6 billion, including debt, the first
person said. Bausch & Lomb, based in Rochester, New York, makes
 contact lenses , eye-care solutions and prescription medicines.  A sale at $9 billion, including debt, would give the
investment firm a total return of more than $4.9 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That includes $673
million Warburg collected from a dividend in March. Bausch &
Lomb filed for an initial public offering in March after an
earlier effort to sell the company for at least $10 billion
stalled, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Jeffrey Smith , a Warburg Pincus spokesman, and Laurie Little, a spokeswoman for Valeant, declined to comment on a
possible transaction.  Warburg, which has more than $30 billion in assets, is also
exploring possible sale of department-store chain  Neiman Marcus ,
which it co-owns with another buyout firm, TPG Capital,
 Bloomberg News  reported earlier this month, citing people
familiar with the matter. It completed raising an $11.2 billion
fund, the 46-year-old firm’s 11th buyout vehicle, this month.  Deal Valuation  Warburg is run by co-Presidents Joseph P. Landy and Charles R. Kaye. Sean D. Carney, a managing director, is leading the
Bausch & Lomb sale, one of the people said.  Valeant is seeking to make acquisitions of companies with
solid cash flows in high-growth areas, Chief Executive Officer
Mike Pearson said in a conference call with investors earlier
this month. Valeant was said in April to be in talks to merge
with Parsippany, New Jersey-based  Actavis Inc. (ACT) , the largest U.S.
generic-drug maker, according to people familiar with the
matter.  A $9 billion deal for Bausch & Lomb would be the largest of
15 acquisitions for Montreal-based Valeant since it was created
in a 2010 merger of its U.S. predecessor and Canada’s Biovail
Corp.  The price would be about 21 times Bausch & Lomb’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $429.5
million in the year through December, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Bausch & Lomb reported adjusted Ebitda of $643.1 million
for the period, excluding costs from stock-based compensation
and recent acquisitions. The buyout values the company at 14
times those adjusted earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Warburg Pincus  invests globally in energy, financial
services, health care, technology, media and telecommunications,
and consumer, industrial and services companies. The firm
distributed about $6.2 billion to investors in 2012 and an
additional $3 billion in the first quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  