-- Crude Caps Weekly Drop as Investors Weigh Stimulus
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-05-24T20:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/wti-oil-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-a-month.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell,
capping its biggest weekly drop in more than a month, after
rising U.S. durable goods orders bolstered concern that the
 Federal Reserve  will scale back stimulus efforts.  Futures slid as bookings for equipment meant to last at
least three years rose more than forecast. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 that the pace of asset purchases could
decrease “in the next few meetings” if the economy improves.
Reports this week showed U.S. gasoline supplies surged and
Chinese factory output contracted.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
recommended selling WTI and buying Brent for December 2014 as
crude supplies grow on the U.S.  Gulf Coast .  “Uncertainty about the future of stimulus is the major
factor weighing on markets today,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“We’ve been down this week for three reasons: concerns that the
Fed will ease off on the stimulus, worries about  China’s economy 
and very high inventories.”  WTI crude for July delivery decreased 10 cents to $94.15 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since May 2. The volume of all contracts traded was
35 percent below the 100-day average at 4:46 p.m. Oil fell 1.9
percent this week, the most since the seven days ended April 19.  There will be no floor trading in New York on May 27
because of the Memorial Day holiday. All electronic transactions
will be booked with May 28 trades for settlement.  Brent Futures  Brent oil for July settlement increased 20 cents to end the
session at $102.64 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Volume for all contracts was 49 percent lower than the 100-day
average. The European benchmark grade traded at a premium of
$8.49 to WTI, the most since May 16.  The spread is set to narrow toward $5 a barrel in the third
quarter as new pipeline capacity to move crude out of the
storage hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma , causes stockpiles there to
decline “substantially,” Goldman said.  The discount for WTI for delivery in December 2014 against
the equivalent Brent contract has narrowed to $8.35 a barrel
from $10.11 on April 22. The spread should widen as pipelines
carrying crude out of Cushing cause a buildup on the Gulf Coast
that lowers the price of WTI versus Brent, Goldman said.  “If an oversupply of light, sweet crude in the U.S. Gulf
Coast becomes a problem as soon as third quarter 2013, it should
be an even bigger problem in 2014,” analysts  Jeffrey Currie  and
Stefan Wieler in New York said in a report today.  Durable Goods  Oil and equities dropped after the Commerce Department said
 orders for durable goods  increased 3.3 percent last month after
dropping 5.9 percent in March. The median forecast from 78
economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a 1.5 percent gain.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1 percent.  “The market shrugged off the positive durable goods
number,” McGillian said. “Attention is focused on what it may
mean for future stimulus.”  U.S. gasoline stockpiles rose by  3.02 million barrels  last
week, according to an Energy Information Administration report
on May 22. The peak-demand summer driving season, when Americans
usually take vacations, begins with the May 27 Memorial Day
holiday and ends in early September with Labor Day.  “The bulls are fighting the calendar,” said  Phil Flynn , a
senior market analyst for Price Futures Group in  Chicago .
“There’s plenty of supply here and once we get through the
Memorial Day holiday, any demand concerns will lessen. The
Chinese data continues to weigh on the market.”  Ample Stockpiles  Crude supplies  slipped 338,000 barrels to 394.6 million
last week, the EIA report showed. Stockpiles climbed to 395.5
million in the week ended May 3, the most since 1931, according
to the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical unit.  “U.S. crude stocks are very well filled, and there’s some
disappointing economic data from China,” said  Hannes Loacker ,
an analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in Vienna, who
estimates WTI will average $92 this quarter. “It’s not the best
cocktail for crude.”  China ’s Purchasing Managers Index was reported at 49.6 for
May, the lowest level since October and less than forecast, data
released yesterday by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
showed. Bernanke signaled May 22 that the central bank may
reduce the monthly bond buying program known as quantitative
easing.  Market Forecast  Twenty of 32 analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg
this week, or 63 percent, forecast that WTI will decrease
through May 31. Seven respondents, or 22 percent, predicted an
increase. Five projected no change.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
July was 20.2 percent, compared with 21.7 yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 339,315
contracts as of 3:47 p.m. It totaled 623,334 contracts
yesterday, 7.3 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.74 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  