-- WTI Heads for Biggest Weekly Decline in a Month on Supply
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-05-24T13:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/wti-heads-for-biggest-weekly-decline-in-a-month-on-supply.html
West Texas Intermediate headed for
its biggest weekly drop in more than a month amid signs of
rising U.S. oil inventories and a global economic slowdown.  Futures slid as much as 1 percent in  New York . Prices may
decline next week amid speculation that U.S. fuel supplies will
be sufficient to meet summer demand after factory output in
 China  shrank for the first time in seven months, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended
selling WTI and buying Brent contracts for December 2014 as
supplies accumulate on the U.S.  Gulf Coast .  “U.S. crude stocks are very well-filled, and there’s some
disappointing economic data from China,” said  Hannes Loacker ,
an analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in Vienna, who
estimates WTI will average $92 this quarter. “It’s not the best
cocktail for crude.”  WTI for July delivery fell as much as 94 cents to $93.31 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $93.48 as of 1:54 p.m. London time. The volume of all
contracts traded was 19 percent below the 100-day average.
Prices are 2.6 percent lower this week, the most since the seven
days ended April 19.  Brent for July settlement fell 40 cents to $102.04 a barrel
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark was
at a premium of $8.55 to WTI compared with $8.19 yesterday.  The spread is still set to narrow toward $5 a barrel in the
third quarter as new pipeline capacity to move crude out of
Cushing causes stockpiles there to decline “substantially,”
Goldman said.  Sweet Crude  The discount on WTI for delivery in December 2014 against
the equivalent Brent contract has narrowed to $8.49 a barrel
from $10.11 a month ago. The spread should widen as pipelines
carrying crude out of the U.S. storage hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma ,
cause a build-up on the Gulf Coast that lowers the price of WTI
versus the European benchmark, Goldman said.  “If an oversupply of light, sweet crude in the U.S. Gulf
coast becomes a problem as soon as third quarter 2013, it should
be an even bigger problem in 2014,” analysts  Jeffrey Currie  and
Stefan Wieler in New York said in a report today.  Cyclical Headwinds  Brent may fall below $95 if the economy falters further,
Bank of America Corp. said yesterday.  “Brent crude oil prices have found weakness recently on a
combination of seasonal and cyclical headwinds,”  Francisco Blanch , head of commodities research at Bank of America in New
York, said in a report. “Should the global economic recovery
stall further, we see risk that Brent prices could fall below
$95 a barrel near-term.”  Twenty of 32 analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg
this week, or 63 percent, forecast that WTI will decrease
through May 31. Seven respondents, or 22 percent, predicted an
increase. Five projected no change.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles rose by  3 million barrels  last
week, according to government data released May 22. They were
predicted to fall by 300,000 barrels in a Bloomberg survey. U.S.
crude inventories remain 3.2 percent higher than a year ago at
394.6 million barrels even after declining last week, according
to the Energy Information Adminstration’s report.  “The tone of the market remains soft,” said Ric Spooner,
a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “Growth in oil
demand has been very moderate. This week’s figures in the U.S.
were a bit disappointing with a big build-up in gasoline
inventories as we start to move into the early part of summer,
showing a well-supplied market.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
probably maintain a production target of 30 million barrels a
day at its meeting in Vienna May 31, according to 19 out of 20
traders and analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  