-- Zurich Insurance Seeks China, Saudi Expansion on Growth Bets
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-05-24T11:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-24/zurich-insurance-seeks-china-saudi-expansion-on-growth-bets.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  plans to
expand in  China  and Saudi Arabia as the insurer seeks to
capitalize on economic growth in the world’s second-biggest
economy and largest oil exporter.  Switzerland’s biggest insurer plans to set up as many as
five branches in China by 2016 after winning a license that
allows it to apply for expansion beyond its presence in Beijing,
Geoff Riddell, chairman of Asia-Pacific and the Middle East,
said today in an interview at the  World Economic Forum  in
Jordan. In Saudi Arabia, the firm has been in talks with the
central bank on the best way to enter the market, he said.  The two countries were among the top three performing
economies in the Group of 20 from 2008 to 2012, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . The possible expansion in China
comes as authorities put more emphasis on the quality of
economic growth and urbanization to boost domestic demand.  “The question is how fast will the authorities let us get
extra licenses” in general insurance, said Riddell, who is
based in  Hong Kong . “ Shanghai  is our first priority.”  The Chinese economy will grow 7.9 percent this year from
7.8 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of 55
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Economic expansion may also occur in Saudi Arabia because
of the infrastructure spending Zurich foresees in the country as
well as from Takaful insurance, or  Islamic-compliant insurance ,
in the Middle East, according to Riddell.  Zurich Insurance may also enter the Takaful business in
Malaysia, he said, adding the company isn’t in talks on any
acquisitions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  