-- 
A Plan to Tax the Foreign Income of U.S. Companies: Robert Pozen

-- B y   R o b e r t   P o z e n
-- 
2011-06-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/a-plan-to-tax-foreign-income-of-u-s-companies-commentary-by-robert-pozen.html
The current system for taxing
foreign source income of U.S. corporations makes no sense. In
theory, income earned by controlled foreign subsidiaries of
American companies is taxed at the U.S. corporate rate of 35
percent; in practice, the Treasury receives no taxes on that
income as long as it is held overseas.  U.S. corporations now have overseas cash holdings of almost
$2 trillion, which they are encouraged to deploy by acquiring
companies and building facilities outside the U.S.  As an alternative, business lobbyists have advocated a so-
called territorial system under which foreign source income
would be taxed only in the country where it is earned. These
lobbyists correctly argue that almost all advanced industrial
countries follow this system, though many don’t allow tax havens
to take advantage of it.  This alternative is based on the premise that foreign
source income is being taxed once somewhere, at a reasonable
rate by a credible tax-enforcing government such as  Germany . But
this premise doesn’t apply to tax havens, like the  Cayman
Islands , where the tax rate is minimal, or places where a
reasonable official rate isn’t enforced.  To reform the current system, Congress should exempt from
U.S. taxes corporate income earned in foreign countries with an
effective corporate tax rate of 20 percent or higher. Such
earnings could be repatriated to the U.S., subject to payment of
a 5 percent administrative charge. Such a fee, applied in  France 
and other countries, would be a simple way to account for prior
deductions from U.S. taxes by American corporations to generate
foreign source income -- for example, on salaries of U.S.
executives who helped start European operations.  Ending Deferral  At the same time, Congress should end the current deferral
system for foreign source income earned by U.S. corporations in
countries with effective tax rates under 20 percent. Instead,
that income would be taxed every year in the U.S. at a rate
equal to the difference between 20 percent and the actual rate
paid by the corporation in the tax haven. For example, if an
American company generated $100 million of income in  Bermuda ,
which collected $2 million in taxes on that income, the
corporation would pay $18 million in U.S. taxes. And if the
company repatriated that income to the U.S., it would pay the 5
percent administrative charge.  Effective Corporate Rates  There are a few likely objections to this proposal. First,
some might take issue with the 20 percent rate because it is
much lower than the current 35 percent corporate rate. But few
companies in the U.S. ever pay such a high rate. A recent
academic study on effective corporate rates -- what companies
paid on average in major countries -- found the average was 22.5
percent in the U.S., and 19.8 percent to 21.5 percent in large
European countries. In addition, U.S. corporations are never
subject to the 35 percent rate on foreign source income that is
kept overseas.  Moreover, there is little merit to the argument that the
difference between the 35 percent rate on domestic income and
the proposed 20 percent rate on foreign income would reward U.S.
companies for building facilities abroad. This incentive is much
stronger under current law, which effectively subjects companies
to a 0 percent tax rate on foreign source income.  Second, there is some truth to the claim that a territorial
tax would encourage American companies to move income to
countries such as the U.K., where they wouldn’t be subject to
U.S. corporate tax. Yet even that situation would be much better
than the current system, which encourages U.S. corporations to
move income to countries that collect minimal corporate taxes. A
company that transfers income to the U.K. will probably be taxed
there at an effective rate of 20 percent or higher.  Investment Interest  In addition, to limit the ability of U.S. multinationals to
shift easily movable income from country to country, Congress
should strengthen existing rules for mobile income such as
investment interest or royalty fees.  Third, it would be feasible to identify countries with
average effective corporate rate of 20 percent or higher -- not
the rate paid by the individual company. In most cases, the
conclusion will be clear. Nevertheless, there will be countries
with borderline tax systems that will have to be evaluated by
the Treasury, which should establish a transparent determination
process for country appeals.  Fourth, a scaled approach should be applied to U.S.
companies that already have substantial facilities in countries
like Ireland because of their low tax rates. Under the new
system, U.S. corporate income earned in Ireland would be taxed
at its local 12.5 percent rate, and would be subject to U.S.
taxes at a 7.5 percent rate. This proposed approach would
encourage U.S. companies to choose the location of their
European operations on the basis of nontax factors such as
workforce productivity and transport links. This result would be
strongly supported by our major trading partners in  Europe ,
which have objected to Ireland’s low tax rate.  Transitional Regime  As the proposed approach is put in place, the U.S. would
have to devise a transitional regime to minimize disruption.
When American companies built facilities in Ireland and similar
countries, they reasonably relied on the current system that
allows indefinite deferral of taxation on foreign source income.
Therefore, Congress should enact a transitional rule that would
allow prior foreign profit of U.S. corporations to be
repatriated for the next few years at a favorable rate such as
10 percent.  Fifth, the proposed system is a much better solution than
granting another tax holiday to U.S. multinationals, which in
2005 were allowed to repatriate foreign profit at a tax rate
below 6 percent. Such measures only encourage U.S. companies to
keep their foreign profits abroad until the next tax holiday.  Tax-Code  Overhaul  But we shouldn’t wait for a promised comprehensive reform
of the corporate tax code to take action on foreign income. Both
the Obama administration and the business community want to
lower the corporate tax rate to about 25 percent from 35 percent
on a revenue neutral-basis. However, it is unclear whether a
tax-neutral package can be enacted because such a measure would
require several important industries to lose their special tax
benefits.  The current tax system for foreign-source income is so
poorly designed that reform wouldn’t be a zero-sum game. By
adopting the modified territorial approach I propose, Congress
could simplify the rules and give companies more flexibility on
their business decisions, and still increase the total revenue
collected by the U.S. government.  (Robert Pozen is a senior lecturer at  Harvard Business
School  and a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the author of this column:
Robert Pozen at  bpozen@mfs.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley   mberley@bloomberg.net . 