-- 
Abu Dhabi’s Royal Capital Builds ‘Cash Cushion’ to Buy Bonds: Arab Credit

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-06-27T08:34:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/abu-dhabi-s-royal-capital-builds-cash-cushion-to-buy-bonds-arab-credit.html
Royal Capital MENA Fixed Income Plus (ROYCMFI) 
Fund, the best-performing major debt fund in the Persian Gulf
region, is building up “a cash cushion” to invest in upcoming
bond issues.  “The pipeline is strong which will put some pressure on
the  bond market  so we prefer to have some cash and profit from
any opportunity,” said Ahmed Talhaoui, head of asset management
at Abu Dhabi-based Royal Capital PJSC, the  fund manager .  Bond issues from the Middle East and North Africa may beat
last year’s $40 billion as borrowing requirements rise,
according to Salman  Al Khalifa ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s regional head
of markets. Dolphin Energy Ltd., the Abu Dhabi government-
controlled venture transporting natural gas, hired banks to
arrange investor meetings for a potential sale and Majid Al
Futtaim Holding LLC, a shopping mall owner, is holding talks
with investors for a planned sale.  Royal Capital’s fund has returned 5.4 percent in 2011, the
best performance among six major funds from Gulf Cooperation
Council countries that invest in the region, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It compares with a 4.4 percent gain for
the benchmark HSBC Nasdaq Dubai  Middle East  Bond Index.  Popular revolts, that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia 
and sparked violence in  Bahrain , Libya and  Syria , slowed
borrowing in the first half of the year. Governments and
companies in the region have raised $11.6 billion from 24
securities this year, compared with $44.2 billion from 101
issues in all of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New issuers  International Petroleum Investment Co., an Abu Dhabi
government-backed investor, is the biggest issuer of bonds in
the Persian Gulf this year after selling $4.36 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Dubai state-owned Emirates, the
world’s biggest airline by international traffic, raised $1
billion from the June 1 sale of five-year bonds.  Likely issuers, such as  Abu Dhabi  and its government-backed
Tourism Development & Investment Co., are seeking to take
advantage of the lowest borrowing costs in seven month after
yields fell to 5.03 percent on June 10, the lowest level since
Nov. 11, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East
Conventional US Dollar Bond Index, which tracks 105 securities.
The rate soared to 5.97 percent on March 19 from 5.34 percent at
the end of 2010 after Saudi troops entered Bahrain.  Arab Uprising Effect  “As the Arab Spring was taking hold, we were able to
rotate into a lot of cash, and shield the portfolio from the
severe sell-off that followed,” said Usman Ahmed, the Dubai-
based head of fixed income at Emirates NBD Asset Management.
“In late March, when things were beginning to turn and money
was flowing into the Gulf and especially the U.A.E., we rotated
back into Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Bahrain.”  Dubai’s credit default swaps, which had jumped to 655 basis
points three days after state-owned Dubai World announced plans
to restructure its debt in November 2009, tumbled to 352 on June
24, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group
Inc (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The contracts, which pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
if a government or company fails to adhere to its debt
agreements, fell to as low as 317 on June 7.  International and regional demand for MENA debt securities
has been greater than supply. Dubai government, which sold a
$500 million bond this year, received $1.8 billion in bids.  Not as Good?  Second-half debt market performance “is not likely to be
as good as the first because a rally has already set in,” Parth
Kikani, assistant fund manager at Al Mal Capital PSC said in a
phone interview.  The yield on Dubai government’s 7.75 percent, 10-year bond
due October 2020 yielded 7 percent today, down from a record
8.77 percent on March 2, according to prices on Bloomberg.  “All fixed-income markets have massively outperformed the
equity markets, globally and regionally, over pretty much any
recent period over the past five years,” Ahmed at Royal Capital
said. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200) , an index of the top 200
equities in the Gulf Cooperation Council region, which includes
 Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait , and Qatar, has dropped 5 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  