-- 
Hacker Group Lulz Security Says It’s Ending Cyber Attacks

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-06-27T03:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/hacker-group-lulz-security-says-it-s-ending-cyber-attack-wave.html
Lulz Security, the hacker activist
group claiming credit for breaking into websites at  Sony Corp. (SNE) ,
the  U.S. Senate  and the Central Intelligence Agency, said it’s
ending a wave of cyber attacks that began almost two months ago.  “Our planned 50 day cruise has expired, and we must now
sail into the distance,” the group said in a June 25 posting
through its  Twitter Inc.  account. “This is our final release.”  Hacker activist groups gained attention after Anonymous,
made up of hundreds of members in several countries, in December
targeted EBay Inc.’s PayPal unit,  Visa Inc. (V)  and other companies
deemed hostile to WikiLeaks, an organization that posts secret
documents on the Web. Intruders into Sony’s PlayStation Network
stole data on more than 100 million accounts in April, forcing
the company to shutter the service for more than five weeks.  The CIA’s public website was taken down on June 15. LulzSec,
as the group is known, claimed credit, saying on its website,
“We don’t like the U.S. government very much.” A CIA spokesman
said at the time the agency was looking into the matter.  LulzSec also took credit for hacking into Nintendo Co.’s
computers, an intrusion the Kyoto, Japan-based company disclosed
June 5, describing it as unsuccessful. The group also said it
had attacked the Atlanta chapter of  InfraGard , an information-
sharing organization of companies that is affiliated with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation to thwart cyber crime.  Spanish Arrests  Spanish police arrested three suspected members of
Anonymous on June 10. The group hacked the websites of  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  Spain ’s second-biggest bank, and
Enel SpA, the Italian owner of Spanish power company Endesa SA,
Spanish police have said.  In the past month, attacks included an attempted hack
originating in  China  into e-mail accounts of U.S. government
officials, military personnel and journalists hosted by Google
Inc. Military contractor  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  has also said its
network was penetrated by an unknown intruder.  Hackers also broke into the databanks of BP Plc, Exxon
Mobil Corp.,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and at least three other
major energy companies over a two-year period ending this year.
They stole data on global oil reserves, according to McAfee Inc.
and documentation in leaked e-mails from the cyber-security firm
HB Gary Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  