-- 
Macquarie Group Expands Debt Capital Markets Business in Asia

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-06-27T00:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/macquarie-expands-debt-capital-markets-business-in-asia-on-dim-sum-growth.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s
biggest investment bank, is expanding its bond and loan
arranging business in  Asia  as sales of so-called dim sum notes
surge and high-yielding clients demand access to debt investors.  The bank will add to its existing team of 10, which is
split between  Hong Kong  and Singapore, as transactions grow,
according to Stephen Panizza, who has expanded his Asia focused
debt advisory role to head the new unit.  “Our clients in Asia are mid-market, high growth
businesses which constantly need capital,” Singapore-based
Panizza said in a phone interview. “As liquidity returned to
the market after the credit crisis, we came to the conclusion we
needed to build out a debt capital markets capability to deliver
to our clients access to a wider array of capital sources.”  Macquarie, based in Sydney, ranks 139th as an arranger of
bond sales in Asia outside of  Japan  this year, its two
transactions giving it a 0.1 percent market share, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s at No. 39 for equity offerings
in the region, compared with No. 5 in Australia and  New Zealand ,
the data show.  Yuan-denominated bond sales in Hong Kong may reach 200
billion yuan ($30.9 billion) this year, according to Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., as Chinese companies seek to circumvent
lending curbs on the mainland. Macquarie helped  Powerlong Real
Estate Holdings Ltd. (1238)  sell 750 million yuan of three-year, 11.5
percent notes in March, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Huge Challenge’  “Clearly it would be a huge challenge to break the
established order but that’s not our objective,” Panizza said.
“Powerlong is a good example. We invested pre-IPO, we did the
IPO, then when they wanted to do a debt issue, naturally we were
there to help.”  The Chinese developer sold shares in an initial public
offering in October 2009 that was managed by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., ICBC International Securities Ltd. and Macquarie Capital
Securities Ltd.  Most of the 10 people in the bond and loan unit worked at
the bank prior to the team’s official start date of April 1,
Panizza said. David Pong, who was previously at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , was hired to focus on debt
origination last month, he said.  “The pool of liquidity which is most interesting to us in
Asia is the dim sum market,” Panizza said. “This is going to
be a very deep, very liquid market at some point in the future.”  The expansion of Macquarie’s fixed-income, currencies and
commodities business in Asia over the past 12 months was also an
“enabling factor,” Panizza said.  “Part of their platform is credit sales and trading,” he
said. “That gave us the distribution capability we didn’t have
previously.”  The Asia-Pacific region accounted for 8 percent of the
bank’s revenue for the year to March 31, versus 12 percent in
2010, Bloomberg data show. Macquarie makes most of its  money 
from its funds management business, according to the bank’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  