-- 
Magyar Telekom Drops After $62 Million Provision for Probe

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-06-27T11:08:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/magyar-telekom-drops-as-it-makes-62-million-provision-for-probe.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt. dropped after
the former phone monopoly in  Hungary  said it made provisions for
an investigation into an alleged misappropriation of funds.  The shares fell 0.9 percent to 576 forint by 12:35 p.m. in
Budapest. Almost 140,000 shares changed hands, or 6 percent of
the three-month daily average.  The company, controlled by Deutsche Telekom AG, set aside
11.7 billion forint ($62 million) as it negotiates a settlement
with U.S. authorities following a probe at two of its units, it
said in a filing on the Budapest bourse’s  website  on June 24.  “The market is likely to react negatively to the firm’s
second-quarter results being hit by the one-off charge,” Piotr Janik, an analyst at KBC Securities in Warsaw, wrote in a note
to clients today.  Magyar Telekom’s board approved “an agreement in
principle” with the Securities and Exchange Commission to
resolve a U.S. investigation into contracts for 31 million euros
($44 million) signed at company units in Macedonia and
Montenegro, according to the  statement .  “The company -- without admitting or denying the
allegations against it -- would consent to a U.S. court order
permanently enjoining it from any future Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act violations and to the payment by the company of
disgorgement and a conditional civil penalty,” Magyar Telekom
said.  ‘Insignificant’  The Budapest-based company is negotiating a separate
settlement with the U.S.  Justice Department , according to the
statement. The amount of any payment obligation upon final
settlement or other resolution of these investigations may
differ from the amount of the provision, it said.  The SEC and Justice Department opened probes into Magyar
Telekom’s two units alongside an internal investigation started
by the company in 2006.  Authorities in Hungary, Montenegro and Macedonia have also
conducted their own inquiries. Hungary’s National Bureau of
Investigation terminated its probe earlier this year without
establishing that criminal acts had been committed, Magyar
Telekom said on March 21.  “Although any penalties from the investigations will be
viewed as negative by the market, the size seems insignificant
to the company’s overall financials and should not have a
material impact on the dividends,” Igor Muller, an analyst at
Wood & Co. brokerage in  Prague , wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  