-- 
AIG May Have $500 Million in Disaster Losses, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-06-27T20:14:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/aig-may-have-500-million-in-u-s-storm-costs-in-two-months-jpmorgan-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, will face costs of about $500 million
from U.S. storms in April and May,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said.  “High catastrophe losses are likely to pressure property-
and-casualty margins in the second quarter,” said Jimmy Bhullar, an analyst at JPMorgan, in a note to investors today.
Bhullar rates AIG shares “neutral.”  Record catastrophes in the first half of 2011 are weighing
on the Chartis property-casualty unit, which accounts for a
growing share of AIG’s revenue after Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Benmosche  sold non-U.S. life insurers. AIG had first-
quarter losses of $1.7 billion on disasters including the March
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan . Insurers typically face the
largest claims in the peak of the  Atlantic hurricane season ,
which is in the third and fourth quarters.  A loss of $500 million from U.S. storms in April and May
would rank AIG behind  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  and State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Co., which rely more on home and auto
insurance. AIG’s property-casualty sales in the U.S. come mostly
from its commercial insurance business, Bhullar said. Mark Herr,
a spokesman for New York-based AIG, declined to comment.  Allstate has said April and May storms will cost the
company $2 billion. State Farm, the largest U.S. home insurer,
said June 16 that it has already paid almost $1.75 billion tied
to the disasters. Storms in the period include the tornado in
May that struck Joplin, Missouri, killing at least 150 people.  AIA Stake  AIG hasn’t released a statement on second-quarter
catastrophe losses, meaning costs likely won’t exceed the figure
reported in the first three months of 2011, said Paul Newsome,
an analyst with Sandler O’Neill Partners LP, in a note to
investors on June 22. AIG announced Japan costs before the end
of the first quarter.  Gains from AIG’s 33 percent stake in Hong-Kong-based life
insurer  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  may cushion catastrophe losses, Bhullar
said. The holding, which AIG retained after divesting most of
its AIA stock in a public offering last year, appreciated by
more than $1 billion since March 31, he said.  AIG climbed 36 cents to $28.81 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 Bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  