-- 
Maple Group Says Investors They’ve Contacted Support TMX Bid

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-06-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/maple-group-s-bertrand-says-tmx-investors-he-s-contacted-back-his-bid.html
Maple Group Acquisition Corp.
spokesman  Luc Bertrand  said a “large majority” of  TMX Group
Inc. (X)  investors he’s talked with prefer his firm’s unsolicited
takeover bid to an offer from  London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   “We’ve conducted a thorough process to reach out to them,
and we remain very confident that they will want to continue
with our proposal rather than the LSE one,” Bertrand said June
24 in an interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto headquarters.  Maple Group , a cluster of 13 Canadian financial-services
companies formed for this bid, have three days to convince TMX
investors of the merits of its C$3.73 billion ($3.77 billion)
offer for the owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange. On June 30,
TMX investors are scheduled to vote on LSE’s friendly bid,
valued at C$3.33 billion.  “If people want to keep our deal alive, they have to vote
against the LSE arrangement on the 30th,” said Bertrand, vice
chairman at  National Bank of Canada (NA) , the country’s sixth-largest
bank.  Bertrand said Maple Group has support from “a large
percentage” of the investors he’s spoken with. He wasn’t more
specific.  Maple’s investors include many of the largest banks and
pension funds in Canada, including  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, National
Bank, Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada Pension
Plan Investment Board,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , Alberta
Investment Management Corp., Fonds de Solidarite FTQ,  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC) , Desjardins Financial Group, Dundee Capital
Markets Inc. and  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)   Isn’t Superior  Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman for TMX, said the Toronto-
based bourse is “in continued dialogue with our shareholders
and are receiving very encouraging feedback.”  TMX said June 24 that Maple Group’s C$50-a-share offer
isn’t superior to the  London  offer of C$44.83 a share plus a
special dividend of C$4 a share that will be paid out by both
firms. Bertrand declined to speculate on whether the bids would
go higher.  “Our bid is solid,” said Bertrand, 56. “I think I’d feel
differently if (LSE) were quite serious about it by cutting a
check from their own treasury.”  One of the advantages of the LSE bid is its ability to
promote cross-border listings for companies, said Steve Grob,
director of strategy at Fidessa Group Ltd. in London, which
provides trading technology to brokerages including TMX.  Strategic Options  Maple Group “would probably find it difficult to find a
lot of strategic options,” Grob said in a telephone interview.
“Whereas the LSE deal is something that is much more global.”  In addition, LSE’s offer has been endorsed by  Institutional
Shareholder Services  and  Glass Lewis  & Co., which advise mutual
and pension funds on proposals in shareholder meetings.  Bertrand, a former deputy CEO of TMX, isn’t fazed by the
recommendations. Maple’s offer is backed by billionaire investor
Stephen Jarislowsky, one of  Canada ’s richest men and a longtime
advocate shareholder.  That endorsement “has more weight than Glass Lewis and
ISS,” said Bertrand. “Having someone like Mr. Jarislowsky
recognize the merits of what the Maple Group is trying to do, to
me that’s greater testimony than anything we can ask for.”  Bertrand is unsure whether Maple Group will make further
overtures should shareholders vote in favor of LSE’s bid this
week. The transaction still faces regulatory challenges,
including one from Canada’s competition regulator.  Different Circumstances  Should it not win clearance, Maple Group could make another
offer for the exchange owner, although under less-favorable
terms.  “If we do decide to come back, well, then it would be on
totally different circumstances,” said Bertrand. “And I think
everyone has to understand that. Presumably then, we’d be the
only arrangement in town.”  Bill Tynkaluk, deputy chairman of Leon Frazer & Associates
Inc., which oversees about C$1.85 billion including TMX shares,
said he prefers neither bid.  “I’d like to see the TSX remain independent,” Tynkaluk
said. “I think as an independent company, it’s done a
reasonably good job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  