-- 
Apple, Intel, Wal-Mart, SAFA, Adam Mansbach’s Book: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-27T11:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/apple-intel-wal-mart-safa-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. filed a patent lawsuit
against Samsung Electronics Co. in  South Korea , escalating the
legal dispute between the two companies regarding designs and
technologies used in their best-selling mobile devices.  The maker of the iPhone filed a suit with the Seoul Central
District Court on June 22, according to a case record on the
court’s website, which doesn’t provide details of Apple’s
claims. Online news provider MoneyToday reported that Apple is
alleging that Samsung’s Galaxy S smartphone copied the iPhone 3
design.  The dispute began in April when Cupertino, California-based
Apple sued Samsung in the U.S., claiming the Galaxy products
“slavishly” imitated the designs and technologies used for the
iPad and iPhone. Samsung, which supplies memory chips for Apple,
retaliated with lawsuits in Seoul, Tokyo, Mannheim, Germany and
the U.S.  “We will continue to actively defend and protect our
 intellectual property ,” Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung said
in an e-mailed statement.  When contacted by Bloomberg News last week, Steve Park, a
Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, referred to the company’s
earlier statements. The company said on April 18 that Samsung
“blatantly” copied its technologies and designs.  Apple’s April 15 complaint claims Samsung is infringing
seven patents related to the way Galaxy devices’ touch screens
understand user gestures, including selecting, scrolling,
pinching and zooming. Samsung is also copying three patents on
the design, including the flat black face of the iPhone and
iPad, according to Apple.  As part of that suit, Samsung had asked a federal judge in
the U.S. to order Apple to turn over samples of Apple’s
forthcoming iPads and iPhones. The judge refused that request
June 22.  Intel, Rockstar Get Antitrust Approval to Bid for Nortel  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, and Rockstar
Bidco LP won approval from U.S. antitrust regulators to bid for
the assets of bankrupt  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)   The Federal Trade Commission named the two companies in an
e-mailed statement June 24. The bidding process is being
reviewed by the Antitrust Division of the  Justice Department ,
according to a person familiar with the situation who declined
to be identified because the process isn’t public.  Apple Inc. got similar approval June 23 to bid for Nortel’s
patents in an auction set for June 27. Nortel, a Canadian phone-
equipment maker that filed for bankruptcy in 2009, agreed to
sell about 6,000 patents to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for $900 million unless
a competitor bids more at the auction.  A call to the  New York  office of game developer Rockstar
Games to ask if Rockstar Bidco is a related entity was referred
to an e-mail address for press enquiries. No one immediately
responded to an e-mail seeking comment.  Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for  Santa Clara , California-based
Intel, declined to comment.  BlackBerry smartphone maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  and
Ericsson AB are also weighing bids, people familiar with those
companies’ plans have told Bloomberg News. RPX Corp., a San
Francisco-based patent-buying firm, is also considering a bid,
Andrew Kent, an attorney for the company, said at a bankruptcy
court hearing last month.  Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, on June 16 delayed
the auction for a week, citing a “significant level of
interest.” Some Nortel auctions have lasted more than 24 hours,
with several rounds of bidding. The sales have raised about $3
billion to pay the company’s creditors to date.  The bankruptcy case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Apple Gets Touchscreen Patent Many Observers Say Reaches Far  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPad and iPhone, received a
patent on a touchscreen display that many commentators are
saying is broad enough to cover other manufacturers’ tablet
devices and music players.  Patent 7,966,578, issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office June 21, is for a “portable multifunction device,
method, and graphical user interface for translating displayed
content,” according to the patent document.  The patented technology enables the device to respond to a
single touch or multiple finger contacts. The contact module can
determine movement of the point of contact, calculating speed,
velocity and/or an acceleration of the point of contact.  A  June 22 story  in PC World suggests the breadth of the
patent “could make things potentially awkward for Apple
rivals.” PC Magazine  called  the patent a “huge blow to rival
smartphone makers.”  EWeek Europe says  it’s a “highly
significant patent” for touchscreens in smartphones.  Cupertino, California-based Apple applied for the patent in
December 2007, with the assistance of Philadelphia’s Morgan
Lewis & Bockius LLP.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Wal-Mart Accused of Selling T-Shirts With Infringing Design  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, was
sued for copyright infringement by a tattoo artist.  Erik Hilliker  of Dover, New Hampshire, claims the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company is selling T-shirts with
designs that infringe his work. According to the complaint filed
June 22 in federal court in Boston, Wal-Mart is selling an “MMA
Elite -- Men’s Graphic Compression Tee” that infringes the
artist’s “ Hilliker Demon 1 ” design.  Co-defendant with the retailer are two T-shirt
manufacturers who share the same address in Commerce,
 California . Hilliker claims the manufacturers downloaded the
image from his website and used it to create unauthorized
derivative works.  He asked the court to order the seizure of all infringing
merchandise under Wal-Mart and the manufacturers’ control, and a
ban on all further infringement. Additionally, he requested
awards of money damages, profits derived from the alleged
infringement, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Wal-Mart didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Hilliker is represented by  Matthew Saunders  and  Keith Toms 
 of Saunders & Silverstein LLP  of Amesbury, Massachusetts.  The case is Erik Hilliker v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 1:11-cv-
11125-DJC, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  Despite Accidental Viral Marketing, Mansbach Remains Anti-Pirate  The author of Amazon.com’s top-selling book on parenting
and No. 2 book overall  told CNet News  that the accidental
marketing campaign created by viral distribution of a pre-
publication PDF of his book notwithstanding, he still can’t
support what he calls “pirating.”  Adam Mansbach , the author of “ Go the F*** to Sleep ,” said
that after he saw the PDF being distributed, he tried to send
out cease-and-desist letters, according to CNet News.  He tried to halt individuals from sharing the PDF on their
pages at Facebook Inc.’s social media site and told CNet News
that when he asked them to take the book down, the response from
those who posted it was “OK, if you want, but 300 people asked
me where I could get the book.”  Mansbach said it took him and his publisher -- New York’s
 Akashik Books  -- about a week to realize that in this case, the
viral sharing of the PDF helped rather than hurt sales of the
book, according to CNet News.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  SAFA Gets Control of Bafana Bafana Name for 5 Million Rand  The South African Football Association and Stanton Woodrush
(Pty) Ltd. have come to agreement over the rights to the
“Bafana Bafana” name for the senior men’s national soccer
team, SAFA said in  a statement  June 24.  The trademarks will be transferred to SAFA for a payment of
5 million rand ($724,000) payable over a year. Stanton Woodrush
will have no interest in the name or any associated trademark
rights.  Previously,  South Africa ’s Minister of Sports  Fikile
Mbaluala  advised the team to find a new name because all the
revenue associated with the nickname was going to Stanton
Woodrush instead of the team.  The company registered the mark in 1993 because at that
time SAFA’s leadership was reluctant to use a potentially
derogatory word that meant “boys” with the team.  Stanton Woodrush said in the statement that “the team and
the brand are inextricably linked and they are indivisible in
the sense that they have one identity. The brand without the
team and the team without the brand would significantly dilute
the goodwill which is entrenched through their association.”  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Paul Weiss Hires Two Patent Litigators From Weil Gotshal  Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP hired two patent
litigators from Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, the New York-based
firm said in a statement.  The two new hires are Nicholas Groombridge and David J.
Ball Jr.  Groombridge  was co-chairman of the patent litigation
practice at New York-based Weil Gotshal. He’s represented
clients in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, consumer product,
specialty chemical, automotive part, financial services, GPS
receiver and medical device industries.  He received his law degree from the University of  London 
and has practiced in New York since 1989.  Ball  has represented clients in the computer, media and
semiconductor industries in patent infringement, trade secret
misappropriation, and related tort and contract disputes.  Before he was in private practice, he served as an
assistant solicitor in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office from
1996 to 1998, where he argued patent appeals at the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Before he was a lawyer, he
was a judicial clerk to Judge Randall Rader of that court.  Ball has also served an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the
Civil Division for the  District of Columbia  from 1999-2003.  He has an undergraduate degree in electric engineering from
the University of  Alabama , and a master’s degree in engineering
and a law school degree from the University of  Texas .  Volpe & Koenig Hires IP Counsel Donald James Cox Jr.  Volpe & Koenig PC  hired Donald James Cox Jr., the
Philadelphia-based IP specialty firm said in a  statement .  Cox , who previously was a sole practitioner, has
represented clients in the e-commerce, computer
hardware/software, telecommunications, data compression, bio-
medical and mechanical-device industries. Before he was a
lawyer, Cox served in the U.S. Air Force, where he was the
integration engineering chief for the Worldwide Military Command
and Control Information System Program.  He has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from  Rutgers University  and a law degree from the University of
the Pacific’s McGeorge School of Law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 