-- 
Aquarius Says Lack of ‘Drivers’ to Keep India’s Sensex in Range

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-06-27T07:32:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/aquarius-says-lack-of-drivers-to-keep-india-s-sensex-in-range.html
A.S. Thiyaga Rajan, a senior
managing director at Aquarius Investment Advisors Pte. in
 Singapore , which manages about $350 million in Indian assets,
comments on Indian stocks. He spoke today in a phone interview.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose
1 percent to 18,424.62 as of 12:54 p.m. in Mumbai.  On outlook:  “The outlook does not look good. We do not see drivers
pushing the market up in the second half of the year. India is
tied to the global economy through foreign fund flows. We do not
expect the  U.S. economy  to turn around and we do not see U.S.
interest rates going up in the medium term. We expect the Sensex
to oscillate between 17,000 and 18,500 for the rest of the year,
barring major events.”  On earnings outlook:  “We have downgraded our corporate earnings estimate for
the year ending March 31, 2012, by five percent as we don’t see
a phenomenal growth. We expect earnings to rise by about 15
percent this year, compared with about 20 percent last year.”  On investment strategy:  “Fund managers are preferring to act safe, book profits
and increase cash in their portfolios. Corporate governance
issues and government scams are putting all investors in big
uncertainty. We will wait for the horizon to be clear before
investing.”  On sector recommendations:  “We continue to hold infrastructure, banking, consumer,
education and hospitality stocks in our portfolio as these
sectors will benefit from  India ’s growth. We’re not looking at
fresh investments till everything is clear.”  On foreign fund flows:  “We don’t expect foreign fund flows to increase in the
next half of the year. We expect flows to remain muted. We don’t
expect Chinese and Japanese investors to add Indian equities
now.”  Overseas investors bought a net 4.84 billion rupees ($108
million) of Indian stocks on June 23, the first purchase in 10
days, paring their withdrawals from local equities this year to
19.3 billion rupees, according to the most recent data from the
nation’s market regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  