-- 
Argentine Debt-Swap Architect Boudou Chosen by Fernandez as Running Mate

-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 
2011-06-27T14:43:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/argentine-debt-swap-architect-boudou-tapped-as-fernandez-s-running-mate.html
Argentine Economy Minister  Amado Boudou , who oversaw a $12.9 billion debt restructuring and
helped manage the nationalization of the country’s pension
funds, was tapped to be President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s running mate in October elections.  Fernandez, 58, announced her selection June 25 at the
presidential residence outside Buenos Aires, citing Boudou’s
“loyalty” and advice in 2008 that she take over the $24
billion pension industry to bolster  government spending . Boudou,
while new to the ranks of Fernandez’s Peronist party, emerged as
a champion of the president’s policies during the pension debate
and became her third economy minister in two years in 2009.  Boudou, 48, has a mixed record helping lead  South America ’s
second-biggest economy after  Brazil  that may make investors
uncomfortable, said Federico Thomsen, a Buenos Aires-based
economic and political analyst with research firm E.F. Thomsen.
Argentina hasn’t sold debt abroad since its 2001 default on $95
billion in bonds.  “He is quite imaginative when it comes to finding
resources to finance the government’s growing spending,”
Thomsen said. “This isn’t a plus. Having been trained as an
orthodox economist, he has not found it difficult to support any
policy that would put him in a favorable light for the
Kirchners.”  Press officials at the  Economy Ministry  and presidential
palace didn’t return messages left by Bloomberg News seeking
comment on Boudou’s record and agenda.  Loyalty  Fernandez, who succeeded her husband,  Nestor Kirchner , in
2007, turned to Boudou after cutting ties with current Vice
President Julio Cobos in 2008 when he voted against her measure
to raise taxes on farm exports.  Cobos said in a June 25 statement that his decision helped
prevent a worsening of social unrest following four months of
protests that blocked roads and led to food shortages.  “Because of the things that have happened to us, one of
the attributes that a vice president must have is loyalty,”
Fernandez said in announcing her choice of Boudou.  Market View  Boudou’s debt restructuring last year, Argentina’s second
since the 2001 default, helped the country’s dollar bonds soar
35.8 percent last year, the best performance among major
emerging markets in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  Argentine bond yields have climbed 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 9.66 percent since Fernandez announced her
candidacy June 21. The country’s main stock index, the Merval,
has climbed 0.6 percent over the same period compared with a 0.3
percent decline in Brazil’s Bovespa.  The yield on benchmark dollar Argentine bonds that mature
in October 2015 rose 3 basis points to 8.31 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, as of 9:42 a.m.  New York  time.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  fell 12 basis points to 624,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Merval was little changed
today at 3,289.93.  Rock and Roll  Boudou, who organized rock concerts while getting a degree
in economics at the Universidad de Mar del Plata, was the
administrator of the pension fund agency Anses in 2008 when he
approached Fernandez about taking over the industry to support
government spending during the worst global recession since the
Great Depression.  Fernandez used the pension savings to provide loans to
companies such as the local unit of General Motors Co. to avoid
layoffs. The economy grew 0.9 percent in 2009 during the worst
of the global crisis. Under Fernandez, gross domestic product
expanded an average 5.6 percent per year from 2008-2010.
Unemployment fell from a peak of 9.1 percent in the third
quarter of 2009 to 7.4 percent this year.  “President Fernandez will try to show that there was a
huge international crisis while  Argentina  maintained its
economic growth,” said  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin American
fixed-income research at IdeaGlobal in New York. “And that’s
where they will try to highlight Boudou’s figure in the
campaign.”  Leading Polls  Fernandez, who leads in polls ahead of the Oct. 23 vote,
kept her supporters guessing whether she would run until June
21, four days before a deadline to announce her decision. A
survey this month showed that she had 48 percent support,
compared with 13 percent for lawmaker Ricardo Alfonsin,
according to pollster CEOP Opinion Publica. About 8.4 percent of
the 1,500 people surveyed said they haven’t decided whom they
will vote for or refused to answer, according to the poll, which
had a 2.6 percentage point margin of error.  Under Argentine law, a candidate can win the election and
avoid a runoff by receiving more than 45 percent of the vote, or
40 percent and a 10 percentage point lead over the nearest
competitor. A second-round runoff, if needed, will take place
Nov. 20.  Boudou also led a failed effort to restructure about $8
billion in defaulted debt with the Paris Club group of creditor
nations. Under his watch, inflation accelerated to about 25
percent this year, according to private economists including
Roberto Lavagna, Kirchner’s former economy minister. The
government says prices are rising at an annual rate of 9.7
percent and has fined researchers who say otherwise as much as
500,000 pesos ($120,000).  Faster Inflation  In an April 14, 2010, interview in his office, seated below
portraits of former President Juan Domingo Peron and his wife
,Eva, Boudou blamed the inflation dispute on holders of
inflation-linked debt who wanted better returns and said price
increases were low for the poorest sector of the population.  “It’s understandable that other sectors of the population,
especially the middle and upper class, have a perception that
prices” are high, Boudou said. In a June 16 interview on
Channel 26 television, he said a Paris Club accord can be
reached by December.  Boudou failed in a bid earlier this year to become the
Peronist party candidate for mayor of  Buenos Aires  when
Fernandez endorsed the candidacy of Senator Daniel Filmus.  26-Year Career  This year’s election will be Fernandez’s first following
the death of Kirchner, who served as her closest political
adviser through 26 years of campaigning, from a heart attack
last October at age 60. It also comes after a series of bouts
with low  blood pressure  prompted Fernandez to cancel her
activities at least twice this year.  In her June 21 speech, Fernandez said the support she
received in the wake of her husband’s death last year helped her
decide to run “one more time.”  If elected, Boudou will formally be charged with overseeing
the Senate, the post which Cobos used to defeat the tax bill,
and will likely continue to provide economic advice to
Fernandez, Thomsen said.  “He will continue to have the ear of the president, much
as he does now,” said Thomsen. “He isn’t a proponent of
populism. I see his appointment as rewarding crude pragmatism
over ideology and this should be somewhat reassuring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in Buenos Aires at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  