-- 
Rafael Nadal Is Concerned Injury Will Stop His Defense of Wimbledon Title

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-28T11:28:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/maria-sharapova-and-azarenka-win-to-advance-to-wimbledon-quarterfinals.html
Rafael Nadal  said he’s concerned
that the defense of his Wimbledon tennis title will be halted
again because of injury.  “I’m worried, for sure,” Nadal said in a news conference
after his 7-6 (8-6), 3-6, 7-6 (7-4), 6-4 fourth-round win over
 Juan Martin del Potro  of Argentina yesterday. “I felt terrible.
I thought I broke my foot. I seriously didn’t know if I will
have the chance to continue to play.”  The 25-year-old Spaniard called a trainer and a doctor for
treatment before the first-set tiebreak. Sky Sports News
reported a scan today showed no serious damage and he’ll
practice later for tomorrow’s quarterfinal against American
 Mardy Fish .  Nadal couldn’t defend his 2008 Wimbledon title because of
tendinitis in his knee. He needs to retain the title at the All
England Club to stay No. 1 in the world rankings.  U.S. Open champion Nadal started the season with a shot at
becoming the first man since  Rod Laver  in 1969 to hold all four
Grand Slam titles at the same time. Instead, he limped out of
the Australian Open with a ruptured thigh muscle after a
quarterfinal loss to Spain’s  David Ferrer .  Also yesterday, there was a shakeup in the women’s draw,
with defending champion  Serena Williams , her sister,  Venus  -- a
five-time winner -- and top seed  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark
losing in the fourth round. The American sisters were returning
from injury, while Wozniacki was seeking her first major title.  Women’s Shakeup  As a result, the women’s champion won’t be a Williams
sister for the first time since 2006, when France’s  Amelie Mauresmo  won. The Americans have won nine of the past 11 singles
titles on the grass courts of the All England Club.  Today,  Sabine Lisicki  of Germany meets  Marion Bartoli  of
France and  Dominika Cibulkova  takes on  Maria Sharapova  of Russia
in the women’s quarterfinals on Centre Court.  Petra Kvitova  of the Czech Republic faces  Tsvetana Pironkova  of Bulgaria and  Tamira Paszek  of Austria plays
 Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus on Court No. 1.  Nadal, who said he’d already taken pain killers for other
leg and groin injuries, will have a day to recover from his win
over del Potro, which took almost four hours.  Fish yesterday beat last year’s runner-up  Tomas Berdych  of
the Czech Republic. In the previous round, the 10th-seeded
American advanced when Dutchman Robin Haase retired with a knee
injury.  Six-time champion  Roger Federer  also advanced to the
quarterfinals yesterday. He’ll take on  Jo-Wilfried Tsonga  of
France, while No. 4 seed  Andy Murray  meets Spain’s  Feliciano Lopez .  No. 2 seed  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia will play Australia’s
 Bernard Tomic , the youngest player left in the singles draws at
age 18. Tomic, a qualifier who ousted No. 5 seed  Robin Soderling 
of Sweden in the third round, is the youngest man to reach the
quarterfinals since  Boris Becker  in 1986.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  