-- 
Public Financing Curtailed by High Court in Arizona Case

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-06-27T17:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/arizona-public-financing-system-struck-down-by-high-court-1-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court, in a
 decision  that deepens the divide over campaign finance
regulations, ruled that a 13-year-old  Arizona  public financing
law violated the speech rights of opposing candidates.  The 5-4 decision came from the same majority that issued
last year’s ruling freeing corporations to spend money on
political ads. The court’s five Republican-appointed justices
formed the majority and the four Democratic appointees
dissented.  The Arizona law awarded public funds to candidates for
state offices based on how much money was raised or spent on
behalf of their opponents. The court today said the law
impermissibly penalized candidates for raising and spending
private money.  “Laws like Arizona’s matching funds provision that inhibit
robust and wide-open political debate without sufficient
justification cannot stand,” Chief Justice John Roberts wrote
for the majority.  The ruling could have implications across the country.
Maine and  New Mexico  have similar provisions, as do  North
Carolina  and Wisconsin for their judicial elections, said Tara Malloy, associate counsel with the Campaign Legal Center, a
Washington-based advocacy group that supports stronger campaign
finance laws. Courts have already struck down similar provisions
in Connecticut and  Florida , she said.  Albuquerque ,  New York   Municipal elections in Albuquerque, New York and  San
Francisco  also use similar provisions that might be invalidated,
Malloy said in an interview conducted before the court ruled.  Today’s decision invalidated one of the incentives used to
encourage candidates to take public financing and limit
fundraising and spending.  In dissent, Justice Elena Kagan said the Arizona law
“fostered both the vigorous competition of ideas and its
ultimate object -- a government responsive to the will of the
people.”  Craig Holman , a lobbyist for Public Citizen in Washington,
which supports stronger campaign-finance laws, said the  Supreme
Court  is rewriting election law.  “‘These types of laws, including this trigger threshold,
have been around for decades,” Holman said. “This is an
activist court like we have never seen since the Civil War.”  ‘Greater Deference’  Sean Parnell, president of the Alexandria, Virginia-based
Center for Competitive Politics, which opposes restrictions on
campaign spending, said the Supreme Court continues to show
“greater deference to the plain meaning of the First Amendment
and less interest in schemes to suppress some speech in the
interests of favoring the speech of others.”  The Supreme Court, which threw out mandatory spending
limits in 1976, hasn’t invalidated all public financing today,
supporters of the Arizona law said.  “This ruling affects only one mechanism of public
financing, and there are numerous ways to fix it,” former
Democratic Representative Bob Edgar of  Pennsylvania , president
of Common Cause in  Washington , said in a statement.  The presidential public financing system, for example,
relies on matching funds to encourage candidates to limit their
spending. Still, since 2004 none of the major party nominees
have agreed to take the money and the accompanying restrictions
on how much they can spend during the primaries. In 2008, Barack Obama became the first major-party nominee to shun federal
financing for the general election.  Initial Outlay  Even in Arizona, the rest of the public financing system
remains in place, Todd Lang, executive director of the Citizens
Clean Elections Commission, said in a statement. The ruling
doesn’t affect an initial outlay that Arizona candidates receive
when they decide to take part in the public financing system.  “This is not the end of clean elections,” Lang said.
“Today’s ruling impacts only the matching funds provision of
the act.”  A referendum to repeal public financing will be put before
Arizona voters in 2012.  Arizona officials, including Secretary of State Ken
Bennett, defended their measure as a way to reduce the
corrupting influence of campaign contributors. The Obama
administration also urged the  high court  to uphold the system.  The challengers to the law were led by John McComish, a
Republican state representative.  The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
upheld the Arizona system last year. The panel said the effect
on free-speech rights was minimal.  The majority today pointed to a 2008 Supreme Court decision
voiding a federal law that freed opponents of self-financed
candidates from the usual campaign contribution limits.  The cases are Arizona Free Enterprise Club’s Freedom Club
PAC v. Bennett, 10-238 and McComish v. Bennett, 10-239.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at   jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 