-- 
Larsen & Toubro May Seek Partner for Electrical Business to Add Products

-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 
2011-06-28T11:07:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/larsen-may-seek-partner-for-electrical-business-to-add-products.html
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s
biggest engineering company, may seek a partner for its
electrical and automation business to expand the company’s
product portfolio after spinning off the unit.  “A lot can happen once there is a successful
partnership,” K.V. Rangaswami, a director on Larsen’s board,
said in an interview on June 24 in Chennai, southern India. “By
entering into a joint venture with a foreign company, we enhance
our product range.”  Shareholders of the Mumbai-based company approved a plan
last month to split off the division making electrical meters,
switchgears and industrial automation products into a separate
entity that it will control. Larsen is spinning off some
businesses as it prepares to capitalize on  India ’s proposal to
spend $1 trillion in the five years to 2017 to improve
infrastructure such as airports and highways.  “Demand for electrical equipment in India is very high,”
Rupesh Kumar, an analyst at KR Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.
in Mumbai, said by telephone. “So finding a technology partner
is very easy.”  Kumar, who has a “buy” rating on the stock, said a
foreign partner will be able to tap Larsen’s existing customers.
Some companies have made initial contact with Larsen, Rangaswami
said, without identifying them.  Larsen gained 0.8 percent to 1,800.90 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai trading. The stock has declined 9 percent
this year, compared with a 9.8 percent drop for India’s
benchmark Sensitive Index.  Plan to Split  The company is in talks to sell its electrical and
electronics unit for $3 billion, Reuters reported in April,
citing two people with knowledge of the matter. Schneider
Electric SA and Eaton Corp. were among the possible buyers,
according to the report.  Larsen Chairman A.M. Naik denied on May 19 that Larsen
plans to sell the electrical business.  Larsen, which has 64 businesses including finance and
computer software, plans to split itself into nine units and
five subsidiaries to speed decisions and boost growth, the
company said Jan. 24 This step will help Larsen focus on each
business and simplify its structure, KR Choksey’s Kumar said.  Negotiations with possible partners may take time, said
Rangaswami, who also is president of Larsen’s construction
business and is due to  retire  this month.  The electrical and automation business posted profit before
interest and tax of 3.9 billion rupees ($87 million) on revenue
of 36.8 billion rupees in the year ended March 31, 2010,
according to a company statement dated April 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in  New Delhi  at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  