-- 
Arsenal Bids $29 Million for Valencia Midfielder Juan Mata: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-27T06:39:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/arsenal-bids-29-million-for-valencia-midfielder-juan-mata-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Arsenal’s Mata Bid  Arsenal bid 18 million pounds ($28.7 million) for Valencia
midfielder Juan Mata, who was a member of  Spain ’s 2010 World
Cup-winning squad, the  Daily Mail   reported .  Officials of the Premier League club have spoken to the 23-
year-old’s agent and father, Juan, and Mata is ready to discuss
his future after helping Spain win the European Under-21
Championship, the Mail said.  Alcantara Offer  Manchester United  offered 15 million pounds for Barcelona’s
20-year-old midfielder Thiago Alcantara, who starred for Spain
at the European Under-21 Championship, the Daily Mirror
 reported .  United manager  Alex Ferguson  wants to sign Alcantara in an
outright cash deal, though Barcelona is reluctant to sell him to
a rival Champions League team, the Mirror said. Barcelona would
like Alcantara to join a Premier League club and wants a buy-
back clause, which United will not agree to, the paper added.  Adam, Downing  Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  is close to completing the
signings of Blackpool midfielder  Charlie Adam  and Aston Villa
winger Stewart Downing, the Independent  reported .  Adam may complete an 8 million-pound transfer today, with
Jonjo Shelvey moving the other way on a season-long loan, the
Independent said. Downing will hand in a transfer request at
Villa Park, a week after teammate  Ashley Young  was sold to
Manchester United, the newspaper added.  Turan Target  Turkish club Galatasaray will allow winger Arda Turan to
join Chelsea for 7 million pounds plus Didier Drogba, the Daily
Mail  reported .  With Turan, 24, rated at about 18 million pounds, the deal
values 33-year-old Ivory Coast striker Drogba at 11 million
pounds, an offer that is likely to be rebuffed by Chelsea, the
Mail said.  Triple Swoop  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  is lining up the
signings of Fiorentina midfielder Alessio Cerci, Partizan
Belgrade defender Stefan Savic and Argentine international
goalkeeper Sergio Romero, the Sun  reported .  Mancini is relying on two trusted agents to secure the
deals -- Sergio Berti, who represents Cerci and Savic, and Mino
Raiola, who looks after Romero, the Sun said. Both have helped
Mancini in the past with Raiola playing a part in Robinho’s 18
million-pound sale to AC Milan, the newspaper added.  Betting Plot  Man City captain  Carlos Tevez  was targeted by match-fixers
who wanted the Argentine striker to help them pull off a betting
sting in a Europa League match between the English club and
 Greece ’s Aris Thessaloniki, the Sun  reported .  Prosecutors in Greece presented extracts of a phone
conversation in which one of the Greek team’s players claims
Tevez would be approached to try and persuade him to let the
Greek team kick off, the Sun said. There is no suggestion of any
wrongdoing on Tevez’s part and the player denies ever being
approached, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  