-- 
Harvard Cop’s Novel Captures NYC Stakeouts, Probes Corruption

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 
2011-06-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/harvard-cop-s-novel-captures-nyc-stakeouts-probes-corruption.html
Edward Conlon  had a Harvard diploma
and three generations of cops in his family when he joined the
 New York City Police Department  in 1995.  He described the job in the well-reviewed memoir “ Blue
Blood ” (2004), writing of the danger and bureaucracy, from
walking a beat to cleaning up after 9/11. By book’s end, he had
a gold detective’s shield.  The fictional shield bearers in Conlon’s first novel, “ Red
on Red ,” are N.Y.P.D. detectives Meehan and Esposito. They’re
Irish and Italian, introspective and spontaneous -- in many ways
the classic yin and yang of the police procedural. As the story
opens, they’ve recently become partners after Meehan agrees to
work undercover for Internal Affairs, the force’s watchdog,
which suspects Esposito of corruption.  The action perks along through the detectives’ caseload,
quickly defined by a hanging suicide, a drug-gang killing and a
serial rapist, while Meehan’s quasi-quisling role and questions
about his partner fuel tension. Esposito stokes those doubts as
he moves from rule-bending pragmatism to the legally and morally
questionable.  “‘When you start, you picture all the great things you
might do,” he tells Meehan, “and in the end, you wind up
wondering what you can get away with.’”  The off-duty byplay taps the cops’ personal lives, with
Meehan dwelling on the collapse of his childless marriage versus
the attractions of a flower-shop owner, and Esposito, despite
wife and kids happy at home, always on the prowl.  Bona Fides  From stakeouts to takedowns to squad-car banter, Conlon
brings his bona fides. His cop-perp interviews are among the
best I’ve read, and they come with fun inside dope.  He doesn’t overstate, and that makes the details more
convincing and engaging -- though maybe less alluring for those
accustomed to neon language and gore. There’s almost nothing
extreme in “Red on Red,” aside from a macabre torture scene.  The final confrontation is nicely paced and staged -- and,
unlike much of the novel, tightly written. Conlon brings a
welcome thoughtfulness to a genre that tends to operate from the
mouth down. Yet less is always more in this kind of fiction, and
I hope he goes on to deploy at book length the knack for
compression he displays in passages like this precis of a
Catholic funeral:  “Church was a blur -- qui tolis peccata mundi -- then
bagpipes and bells, a hundred handshakes, firm or frail. Incense
inside, cigarettes out. All had gone as it should have, the
incidental touches of beauty, ancient forms for grieving,
praise, acceptance of mystery at the heart of things. Roman
ritual and Irish weather.”  “Red on Red” is published by Spiegel & Grau (442 pages,
$26). To order this book in  North America , click  here.   (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 