-- 
Asian Beef Binge Boosts Shipments 17% Doubling U.S. Share: Freight Markets

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-27T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/asian-beef-binge-boosts-shipments-17-doubling-u-s-share-freight-markets.html
The U.S. may ship the most beef ever
in 2011, after doubling its share of the world market in four
years, as demand from  Asia  revives a $3.84 billion export
industry decimated by mad-cow disease.  Shipments will jump 17 percent to 2.68 billion pounds (1.22
million metric tons) this year, exceeding the previous record
set in 2003, according to Centennial, Colorado-based CattleFax,
which has researched the industry for four decades. Global trade
in refrigerated meat, including overland shipments, expanded 2
percent to 31 million tons last year, Clarkson Research Services
Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker, estimates.  The sales surge is part of an agriculture boom that will
generate record income of $94.7 billion this year as American
farmers fill supply gaps left by droughts and floods ruining
crops, the U.S. government estimates. Consumers in the U.S.
faced the highest ever retail prices for beef in the first four
months and costs will rise as much as 8 percent this year, more
than any major food group, the government  says .  “We wouldn’t have had the record-high prices without the
very robust export markets,” said Jim Robb, the director of the
Livestock Marketing Information Center, a Denver-based research
company funded by universities, the industry and government.
“In some cases, rather lackluster growth in domestic
consumption is being made up for in these export markets.”  South Korea is the biggest buyer of U.S. beef and sales
more than doubled in the first four months after a livestock
disease curbed domestic supply. The Asian nation’s total imports
this year will be the highest since 2003, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates. South Korea reported 89 outbreaks of the
foot-and-mouth virus since January 2010,  data  from the World
Organisation for  Animal Health  show.  Beef Exports  The revival of U.S. beef exports signals the industry has
recovered from the damage caused by an outbreak of bovine
spongiform encephalopathy, which was first discovered in the
U.S. herd in December 2003. Shipments plunged 82 percent to
460.3 million pounds the following year, government data show.
The brain-wasting disease was found in three U.S. cows, the last
of them in 2006. The U.K. found more than 184,000 cases since
1987, according to the  World Organisation for Animal Health .  Until the mid-1990s, most refrigerated goods were carried
on ships called reefers, which use on-board power generators and
typically sail faster than most other cargo vessels.  The trade is now dominated by  container ships  with slots
set aside for refrigerated steel boxes. By the beginning of
2010, container ships could carry 9.5 times more refrigerated
cargo than the reefer fleet, according to a  report  from the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.  Container Rates  About 90 percent of global trade moves by sea, according to
the Round Table of International Shipping Associations.  An index for six types of container rates from the Hamburg
Shipbrokers’ Association jumped 190 percent since bottoming in
November 2009 as world trade rebounded after the worst global
recession since World War II. That contrasts with rates for dry
bulk carriers, hauling coal, iron ore and grain, which slumped
in five of the past seven quarters because of a glut of ships,
data from the Baltic Exchange show. The London-based bourse
publishes daily rates for more than 50 maritime routes.  Increasing competition from container liners drove down
rates for reefers and idled ships, according to Simon Stevens,
the London-based chief executive officer of Star Reefers Inc.,
which operates 46 such vessels.  The global reefer fleet was last at 521 vessels, compared
with more than 600 six years ago, data from Redhill, England-
based IHS Fairplay show. By contrast the container fleet
expanded almost 50 percent to 4,760 vessels, the data show.  Middle Class  Demand for U.S. beef is being driven by the expansion of
the middle class in Asia, said Bill Donald, the president of the
 National Cattlemen’s Beef Association  and the owner of a ranch
in  Montana . The sales boost income for farmers because Asian
consumers are prepared to pay more for cuts shunned
domestically. Tongue sells for about $9 a pound in Asia and
about $1 in the U.S., Donald said.  The premium paid by overseas buyers is helping farmers stay
profitable as feed and energy costs surge, said Erin Daley
Borror, an economist at the U.S. Meat Export Federation in
Denver. Corn traded in  Chicago , a global benchmark, advanced 74
percent in the past 12 months while crude oil jumped 15 percent
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Higher costs spurred farmers to cull cattle, shrinking the
national herd by the start of 2011 to the smallest since 1958,
data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture show. Retail-beef
supply per person will drop to its lowest since at least 1955
this year, the Livestock Marketing Information Center estimates.  Retail Prices  Retail prices for beef will rise further in the fourth
quarter and into next year, said Karl Skold, an economist and
the former head of commodity procurement for Omaha, Nebraska-
based ConAgra Foods Inc. Supply tightened in the first four
months of 2011 as shipments surged 31 percent.  “As these supplies get tighter, we’re going to have to bid
more to keep it at home,” said Brett Stuart, a co-founder of
Global AgriTrends, a research company in Denver. “We’re not
bidding against ourselves. We’re bidding against Japanese and
Korean consumers whose domestic prices are much higher.”  U.S. food prices may increase as much as 4 percent this
year, the most since 2008, according to the government. World
food costs rose 25 percent in 2010 and reached a record in
February, an index of 55 commodities compiled by the  United
Nations ’ Food and Agriculture Organization shows.  Fast-Food Outlets  The U.S. share of the global beef export market rose to 14
percent last year, according to the USDA, which is  forecasting  a
13 percent increase in exports to 2.593 billion pounds for 2011.
At the same time, the U.S. is importing less Australian beef,
used mainly in hamburgers sold at fast-food outlets, said Stuart
of Global AgriTrends. The Australian dollar climbed 19 percent
against the U.S. currency in the past year.  The Dollar Index, a gauge against the currencies of six
major trading partners, fell 12 percent in the past year,
decreasing costs for countries buying U.S. goods. The U.S.
imported less meat than it sold overseas for the first time
since at least the 1980s, according to Stuart.  Mexico and  Canada  are the biggest buyers of U.S. beef after
 South Korea . Of the total U.S. exports, 62 percent were shipped
overseas in 2010, the U.S. Meat Export Federation estimates.  Cattle futures reached a record $1.21625 a pound on April 4
on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Prices are up 25 percent in
the past year. On April 5, wholesale beef sold by processors
reached $1.9196, the highest since at least 2004.  Economic Benefit  Cattle feeding is a $7 billion business in the region
covering  Texas ,  Oklahoma  and  New Mexico , which accounts for
about 30 percent of the U.S. industry, according to the Texas
Cattle Feeders Association. The total economic benefit to the
area is $19 billion and in Texas alone accounts for about 25,000
jobs, according to the association.  Every $1 billion of beef exports creates 12,700 jobs,
according to a 2010  study  by the American Meat Institute in
 Washington .  “It is highly likely that a significant part of the
additional income will be routed through to pay higher rents on
the land, more equipment, machinery, pick-ups, and that type of
activity,” said Neil Harl, an agricultural economist and
emeritus professor at  Iowa State University  in Ames. “It does
have a positive impact on local communities where meat
production is taking place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  