-- 
AstraZeneca’s Brilinta Worse With High-Dose Aspirin Doses in Analysis

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-06-27T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/astrazeneca-s-brilinta-worse-with-high-dose-aspirin-in-analysis.html
Heart patients taking  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN) ’s Brilinta blood-thinner and more than 300 milligrams of
aspirin fared worse than those taking Sanofi and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Plavix, according to a new analysis of a study.  When taken with lower doses of aspirin, Brilinta beat
Plavix in preventing heart attacks, strokes and early death,
according to the research presented today at the Dallas-based
American Heart Association’s Emerging Science Series seminar.
The analysis found no systematic errors in the analyzed trial,
called Plato.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in December asked for
additional analysis of Plato, which compared Brilinta, also
known as ticagrelor, with Plavix. Brilinta won the backing of an
FDA advisory panel on July 28. All committee members had
expressed concern that study participants in the U.S. and  Canada 
did worse on Brilinta than people in other parts of the world.
Many North American patients were also receiving high-dose
aspirin, AstraZeneca said.  “While the regional interaction could arise from chance
alone, two independently performed analyses identified a
statistical interaction with aspirin maintenance dose that may
explain the regional difference,” said the researchers, led by
Kenneth Mahaffey of the Duke Clinical Research Institute in
Durham,  North Carolina , in the study’s abstract.  No definite biological rationale explains the finding, the
researchers said. U.S. patients in the study had a lower rate of
drug compliance and a higher rate of discontinuation than in
other parts of the world, they found.  The medicine, which won European approval last year to be
sold as Brilique, is still under FDA review. The regulator is
expected to make a decision on the pill by July 20.  Brilinta may generate $1.17 billion by 2014, according to
the average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, needs new
products as patents expire on its three best-selling medicines,
which generated a combined $16 billion in revenue last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  