-- 
AU Optronics Sues Samsung, AT&T Over LCD Patent Infringement

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-28T18:36:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/au-optronics-accuses-samsung-at-t-of-infringing-flat-panel-lcd-patents.html
AU Optronics Corp.,  Taiwan ’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal display panels, sued Samsung
Electronics Co. and  AT&T Inc. (T) , claiming they infringed some of
its liquid-crystal display patents.  “AUO has been damaged” by Samsung’s and AT&T’s alleged
infringements on flat-panel displays used in TVs and cell
phones, lawyers for the company said in a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The allegation comes almost a month after Samsung, the
world’s largest flat-screen panel maker, sued AUO in federal
courts in Delaware and  California , alleging infringement on some
of its display patents.  Samsung also filed a complaint with the U.S. International
Trade Commission over the alleged misuse of its technology. In
the trade-commission complaint, Samsung seeks an order
prohibiting the import and sale of the LCD products used in
televisions and computer monitors.  Samsung will “actively” try to protect its patents and
customers against “groundless patent-infringement claims,” the
Suwon, South Korea-based company said in an e-mailed statement
responding to the AUO suit.  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, the second-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, declined to comment on the AU
lawsuit.  AU’s Trade Complaint  AU also filed a trade-commission complaint over the display
technology. The trade agency has the power to block imports of
products found to infringe U.S. patents. If the commission
agrees to investigate Samsung’s and AU’s complaints, their
patent-infringement suits will be put on hold. The agency
typically completes its reviews in 15 to 18 months.  Samsung fell 0.4 percent to 832,000 won at 3 p.m. close of
trading in  Seoul , matching the decline in the benchmark Kospi
index. AUO dropped 0.3 percent to NT$19.35 at the 1:30 p.m.
close of trading in Taipei.  Samsung received the second-largest number of patents in
the U.S. last year behind International Business Machines Corp.,
 IFI Claims Patent Services , a Wilmington, Delaware-based
research company, said in January.  The case is  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-00568, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  