-- 
Australian Dollar Trades Near Three-Month Low Versus Yen on Growth Outlook

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-06-28T06:52:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/australian-dollar-holds-near-11-week-low-on-global-growth-rates-outlook.html
The Australian dollar approached its
lowest level in three months against the yen as concern that
global growth is slowing prompted traders to bet the nation’s
central bank will cut  interest rates .  The so-called Aussie headed for losses against 12 of its 16
major peers this month before data forecast to show an index of
U.S. home prices fell in April for a 10th straight month. New
Zealand’s dollar weakened for a third day against the yen as
Greek lawmakers debated tougher austerity measures that will
determine whether the cash-strapped nation can avoid default.  “The global growth outlook has been shaved, with the loss
of momentum in the  U.S. economy  and Greece’s debt worries,”
said  Besa Deda , chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. “The Aussie could encounter selling in the near term.”  Australia’s dollar fell to 84.35 yen as of 4:13 p.m. in
Sydney from 84.48 yen in  New York  yesterday, when it dropped to
84.06, the least since March 29. The currency traded at $1.0447
from $1.0443 yesterday, when it reached $1.0391, the least since
April 12.  New Zealand ’s dollar fell 0.3 percent to 64.96 yen and
bought 80.45 U.S. cents from 80.56 cents yesterday.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia may reduce its benchmark rate
by 19 basis points over the next 12 months, compared with bets
on a quarter-percentage-point increase on June 1, according to a
Credit Suisse AG index based on swaps.  Benchmark rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S.
and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  ‘Buy on Dips’  “The market is expecting the RBA to be on hold for an
extended period,” said Grant Turley, a senior currency
strategist at  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Sydney. “The lows are getting lower, but there’s still plenty
of interest to buy on dips from central banks and exporters.”  Central banks including those in Russia and  Thailand  this
year said they are adding Australian dollars to their reserves
as they seek to diversify away from U.S. currency holdings.  Greek lawmakers vote tomorrow on the package of budget cuts
and asset sales that’s needed before the nation can tap a fifth
loan payment from last year’s 110 billion-euro ($157 billion)
rescue. Failure to pass the austerity measures may lead to the
euro area’s first sovereign default.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Juergen Stark
said he doesn’t expect the international community to finance
 Greece  further after July if the country doesn’t implement its
austerity plan, Die Welt reported, citing an interview.  “Upside potential in the Aussie is likely to be capped
until we navigate past the austerity vote in Greece this week,”
said  Tim Waterer , a currency dealer at CMC Markets in Sydney.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell to 3.31 percent from 3.33
yesterday. Australia’s benchmark 10-year bond yield rose to 5.05
percent from 4.999 percent yesterday, which was the lowest close
since Oct. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  