-- 
European Creditors Move Closer to Greek Debt Rollover Plan

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-06-27T16:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/bank-group-meets-on-greek-rollover-with-eu-official-in-rome.html
Greek creditors may be headed toward
a rollover agreement involving 70 percent of their bonds to
prevent a default and meet politicians’ calls that they
contribute to  Greece ’s second rescue in as many years.  Under the French proposal, half the Greek debt held by
banks and insurers maturing in the next three years would be
swapped for new 30-year Greek bonds. The redemptions from
another 20 percent would be invested in a special purpose
vehicle that would serve as collateral for the banks, two people
familiar with the plan said.  “We’ve been working on this” and hope other countries
will join the proposal, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said
today at a press conference in Paris.  Germany ’s biggest banks
and insurers are weighing the French proposal, a person familiar
with the matter said today.  German and French lenders are the biggest European holders
of Greek debt and their participation in the plan is key to the
European Union goal of getting banks to roll over at least 30
billion euros ($43 billion) of bonds. The debt swap is part of a
broader aid package EU leaders have pledged to pass next month
to prevent the euro-region’s first default a year after the 110
billion-euro Greek bailout that failed to stop the debt crisis.  EU Plan  Euro region finance ministers meet on July 3 in Brussels to
advance a plan that is supposed to be approved at a follow up
meeting on July 11. A deal on the rollovers is needed to get the
new aid package passed, a condition for freeing up a 12 billion-
euro payment from the original bailout that Greece needs to meet
6.6 billion of bond maturities in August.  “The mechanics of the French plan are so daunting that I
don’t see how any bank can evaluate them,” said  Carl Weinberg ,
chief economist of High Frequency Economics Ltd in Valhalla,  New
York . “Half the debt maturing over the next three years
includes paper at 98 cents on the dollar and other paper at 54
cents. Do banks have a choice? If so, they would fork over the
2013s or the 2014s and hold on to the 2012s.”  Investor concerns that time is running out have pushed up
the cost of insuring European debt against default. The Markit
iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit default swaps on 15
governments rose 3 basis points to a record 246. Contracts tied
to Greece climbed 28 basis points to 2,143, signaling an 84
percent probability of default within five years, according to
CMA.  Bonus Coupon  Banks that roll over their debt under the French plan would
receive 30-year bonds with a coupon of about 5.5 percent, the
people said. Banks would also receive a bonus on the coupon if
the  Greek economy  expands. The payout would be sweetened by the
rate of Greece’s gross domestic product up to 2.5 percentage
points, the people said.  Greece has about 330 billion euros of outstanding debt.
European banks hold 17.2 billion euros of Greek bonds maturing
by the end of 2013,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  estimated in a June 23
report. Greek banks, which will join a rollover, hold almost 22
billion euros of bonds maturing in that period and the country’s
central bank owned 5.1 billion euros of the debt likely eligible
for the rollover, Citigroup estimated.  France ’s proposal came after separate talks last week with
German, Dutch, Belgian and French banks on the rollover. “The
German government welcomes it when proposals come from the
private sector, including those on private-creditor
participation that are now coming out of France,” German
Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kreienbaum told reporters in
Berlin today. Talks with German financial institutions are
ongoing, he said.  Several Options  The French proposal was only one of several options being
studied by financial companies and it was unclear whether an
agreement could be reached this week,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  told Reuters today at a
conference in Frankfurt.  The French plan, which includes a guarantee fund as an
incentive for banks to take part, has been compared to the Brady
Bond plan, named after U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady,
that was used designed in 1989 to help resolve  Latin America ’s
debt crisis. In that case bondholders who swapped their debt for
longer-maturity bonds were offered a guarantee they would be
repaid. To back up that guarantee, the Latin American
governments bought U.S. treasury bonds that were held in escrow.  ‘Glib’ Comparison  “Brady bonds carried a guarantee,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan ,
head of European rates strategy at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA in Paris.
“In this case the guarantee is intrinsic, but with Brady Bonds
it was given by the U.S. government. I think it’s glib, people
are fishing for a description. We don’t have many details so
it’s still early days.”  Negotiations shifted to  Rome  today where Director General
of the Treasury Vittorio Grilli hosted representatives of some
of the world’s biggest banks. Grilli chaired the meeting in his
capacity as the head of the European Union’s Economic and
Finance Committee, which helps prepare policy for European
finance ministers.  He met with a group of bank executives, representatives of
the euro zone and the  European Central Bank  and  Charles Dallara ,
managing director of the  Institute of International Finance ,
which represents more than 400 of the worlds’ biggest financial
services companies. Dallara, a former U.S. Treasury official,
worked on the original Brady Bond plan.  The participants “engaged in a constructive exchange of
views on Greece and progress was made in advancing the
discussions,” Dallara said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  