-- 
Beijing-Shanghai Train Safety Is ‘Guaranteed,’ China Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-27T04:12:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/beijing-shanghai-train-safety-is-guaranteed-china-says-1-.html
China ’s chief railway engineer
dismissed concerns raised by a former employee about the safety
of the Beijing-Shanghai high-speed train that starts running
this week.  “The safety of China’s bullet train is guaranteed,” He
Huawu, of China’s Ministry of Railways, told reporters in
Beijing today before a ride for the press.  About 250 reporters are riding the 221 billion-yuan ($34
billion) railway to Shanghai as the government promotes the June
30 start of services and seeks to ease safety concerns. Zhou
Yimin, the ministry’s former deputy chief engineer, said in a
21st Century Business Herald interview last week that Chinese
bullet trains were unsafe at more than 300 kilometers per hour.  The trains on the Beijing-Shanghai line will run at 300 kph.
The government said in April it would reduce the speed of bullet
trains nationwide to 300 kph from 350 kph beginning July 1 to
pare operating costs and lower ticket prices.  Tickets for the 1,318-kilometer (819-mile) trip from
Beijing to Shanghai start at 555 yuan in standard class. There
are also two premium classes. Trains will make the trip in less
than five hours, boosting competition for  Air China Ltd. (753)  and
China Eastern Airlines Corp. on the nation’s busiest air route.  Construction of the new line came in on budget, Zhao
Guotang, deputy general manager of Beijing-Shanghai High Speed
Railway Co., said today. The first commercial departure will be
at 3 p.m. on June 30.  Safety Checks  The train operator may eventually hold an initial public
offering, Zhao said. There are no immediate plans for a sale as
the company first wants to build up a record of successful
operations, he said.  To ensure safety on the new Beijing-Shanghai line, the
operator will make nightly inspections lasting at least four
hours, Vice Rail Minister Hu Yadong said June 13. A train with
no passengers also will be run along the line first thing every
morning, he said.  There will be about 90 services a day each way on the line,
including cheaper ones traveling at 250 kph. The service will
initially move about 180,000 passengers a day, Hu said. It is
designed to move 80 million a year.  A Beijing- Shanghai  flight takes about two hours, excluding
travel time to airports and waits for check-in. About 25 percent
of Chinese flights suffer delays.  China plans to spend 2.8 trillion yuan on railways in the
five years ending 2015 to pare pollution and boosts links in
rural areas.  --Tian Ying. Editors: Neil Denslow, Michael Tighe  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  