-- 
Belgium’s Leterme Meets Investors in London to Boost Confidence

-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 
2011-06-27T09:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/belgium-s-leterme-meets-investors-in-london-to-boost-confidence.html
Belgian Prime Minister  Yves Leterme 
is in London to promote Belgium as a place to invest and boost
confidence among investors in the country that has failed to
form a government more than a year after elections.  Together with Finance Minister  Didier Reynders , Leterme
will meet today with officials from the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development,  Standard & Poor’s , dealers at
Barclays Plc and institutional investors, said Jerome Hardy, a
spokesman for the Belgian leader.  Amid a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe and following
similar visits to Boston in May and  New York  in June, Leterme
wants to explain the political impasse to the financial
community and boost confidence in the nation’s ability to
control public finances. Regional political tensions in the
linguistically divided nation have prevented Belgian politicians
from forming a full-time government following inconclusive
elections in June 2010.  S&P said on Dec. 14 that it might reduce the country’s
credit ranking as soon as this month should the political
stalemate interfere with the ability to stabilize  Belgium ’s
debt, which amounts to 97 percent of gross domestic product.  Leterme “takes every opportunity to explain the reality of
the figures of the Belgian economy, to convince important actors
in this sector,” Hardy said. “This message comes very strongly
if you come in person as prime minister.”  Moody’s Investors Service said its Aa1 rating on Belgium is
“supported by the fact that it is one of the wealthiest
countries in Europe and a strong international net creditor,”
according to a statement today. “Furthermore, the economy has
limited imbalances despite growth rates above the euro area
average.”  Fitch Ratings  has said the country may face a downgrade if
it fails to stick to its deficit targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  