-- 
Beyonce Rocks, Bono Faces Demo, 180,000 Festival Fans Get Muddy

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-06-27T01:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/beyonce-rocks-as-u2-faces-demo-180-000-glastonbury-fans-get-muddy-review.html
It was a long weekend for 180,000
mud-splattered fans at  Glastonbury , U.K., before fireworks
announced the arrival of Beyonce, wearing a glittery gold top.  “I always wanted to be a rock star,” she told us. “And
tonight we are all rock stars.” There was a roar of approval.
The 29-year-old closed the world’s largest greenfield music
festival last night with a jukebox of hits, songs off her album
out this week, and covers of tracks by Lady Gaga, the Kings of
Leon, Alanis Morissette and Prince.  Beyonce’s Las Vegas-style disco finale made U2 on Friday a
distant memory. Lead singer Bono predictably got pretentious,
saying he was a pilgrim to Glastonbury’s historic ley lines and
“holy ground.” If that wasn’t bad enough, he attempted a
version of William Blake’s hymn to  England , “ Jerusalem .”  Protesters, more concerned with weightier things such as
Bono’s bank balance, put up a sign saying “U pay tax 2.” This
was promptly removed by security guards, saying it blocked the
view. It wasn’t clear who was complaining. The Irish band was
finally playing Glasto, after missing out in 1982 and then
canceling last year when Bono suffered a back injury.  He looked in good shape, even with dismal drizzle pouring 
onto his shades, frankly unnecessary after dark. The quartet 
persisted in a lively greatest-hits set including “Out of 
Control” and “One,” which really was crying out for a rewrite: 
“It is getting wetter? Or do you feel the rain?”  I’ve heard many Glasto headliners over two decades and U2
wasn’t boring like Muse and the Killers -- who were in fact
playing London’s  Hard Rock Calling  festival at the same time on
Friday. U2 was better than the Arctic Monkeys, Oasis and the
Cure; not as good as  Bruce Springsteen .  Coldplay’s Lights  U2 also had more anthems than the following day’s headline
act, Coldplay. The best things were Coldplay’s laser show
lighting the Pyramid stage and a smattering of new songs.  Lead singer  Chris Martin  won a cheer by tweaking the lyrics
of “Wonderful World” to include “I see thousands of people
covered in mud.” The ironies of the weather were everywhere.  Earlier, Jimmy Cliff was singing “I Can See Clearly Now,”
looking at the gray sky and pretending the dark clouds had given
way to a “bright sunshiny day.”  By Sunday, the sun deigned to appear, and Paul Simon was
more worried about the state of his voice after a virus.
“You’re very forgiving,” he told the crowd. He turned in a
charming African-style show including “Boy in the Bubble.”  Morrissey followed the old showbiz trick of having an ugly
group to make himself look good. He arrived with the words
“fancy seeing me here” and amusingly mangled the Smiths
classics “Meat is Murder” and “This Charming Man.”  Sinking in Slime  The green fields had gone brown with downpours to rival the 
mudfests of 1982 or 1997. Hundreds of fans were slipping over
or sinking in slime. Organizers urged people not to waste water
by washing muddy boots: they would soon be filthy again.   Sitting down wasn’t an option in places and some walkways 
became treacherous, making it hard to stage-hop to see the best
acts (never simple at Glasto because of the size of the site). 
Those who braved the boggy fields found more adventurous music.  The Other Stage had Primal Scream blasting through
“Screamadelica,” the Chemical Brothers pumping out nonstop
dance music and Friendly Fires serving up Hawaii-style pop.  Tinie Tempah dressed down, looking less flamboyant onstage
than he did off, while Cee Lo Green opted for a spiked scarlet
costume that made him look like a cross between a “Star Wars”
villain and overstuffed cockerel. His voice was one of the
sweetest of the weekend on the hits “Crazy” and “F*** You.”  Those in the know could have caught a “secret gig” by
Radiohead while punky performances by the Horrors, the Vaccines
and Warpaint consoled rockers, with water in their Wellington
boots, seeking solace in the John Peel tent.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 