-- 
BHP Faces More Industrial Action at Coal Mines, Union Says

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-06-27T08:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/bhp-faces-third-round-of-industrial-action-this-week-union-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is facing a third
round of industrial action in  Australia  this week at its coking
coal mines, further disrupting output from the world’s largest
exporter of the steelmaking material.  Workers at seven mining sites owned by  BHP Billiton
Mitsubishi Alliance  in Queensland state’s Bowen Basin won’t do
any “non-rostered” overtime on June 30 and July 1, Stephen
Smyth, a division president at the  Construction, Forestry,
Mining and Energy Union  in Queensland, said by telephone today.  Coal mine workers began their second round of strikes on
June 24 and they’ll finish on June 29, said Smyth. BHP has been
notified about the latest plan and further strikes are possible
next week, he said.  Labor unions in Australia are stepping up demands for wage
increases and job security as surging commodity prices swell
profits at companies including Melbourne-based BHP. Protracted
strikes may bolster coal prices already driven higher by supply
shortages following floods in the Australian state.  “Any sustained Queensland  strike action  could prolong”
current price contracts, Melinda Moore, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a research report today. The unions
may use talks with BHP “as a test case for upcoming
negotiations with other miners. As a result, dangers exist that
strike action could escalate,” she said.  Lower Output  A full-day strike may reduce output by 130,000 metric tons
a day from the mines, Moore estimated. BHP, which reported a 14
percent drop in third-quarter coking coal output due to floods,
says any effect from the strikes will be reflected in the
company’s quarterly production report due next month. BHP
spokeswoman Samantha Stevens declined to comment today.  The shares fell 0.3 percent to A$42.20 at the close of
Sydney trading today, less than the 1 percent drop in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Protests are continuing even as BHP offered to accelerate
negotiations with the labor groups, which also include the
Australian Manufacturing Workers Union and the Communications,
Electrical and Plumbing Union.  The workers are seeking changes to their contract in
matters relating to  job security , recruitment, use of
contractors, training and development, he said. The next meeting
with the management is due on July 11 and July 12.  About 3,500 workers took part in the work stoppages that
began earlier this month, BHP’s first at its Australia coal
mines since 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  