-- 
BHP, Rio to Generate Enough Funds for Takeovers, Merrill Says

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-06-27T05:48:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/bhp-rio-to-generate-enough-funds-for-takeovers-merrill-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto
Group will individually generate enough funds in the next three
to five years to acquire additional assets or return more cash
to shareholders, Merrill Lynch said in a report.  The world’s two biggest mining companies will have free
cash flows of about $20 billion this year alone because of
“buoyant commodity prices and delivery of growth projects,”
Merrill Lynch analysts led by Peter O’Connor wrote in the report
today. “With continued strong cash flow generation for both
companies, we believe the potential exists for additional
capital-management plans and mergers-and-acquisitions firepower,
even given the aggressive expansionary” capital spending.  BHP, based in Melbourne, has bought $9.6 billion of its own
shares under its $10 billion additional  buyback program , while
 Rio Tinto  has completed 46 percent of the London-based company’s
$5 billion buyback plan, according to the report.  “Whilst BHP has reiterated a focus on investing in
existing organic opportunities, opportunities may emerge as
price expectations for tier-1 assets are normalizing,” the
analysts said. “In terms of M&A, petroleum appears a logical
and strategic growth option with large capital commitment.”  Last week, Credit Suisse AG wrote that  Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. (WPL)  may become a more attractive target for BHP if its shares
remain “depressed” in Sydney following its announcement on a
cost increase and delay at its Pluto gas venture.  Samantha Stevens, a spokeswoman for BHP, and Bruce Tobin, a
spokesman for Rio, declined to comment on the Merrill Lynch
report when contacted today.  Rio Tinto will remain “prudent” on mergers and
acquisitions, Merrill Lynch said in the report. The company will
continue to focus on “low to middle single-digit deals that can
bolt on well with the existing asset portfolio,” according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 