-- 
Biggest Bond Rally in 10 Months Fueled by Slowing Inflation: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-06-27T21:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/biggest-bond-rally-in-10-months-fueled-by-slowing-inflation-mexico-credit.html
Mexican bonds are posting their
biggest gain in 10 months on speculation slowing inflation will
prompt the central bank to keep  interest rates  at a record low.  The yield on the government’s notes due in 2024 dropped 22
basis points in the five days ending June 24, the biggest weekly
slide since August, to 7.07 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In Brazil, yields on the country’s real-
denominated bonds maturing in 2021 climbed nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, during the same period, to 12.41 percent.  The slowest inflation in almost five years has allowed
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens to hold borrowing costs
at 4.5 percent, the only major Latin American country to leave
rates unchanged in the past year. Annual inflation through mid-
June in Latin America’s second-biggest economy slowed to 3.2
percent from May and touched a five-year low of 3.04 percent in
March. Consumer price increases in  Brazil , the region’s largest
economy, quickened to a six-year high of 6.55 percent in mid-
June.  “The fundamental story of inflation is just very
positive,” Alberto Bernal, head of fixed income research for
Miami-based Bulltick Capital Markets, said in a telephone
interview. “We’ve been very vocal about being long in the long
end, and so far so good.”  Yields on 28-day interbank rate futures due in February,
known as TIIE, declined 14 basis points last week to 5.04
percent, indicating traders are betting the central bank will
wait until that month to increase the key rate. As recently as
April 4, they predicted an increase by July, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Food Prices  Rising unemployment and slumping consumer confidence are
helping keep inflation in check, Bernal said. The jobless rate
rose to 5.2 percent in May from 5.1 percent in April, while the
country’s consumer confidence index unexpectedly fell in May,
according to the national statistics institute.  A drop in food and beverage costs helped spark an
unexpected decline in consumer prices in the first half of June.
Prices fell 0.05 percent in the first two weeks of the month,
the central bank said on June 23. Economists had forecast an
increase of 0.11 percent, according to the median estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The record 11.1 percent rally in the Mexican peso versus
the  U.S. dollar  in the past two years is also helping curb
inflation, said Alejandro Padilla, a debt strategist at Grupo
Financiero Banorte-Ixe in  Mexico  City. He recommends investors
buy Mexican peso bonds maturing in 2013 and 2015.  The U.S. is the destination for 80 percent of Mexico’s
exports.  ‘Positive Effect’  “There’s a positive effect from the  exchange rate ,”
Padilla said in a telephone interview. “Their inflation reports
keep showing signs that there aren’t inflationary pressures on
the side of internal demand. We don’t see any factors that could
push the Mexican central bank to move up its tightening cycle.”  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 11.8904 per U.S. dollar at 5
p.m. New York time.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 12 basis points
to 140, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 115 basis points, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Greece  Overshadows  Concern that Greece may default may overshadow Mexico’s
inflation data, driving up yields on Mexican peso bonds, said
Emilio Diez de Sollano, a debt analyst with Monex Casa de Bolsa
SA in Mexico City.  European Union leaders last week vowed to stave off a Greek
default as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes
through a package of budget cuts, pledging to do whatever it
takes to stabilize the euro economy.  “Now that these fears are exploding, and with decisive
decisions pending, Mexican bond yields could possibly register
additional increases,” Diez de Sollano said in a telephone
interview.  Slowing growth in the U.S. is also helping curb inflation
in the  Latin America  country, Bulltick’s Bernal said.  Federal Reserve officials last week cut their growth
forecasts for the  U.S. economy  this year and next. The world’s
biggest economy will expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this
year, down from April’s forecasts of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent,
based on the median range of projections.  “We don’t really see factors that could take inflation to
levels that could worry the Bank of Mexico,” Banorte-Ixe’s
Padilla said. “That makes a good argument for continuing to
invest in these bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  