-- 
BioVerde Bets on Europe Biodiesel Demand, Brazil Market Brimming

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-06-27T18:32:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/bioverde-bets-on-europe-biodiesel-demand-brazil-market-brimming.html
BioVerde Industria e Comercio de
Biocombustiveis SA , which is building Brazil’s biggest biodiesel
refinery, expects to sell 40 percent of its output in  Europe  by
2015 as an alternative to a saturated domestic market.  BioVerde is in talks to sign its first supply contracts
with European fuel distributors, in Italy and  Spain , and expects
to begin shipments within 90 days, President Ailton Braga Domingues said in a telephone interview.  With biodiesel production capacity in Brazil more than
double the domestic demand, Sao Paulo-based BioVerde is eager to
gain access to new markets. While high freight costs and a
strong local currency have made Brazilian biodiesel
uncompetitive abroad, the company says exporting is viable
because its plants are near the coast instead of deep in the
jungle.  “Our strategy was always different from other companies,”
Domingues said. “Freight costs make this kind of strategy
impossible for a plant in Mato Grosso and Goais” states, in
 Brazil ’s interior.  BioVerde  received  export permits from Brazil’s fuel
regulator Agencia Nacional do Petroleo, Gas Natural e
Biocombustiveis on June 15. Domingues said he expects to deliver
to European distributors 10 million liters (2.6 million gallons)
a month by the middle of 2012 and 33 million liters a month in
four years.  ‘Bigger Role’  “Brazil has the agricultural capacity to play a much
bigger role than it does now,” Domingues said today in an
interview. “We want to become Brazil’s biggest exporter of
biodiesel.”  The company has one refinery online in Sao Paulo state, in
Taubate, and is spending 150 million reais to retrofit another
site, in Sorocaba, to produce 400 million liters of biodiesel a
year, he said.  It’s expected to go into operation this year and will
overtake Archer Daniels Midland Co.’s plant in Rondonopolis,
currently Brazil’s largest with annual production capacity of
344 million liters, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Brazil has the third-largest biodiesel industry, after the
U.S. and  Germany , with about 60 refineries that can produce 5.9
billion liters a year, according to ANP.  Brazil’s two biggest biodiesel producers, Granol Industria,
Comercio E Exportacao SA and Caramuru Alimentos SA, and at least
six other companies have secured export permits. Some of them
have concerns about selling the fuel abroad.  Higher Prices  “I’ve been working in this industry since 2005,” Marcelo
Freiria, sales manager for Sao Paulo-based Granol, said in a
telephone interview. “And not once have I been offered a
price,” from a European distributor “that would justify me
knocking on my director’s door and asking him to take it
further.”  Biodiesel is selling for 2.05 reais ($1.28) a liter in
Brazil, compared with about $1.20 a liter in Rotterdam,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shipping costs to
export the fuel from Brazil to Europe may add an additional 12
cents a liter to the final price tag and fuel retail taxes in
some countries may tack on another 26 cents, New Energy Finance
analyst Roberto Rodriguez Labastida said.  Part of the reason for the price differential has been
Brazil’s currency’s 45 percent gain against the  U.S. dollar 
since 2008.  “Brazilian  soybean oil ,” the country’s staple feedstock
“often sells for cheaper than European biodiesel,” Freiria
said. “The business isn’t viable,” even at Granol’s Cachoeira
do Sul plant that’s 300 kilometers (186 miles) from Rio Grande
port in far southern Brazil, he said.  Not Competitive  Logistical problems and low European prices have meant it’s
not been competitive to sell there, according to an official at
Caramuru.  Last year, 61 percent of the 2.3 billion liters of
biodiesel the EU’s 27 member states imported came from  Argentina 
while almost 26 percent came from  Indonesia , according to an e-
mail from the EU’s statistics department  Eurostat . None was
imported from Brazil, according to the statement  With plants near the coast, about an hour’s drive from
Santos, Brazil’s biggest port, BioVerde is better positioned
than its competitors to reach European markets, Domingues said.
Most of the industry is based more than 1,000 kilometers inland
in the heart of soybean-producing country, he said.  “Our biodiesel has been tested and approved by European
distributors,” he said. “Now it’s a question of negotiating
the commercial conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  