-- 
Blackstone Asked by SEC for More Disclosure on Compensation

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-06-27T20:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/blackstone-group-pressed-by-sec-for-more-details-on-executive-compensation.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, was asked by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission for more detail about how its top
executives are paid, as buyout firms continue to confront the
scrutiny that comes with public listings.  The SEC, in a letter dated April 25, asked New York-based
Blackstone for further information about compensation for the
firm’s so-called named executive officers. The letter, along
with the company’s May 9 response, was disclosed in filings
today by Blackstone.  The correspondence underscores the additional information
required when private partnerships become publicly traded
companies.  Carlyle Group , the world’s second-largest private-
equity company, has selected bankers to lead its own IPO, after
competitors such as KKR & Co. and Apollo Global Management LP
gained public listings in New York in the past 12 months.  Blackstone Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman  has “sole
discretion” to adjust executives’ compensation and their
portion of profits tied to the firm’s funds, a measure known as
carried interest, according to the letter. The SEC pressed
Blackstone to spell out in future filings how Schwarzman made
those determinations.  The four-page letter, a response to the firm’s 2010 annual
report filed earlier this year, also asked Blackstone for more
information about pending litigation, specifically a class-
action lawsuit tied to the firm’s 2007 initial public offering.  Future Filings  Blackstone Chief Financial Officer Laurence Tosi responded
in a May 9 letter, which said that executives’ compensation is
based on “internal measures which are applied to a number of
complex individual businesses and partnerships.”  The firm said it would detail in future filings how
compensation is based on the performance of its funds, the
growth in profit and distributable earnings, as well as
“Blackstone’s success in achieving strategic objectives which
we will outline as applicable in the relevant period.”  The SEC did not request additional information after the
response.  Blackstone, created in 1985 by Schwarzman and  Peter G. Peterson , has expanded beyond private-equity deals into real
estate investments, fund of  hedge funds  and restructuring
advice.  Salary and Bonus  Blackstone paid President  Tony James , Vice Chairman J. Tomilson Hill and Tosi $350,000 each in salary last year,
according to the firm’s annual report. James received a $23.5
million bonus, the filing shows, while Hill got a bonus of $7.36
million and a stock award worth $8 million, not including $6.3
million in deferred compensation. Tosi received a $4.65 million
bonus and $5.44 million in stock.  All of the executives have additional potential
compensation tied up in Blackstone shares. Schwarzman, who
earned $350,000 and no bonus in 2010, held vested shares worth
$399.2 million at the end of last year. He holds shares worth
$544.7 million that haven’t vested, according to the filing.  Blackstone rose 23 cents, or 1.44 percent, to $16.25 at 4
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock is
trading at roughly half of its IPO price of $31 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  