-- 
Blood Vessels Grown in a Lab Safely Used in Dialysis Patients in Trial

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-27T19:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/blood-vessels-grown-in-a-lab-safely-used-in-dialysis-patients-in-trial.html
Blood vessels grown in a laboratory
were safely implanted in three kidney disease patients, enabling
them to have regular  dialysis  without relying on traditional
shunts that caused complications and failed, researchers said.  The foot-long vessels were engineered from donor skin
cells, grown on sheets and rolled around temporary supports to
form a cylindrical shape, according to the report released by
the  American Heart Association . The “off-the-shelf” vessels,
which connected an artery to a vein in the arm, gave doctors
access to the patients’ blood so they could perform dialysis.  The artificial vessels may one day benefit millions of
people, including those who need heart bypass operations,
surgery to circumvent diseased arteries in the legs or repair of
congenital  birth defects , said Todd McAllister, chief executive
officer of  Cytograft Tissue Engineering Inc. , the closely held
company based in Novato,  California , that devised the grafts.  The technology “is clearly very new science,” McAllister
said today on a conference call with reporters. “We certainly
hope this is something that will be clinically available to a
widespread number of patients within the next 24 months.”  The three patients, all from  Poland , had such serious vein
problems previously that they needed a catheter in the groin to
get access for the dialysis, the researchers said. After eight
months and numerous punctures starting at seven weeks, there was
only one complication, caused when a needle fell out during
dialysis. The resulting blood clot was removed and the patient
is still getting treatment through the engineered graft.  Seeking Alternative  The high failure rates of synthetic grafts or a patient’s
own vessels stitched together to create access for dialysis,
“is a huge public health problem that has both clinical and
economic complications,” said Robert Harrington, director of
Duke University’s Clinical Research Institute in Durham, North
Carolina. “If the work as demonstrated thus far continues in
such a positive way, this is big news,” said Harrington, who
wasn’t involved in the study.  The company is planning a large study abroad involving 40
patients who will get the engineered blood vessels compared with
20 patients getting traditional treatment. It will probably have
to repeat the test in the U.S. to get  Food and Drug
Administration  approval for the graft, which is expected to cost
$6,000 to $10,000, McAllister said.  Storage Life  The engineered vessels had about a two-month storage life
before they were implanted in the patients, he said. They have
held up in mechanical and animal tests when used more than a
year after they were made, he said. The grafts don’t appear to
trigger a response from the patients’ immune systems,
eliminating the need for powerful immune suppressing drugs and
tests to match the cells used in the graft to the patients’
tissue type, he said.  The small diameter of the vessels, 4.8 millimeters, made
dialysis difficult, though the procedure was completed
successfully during the study, the researchers said. While the
failure rate and the need for interventions were low, the risk
is expected to increase with time, they said.  Other companies, including closely held Humacyte Inc. of
Durham,  North Carolina , are working on similar technology.  A previous study using tissue-engineered grafts made from
the patient’s own cells found almost one in three failed to
mature. Of those that matured, the usable vessels lasted as long
as three years and reduced complications and graft failures 2.4-
fold compared with shunts using the patient’s natural blood
vessels or synthetic materials.  The new approach allows researchers to keep the engineered
vessels on hand, eliminating the time needed to craft them and
cutting down on the cost, once estimated to reach $20,000.  “Our approach could allow hundreds of thousands of
patients to be treated from one master cell line,’ McAllister
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  