-- 
BOE’s Posen Says BIS Call For Central Banks to Raise Rates Is ‘Nonsense’

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-27T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/boe-s-posen-says-bis-call-for-central-banks-to-raise-rates-is-nonsense-.html
Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said it’s wrong for the  Bank for International Settlements 
to say that all central banks need to start raising  interest
rates  to control inflation.  The BIS “just said all central banks should raise rates,
and pointed to the U.K.’s above-target past inflation --
nonsense,” Posen said in slides prepared for a speech late
yesterday in Aberdeen,  Scotland . “In the U.K. and the West more
broadly, there is little or no credit growth, little wage growth
beyond productivity, little evidence of rising inflation
expectations, and oil prices are not yet a one-way bet.”  The BIS said on June 26 that “tighter global monetary
policy” is needed to damp price pressures and ward off
financial-stability risks. With the  Bank of England  holding its
key rate at a record-low 0.5 percent in June, even as inflation
remains at more than double the bank’s target, the BIS said
“one wonders how long its current policy can be sustained.”  Posen, who has voted for the central bank to add to its
bond purchases, is due to speak alongside Governor  Mervyn King 
at a U.K. Parliament committee at 10 a.m. in London. They will
speak about 30 minutes after the Office for National Statistics
publishes revised first-quarter gross-domestic-product data. The
median forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News survey is
for growth of 0.5 percent, matching an earlier estimate.  Oil Prices  King defended the bank’s policy stance earlier this month,
saying inflation is being boosted by temporary factors such as a
surge in  oil prices , while weak growth in wages and money supply
signal it will ease.  The Monetary Policy Committee is “watching extremely
carefully for any signs of a pickup in domestically generated
inflation and it will take action as soon as it is appropriate
to do so,” King said in the June 15 speech.  Posen said yesterday that while the price of oil “matters
for modern economies,” its impact is less than it was 30 years
ago. He also downplayed concerns about the U.K. economy’s long-
term potential, saying “we should continue to treat U.K. trend
growth as largely unchanged.”  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  and Chief
Economist Spencer Dale will also attend the Parliament hearing.
While the majority of the MPC, including Posen, King and Tucker,
favors holding rates at a record low, Dale, along with  Martin Weale , has voted for a quarter-point increase since February.  Posen said that while some central banks, particularly
those with currencies pegged to the  U.S. dollar , should raise
borrowing costs as circumstances demand, the British economy is
at “little risk of inflation, let alone stagflation.”  The conditions that led to stagflation in the 1970s are not
evident today, he said, noting that U.K. workers have limited
wage-bargaining power and “trend productivity growth is largely
undiminished.”  Posen has voted since October to extend the bank’s bond-
buying plan, the only one of the nine-member MPC to do so.
Minutes of the committee’s June 8-9 meeting showed some
officials saw a potential need for further asset purchases as
the economic recovery struggles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  