-- 
Costlier Bread in Japan May Curb Purchasing Power

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-06-27T04:56:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/bread-in-japan-becoming-costlier-may-reduce-purchasing-power.html
Bread prices in Japan are set to
climb for the first time in three years, eroding consumer
purchasing power and potentially slowing the emergence of the
world’s third-largest economy from recession.  Yamazaki Baking Co., the largest bread maker, will raise
its prices by about 6 percent on average in July, the first
increase since 2008. The government boosted selling prices
of imported wheat to millers by an average 18 percent in April,
the most in three years, spurring processors including  Nisshin
Seifun Group Inc. (2002)  to boost flour costs by more than 10 percent.  Wheat as much as doubled in the past year in  Chicago  as
 Russia  and  Ukraine  curbed exports after drought decimated crops,
lifting global food costs to a record in February. Higher bread
prices combined with more expensive coffee and cooking oil may
reduce consumer demand in other areas, said Hidehiko Fujii,
chief economist at the Japan Research Institute Ltd.  “Rising food costs mean consumers have to cut spending on
other goods and services given their salaries haven’t gone up,”
said Fujii. “That will boost deflationary pressure,” creating
a problem for the Japanese central bank as there are few options
left after near-zero  interest rates  and ample funding failed to
lift the economy, he said in an interview in Tokyo.  Earthquake Damage  The economy shrank an annualized 3.5 percent in the three
months ended March, underscoring the damage the March earthquake
inflicted on  capital spending  and industrial production. It was
the second straight quarter of contraction, typically defined by
economists as a recession. The government determines a recession
by having a committee of academics decide the timing of
recoveries and retreats.  About 27 percent of personal spending is on food, said
Tetsuro Shimizu, chief researcher at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co. If food costs increase and discourage consumers
from spending money on other products, that is negative for
corporate earnings, he said in an interview.  Consumer prices increased an annual 0.6 percent in April,
the first gain since 2008, after global energy and food costs
gained. Nations will spend $1.29 trillion on food imports this
year, the most ever and 21 percent more than in 2010, the United
Nations estimates.  The country may increase wheat prices to flour millers by
about five percent on average in October, the third-straight
increase in just over a year, said Junichi Nakamine, executive
director at the  Japan  Baking Industry Association.  Spring Wheat  The agriculture ministry,  Asia ’s largest wheat buyer as a
single entity, controls overseas purchases and domestic sales of
wheat to stabilize supply. It reviews the grain prices twice a
year, based on purchasing costs in the preceding six months.  Japan paid 42,390 yen per metric ton ($525) on average for
475,873 tons of milling wheat from the U.S.,  Canada  and
 Australia  in May. The price was 2.7 percent higher than in April
and 6.2 percent more than in March, ministry data show.  The increase was led by gains in the price of dark northern
spring wheat from the U.S. and western red spring wheat from
Canada after excessive rains hurt crop quality, reducing the
availability of high-protein wheat.  North American grains, containing higher protein than other
varieties, are used to make bread in Japan. Their prices are
linked to futures on the  Minneapolis Grain Exchange , which are
at a premium to the Chicago market.  “We need the North American wheat to maintain the quality
of our products,” Nakamine said in an interview. “We have no
other options but to keep buying, even if prices increase.”  Coffee, Cooking Oil  Bread makers are joining coffee roasters and cooking-oil
makers in passing on higher commodity costs to consumers.  Key
Coffee Inc. (2594) , the second-largest roaster, raised prices by about
15 percent on average in March.  Nisshin Oillio Group Ltd. (2602) , the
largest producer of cooking oil, increased prices in April for a
second time this year.  Wheat traded at $6.5275 a bushel in Chicago at 1 p.m. in
Tokyo. The price reached $9.1675 on Feb. 14, the highest level
for a most-active contract since August 2008, before retreating
on Russia’s announcement to lift an export ban on grain
shipments in July.  Russia imposed the ban in August after drought slashed
output. The nation may export 18 million tons of grain in the
marketing year that starts July 1, regaining its position as the
third-biggest wheat exporter, the local grain-trading unit of
Glencore International Plc said on June 17.  Bread, Noodles  A resumption of shipments won’t alleviate tightness in
high-protein supply, as the crop is unlikely to meet quality
requirements from buyers such as Japan and concern remains about
stable supply from the nation, said Charlie Utsunomiya, director
at the  Tokyo  office of U.S. Wheat Associates.  “Demand for the U.S. grain will remain strong, sustaining
hard wheat prices at high levels,” he said in an interview.  Egypt , the biggest wheat importer, will wait until Russia’s
harvest starts in August to decide whether to resume buying from
the country, Vice Chairman Nomani Nomani of the  General
Authority  for Supply Commodities, said June 20.  Japan buys wheat to make bread from U.S. and Canada, and
from Australia for noodle production. The government imported
3.18 million tons from the U.S., 1.09 million tons from Canada
and 1.11 million tons from Australia in the year ended March 31.  Even as prices rose, Japan increased purchases as demand
from end-users was expanding and supply from local producers was
limited, said Shirara Shiokawa, director at the agriculture
ministry’s grain trade division.  Food Hoarding  The ministry bought a total of 1.48 million tons of milling
wheat through regular tenders in the three months through June,
15 percent more than in the same period last year.  The record March 11 earthquake and tsunami spurred
consumers to hoard food, boosting sales of bread and noodles,
Shiokawa said in an interview. The slowdown in Japan’s economy
increased consumption of the staple as individuals reduced
spending on more expensive items such as meat, he said.  Wheat supply from Japanese producers decreased as wet
weather slashed domestic output by 15 percent on year to 571,300
tons in 2010, the lowest level in 12 years, Shiokawa said. It
was the third straight year of decline.  Last year’s crop will fill less than 10 percent of Japan’s
total demand for food wheat, estimated by the ministry at 5.74
million tons for the year ending March 31, 2012. Supply from
local farmers may drop further as the government will restrict
shipments tainted by radiation leaking from the crippled nuclear
plant in Fukushima prefecture, Shiokawa said.  The country started testing local wheat for radioactive
cesium this month by taking samples from silos in each
production area. Wheat containing more than 500 becquerels of
cesium per kilogram is barred from shipment, Shiokawa said.  Wheat produced by 10 prefectures near the stricken
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station, where testing is mainly
conducted, represented 12 percent of Japan’s output in 2009. The
prefectures include Fukushima, Chiba, Ibaraki, Tochigi, Gunma,
Miyagi, Yamagata, Niigata, Nagano and Saitama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  