-- 
Banks Face ‘Dynamic’ Inquiry Into Retail Products in U.K., FSA’s Cole Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-27T13:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/britain-s-banks-face-dynamic-inquiry-of-retail-products-fsa-s-cole-says.html
The agency replacing the U.K.’s
 Financial Services Authority  will be more “dynamic and
interventionist” than its predecessor when evaluating financial
products geared toward consumers, said  Margaret Cole , the FSA’s
conduct business chief.  “There’ll be a shift in the relationship” between firms
and the regulator, Cole said in a telephone interview in  London 
today. The  Financial Conduct Authority , which is due to start
work by 2013, “will be more consumer-centric” as opposed to
the “firm-centric approach” the FSA took, Cole said.  The FSA, the U.K.’s financial regulator, will be abolished
by the end of 2012 and replaced by at least two new authorities
as part of an overhaul of financial supervision. The FCA will
have new powers to ban risky financial products or assert itself
in how they are marketed, as well as to publish information
about its disciplinary investigations earlier.  The FCA may investigate “products being developed to
replace lost revenue streams” from things such as payment-
protection insurance, Cole said.  PPI generates as much as 5.5 billion pounds ($8.8 billion)
in annual revenue for U.K. banks, with about 6.5 million
policies sold in 2006, the FSA has estimated. The insurance is
used to cover payments on credit cards and mortgages in case of
illness or unemployment.  U.K. banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  may
face costs of as much as 4.5 billion pounds after losing a bid
earlier this year to stop the FSA from requiring banks to
compensate customers who were sold the insurance improperly.  Enhanced Confidence  “The style is coming across very clearly,” said  Simon
Morris , financial services lawyer at  CMS Cameron McKenna . “The
government expects early intervention and the FCA will be happy
to deliver it.”  The FCA will “aim to protect and enhance confidence in the
firms and markets it regulates,” the FSA said in a  report on
its website today . The agency will be led by Martin Wheatley,
who is currently  Hong Kong ’s top financial regulator.  “Trust in the financial-services sector is at an all time
low and the new regulatory arrangements provide the opportunity
to restore confidence in an industry which has generated in
excess of 15 billion pounds detriment over the last two
decades,”  Hector Sants , FSA chief executive, said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 