-- 
BTA Bank Wins 18-Month Sentence for Ex-Chairman’s Brother-in-Law

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-27T12:12:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/bta-bank-wins-18-month-sentence-for-ex-chairman-s-brother-in-law.html
Syrym Shalabayev, the brother-in-law
of ex-BTA Bank Chairman  Mukhtar Ablyazov , was sentenced to 18
months in a U.K. jail in connection with an alleged fraud at the
Kazakh bank that defaulted on $12 billion of debt.  Shalabayev, whose whereabouts are unknown, failed to reveal
his assets or cooperate in the case, Justice Michael Briggs
ruled today in the  High Court  in  London . An arrest warrant was
issued against him last month and today he received two 18-month
sentences to run concurrently, and a conditional six month
sentence if he continues to fail to comply with court orders.  “This is a very serious case of total non-compliance,”
Briggs said in his ruling. “It’s a case where the claimants
continue to have a pressing need for Shalabayev to comply.”  BTA,  Kazakhstan ’s biggest lender before it was nationalized
in 2009, has sued Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko in the U.K. over claims they siphoned money from the
bank through fake loans to offshore shell companies as early as
2005. Shalabayev allegedly helped create false documents to hide
Ablyazov’s ties to the entities.  Shalabayev previously had 200 million pounds ($319 million)
of his assets frozen. The Almaty-based bank last week asked
Briggs to force Shalabayev’s lawyers to reveal his contact
details.  Ablyazov, who fled from Kazakhstan to London to escape
prosecution, separately faces a possible prison sentence after
BTA claimed he violated a freezing order by hiding some of his
assets, including a stake in a Moscow skyscraper development and
about 600 shell companies.  BTA says litigation against the men will benefit  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and other
creditors that financed the lender’s rapid growth before the
global credit crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 