-- 
Bumi Armada Said to Seek $905 Million in Malaysia IPO

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   T i e n   H i n   C h a n
-- 
2011-06-27T09:09:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/bumi-armada-said-to-seek-905-million-in-malaysia-ipo.html
Bumi Armada Bhd., the oil and gas
services company controlled by Malaysian billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan, plans to raise as much as 2.77 billion ringgit ($905
million) in what would be  Malaysia ’s biggest initial public
offering this year, three people with knowledge of the matter
said.  The Kuala Lumpur-based company, Malaysia’s largest provider
of ships and floating platforms used by the  energy industry , set
an indicative price range of 2.80 to 3.15 ringgit per share,
said the people, who asked not to be named as the pricing is
confidential.  The sale comes after a slump in stock markets forced
companies including Prada SpA to settle for less than the top
valuations they were seeking in Asian share sales. Nine of the
16 companies debuting in Malaysia this year have advanced from
their offer price, while a majority of those in  Hong Kong  have
lost value for investors, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Demand is strong from what we heard,” Ang Kok Heng, who
oversees $292 million as chief investment officer at Phillip
Capital Management Sdn., said in a telephone interview. “This
is part of Ananda Krishnan’s flagship company. Most people do
make money from his counters. He’s got good corporate governance
and strong management that gives it the potential to be a blue-
chip stock.”  Relative Value  At 3.15 ringgit, Bumi Armada’s shares would be priced at
about 19.7 times 2010 earnings, according to calculations by
Bloomberg. The average price-to-earnings multiple for oil and
gas equipment and service providers in emerging Asia-Pacific is
26.3 times, Bloomberg data show.  The company declined to comment in an e-mailed statement.  Krishnan and businessman Wan Ariff Wan Hamzah bought
control of Bumi Armada in 2002, before taking it private a year
later. They’ve since grown its fleet to about 50 vessels, with
1,600 staff serving clients in areas including Congo and the
 Caspian Sea .  The 73-year-old billionaire has a history of delisting and
relisting companies. He privatized cell-phone carrier Maxis
Communications Bhd. 2007 and took it public again as  Maxis Bhd. (MAXIS) 
in 2009 without its international operations. He has since
delisted pay-TV broadcaster Astro All Asia Networks Plc,
satellite operator Measat Global Bhd., and power and gaming
group Tanjong Plc.  Profit History  Bumi Armada’s profit in 2010 rose 26 percent from a year
earlier to 350.8 million ringgit, or 16.02 sen a share,
according to the company’s draft prospectus. Revenue climbed to
1.24 billion ringgit from 732.1 million ringgit, it said.  CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., Maybank Investment Bank Bhd.,
RHB Investment Bank Bhd., Credit Suisse Group AG and CLSA are
arranging Bumi Armada’s offering, according to its draft
prospectus. It plans to sell 879 million new and existing
shares, the document, which was posted online, shows.  Bumi Armada is attempting Malaysia’s largest IPO since
 Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM)  raised a record 12.8 billion
ringgit in November. Including that offering, Malaysian
companies raised a record 19.7 billion ringgit from initial
share sales last year.  Shares of MSM Malaysia Holdings Bhd., a sugar refiner owned
by state-owned Felda Global Ventures Holdings Sdn., are expected
to debut on the  Kuala Lumpur  stock exchange tomorrow after its
IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser in Hong Kong at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  