-- 
Buy Bullish BJ’s Wholesale Options as Bid May Climb, MKM Says

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-27T14:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/buy-bullish-bj-s-wholesale-options-as-bid-may-climb-mkm-says.html
BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. (BJ) ’s bullish
options should be bought because the third-largest U.S.
warehouse chain by sales will probably attract a buyout bid of
as much as $53 a share, MKM Partners LP said.  Jim Strugger, an options strategist, and  Keith Moore , an
event-driven strategist, recommended buying a September $47.50
call while also selling a September $50 and $52.50 call, a
strategy known as a “call tree” that collects more from the
sold contracts than a “call spread” while betting on a tighter
range for how much the shares may rally. BJ’s fell 0.6 percent
to $47.60 at 10:35 a.m. in New York.  The strategists cited a June 23 New York Post report that
BJ’s wants $55 a share from Leonard Green & Partners LP and  CVC
Capital Partners . The two firms offered to buy BJ’s without
saying how much they would spend, according to a regulatory
filing this month. BJ’s board said in February that it decided
to explore a possible sale.  “There is a reasonable probability that BJ’s Wholesale
Club will be acquired by private equity firms that have already
submitted a bid and expect the final price to be in the $52.50
to $53 range,” the  Stamford , Connecticut-based strategists
wrote.  BJ’s is seeking $55 a share from Green and CVC, or almost
$3 billion, according to the Post, which cited unidentified
people. The retailer earlier this month was offered $50 a share,
less than the $52 a share Janney Montgomery Scott said would be
a “fair value,” the newspaper said.  BJ’s declined comment on the analysts’ comments and
takeover speculation, Cathy Maloney, a company spokeswoman, said
today by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  