-- 
California Fiscal Year Looms Without Budget Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-06-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/california-fiscal-year-looms-without-plan-as-brown-tax-falters.html
California  lumbers toward a new
fiscal year this week without a budget, tripped up by Governor
 Jerry Brown ’s failure so far to win over enough Republicans to
extend expiring taxes.  At issue is how to erase a $10 billion deficit for the year
beginning July 1, the remnant of a $26 billion budget gap the
state faced in January. Spending cuts passed in March and
better-than-projected revenue narrowed the shortfall. Without a
budget, the biggest issuer of municipal debt in the U.S. is
unable to borrow on  Wall Street  to pay bills.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, took office in January on a
promise to use his decades of political experience and
legislative acumen to correct the state’s fiscal ills. Just four
Republican legislators are keeping Brown and Democrats from the
two-thirds majority vote needed to decide tax measures.  “Brown can bring wisdom and experience to the table, but
he cannot change basic arithmetic,” said  Jack Pitney , who
teaches political science at  Claremont McKenna College  in
Claremont, California. “To balance the budget, politicians
either have to cut spending or raise taxes, which they hate to
do.”  Brown wants to extend temporarily more than $9 billion of
tax and fee increases expiring June 30 until he can ask voters
to retain them in a statewide ballot. If the taxes are allowed
to run out, Brown would need to ask lawmakers and voters to
increase taxes, not just preserve existing ones. Both the so-
called bridge tax and the ballot measure need a two-thirds vote
of the  legislature .  Deeper Cuts  Without the  tax revenue , Brown has  warned  the state faces
deeper cuts to schools and public safety. Late last week he said
he’s holding out hope that a deal can be reached, though he
indicated it could take a “few weeks.”  “I’m not giving up,” Brown told reporters in San
Francisco on June 23. “I’m going to keep working until we get
those tax extensions. And we will get them, one way or the
other.”  Republicans say they won’t agree to temporarily extend the
taxes, and will only approve a statewide ballot measure if
Democrats agree to additional referendums on curbing public
employee pensions, business and environmental regulations and a
new cap on state spending.  “His plan to pick off Republicans has failed,” said
Assembly Republican Leader  Connie Conway .  Democrats on June 15 sent Brown a budget without the tax
revenue, filling the gap with one-time accounting maneuvers such
as delaying for three months money promised to schools and
counting on rosy revenue projections. Brown vetoed the plan the
following day, saying it employed the kind of gimmicks and
accounting maneuvers he promised he wouldn’t use.  Salaries, Expenses  Controller John Chiang then ruled that lawmakers will
permanently forfeit their salaries, along with $142 a day in
expenses, until they send Brown a properly balanced budget, a
penalty set in a ballot proposition approved by voters in
November. If that doesn’t happen by June 30, their next payday,
they’ll get a check for only half the month, he said.  “The Chiang decision is a big cup of caffeine,” Pitney
said. “It’s the political equivalent of a quad espresso. It’s
waking politicians up and getting them very nervous.
Negotiations will go faster than they would have otherwise, but
they won’t be peaceful. Desperate politicians are not placid
souls.”  Brown is also facing resistance from labor unions,
traditional supporters of Democrats, over the pension reforms.  Pension Changes  Republicans want a ballot measure that would dismantle the
existing state pension system that guarantees benefit levels
regardless of investment returns. Instead, they propose a hybrid
that includes elements of a traditional defined-benefit plan and
a 401(k) savings account, where recipients bear more of the
 investment risk .  “If Republicans want to do away with the pension systems
and gut retirements to state workers and municipal workers as a
permanent solution in exchange for the possibility of temporary
tax extensions, then I don’t think that is something we would
support,” said  Steve Smith , a spokesman for the California
Labor Federation.  California needs a budget in place in order to sell a
projected $7 billion in revenue anticipation notes, or RANS,
short-term municipal bonds the state offers annually when cash
is low. The debt is repaid from later tax collections. Chiang
says the state isn’t in dire need of cash yet, but a prolonged
impasse could force him to issue IOUs to pay bills as he did in
2009.  Without a budget by July 1, the controller also can’t pay
lawmakers and the more than 1,000 legislative workers and
gubernatorial appointees. They would get any money owed once the
spending plan is signed. Absent a spending plan, Chiang also
can’t pay vendors who sell goods and services to the state and
community colleges, health clinics, foster care parents, nursing
homes and daycare centers that receive state subsidies.  Brown and Democrats are working to craft an alternative
budget they could pass without Republican support.  When asked if the governor’s push tax extensions are dead,
Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg told  San Francisco ’s
KQED radio: “You know, I’ll leave it to the governor to
announce the wake and the funeral services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  