-- 
Canadian Regulator Seeks to Block United Continental, Air Canada Venture

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-06-27T20:18:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/canadian-regulator-seeks-to-block-united-continental-air-canada-venture.html
Canadian regulators objected to a
proposed joint venture between  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
and its Star Alliance partner Air Canada, saying it would
monopolize 10 routes and hurt competition.  The planned venture is “effectively a merger” between the
carriers’ U.S.-Canadian operations and would lead to
“significantly higher prices” and fewer choices for
passengers, Canada’s Competition Bureau said today in a
statement. The carriers suspended the application for the
venture, proposed in October.  The regulator also challenged three existing coordination
agreements that allow the two carriers to jointly plan pricing
and scheduling as well as share revenue on certain routes. Joint
ventures let airlines cooperate and make decisions as a single
entity on some flights, the way United Continental and  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  do on trans-Atlantic routes.  “United and Continental strongly disagree with the
Bureau’s position and worked in good faith with the Bureau to
address its concerns,” United said today in an statement.
“United’s trans-border cooperation with  Air Canada (AC/A)  has provided
customers traveling between Canada and the U.S. with more and
better service.”  Air Canada, the country’s biggest carrier, also said it
“strongly disagrees” with the Competition Bureau’s position
and that the two airlines have had a beneficial relationship
with antitrust immunity since 1996 that has boosted service
options for passengers.  No Material Impact  Chicago-based United Continental, the world’s largest
carrier, said the regulator’s opinion won’t have a material
impact on its business. The two airlines will continue to
provide service to each other’s passengers, reciprocate
frequent-flier points, as well as share airport check-in
facilities and lounges the way they do today through the
alliance, United said.  United rose 29 cents to $23.28 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Montreal-based Air  Canada ’s
Class B shares gained 2 cents to C$2.31 on the Toronto Stock
Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 