-- 
Centro Directors Breached Debt Disclosure Duties, Judge Says

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-06-27T07:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/centro-directors-breached-duties-on-debt-disclosure-melbourne-judge-says.html
Centro Properties Group (CNP)  directors
wrongly approved financial statements that didn’t disclose all
the company’s debt, a federal judge ruled, a decision that the
stock market regulator said clarifies a board’s duties to
shareholders.  Centro’s 2007 annual report failed to disclose A$1.5
billion ($1.6 billion) of short-term liabilities by classifying
them as non-current, and the company didn’t declare $1.75
billion of short-term debt guarantees of an associated company,
Judge John Middleton wrote in a 189-page ruling today in
 Melbourne . The mall manager also didn’t disclose A$500 million
of short-term debt at one of its units, the judge said.  “This proceeding is not about a mere technical
oversight,” Middleton wrote. “The information not disclosed
was a matter of significance to the assessment of risks facing”
Centro and its unit Centro Retail Group, he said.  The ruling makes clear directors have a responsibility to
ensure the accuracy of a company’s financial statements, Greg
Medcraft, chairman of the Australian Securities & Investment
Commission, said at a news conference in Sydney. The ruling also
shows the danger boards face when they rely uncritically on
management or auditors, Medcraft said.  “Directors are an important gatekeeper in our system,”
Medcraft said. “It’s not the responsibility of company boards
to just delegate or rubber stamp. They actually have to take
responsibility.”  Stock Falls  Centro dropped 5 percent to 3.8 Australian cents at the
4:10 p.m. close in Sydney trading, the lowest since at least
August 1997. The shares have fallen 76 percent this year.  Centro first announced a restructuring plan in 2009 after a
debt-fueled U.S. buying spree backfired when the global
financial crisis caused property values to plummet and borrowing
costs to soar, leaving the company unable to refinance its
liabilities. Melbourne-based Centro, which managed about A$16.5
billion of shopping malls in  Australia ,  New Zealand  and the
U.S., had about A$16 billion of debt across its businesses as of
Dec. 31, according to the company’s first-half results released
Feb. 24.  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VI LP, a unit of the
world’s biggest private-equity firm, agreed to buy Centro’s 588
U.S. malls in March for $9.4 billion. Centro said on March 1 it
also agreed to swap part of its debt for 108 Australian
properties and will be left with about A$100 million.  ‘No Suggestion’  “There has been no suggestion that each director did not
honestly carry out his responsibilities,” Middleton wrote. In
this specific instance, “the directors failed to take all
reasonable steps required of them,” the judge said.  Centro is reviewing the ruling and will comment further
this week, it said in a statement to the Australian Stock
Exchange.  “The critical task of restructuring Centro in the best
interests of all investors remains the priority,” the company
said. “Today’s decision will not impact the progress being made
on that front.”  Judge Middleton said he hasn’t yet decided on penalties in
the case.  “The penalties are quite important,” the commission’s
Medcraft said. “But the judge identified a very important
principle.”  The case is:  Australian Securities and Investments
Commission  v. Healey. VID750/2009. Federal Court of Australia
(Melbourne).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  