-- 
Cheeky Monkey, Colorado Wineries Emerge to Battle California

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-06-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/cheeky-monkey-colorado-wineries-emerge-to-battle-california-john-mariani.html
It may seem that wealthy Coloradans
have only recently followed Californian entrepreneurs into the
wine business. But  Colorado  was producing nearly 2,000 gallons
of wine a year as far back as 1899.  By 1968 -- around the time Robert Mondavi revolutionized
the California wine industry -- the first modern Colorado
winery, Ivancie, opened in Grand Valley. Now there are more than
50 in the state, and visitors can drive Colorado Wine Trails to
Loveland, Boulder, Evergreen and Arvada in search of them.  Or you can stay in downtown Denver and visit  The Infinite
Monkey Theorem  (TIMT) winery, which, since 2008, has operated
out of a Quonset hut in a back alley of the city’s  Santa Fe  arts
district. The winery gets its name from the idea in probability
that a monkey striking typewriter keys at random for an
unlimited time will eventually type out the works of
Shakespeare.  “We like the simple irony of comparing such an endeavor to
the incredibly controlled process of premier winemaking,” says
TIMT’s winemaker and partner Ben Parsons. “We are the
Shakespeare, not the monkey.”  The enterprise produced 4,500 cases last year, with 95
percent of the grapes grown around Colorado’s Western Slope, the
rest sourced from  California . Parsons and his partners have made
TIMT a community project within the arts district, donating
$25,000 to the  University of Colorado  Cancer Prevention Center
(Parsons’ father died of  colon cancer  in 2007).  “We have local restaurant sommeliers digging dirt and
bottling the wines,” he says. TIMT offers three- and five-
gallon kegs to more than 400 local customers, bars and
restaurants through its wine club.  Dicey Neighborhood  The winery plans to open its own restaurant this year,
though right now the neighborhood gets dicey with druggies at
night. “Good idea to lock your car,” says Parsons.  From the outside, the cement block building of the winery
looks nothing like the baronial wine estates in California’s
Napa and Sonoma Valleys. Inside is a room full of cardboard
boxes, open wine bottles and a tasting table. A young, black dog
runs around at leisure. The tanks and barrels are in the Quonset
hut, and the only real decor is the graffiti on the walls and a
painting of a chimpanzee on the side of the delivery truck.  Parsons is a Brit, from Kent, who worked for London wine
merchant  Laytons , then moved to the vineyards of  New Zealand ,
eventually graduating top of his class in oenology at Adelaide
University. A job ad for a winemaking position, with no
interview required, brought him to Canyon Wind Cellars in
Palisade, Colorado. By 2004 he’d expanded  Sutcliffe Vineyards 
(founded by another Brit, John Sutcliffe) to 4,000 cases a year,
from 400.  Rhone Climate  Wanting his own winery, he figured he could source the best
grapes from the Western Slope, which, with a 200-day growing
season and less than 7 inches of rainfall, he compares to
 France ’s Rhone Valley.  While everything about TIMT seems unorthodox, Parsons bases
what he does on traditional winemaking. Though I expected that
expertise to show in his wines, I really was quite amazed at the
results. Tasting bottled, finished wines at the winery, I was
immediately impressed by a mouth-filling, pleasantly fruity 2010
sauvignon blanc.  Parsons’ rose of cabernet franc was a beautiful, true rose
color, very fruity and well suited to summer foods. A 100
percent petit verdot 2009 was still tannic but solidly knit, a
big chewy wine, best with roasted meats. A 2009 petite sirah was
very true to its varietal character, with a fine, expressive
bouquet, and a sensible 14.2 percent alcohol, one of the best
petite sirahs I’ve tasted anywhere.  100th Monkey  Not everything was so wonderful: an unfiltered 2009 malbec,
with 10 percent petit verdot, smelled reedy and was a little
sweet in the finish. And a red blend of petit verdot, malbec,
petite sirah and syrah, called 100th Monkey, was too massive,
almost cloying on the palate.  I tasted a number of other Colorado wines while out there
and when I got home, and found that some producers still cling
to a sweet, outdated style; others are experimenting with way
too many varietals -- many from out-of-state fruit -- while
others produce small quantities specific to the terroir.  If you’re ordering online from outside Colorado, antiquated
interstate alcohol shipping rules may block your purchase, so
check first with the winery.  I very much enjoyed the Rhone-style syrahs of  Whitewater
Hill ,  Boulder Creek , and Sutcliffe, but was surprised at the
particular flavor of Sutcliffe’s 2008 Down Canyon Blend Red
Wine, from around McElmo Canyon.  A mix of cabernet and syrah, the former giving excellent
structure, the latter a sweet grape softness, it tasted the way
I would think a wine from Colorado would taste -- a bit
unpolished and a little wild, but for a red wine to go with a
lot of grilled foods, this is a winner.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 