-- 
China Auditor Finds Irregularities in $1.7 Trillion Local Government Debt

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-27T10:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/china-audit-office-warns-of-risk-on-1-7-trillion-of-local-government-debt.html
China ’s first audit of local
government debt found liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.7
trillion) at the end of last year and warned of repayment risks,
including a reliance on land sales.  Financing vehicles set up by regional authorities already
had more than 8 billion yuan in overdue debt, while more than 5
percent of such companies used new bank borrowing to repay
loans, according to the audit, posted on the National Audit
Office’s website and submitted to China’s cabinet.  “Some local government financing platforms’ management is
irregular, and their profitability and ability to pay their debt
is quite weak,” Liu Jiayi, the country’s auditor-general said
in speech published today.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  ordered the first audit of local-
 government borrowing  in March, amid concern spending designed to
support the economy following the 2008 global financial crisis
would leave a legacy of bad debt. As much as 30 percent of bank
loans are expected to turn sour and they are likely to be the
biggest source of non-performing assets for the industry,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in April.  Local governments, barred from selling bonds or borrowing
directly from banks, had set up 6,576 financing vehicles by the
end of 2010 to raise money, the audit showed, accounting for
4.97 trillion yuan, 60 percent of which governments have
responsibility to repay. Some governments have offered illicit
guarantees to such companies, while others rely on land sales to
help them repay, Liu said.  ‘Time Bomb’  UBS AG estimated in a June 7 report that local government
debt could be 30 percent of gross domestic product and may
generate around 2 to 3 trillion yuan of non-performing loans.
Credit Suisse AG economist Tao Dong said it was the biggest
“time bomb” for  China’s economy .  “Overall it seems manageable but the real question: is
anyone going to manage it?” said Vincent Chan, head of China
research at Credit Suisse in Hong Kong. “Everyone wants to
solve the problem on the condition that the other two parties
pay the bill.”  The audit showed 80 percent of local government debt was
bank loans and 70 percent will mature in the next five years.  Qu Hongbin, a Hong Kong-based economist for HSBC Holdings
Plc, said the biggest problem was transparency and the mismatch
between maturities and projected revenue generation.  Maturity Mismatch  “Without real action going towards a restructuring of
these debts, banks would face a real risk of defaulting in the
coming years,” he wrote in report today.  Governments from 12 provinces, 307 cities and 1,131
townships have pledged to use revenues from land sales to repay
a combined outstanding debt of 2.55 trillion yuan. More than 35
billion yuan of money borrowed by local governments went into
the stock and property markets or prohibited projects, the
report showed. Five of China’s commercial banks have issued 58
billion yuan of loans that violated loan rules, it said.  The yield on the government’s 2.77 percent May 2012 bonds
jumped 41 basis points, or 0.41 percentage point, this month to
3.43 percent, as the central bank tightened  money supply  to curb
inflation. Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards have
dropped 0.7 percent in June to 6.4015 per dollar as of 4:30 p.m
in Hong Kong.  The cost of five-year credit-default swaps protecting
Chinese  government bonds  from default jumped 16 basis points
this month to 89, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers. The
contracts protect investors from losses when a company or
government fails to pay its debt.  Municipal Sales  Liu proposed that the country study allowing provincial
governments and some city authorities to sell an appropriate
amount of debt. Government financing vehicles shouldn’t keep
borrowing money that local governments have responsibility to
repay, he said. Separately today, the National Development and
Reform Commission said it will speed up approvals for bond sales
designed to fund affordable housing construction.  Many financing vehicles will have to pay interest and
principal by year-end, said Liu Li-Gang, who formerly worked for
the  World Bank  and is chief China economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Hong Kong . If the local
governments can’t issue debt in the next three years, they would
have to cut their combined fiscal spending by 5 percent to 7
percent of GDP to meet obligations, he said.  “If the central government can allow local governments to
issue long-term debt, then the liquidity problem won’t look very
serious,” he said. “I don’t think this will necessarily run
into a banking crisis in China given the balance sheet condition
of the central government is very good at this stage.”  The audit gave a number lower than the central bank, which
said June 2 that more than 10,000 financing vehicles had been
set up. The banking regulator has estimated local government
financing vehicle debt at over 7.7 trillion yuan.  “It seems the government doesn’t have a concrete idea what
is a local government financing vehicle and what isn’t,” Credit
Suisse’s Chan said. “The biggest problem is it’s very difficult
to define in China what is private and what is public.”  --  Henry Sanderson . With assistance from Victoria Ruan in
Beijing. Editor: Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  