-- 
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao Speaks on ‘People’s Democracy’

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 
2011-06-27T20:14:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/chinese-premier-wen-jiabao-speaks-on-people-s-democracy-.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  spoke
about “socialist democracy” and improving supervision of the
government in a speech to the Royal Society in  London  yesterday.  China ’s official Xinhua News Agency distributed a
transcript of the speech.  “Tomorrow’s China will be a country that fully achieves
democracy, the rule of law, fairness and justice.  “The struggles against feudal autocracy in the human
history gave birth to the concepts of democracy, the rule of
law, freedom, equality and human rights.  “These ideas have greatly emancipated the human mind,
although they may be achieved in different ways and forms
in different societies and countries.  “People’s democracy is the soul of socialism. Without
democracy, there is no socialism. Without freedom, there is no
real democracy. Without guarantee of economic and political
rights, there is no real freedom.  “Corruption, unfair  income distribution  and other ills
that harm people’s rights and interests still exist in China.
The best way to resolve these problems is to firmly advance the
political structural reform and build socialist democracy under
the rule of law.  “We are committed to respecting and protecting human
rights. Pursuant to the law, we protect the right of all
members of society to equal participation and development.  “We will improve mechanisms for checking and supervising
government powers so as to ensure that these powers entrusted by
the people are exercised in people’s interests.  “To promote democracy, improve the legal system and
strengthen effective oversight of power remains a long and
arduous task for us.  “We need to create conditions for people to oversee and
criticize the government to make the government live up to its
responsibility and prevent corruption.  “With a keen sense of responsibility and democracy, people
will spur social progress. The more the people participate in
social management and public affairs, the greater the momentum
there will be to sustain social progress.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  