-- 
CI’s Holland, Bushell Join Caldwell Endorsing LSE’s TMX Bid

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-27T20:38:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/ci-financial-s-holland-bushell-join-caldwell-in-endorsing-lse-s-tmx-offer.html
CI Financial Corp. (CIX)  Executive
Chairman William Holland, whose firm is the largest shareholder
of  TMX Group Inc. (X) , endorsed  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s
C$3.3 billion ($3.35 billion) takeover offer for the Toronto
Stock Exchange owner.  “After careful review, it is clear to us that the proposed
TMX/LSEG merger protects Canadian regulatory sovereignty,
champions Canadian executive management, and maintains
competition and a level playing field,” Holland and 10 other
Canadian financial executives said today in an e-mailed
statement.  TMX shareholders will vote on whether to support LSE’s
friendly cash-and-stock bid on June 30. The offer faces a rival
bid from  Maple Group Acquisition Corp. , a cluster of 13
financial-services companies including  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  Maple plans to combine TMX with Alpha,
a bank-owned trading platform that competes with the Toronto
bourse.  “As a listed company, we do not support our competitors
acting as a regulator with a monopoly over listings,” Holland
said today in a telephone interview.  TMX fell C$1.31, or 2.9 percent to C$43.89 at 4 p.m. in
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest drop in about
10 months. LSE fell 1.1 percent to 937 pence.  Largest Holder  CI Financial, the Toronto-based  money manager , is the
largest institutional shareholder in TMX Group, with an almost
10 percent stake, according to Bloomberg data. Holland said he
signed the letter for himself, and can’t say how his mutual
funds will vote on the takeover.  “The Maple consortium has proposed the creation of a
national monopoly in which our Canadian exchanges would be owned
and managed by many of their most powerful participants, and
thus would be burdened by significant conflicts,” the group
wrote.  The other members of the group endorsing the LSE bid
include Eric Bushell, the chief investment officer at CI’s
Signature Global Advisors;  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive
officer of Caldwell Securities Ltd. and Rowland Fleming, former
CEO of the Toronto Stock Exchange.  TMX said June 24 that Maple Group’s C$50-a-share offer
isn’t superior to the London offer of C$44.31 a share plus a
special dividend of C$4 a share that will be paid out by both
firms once the deal is approved.  LSE’s offer has also been endorsed by Institutional
Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis & Co., which advise mutual
and pension funds on proposals in shareholder meetings. LSE
needs two-thirds of TMX shareholder votes cast for its bid to
succeed.  Maple Support  Maple Group, which has bid C$3.73 billion for the owner of
the Toronto Stock Exchange, said last week that a “large
majority” of TMX investors that it has contacted support the
unsolicited offer over the LSE bid.  “We’ve conducted a thorough process to reach out to them,
and we remain very confident that they will want to continue
with our proposal rather than the LSE one,” spokesman  Luc Bertrand  said June 24 in an interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto
office.  Mawer Investment Management Ltd. said today it rejected
LSE’s takeover offer for TMX, and the Calgary-based firm
considers the Maple proposal superior.  “We have voted against the deal that’s on the table right
now, which is LSE,” said  Jim Hall , director of research at
Mawer, which holds about 1.24 million TMX shares for clients.  Group’s Backers  “To us it looks like Maple’s proposed bid is a superior
offer,” Hall said in an interview. “The value is in the larger
cash portion of it, actually, and you still end up with
ownership of an exchange and potentially some other pieces.”  Maple Group’s investors include many of the largest banks
and pension funds in Canada, including Toronto-Dominion,  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, National Bank,
Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , Alberta
Investment Management Corp., Fonds de Solidarite FTQ, Manulife,
Desjardins Financial Group, Dundee Capital Markets Inc. and  GMP
Capital Inc. (GMP)   TMX said June 24 that Maple Group’s C$50-a-share cash and
stock offer isn’t superior to the London offer of C$44.27 a
share plus a special cash dividend of C$4 a share that will be
paid out by both firms once the deal is approved.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 