-- 
CIB Leads Egypt Banks Lower After Government Rejects Aid

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-27T13:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/cib-leads-egypt-banks-lower-after-government-rejects-aid-1-.html
Commercial International Bank Egypt
SAE (COMI)  dropped to the lowest level in more than a month, leading a
decline among banks in Egypt, after the government rejected
financial assistance from international lenders.  Shares of the nation’s biggest publicly traded bank by
assets lost 2.8 percent to 28.88 Egyptian pounds at the 2:30
p.m. close in Cairo.  Credit Agricole Egypt SAE (CIEB) , the fourth-
biggest bank, retreated 1.2 percent to 10.28 pounds, the lowest
level since May 2009. The benchmark EGX30 Index declined 1.2
percent.  Egypt doesn’t need to borrow from the  International
Monetary Fund  and World Bank “at the moment” after cutting its
budget-deficit forecast for the fiscal year starting July 1,
Finance Minister  Samir Radwan  said June 25. The IMF and  World
Bank  had pledged as much as $7.5 billion to help the economy
recover from an uprising that ousted President Hosni Mubarak in
February.  “The assumption was made by the market in May that the
government’s success in obtaining international and bilateral
aid packages would improve the fiscal outlook, which was
reflected positively on banking stocks,” said Dubai-based Ryan Ayache, a banking analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “Banks tend to
be the most sensitive to macroeconomic developments.”  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest publicly traded
investment bank, declined 2.4 percent to 20.32 pounds, the
lowest level in more than a month. The EGX 30 Banks Index is
down 7.8 percent this month after gaining 13 percent in May.  Egypt’s interim government plans to reduce the budget gap
to 8.6 percent of gross domestic product in the next fiscal year
from 9.5 percent in the year that ends this month, the  Finance
Ministry  said on June 22. The government forecast a deficit of
11 percent in the budget announced June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  