-- 
Cigarette Makers Rejected by Top Court on $270 Million Award

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-27T23:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/cigarette-makers-rejected-by-high-court-on-270-million-award.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  refused to
question an order that requires the nation’s tobacco companies
to spend more than $270 million on a Louisiana smoking cessation
program.  Cigarette makers including  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s  Philip
Morris USA  and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s R.J. Reynolds contended
that state courts violated the Constitution by letting the case
go forward as a class action on behalf of all Louisiana smokers
who want to participate in a cessation program. The companies
said an individual smoker should have been required to show he
or she was entitled to damages.  The question was whether state courts can “impose massive
liability in a class action without a truly representative trial
of individual claims,” the companies argued in their appeal.  Last week, the court threw out a nationwide gender-bias
suit against  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  That ruling centered on the
rules governing group suits in federal courts and in theory
could be overridden by Congress.  The lead Louisiana plaintiff, Deania M. Jackson, urged the
Supreme Court not to hear the case, contending she was suing
under a state law that doesn’t require individualized proof.
Jackson argued that no individual plaintiff would file a suit
seeking smoking-cessation services valued at $153 a year.  “That Louisiana makes such a cause of action available as
a class action without requiring proof of individualized
reliance on misrepresentations does not implicate the due
process clause,” Jackson argued.  Justice Scalia  In September, Justice  Antonin Scalia  issued a stay blocking
the order until the nation’s highest court decided whether to
get involved. In that order Scalia questioned the Louisiana
state court decision that ordered the payments.  “The apparent consequence of the court of appeal’s holding
is that individual plaintiffs who could not recover had they
sued separately can recover only because their claims were
aggregated with others’ through the procedural device of the
class action,” Scalia wrote.  The Louisiana smokers claimed the cigarette makers hid the
health risks of smoking and committed fraud. A 2004 jury verdict
in the case was the first to require cigarette makers to pay to
help smokers quit. The original award, $591 million, was reduced
on appeal.  The current judgment requires the companies to pay $242
million, plus $37 million in interest.  Philip Morris  said in a statement that it is responsible
for a quarter of the judgment and that it has set aside about
$30 million.  “Philip Morris USA is disappointed that the court declined
to hear our arguments because we believe the decision in this
case rests on a series of constitutional violations and is
fundamentally unfair,” Murray Garnick, Altria Client Services
senior vice president and associate general counsel, said in a
statement.  The case is Philip Morris v. Jackson, 10-735.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 