-- 
Citigroup’s EPS Profit Estimate Cut by Analysts on Weak Trading Revenue

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-06-27T18:11:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/citigroup-s-eps-profit-estimate-cut-by-analysts-on-weak-trading-revenue.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and Morgan Stanley were among Wall Street banks whose
second-quarter profit estimates were cut by analysts, who said
the companies’ trading revenue was likely to tumble.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank, will probably
earn $1.85 a share, 53 percent less than an earlier estimate,
 Glenn Schorr , an analyst with Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a
note to investors today. Royal Bank of Canada’s  Gerard Cassidy 
cut his previous estimate for Citigroup’s profit by 20 percent
to $2.96 billion, or 97 cents a share.  Guy Moszkowski , an
analyst with Bank of America Corp., reduced his Morgan Stanley
estimate by 9 percent to 40 cents a share.  Analysts’ estimates for second-quarter profits on  Wall
Street  are tumbling amid concerns that the Greek debt crisis and
slowing U.S. economic growth have lowered trading volumes.
Fixed-income trading revenue at U.S. lenders will fall 30
percent from the first quarter and equities trading will drop 15
percent,  Keith Horowitz , an analyst with Citigroup, wrote June
19.  “Our new 2011 and 2012 earnings estimate reflect a more
cautious outlook for equity and fixed-income trading,” wrote
Cassidy, who began covering New York-based Citigroup in a May 31
report called ‘The Reawakening of a Global Giant’. “We
anticipate that the company and its competitors will move to
lower its operating expenses in the capital markets division
later this year should the trading volumes remain low through
the remainder of 2011.”  ‘Especially Challenged’  Schorr cut his estimates for other banks, including New
York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America. Moszkowski reduced his estimate for
Goldman Sachs.  Trading in commodities has been “especially challenged”
at Goldman Sachs, Moszkowski wrote. The Bank of America analyst,
who has a “neutral” rating on the New York-based firm’s
shares, reduced his estimate by 37 percent to $2.20 a share. The
average estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is $3.28 a
share.  Edward Najarian, an analyst at International Strategy and
Investment Group in  New York , cut his Goldman Sachs estimate 28
percent to $2.10 a share on concerns over trading revenue.
Najarian has a “buy” rating on the firm’s shares.  Atlantic Equities LLP’s Richard Staite also reduced his
previous estimate for Citigroup by 13 percent to $2.85 billion,
or 95 cents a share, in a note today. The average estimate 22
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for 99 cents a share.  The London-based analyst cut his Goldman Sachs estimate by
40 percent to $2.17 a share on June 17. He has a “neutral”
rating on Goldman Sachs shares.  Citigroup’s Fixed-Income  Citigroup’s fixed-income revenue will tumble 20 percent
from the first quarter, compared with a 33 percent drop at
Goldman Sachs, according to Staite, who has an “overweight”
recommendation on Citigroup. The bank’s equity trading revenue
will fall 15 percent, similar to Goldman Sachs, Staite wrote.
Citigroup’s first-quarter trading revenue was $4.9 billion,
compared to $6.65 billion for Goldman Sachs.  Goldman Sachs and Citigroup shares are down 23 percent and
15 percent this year respectively. Spokesmen David Wells at
Goldman Sachs, Jon Diat at Citigroup, and Mark Lake at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  declined to comment on the reports.  -- Editors: William Ahearn, Steve Dickson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 