-- 
Clayton Dubilier Said to Discuss Takeover of Hartford Fund Unit

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-06-27T20:24:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/clayton-dubilier-said-to-discuss-takeover-of-hartford-mutual-fund-business.html
Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC, the New
York-based leveraged buyout firm, is among remaining bidders
pursuing a takeover of  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) ’s
mutual-fund unit, said people with knowledge of the matter.  A decision on the sale of the business, which may fetch
$1.5 billion or more, is weeks away, said the people, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.
 Affiliated Managers Group Inc. (AMG) , based in Prides Crossing,
Massachusetts, and Tokyo-based  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  are among
firms that had expressed interest in the unit and are no longer
involved in the discussions, the people said.  A buyer would get a business that has more than 50 mutual
funds and $104 billion in assets under management. As most of
the funds are managed by outside sub-advisers at Wellington
Management Co. and Hartford’s own staff, much of the unit’s
value is in relationships with retail brokerages that market its
products, the people said. Hartford may opt to keep the business
or sell to another bidder, one of the people said.  David Snowden, a spokesman for Hartford, declined to
comment.  CD&R, founded in 1978, focuses on buying neglected
divisions of larger companies and improving their performance.
In 1993, it purchased Van Kampen Merritt Cos., an investment
manager, from  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  for about $395 million including debt.
The business was combined with a Travelers Inc. fund unit in
1994 and sold to  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in 1996 for about $1.2 billion
including debt.  The Hartford mutual-fund unit posted first-quarter net
income of $28 million and revenue of $178 million, according to
a regulatory filing by the company, based in the Connecticut
city that bears its name.  Hartford Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee , hired in 2009,
has reorganized the life insurance and savings business to
conserve capital following losses under his predecessor,  Ramani Ayer . McGee, 56, sold stock last year to help repay a $3.4
billion U.S. bailout and divested a Canadian mutual fund
business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  