-- 
Consumer Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Stagnated in May as Prices Climbed

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-27T20:19:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/consumer-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-stagnated-in-may-as-prices-climbed.html
Consumer spending unexpectedly
stagnated in May as employment prospects dimmed and rising
inflation caused Americans to cut back.  Purchases were little changed, the weakest outcome since
June 2010, after a revised 0.3 percent gain the prior month that
was smaller than previously estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.1 percent
gain. Prices excluding food and energy rose more than forecast.  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  is among retailers that indicated 9.1 percent
unemployment and higher gas and grocery bills have prompted
shoppers to pare back purchases of less essential goods. Federal
Reserve policy makers said the restraint on purchasing power may
prove temporary as commodities prices start to decline, allowing
the economy to pick up later this year.  “The quarter is going to be very slow,” said Christopher Low, the chief economist at FTN Financial in  New York  who
correctly forecast household spending. “The biggest explanation
for that is gas prices, so obviously the fact that oil has
fallen quite a bit in the last couple of weeks is a really good
thing. Relief just in time.”  Stocks rose as banks gained on new rules to safeguard the
global financial system and technology shares rallied. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent to 1,280.1 at the 4
p.m. close in New York.  Treasury securities  fell, pushing the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 2.92 percent from 2.86
percent late on June 24.  Survey Results  Estimates from 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from declines of 0.3 percent to gains of 0.3 percent after a
previously reported 0.4 percent gain the prior month.  The report showed incomes increased 0.3 percent for a
second month. The gain was also less than forecast.  Wages and salaries increased 0.2 percent in May after
climbing 0.4 percent a month earlier. Disposable incomes, or the
money left over after taxes, were up 0.6 percent from a year
earlier after adjusting for inflation, the smallest 12-month
gain since May 2010.  Because incomes rose as spending stagnated, the savings
rate rose to 5 percent from 4.9 percent in April.  Today’s report also showed inflation picked up from a year
ago. The gauge tied to  consumer spending  patterns increased 2.5
percent from May 2010, following a 2.2 percent gain in the 12
months ended in April.  More Inflation  The Fed’s preferred price measure, the so-called core
inflation reading that excludes food and fuel, rose 1.2 percent
in May from a year earlier, compared with the 1.1 percent
advance in April. It rose 0.3 percent in May from the prior
month, the biggest one-month gain since October 2009.  Today’s report also showed that spending adjusted for
inflation figures, which are used to calculate gross domestic
product, dropped 0.1 percent for a second month. It was the
first back-to-back decline in two years.  Economic growth slowed in the first quarter after surging
energy costs strained consumer finances. Labor markets have
begun to worsen this quarter, with payrolls growing by 54,000
workers in May, the fewest in eight months. Unemployment rose to
9.1 percent, the highest this year, the Labor Department showed
June 3.  “Persistent high unemployment, a weak housing market, high
fuel prices and inflation all put pressure on consumers,” Greg Wasson, president and chief executive officer of Walgreen, said
on a June 21 earnings call. In response to the economic outlook,
customers of the largest U.S. drugstore chain are shifting more
spending to essential goods, he said.  Raising Prices  The Deerfield, Illinois-based company has been raising
prices to combat more expensive input costs, including fuel,
Chief Financial Officer Wade Miquelon said during the call.  In May, cars and light trucks sold at an 11.8 million
annual rate, the slowest since September and down from a 13.1
million pace a month earlier, according to researcher Autodata
Corp. Some of the drop in demand last month reflected a shortage
of Japanese-made vehicles after the earthquake and tsunami in
March disrupted supplies. With inventories running low,
companies offered smaller discounts, deterring buyers.  Fed officials decided last week to keep the central bank’s
balance sheet at a record to spur the slowing recovery after
they complete a $600 billion bond purchase program by the end of
this month.  “The economic recovery appears to be proceeding at a
moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly than the committee
had expected,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a press
conference after a meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee 
on June 22. He said the slowdown is caused in part by “factors
that are likely to be temporary,” including more expensive
commodities as well as supply chain disruptions associated with
 Japan ’s natural disaster.  Gasoline prices have fallen about 11 percent through June
26 after reaching an almost three-year high of $3.99 on May 4,
according to data from AAA, the nation’s largest auto group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  