-- 
Constellation Buys Stake in Astrum Solar to Put Panels on Homes

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-06-27T15:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/constellation-buys-stake-in-astrum-solar-to-put-panels-on-homes.html
Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) ,
owner of Baltimore’s utility, bought a minority stake in closely
held Astrum Solar Inc. to offer solar installation services to
its 1 million retail power customers.  Astrum, based in Annapolis Junction,  Maryland , is the
largest residential solar installer on the East Coast and plans
to build as many as 2,000 systems this year, Chief Executive
Officer Vadim Polikov said in an interview. Astrum didn’t
disclose terms in a statement today.  Constellation already develops solar power systems for
commercial and industrial customers and has partnered with
Astrum on residential solar in Maryland. Buying a stake in the
installer will help it quickly reach additional markets, said
Andrew Good, senior vice president of corporate strategy at
Baltimore-based Constellation.  “Our customers have a strong desire to add solar,” Good
said in an interview. “We can now provide solar solutions much
faster than if we tried to grow it internally.”  Large-scale solar projects for utilities and industrial
customers helped boost total U.S.  installations  66 percent in
the first quarter to 252 megawatts, according to the Solar
Energy Industry Association, a trade group based in  Washington .
Residential system installs were flat at about 62 megawatts.  Incentives for smaller systems have made  New Jersey  the
second-largest U.S. market for solar after  California , and
Massachusetts, Connecticut and New York are considering
increasing their subsidies for solar.  “In the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions, there’s been a
strong drive to promote distributed solar,” Astrum’s Polikov
said. “We can scale quickly to take advantage of those markets
as they grow.”  Constellation agreed last month to buy closely held StarTex
Power, a Houston electricity service provider with about 170,000
customers in Texas. Those customers may also be targets for
Astrum Solar, Constellation’s Good said.  Constellation rose 29 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $37.43 at
10:53 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 