-- 
Consumer Spending Growth in U.S. Likely Slowed in May

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-27T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/consumer-spending-in-u-s-probably-increased-at-slowest-pace-in-11-months.html
U.S. consumer spending probably rose
in May at the slowest pace in almost a year, reflecting fewer
new-car purchases and dimmer employment prospects, economists
said before a report today.  The projected 0.1 percent gain would be the smallest since
June 2010 and follow a 0.4 percent rise the prior month,
according to the median estimate of 63 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  is among retailers that indicated 9.1 percent
unemployment and higher gasoline and grocery bills have prompted
shoppers to pare back purchases of less essential goods. Federal
Reserve policy makers said the restraint on purchasing power may
prove temporary as commodity prices start to decline, allowing
the economy to pick up later this year.  “Consumer spending is growing very sluggishly,” said
Chris Christopher, a senior principal economist at IHS Global
Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “The fall in gasoline
prices is helping to a degree, but the employment situation in
May, however, started deteriorating.”  The Commerce Department’s spending report is due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from declines
of 0.3 percent to increases of 0.3 percent.  The report will also show incomes rose 0.4 percent for a
fourth consecutive month, according to the survey median.  Economic growth slowed in the first quarter after surging
energy costs strained consumer finances and  Japan ’s earthquake
disrupted factory output. Labor market conditions have also
begun to worsen, with payrolls growing by 54,000 workers in May,
the fewest in eight months. The jobless rate climbed to 9.1
percent, the highest this year, the Labor Department showed.  ‘Pressure on Customers’  “Persistent high unemployment, a weak housing market, high
fuel prices and inflation all put pressure on consumers,” Greg Wasson, president and chief executive officer of Walgreen, said
on a June 21 earnings call. In response to the economic outlook,
customers of the largest U.S. drugstore chain are shifting more
spending to essential goods, he said.  The Deerfield, Illinois-based company has been raising
prices to combat more expensive input costs, including fuel,
Chief Financial Officer Wade Miquelon said during the call.  In May, cars and light trucks sold at an 11.8 million
annual rate, the slowest since September and down from a 13.1
million pace a month earlier, according to researcher Autodata
Corp. Some of the drop in demand last month reflected a shortage
of Japanese-made vehicles after the earthquake and tsunami in
March disrupted supplies. With inventories running low,
companies offered smaller discounts, which also deterred buyers.  Federal Reserve   Fed officials decided last week to keep its balance sheet
at a record to spur the slowing recovery after completing $600
billion of bond purchases by the end of this month.  “The economic recovery appears to be proceeding at a
moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly than the committee
had expected,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a press
conference after a meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee 
on June 22. He said the slowdown is caused in part by “factors
that are likely to be temporary,” including more expensive
commodities as well as supply chain disruptions associated with
Japan’s natural disaster.  Declining fuel costs during the last two weeks have helped
boost retailers’ shares. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing
Index of 92 companies has increased 3.7 percent since June 10
compared with a 0.2 percent drop in the broader  S&P 500 .  Gasoline prices have fallen 9.6 percent through June 23
since reaching an almost three-year high of $3.99 on May 4,
according to data from AAA, the nation’s largest motoring
organization.  Consumer spending  will grow an average 2.95 percent annual
rate in the second half of 2011 after rising 2.1 percent this
quarter, according to the median forecast of economists polled
by Bloomberg News from June 1 to June 8.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  