-- 
John Cullum Tames Runaway Groom in Central Park: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-06-27T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/cullum-lassoes-runaway-groom-in-central-park-all-s-well-jeremy-gerard.html
Bertram, the caddish count who comes
of age in “All’s Well That Ends Well,” is no more likable at
the end of Shakespeare’s odd comedy than he was upon his first
entrance. At least, not at the  Delacorte Theater  in Central
Park.  Forced to wed a woman he feels is beneath him, he heads off
to war rather than consummate the marriage. At the foreign front
(he’s travelled from France to  Italy ), he woos a local girl in
part by denouncing his heartbroken bride. Nice guy.  Bad behavior seems all too familiar in this new age of men
not getting away with it. It’s probably harder than ever to make
Bertram sympathetic by the time he accepts his fate.  Daniel Sullivan -- the fine director whose staging here
last season of “The Merchant of  Venice ” with  Al Pacino  and
Lily Rabe moved to Broadway -- is not so blessed this time.
Bertram may be fickle and callow, but he needs charisma enough
to lead men on the battlefield and seduce women off.  Andre Holland’s Bertram barely registers, beyond being
sulky and unimpressive. It’s impossible to discern what the
love-struck Helena sees in him.  Still, there are charms in this moody production, some of
them endowed by nature, as befits the outdoor setting. The trees
behind the stage are subtly lit (by Peter Kaczorowski), lending
a spooky aura to the battlefield tents.  Tom Kitt’s authoritative incidental music does a lot of the
actors’ work in establishing the play’s shifting moods.  Tour-De-Force  And then there’s John Cullum, in yet another tour-de-force
performance, as the infirm King of  France . Helena, daughter of
his recently deceased physician, revives him; her recompense is
a husband of her choosing. That’s Bert.  I wish Annie Parisse’s too-understated Helena had a little
less of the Italian widow and a little more of the French
huntress about her. That Reg Rogers, as Bertram’s scoundrel
sidekick Parolles, took a little more delight in his knavery. Or
that Tonya Pinkins, one of our finest musical-theater actresses,
assumed regality more easily as Bertram’s mother, the Countess
of Rousillion.  But Cullum’s transformation from depressed, death-obsessed
monarch to chipper survivor is a wonder to behold. He last
appeared on this stage 49 seasons ago, and most recently played
the Interlocutor in “The Scottsboro Boys.” He’s a treasure.  “All’s Well That Ends Well” runs through July 30 in
repertory with “Measure for Measure” at the  Delacorte Theater 
in Central Park (enter at E. 79th St. or W. 81st St.). Tickets
are free. Information: +1-212-539-8650;
 http://www.publictheater.org  Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 