-- 
Czech Stocks Drop to Three-Month Low on Greece, Basel Agreement

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-06-27T11:36:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/czech-stocks-drop-to-three-month-low-as-erste-group-bank-tumbles.html
Czech stocks fell to the lowest in
more than three months on concern  Greece  will struggle to
approve budget cuts needed to avert default and as international
regulators stiffened regulations for banks.  The PX equity gauge slid as much as 1.4 percent to 1,188.9,
its lowest level since March 15, and traded down 1.2 percent as
of 1:15 p.m. in Prague, a fourth day of losses. Lenders led the
retreat, with  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  down
more than 1.1 percent.  Emerging-market equities and commodities dropped while the
dollar gained as investors sold riskier assets. Greek lawmakers
begin a debate today on 78 billion euros ($110 billion) of
spending cuts required for future financing. The Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision agreed at the weekend to lift  capital
requirements  for the world’s largest banks and blocked European
lenders’ requests to use hybrid capital to meet the target.  “As the vote draws near on austerity measures in Greece,
which are a precondition for the release of further aid from the
European Union, nervousness and a selling mood prevail in the
markets,” Marek Hatlapatka, a stocks analysts at Cyrrus
brokerage in Brno,  Czech Republic , wrote in a report today. The
Basel deal “represents a relative defeat for European banks,”
he wrote.  Austria’s Erste slipped 1.5 percent to 797 koruna, heading
for its lowest close in almost seven months. Komercni, the Czech
unit of Societe Generale SA, fell 1.1 percent to 3,945 koruna,
heading for an eight-month low.  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the biggest Czech utility, fell for a fourth day,
trading down 1.8 percent to 860.2 koruna. Electricity for next-
year delivery in neighboring  Germany , where CEZ exports part of
its output, slumped to its lowest in more than three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  