-- 
Danske Bank Outlook Cut to ‘Negative’ at Fitch on Danish Economy

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-06-27T15:36:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/danske-bank-outlook-cut-to-negative-at-fitch-on-danish-economy.html
Danske Bank A/S,  Denmark ’s biggest
lender, had its outlook lowered at Fitch Ratings, which cited
weakness in the Irish and Danish economies.  Fitch cut the outlook on Danske’s long-term issuer default
rating to “negative” from “stable” while keeping the Copenhagen-
based bank at “A+," it said today in a statement.  “The negative outlook reflects some uncertainty in the
development of the Danish and Irish economies,” Andrew Shenton,
an associate director at Fitch in London, said in the statement.
“The ratings are likely to be downgraded if Fitch anticipates
the bank’s earnings capacity to materially suffer from continued
asset quality erosion, particularly in Denmark and the Republic
of Ireland.”  Denmark’s economy slipped into recession in the first
quarter, joining bailout-reliant  Portugal  as the only other
European nation to suffer more than a quarter of contraction.
The decline was led by a drop in  consumer spending  as the
property market stagnates and the government plans budget cuts.  Ireland’s economy has shrunk about 15 percent since 2007,
unemployment has tripled to 14.8 percent and house prices have
plunged. Danske bought Northern Bank in  Northern Ireland  and
 National Irish Bank  in the Ireland in 2005.  Danske and five other Danish lenders had their financial
strength ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service last month
after the February failure of a regional bank triggered the
European Union’s first senior creditor losses.  Danske Bank fell 4.85 kroner, or 5.2 percent, to 88.6
kroner today in Copenhagen, the lowest closing price in 23
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  