-- 
Denmark Takes Over Second Bank to Trigger Bail-In Resolution

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-27T05:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/denmark-takes-over-second-bank-to-trigger-bail-in-resolution.html
Denmark’s Fjordbank Mors A/S became
the second regional lender since Amagerbanken A/S’s collapse in
February to resort to the state’s bank resolution package after
it failed to meet solvency requirements.  The Danish state will step in after Fjordbank Mors on June
24 said it had no choice but to seek resolution after the
Financial Supervisory Authority set a higher solvency
requirement and asked it to write down more bad loans. The FSA’s
request would have left the bank 700 million kroner ($133
million) short of capital, an amount it had no prospect of
raising before a June 26 deadline, the Nykoebing Mors, Denmark-
based lender said.  The bank failure is Denmark’s second to trigger a
resolution package that allows for senior bondholder losses.
Amagerbanken’s Feb. 6 failure set a European Union precedent as
unsecured senior creditors faced a 41 percent haircut on their
holdings. Moody’s Investors Service has since downgraded a
number of Danish lenders, including the country’s biggest Danske
Bank A/S, citing an absence of state support.  “It’s regrettable that the sector, after having looked
more closely inside the bank’s books, nonetheless was unable to
find a sector solution that would have covered the depositors
and owners of senior debt that aren’t covered by the guarantee
fund or by the individual state guarantees,” Economy Minister
Brian Mikkelsen said in a statement posted on the ministry’s
website late yesterday.  Guarantee to End  Guarantees on debt issued before the end of September last
year will remain in place until 2013. Danish central bank
Governor Nils Bernstein said in a June 20 interview lenders
can’t expect state backing to continue after that, ignoring
pleas from the Association of Local Banks. The government has
also signaled it won’t extend the guarantee.  Fjordbank Mors had issued state-backed bonds worth 398
million kroner to bolster its hybrid core capital, according to
its first-quarter report. It had also raised 26.7 million kroner
in other hybrid core capital bonds.  The FSA had requested that the bank write down loans of
about 340 million kroner in the second quarter and it
increased the solvency requirement to 16 percent from
9.7 percent, Fjordbank Mors said.  “The board doesn’t share the FSA’s assessment of these
additional write-downs,” the bank said in a statement. “The
board is of the opinion that the FSA’s view is a result of a
stricter approach.”  Share Issue  Fjordbank Mors was formed November last year in a merger of
Morsoe Sparekasse A/S and Morsoe Bank A/S. It sold new shares to
raise about 110 million kroner in December after writing down
bad loans of 243 million kroner last year.  The bank’s shares have lost 80 percent this year, giving
the company a value of 92.4 million kroner. The stock dropped 4
kroner, or 24 percent, to 13 kroner on June 24 before the bank
asked the exchange to suspend trading, citing “a rumor in the
market” that it would fail.  Denmark’s state-appointed bank wind-up unit Financial
Stability said it will take over assets of 7.8 billion kroner
and provide liquidity to a newly formed company that will serve
Fjordbank Mors’ customers. All shareholder equity at the bank is
likely to be lost, Financial Stability said.  “I have spoken with Financial Stability to ensure that
there, as quickly as possible, be as large a part of Fjordbank
Mors offered as possible be -- and above all for all the private
customers, so that they can, as quickly as possible, get a new
permanent bank connection,” Mikkelsen said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  