-- 
Doctors in U.S. Turning Away Insured Patients on Low Payments, Study Finds

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-06-27T22:30:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/doctors-turn-away-insured-on-low-payments.html
U.S. doctors are turning away an
increasing number of patients, including those with private
insurance, according to a study in the Archives of  Internal
Medicine .  Physicians were willing to accept about 88 percent of
patients who had private insurance in 2008, down from 93 percent
in 2005, the study released today found. Patients in Medicare,
the U.S. health insurance program for the elderly and disabled,
also had a harder time finding a doctor. About 93 percent were
accepted by physicians in 2008, down from 96 percent in 2005.  The drop in doctors willing to take private insurance was
caused by low payments for services as well as administrative
difficulties, said Dr. Tara Bishop, an assistant professor of
public health at Weill Cornell Medical College in  New York .  “At a moment when the country is poised to achieve near-
universal coverage, patients’ access to care could be a casualty
of the collision between the medical profession and the
 insurance industry ,” Bishop, the lead author of the study, said
in a statement.  The health-care overhaul signed into law in March 2010
requires people to buy private insurance policies and provides
tax subsidies to help with the purchases. The  Congressional
Budget Office   projects  it will expand medical coverage to 24
million people.  The U.S. government is considering its own assessment of
access to physicians under a “secret shopper” program that
would have surveyors contact doctors’ offices trying to get
appointments.  Jay Carney , a White House spokesman, said at a
briefing with reporters the plan is still being reviewed and
that similar approaches have been used by past administrations.  Coverage Plans  In 2009, 57 percent of Americans younger than age 65 got
health coverage through work, and 20 percent were on Medicaid or
other public insurance programs, according to the  Menlo Park ,
California-based  Kaiser Family Foundation .  Patients in Medicaid, the joint U.S.-state health program
for the poor, had more difficulty than privately insured or
Medicare patients in finding a doctor who would take their
coverage, the study found.  While the drop in doctors’ willingness to see patients was
small, the expansion of insurance coverage under the health law
in 2014 is likely to mean many more people will be trying to see
physicians, said Leighton Ku, a professor of health policy at
George Washington University. The newly insured will be seeking
medical care while the number of doctors will stay relatively
the same, he said.  Finding a Physician  “It may well indicate that there are going to be some
problems,” Ku said in a telephone interview from  Washington .
“If you see a big surge in demand in 2014 and not enough
doctors taking patients, then we have a recipe for a bad
situation,” he said.  Without more doctors joining the workforce or putting in
longer hours, U.S. health-care providers may have to rely more
on nurses and physicians assistants to provide care, Ku said.  A reason that doctors may be accepting fewer patients is
that some insurers have shrunk the network of doctors and
hospitals they contract with to improve quality and value, said
 Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for America’s Health Insurance
Plans. The group is the Washington trade association for health
insurers led by Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and
Philadelphia-based  Cigna Corp. (CI)   “Health plans are selective in who they contract with, so
that their members have access to doctors and hospitals that
provide safe, high quality care,” Zirkelbach said in a
telephone interview.  While insurers have increased their scrutiny of medical
claims to try to keep down costs, doctors also must do a better
job of filing requests for payment correctly and on time. Too
few use electronic records, and many file claims late or
inaccurately, he said.  “It’s a two-way street,” Zirkelbach said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 