-- 
Stocks in U.S. Gain, Reverse Global Slump; Commodities Hit Five-Month Low

-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-27T20:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/dollar-gains-before-greek-austerity-vote-u-s-data-asia-stocks-oil-fall.html
U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from
three days of losses and reversing a worldwide slump, as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  led a rally in technology shares and banks
gained on new rules to safeguard the global financial system.
Commodities declined to the lowest level since January.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.9 percent to
1,280.10 at 4 p.m. in New York. The MSCI All-Country World Index
of shares added 0.4 percent after falling as much as 0.4
percent. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities lost 0.3 percent
as hogs, silver and wheat dropped more than 2.6 percent. Bonds
of Europe’s most-indebted nations fell, driving Portugal and
Ireland’s 10-year yields up 30 and 13 basis points,
respectively, to record highs.  “Evidence suggests that particularly the U.S. banks are in
better position to reach those  capital requirements ,” said  Alan Gayle , a senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in
Richmond, Virginia, which oversees about $48 billion. “There’s
a lot of anxiety about the  Greece  situation. The progress when
dealing with the European debt crisis is slow.”  Global regulators said banks deemed too big to fail must
hold as much as 2.5 percentage points in additional capital as
part of efforts to prevent another financial crisis. Commodities
plunged and Portuguese and Irish bonds fell as Greek lawmakers
start a three-day debate to approve a 78 billion euro ($110
billion) austerity package. The nation’s creditors are headed
toward an agreement to roll over 70 percent of their holdings
into longer-maturity debt in an effort to prevent a default that
may roil the euro region.  Technology Surges  Technology stocks in the  S&P 500  increased 1.4 percent, the
most among 10 groups in the index. Microsoft surged 3.7 percent,
its biggest gain since Sept. 13. Amazon.com Inc. climbed 4.5
percent to its highest level in six weeks.  Spending on computers by companies and governments in the
U.S. will grow 5.6 percent in 2011, about double the estimated
increase for gross domestic product, according to International
Data Corp. Since the S&P 500 bottomed on March 16, technology
shares have posted the third-worst returns in the S&P 500 among
the 10 industries.  “There probably was a bit more pessimism that was really
merited, and some of that pessimism is coming out,” said
 Michael Yoshikami , chief investment strategist at YCMNet
Advisors, which manages $1 billion in Walnut Creek, California.  U.S. banks gained.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  rose 3.1 percent,
 PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  added 2.2 percent and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  advanced 1 percent. Huntington Bancshares Inc.
rallied 3.6 percent, the fourth-biggest gain in the S&P 500.  ‘Less Onerous’  The new capital rules from the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision are “less onerous than had been feared,” said
Scott Tapley, who helps oversee $2.5 billion at 1st Source
Investment Advisors Inc. in South Bend, Indiana. “It makes it
more likely that they can resume more normal-looking dividend
payments sooner rather than later.”  Developing nations led losses earlier in equities. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.2 percent. Benchmark stock
indexes for South Korea and Poland lost at least 0.7 percent.
Measures for Russia and Taiwan slumped 0.4 percent.  Equities declined after the Bank for International
Settlements said policy makers must raise  interest rates  to
control inflation and may have to act faster than in the past.
While policy makers in  Asia  and  Latin America  are already
boosting borrowing costs to damp price pressures, rates remain
near record lows in the world’s largest developed economies.  Credit-Default Swaps  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments fell 0.6 basis points to 242.5
as of 2:52 p.m. in  London , after earlier reaching a record.
Greek, Portuguese and Irish 10-year bonds declined, driving up
the extra yield investors demand to hold the securities instead
of benchmark German bunds.  Contracts tied to Greece declined 27.9 basis points to a
mid-price of 2,086.3 basis points, signaling an 84 percent
probability of default within five years, according to CMA.  This is “another week where all eyes will be on Greek
politicians as they gather to debate the latest austerity
package that’s needed to ensure that funds are made available to
avoid a default within the next few weeks,”  Gary Jenkins , head
of fixed-income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London, wrote in
a client note. “Or at least, that’s the threat.”  Treasuries declined as speculation that Greek lawmakers
will approve the austerity measures discouraged demand for a $35
billion auction of two-year notes. The securities drew a record
low yield of 0.395 percent, compared with the average forecast
of 0.386 percent in a Bloomberg News survey. Yields on the
current two-year notes climbed six basis points to 0.39 percent.
Yields on 10-year notes gained five basis points to 2.92 percent
after falling to 2.84 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 1.  U.S. shares advanced even after American  consumer spending 
unexpectedly stagnated in May. Purchases were little changed,
the weakest outcome since June 2010, after a revised 0.3 percent
gain the prior month that was smaller than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a 0.1 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in  New York  at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  