-- 
Dope-Dealing Mom Gets Oven Mitts; Linney’s Cancer Patient: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-06-27T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/dope-dealing-mom-gets-oven-mitts-linney-s-cancer-patient-tv.html
Last year’s bumpy, road-trip season
of “ Weeds ” ended with a finale so fine all was forgiven. With
tonight’s season premiere, that cliffhanging airport arrest of
dope-dealing mama Nancy Botwin is still paying off.  The story picks up three years after Nancy (the wondrous
Mary-Louise Parker) arranged her own arrest for a murder
committed by budding psychopath son Shane (Alexander Gould). No
one on “Weeds” is entirely selfless, though: Nancy’s surrender
prevented her certain execution at the hands of her drug-king
husband.  The first episode wastes no time getting Nancy out of prison
and into a  New York  halfway house, where she learns her
dangerous hubby -- and, we can hope, the overlong Mexican cartel
storyline that pushed the series to tiresome extremes -- is
dead.  Nancy’s family, meanwhile, has been living in Copenhagen. We
find out that teenaged Shane has taken up puppeteering and older
women; his brother Silas (Hunter Parrish) is a successful,
barely clothed model; and Nancy’s brother-in-law and soulmate
Andy (Justin Kirk) is a tour guide and some sort of hippie
anarchist. As always, hapless friend Doug (Kevin Nealon) tags
along.  Heading Home  Whatever lives they’ve built in  Denmark  seem to end when the
gang, with one exception, heads home to greet Nancy.  With only the premiere made available for review, the new
season’s plot lines and tone are anyone’s guess, but I’m hoping
the Botwins stay in  Manhattan  for a while. Last season, as the
family outran the cartel goons, “Weeds” had the narrow-escape
pacing of an old Saturday morning serial.  Not that I’m expecting a settled, happy life for the
Botwins. As Nancy leaves prison, she’s given an unlikely gift of
oven mitts (not to mention a big, wet kiss) from her cellmate.
To reveal the significance of those mitts would be cruel, so
let’s just say Nancy’s good behavior lasts about as long as a
cheap buzz.  “Weeds” airs Monday on Showtime at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ***1/2  ‘The Big C’  The denial phase of Showtime’s cancer dramedy “ The Big C ”
was slow-going. For its second season, the series and its
melanoma-stricken protagonist Cathy Jamison ( Laura Linney ) are
getting angry.  Good for Cathy. Good for us.  Last year’s debut season, when the Minnesota teacher kept
her diagnosis hidden from family and all but one friend, took
weeks to find its voice. The weight of Cathy’s lonely plight
butted against too-quirky characters and storylines that seemed
less like comic relief than nattering dinner-party guests
distracting you from a better conversation across the table.  The oddballs are still nattering, but at least now they’re
in on the main conversation. Everyone knows about her illness as
Cathy enters a clinical drug trial that offers some small hope.  Gone, though, is Phyllis Somerville’s Marlene, the crotchety
neighbor whose suicide near the end of last season was the most
powerful jolt in a series too enamored of whimsy. Cathy gets a
chance to bid another goodbye to her old pal, but the best
friend slot is largely given over to  Cynthia Nixon ’s Rebecca,
Cathy’s prodigal college buddy. Sommerville will be missed, but
who could find fault with pairing Linney and Nixon?  Homeless Brother  Other changes this year: Cathy reconciles with husband Paul
(Oliver Platt, less cartoonish now that he’s in on the secret)
and has a new doctor (a wonderfully arrogant Alan Alda).
Homeless, bipolar brother Sean (John Benjamin Hickey) gives
stability a chance with a surprising new domestic situation; son
Adam (Gabriel Basso) gets a girlfriend; and Andrea (Gabourey
Sidibe), Cathy’s obese, wisecracking student, moves in with the
Jamisons.  If ever a ploy signaled sophomore-season contrivance, that
move is it. But “The Big C” has a way of rising above itself, of
keeping its more cloying impulses at bay with a cast that knows
just what to do with its characters. Watch the terrific Hickey
give life to the improbably written Sean. This is a show that
defies its own odds.  “The Big C” airs Monday on Showtime at 10:30 p.m. New York
time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 