-- 
Dubai Shares Advance on Speculation Losses Related to MSCI Delay Overdone

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-06-27T13:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/dubai-shares-advance-on-speculation-losses-related-to-msci-delay-overdone.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index rose,
snapping a three-day drop, on speculation declines prompted by
MSCI Inc. delaying a decision to promote the  United Arab
Emirates  to emerging-market status were overdone.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, advanced the most in almost a week and  Arabtec
Holding Co. (ARTC) , the U.A.E.’s biggest construction company by market
value, jumped 2.4 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  gained 0.3
percent, the most since June 21, to 1,525.61 at the 2 p.m. close
in Dubai. Excluding today, the measure lost 2.5 percent this
month. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the region’s stocks fell
0.1 percent.  “After MSCI’s announcement, Dubai was hit hard and this is
a technical rebound,” said Samer Darwiche, a financial analyst
at Gulfmena Investments in Dubai. “Second-quarter results might
be a short-term catalyst, but then there’s Ramadan.”  MSCI, whose stock indexes are tracked by investors with
about $3 trillion in assets, last week delayed until December
its decision on whether to raise the U.A.E. and Qatar to
emerging-market status. Introduction of delivery-versus-payment,
a program for completing stock transactions, may help lift the
U.A.E. from its frontier-market ranking. MSCI’s delay of the
decision will allow more time for investors to assess the impact
of the changes, the New York-based index provider said.  Trading Volume  A decline of 6.4 percent this year has left the 30
companies in Dubai’s benchmark index valued at about 8.3 times
estimated earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with 10.8 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
Companies in the U.A.E. are expected to begin reporting second-
quarter earnings next month.  About 83 million shares were traded in Dubai today,
compared with a 12-month daily average of 123 million shares.
Emaar gained 0.3 percent, the most since June 21, to 3.03
dirhams. Arabtec advanced the most since June 15 to 1.27
dirhams.  During the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, Muslims fast from
sunrise to sunset and business activities slow. This year,
Ramadan coincides with August.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  climbed 0.5 percent. Oman’s MSM 30 Index
dropped 0.9 percent. Kuwait’s SE Price Index and  Saudi Arabia ’s
gauge slipped 0.1 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) 
decreased 0.5 percent and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index declined
0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  