-- 
Dubai Denies Emirate Neighbors Fuel in Struggle to Pay Debt: Arab Credit

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-06-28T13:32:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/dubai-denies-neighbors-fuel-as-city-struggles-to-pay-off-debt-arab-credit.html
Dubai, the second-largest of seven
sheikhdoms in the  United Arab Emirates , has stopped supplying
gasoline to its neighbors as subsidies on fuel prices squeeze
the city’s ability to service and repay debt.  Emirates National Oil Co., a Dubai government-owned refiner
and operator of service stations, closed filling points in
neighboring Sharjah and restricted supplies to other northern
emirates last week. Dubai has $16 billion of publicly held debt
maturing later this year,  International Monetary Fund  data show.
The emirate plans to cut “subsidies and transfers” by 50
percent to 2.67 billion dirhams in 2011 from a year ago,
according to a government forecast.  “Below-market retail prices -- without a way to make up
the losses -- is an unsustainable situation,” said Rachel Ziemba, a Middle East analyst at Roubini Global Economics LLC in
 London . “The Dubai government continues to be cash-strapped,
and this is one of the reminders that just because its companies
are restructuring, it doesn’t mean that Dubai Inc. is out of the
woods yet.”  Dubai borrowed at least $129 billion to turn itself into a
tourism, trade and financial services hub, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG. It had to seek help from neighboring Abu Dhabi
after the global credit crunch dragged property prices down by
more than half from their peak in 2008 and forced some state-
owned companies to seek changes to payments.  The yield on Dubai’s 7.75 percent dollar bond maturing
October 2020 climbed 16 basis points this month to 7.02 percent
yesterday, according to prices on Bloomberg.  Wary of Discontent  Last week’s move came after authorities in the federal
capital Abu Dhabi, wary of stoking discontent amid popular
uprisings in the  Middle East  this year, refused to let gasoline
retailers raise prices. ENOC said last month it may have to
spend 2.7 billion dirhams ($740 million) this year to cover the
cost of selling gasoline and diesel at prices below the market.
 Oil prices  have risen to their highest since peaking in 2008.  Gulf monarchies have boosted social spending this year in
the hope of staving off the unrest that toppled regimes in
Tunisia and  Egypt  and led to armed conflict in  Libya . Oil prices
averaged $94.60 a barrel in the first quarter compared with
$78.88 in the same period last year and $43.32 in 2009. Crude in
 New York  hit a 2 1/2 year high of $114.83 last month.  “International oil prices have been increasing and so has
domestic consumption, hurting ENOC’s cash-flow, yet  Abu Dhabi 
refuses to lower subsidies,” said Thad Malesa, an independent
energy analyst based in Dubai. “There have been no price
increases in the Gulf since the Mideast protests began, as
governments want no cause for similar opposition at home.”  Fixing Prices  The U.A.E. federal government fixes retail prices for
gasoline and diesel at prices that are below retailers’ costs.
It has left prices unchanged this year even as crude rises to 2
1/2 year highs. Last year, the government allowed two increases
in pump prices.  Regular gasoline now sells nationwide in the U.A.E. for
1.72 dirhams, or 47 cents, a liter, or $1.88 a gallon. By
comparison, the average price in the U.K. was £6.18 a gallon
($9.88), according to a June report from the  Automobile
Association , and $3.65 a gallon in the U.S. as of June 20,
according to the  Energy Information Administration .  Saudi
Arabia , the world’s biggest oil exporter, charges 17 cents a
liter at the pump.  An ENOC spokesman declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg. The Dubai government didn’t immediately comment, and
an official in Abu Dhabi National Oil Co.’s public relations
division didn’t answer calls to his office and mobile phone.  Adnoc’s Advantage  Fuel in Abu Dhabi, the largest of the country’s seven
emirates, is sold exclusively by state-owned Abu Dhabi National,
known as Adnoc. Abu Dhabi holds more than 90 percent of the
U.A.E.’s oil reserves and refines and sells its own crude. Adnoc
can offset losses at home by selling crude in other countries,
while ENOC must buy fuel at international market prices and sell
it locally at a loss.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s 10-year
bond over Abu Dhabi’s 6.75 percent bond maturing in April 2019
widened nine basis points from a record low on June 2, to 296
yesterday, according to Bloomberg data.  Abu Dhabi collected 270 billion dirhams ($73.5 billion)
from sales of oil and gas in 2009, almost half of its gross
domestic product, according to statistics in a prospectus for
Waha Aerospace BV, a unit of leasing company Waha Capital PJSC,
released last year. A separate  prospectus  for a Dubai government
bond shows that the mining, quarrying, oil and gas sector
contributed only 5.37 billion dirhams, or less than 2 percent,
to that city’s GDP that year.  Widening Spread  The spread between the cost of securing Dubai government
debt for five years against default with that of Abu Dhabi
widened 31 basis points since an 18 month-low on June 7. The gap
was at 253 on June 24, according to prices from CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point and is equivalent to $1,000 a year on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Emirates General Petroleum Corp. , the third of the U.A.E.’s
three gasoline retailers, is restructuring and needs loans to
fund its sales at below-market price, Chairman Obaid Humaid al- Tayer said in January. Emirates General, known as Emarat, had a
debt of 1.9 billion dirhams at the end of 2009, according to a
report distributed by the State Audit Institution. Emarat is a
federally-owned retailer with no oil of its own and has to buy
everything it sells from the international market.  The federal government increased Emarat’s capital by 50
percent to 9 billion dirhams, state-run Emirates News Agency
reported today.  Struggling Refining Business  Emarat agreed to buy at least 100,000 metric tons of
regular gasoline for supply this summer to help cover the
shortage in Sharjah, two people familiar with the transaction
said. Emarat will buy four cargoes of gasoline from  Total SA (FP)  for
delivery from next week through September, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the sales are confidential.  “Some refining businesses are struggling to make money as
oil rises, especially if domestic oil product prices are much
lower than those in the international market,” said Scott Darling, a Dubai-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Dubai
entities are now penny-pinching, compared to during the 2008
boom, so cannot afford to sell at a loss.”  Investor trust in Dubai’s ability to repay its debts has
improved this year. The cost of securing Dubai government debt
for five years has fallen 61 basis points this year to 354 basis
points yesterday. The yield on Dubai’s 10-year bond has fallen
158 basis points this year.  Offsetting ENOC’s Losses  ENOC has defrayed its losses on gasoline with sales of
naphtha, jet fuel and diesel, which it refines in Dubai and
trades at market prices. It also owns 51.5 percent of  Dragon Oil
Plc (DGO) , a Dubai-based energy explorer focusing on projects in
 Turkmenistan .  Still, ENOC spent 1.5 billion dirhams in 2010 to cover the
gap between its cost for gasoline and the retail price it was
allowed to charge. The company needs oil prices of at least
about $45 a barrel to break even on gasoline sales, Chief
Executive Officer Saeed Khoory said in a January 2010 interview
with local newspaper  Al Ittihad .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  