-- 
Dubai’s ENOC Shuts Stations in Sharjah on Shortage

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-06-27T15:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/dubai-s-enoc-shuts-stations-in-sharjah-on-shortage-correct-.html
(Corrects currency conversion in fifth paragraph of story
published yesterday.)  Emirates National Oil Co., a Dubai-
based refiner and gasoline retailer, shut filling points in the
neighboring sheikhdom of Sharjah after running short of fuel at
service stations across much of the  United Arab Emirates .  At least four stations in Sharjah run by ENOC, as the
refiner is known, were barricaded yesterday to prevent customers
from entering. Other gasoline retailers in the emirate were open
and serving customers. A spokesman for ENOC didn’t answer a
telephone call to his office seeking comment today.  Sharjah’s governing Executive Council ordered the company
last week to resume supplying fuel to stations there, giving it
until June 21 to comply. ENOC said June 7 that upgrades to
service stations were causing shortages at some of its ENOC and
Eppco brand filling points.  Retail prices for gasoline and diesel in the U.A.E. are
fixed below market levels by the federal government, and they
don’t reflect short-term fluctuations in the market for oil or
refined products. ENOC said May 1 it may have to spend 2.7
billion dirhams ($740 million) this year to cover the cost of
selling fuel at fixed prices. The company said it spent 1.5
billion dirhams in 2010 to cover the gap between its cost of raw
materials and the price the government let it charge for fuel.  Regular gasoline sells nationwide for a state-mandated
price of 1.72 dirhams per liter, or $0.47 for about a quarter of
a gallon.  Widespread Shortages  ENOC stations in the U.A.E. emirates of Sharjah, Ajman, Ras
Al Khaimah, Fujairah and Umm al-Quwain have faced supply
shortages over the past month. The company’s stations in Dubai
continue to sell fuel, and it has no filling points in  Abu
Dhabi , the U.A.E.’s capital and the largest of its seven
emirates.  Abu Dhabi holds almost all the nation’s oil reserves. Fuel
in Abu Dhabi is sold exclusively by Abu Dhabi National Oil Co.,
which serves all of the country’s emirates except Dubai.  ENOC needs  oil prices  at about $45 a barrel to break even
on gasoline sales, Chief Executive Officer Saeed Khoory said in
a January 2010 interview with local newspaper  Al Ittihad . Crude
traded at more than $100 a barrel yesterday after the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, of which the
U.A.E. is a member, failed to agree to raise production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 