-- 
Tea Party Hero Bachmann Enters Republican Presidential Race

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-06-27T19:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/tea-party-heroine-bachmann-announcing-republican-presidential-run-in-iowa.html
Michele Bachmann , the Minnesota
congresswoman whose attacks on President  Barack Obama  made her a
favorite of Tea Party activists, officially entered the 2012
Republican presidential contest today in a state critical to her
odds for success.  “I seek the presidency not for vanity, but because America
is at a crucial moment and I believe that we must make a bold
choice if we are to secure the promise of our future,” Bachmann
told supporters in Waterloo, Iowa.  “I want to bring a voice, your voice, to the White House
just as I brought your voice to the halls of the United States
Congress,” she said, starting her campaign in the city where
she was born and the state where a strong finish in next year’s
caucuses would solidify her as a major challenger to former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the frontrunner in polls in
the Republican race.  “The great people of this country are longing for a
president who will listen to them and who will lead from the
front and not from behind,” she said.  Obama Pledge  Bachmann, 55, charged that Obama has failed to deliver on a
pledge to turn around the nation’s economy. “Mister President,
your policies haven’t worked,” she said. “Spending our way out
of the recession hasn’t worked.”  Bachmann quoted a February 2009 interview in which Obama
said that “if I don’t have this done in three years, then
there’s going to be a one-term proposition.”  Said Bachmann: “And so, Mister President, we take you at
your word.”  She offered herself as a candidate with appeal to a wide
spectrum of the electorate, reminding her listeners that she was
brought up in a family of Democrats and worked as a volunteer
for former President  Jimmy Carter ’s 1976 campaign.  “Our problems don’t have an identity of party, they are
problems that were created by both parties,” she said.
“Americans aren’t interested in affiliation, they’re interested
in solutions.”  Ben LaBolt , a spokesman for Obama’s re-election bid, issued
a statement today critical of her voting record in Congress,
including her support for a Republican budget plan that includes
a proposal to convert the government-run Medicare program to a
system of subsidized private health coverage.  ‘Ending Medicare’  “Her policies would erode the path to prosperity for
middle-class families,” LaBolt said. “She voted for a budget
plan that would extend tax cuts for the richest Americans on the
backs of seniors and the middle class, while ending Medicare as
we know it.”  The transition to presidential candidate will require
Bachmann to spend more time speaking to small groups and meeting
voters one-on-one, rather than focusing on making television
appearances and headlining Tea Party rallies.  Steve Scheffler, a Republican National Committee member
from  Iowa , said Bachmann “is up to that task, based on her
record in the past of being an energetic campaigner.”  Scheffler, who isn’t yet backing any of his party’s White
House contenders, said Bachmann “has a lot of potential here in
Iowa because of her conservative message and her conservative
track record.”  Bachmann’s announcement was a formality. She revealed her
plans to run during a June 13 candidate debate in  New Hampshire .
She plans to return tomorrow to that state, which will hold the
nation’s first primary next year.  Tea Party Backers  Her campaign strategy, Bachmann said in an April 29
Bloomberg News interview, is to marry support from social
conservatives in Iowa and  South Carolina , another early primary
state, with Tea Party backers in New Hampshire.  In Bachmann’s bid to win Iowa’s caucuses, which early next
year kick off the 2012 nominating process, she will be counting
on her appeal to Christian conservatives. In the 2008 Iowa
Republican caucuses, 60 percent who attended described
themselves to pollsters as born-again or evangelical Christians.  Bachmann was statistically tied with Romney in a poll of
likely Republican caucus participants that the Des Moines
Register published yesterday. Romney was preferred by 23 percent
in the poll; Bachmann drew 22 percent; all other candidates were
at least 12 points behind. The poll was conducted June 19-22 and
has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.9 percentage points.  ‘Never Been Rich’  “I like her because she relates to people,” said Debbie
Bailey, 63, a retired customer service worker who was one of
about 200 people who attended her announcement rally today.
“She can relate to those of us who have never been rich.”  Bailey, who lives in Evansdale, Iowa, said she has never
participated in the caucuses, though she is planning to do so
for the 2012 campaign. She said she hasn’t decided who to
support, though she likes Bachmann’s opposition to abortion.  Bachmann gave her speech in front of the Snowden House, an
1881 brick home that once hosted the Waterloo Women’s Club. The
appearance, under sunshine, was periodically interrupted by
honks from truckers motoring past on a nearby highway.  Bachmann’s immediate focus will be on the  Iowa Republican
Party’s  Aug. 13 straw poll, an early test of each candidate’s
Iowa organization. Bachmann has said she plans to compete in the
event, a fundraiser for the party.  Her chances in Iowa were enhanced by Romney’s decision to
make a more limited effort in the state than he did in his 2008
presidential run, when he finished second in the caucuses.
Romney said earlier this month he plans to skip the straw poll,
a contest he won in 2007 after spending about $2 million on
television ads and busing thousands of supporters to the event.  Other Republicans  Other Republicans gearing up for the straw poll include
U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , former  Minnesota  Governor
 Tim Pawlenty , former Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania ,
former pizza chain executive  Herman Cain  and Representative
Thaddeus McCotter of  Michigan , who has yet to declare whether he
plans to enter the presidential race.  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who was Obama’s
ambassador to  China , has said he doesn’t plan to compete in
Iowa, citing his opposition to subsidies for corn-based ethanol
as too much of a political hurdle in a state with a large
agriculture base.  Pawlenty Ads  Bachmann will face an aggressive challenge in Iowa from
Pawlenty, her fellow Minnesotan, who is scheduled to spend about
15 days campaigning in the state next month. Pawlenty, backed by
6 percent in the Register’s poll, started running television
commercials on Iowa stations last week, becoming the first
Republican presidential candidate to air such ads.  While Sarah Palin, former Alaska governor and 2008
Republican vice presidential candidate, hasn’t said yet whether
she will seek her party’s 2012 presidential nomination, she will
be in Pella, Iowa, tomorrow to attend the premiere of a
documentary about her life called “The Undefeated.”  A knack for grabbing the spotlight helped catapult Bachmann
from the Minnesota’s state Senate to Congress in 2006, and has
fueled her national fundraising ability. She raised $13.6
million for her 2010 re-election, more than any other House
candidate. Her style also has angered some fellow Republicans,
who have accused her of not being a team player.  Historical Error  Bachmann’s sometimes inflammatory comments -- she suggested
during the 2008 presidential campaign that Obama might have
“anti-American views,” and recently compared the national debt
to the Holocaust -- have raised questions about her ability to
appear presidential. She also came under criticism in March,
after she placed the first battle of the Revolutionary War in
New Hampshire instead of  Massachusetts .  “I don’t question the president’s patriotism at all,”
Bachmann said yesterday on the CBS program “Face the Nation”
when asked about the 2008 remarks. “There’s a lot of things I
wish I would have said differently.”  Ken Martin, the state Democratic chairman in Minnesota,
criticized Bachmann’s in a statement after her announcement.  “We know from her frequent mistakes when speaking about
our country’s legacy that Michele Bachmann is fond of changing
history,” Martin said. “The truth is, Representative Bachmann
does not have a single success that she has delivered for
Minnesotans -- just a long record of divisive rhetoric, extreme
policy positions, hypocrisy and shameless self-promotion.”  Bachmann, whose family moved from Iowa to Minnesota during
her childhood, received her law degree from Oral Roberts
University in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , and worked as an attorney for the
 Internal Revenue Service . She is the mother of five biological
children and has taken in 23 foster kids, all girls. Along with
her husband, she owns a Christian  counseling clinic .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Waterloo, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  