-- 
ECB Says New Statistics Will Shed Light on Shadow Banking Sector

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-06-27T09:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/ecb-says-new-statistics-will-shed-light-on-shadow-banking-sector.html
The  European Central Bank  introduced
a new set of statistics it says will shed more light on
securitization and the so-called shadow banking sector.  “The new statistics refer to detailed quarterly balance
sheet information from financial vehicle corporations engaged in
securitization, often called securitization vehicles,” ECB
Executive Board member Juergen Stark said at a press briefing in
Frankfurt today. “The lack of good statistical information on
securitization gained increasing relevance over the last decade
and became particularly obvious in the financial crisis.”  Securitization -- the practice of packaging loans and
selling them as assets to investors -- played a key role in the
subprime mortgage slump that precipitated the global financial
crisis. Regulators are now seeking greater transparency in the
shadow banking sector, which refers to non-depository financial
institutions such as  hedge funds  and investment banks, in an
effort to avoid another dangerous accumulation of risk.  Stark said that the aggregated assets of special purpose
vehicles set up in the euro area amounted to 2.3 trillion euros
($3.26 trillion) in the first quarter of 2011.  “This represents about one tenth of the total assets of
all non-bank financial intermediaries,” he said. “And together
with the reporting of investment funds established in 2009,
which also includes hedge funds, the ECB statistics now cover a
large part of the shadow banking system within the euro area.”  Pension Funds  The ECB will also publish detailed quarterly data on the
balance sheets of insurance corporations and pension funds,
which currently account for about a third of all assets of non-
bank financial intermediaries in the 17-nation euro region.  “In view of our ageing societies, those institutions can
be expected to be of further increasing significance for the
economy and the entire financial system,” Stark said.  In addition, the ECB extended two existing statistical
series in a bid to improve balance-sheet and interest-rate
reporting by monetary financial institutions, or banks
representing the money-issuing sector.  That data will make it easier to measure flows of credit in
the real economy and therefore aid the ECB’s monetary analysis,
Stark said.  “The analysis forming the basis for monetary policy
decisions depends crucially on the quality and breadth of
coverage of the available statistics,” he said. “Not least the
frequently cited deficiencies of the Greek statistical system
have reminded us of the importance of reliable, accurate and
timely statistics for the functioning and credibility of our
whole system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  