-- 
Technology Spending to Rise 5.6% Outpacing U.S. Growth: IDC

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-06-27T19:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/technology-spending-to-rise-5-6-outpacing-u-s-growth-idc-says.html
Spending on  information technology 
by companies and governments in the U.S. will grow 5.6 percent
in 2011, according to a survey by International Data Corp.,
about double the estimated increase for gross domestic product.  Of the executives surveyed by the Framingham,
Massachusetts-based research firm, 31 percent said spending on
security initiatives was a top goal this year, while 19 percent
chose business analytics. In addition, 17 percent of companies
expect to invest in smart technologies, designed to make
electricity and other infrastructure operate more efficiently.  With companies saving money by hiring fewer workers and
local and state governments reining in spending, the private
sector is set to outpace expenditure by public entities, IDC
said. Health care, professional services and media are projected
to increase spending the most, according to the study, which
surveyed 5,700 executives.  U.S. gross domestic product is estimated to rise 2.5
percent this year, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Private versus Public  IT spending last year grew at 5.5 percent, according to Ted
Dangson, an IDC director. The difference this year is a bigger
spread between private and public spending.  “In 2010, public and private spending amounts were
commensurate,” Dangson said. “This year, private is just above
6 percent, outpacing the public sector, which is at 3.8
percent.”  State and local governments have lost discretionary funds
as they slash budgets and lose tax revenue, crimping public
spending on IT. Meanwhile, in the private sector, companies may
have more money to spend on IT because they’re hiring less.  “Anecdotally, you’re seeing a lot of these companies not
picking up their hiring. That increased margin is going into
refreshing IT investments,” said Dangson.  Electronic security threats have plagued companies and
government organizations alike this year.  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , and the Central Intelligence Agency have been subject to
hacker attacks.  Spending on IT security is particularly strong in health
care, government, transportation and financial services, said
Monika Kumar, an IDC director.  “There are a growing number of disclosure laws being
introduced that will govern how security breaches and data loss
incidents are handled,” Kumar said. “Heavily regulated
industries, such as financial services, face heavy penalties if
their data is not secured properly.”  Large companies are particularly focused on IT security
because breaches “permanently” hurt their reputations.  On the government side, Kumar cited the website WikiLeaks
as a reason IT spending has increased.  “The government has seen a significant rise in cyber
attacks and loss of sensitive data,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  