-- 
EDF Will Sell 15% of Nuclear Output to Rivals From July

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-28T15:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/edf-will-sell-15-of-nuclear-output-to-rivals-from-july.html
Electricite de  France  SA,  Europe ’s
biggest power producer, will sell about 15 percent of its
nuclear output to rivals after a law aimed at opening up the
French market starts on July 1.  The legislation requires EDF to sell power from its 58
nuclear reactors to rivals including GDF Suez SA at a price set
by the government of 40 euros ($57) a megawatt-hour until the
end of the year. The company will sell 61.3 terrawatt-hours in
the next six months to other power suppliers, France’s energy
regulator said on its website. The price will rise to 42 euros a
megawatt-hour next year.  “This improves our supply but it’s not enough,” said
Patrick Massoni, head of  investor relations  at  Poweo (ALPWO)  SA, which
competes with EDF.  EDF rose 1.9 percent to 26.30 euros. The shares are down 14
percent since the start of the year.  The overhaul follows probes by European Union regulators
into EDF’s dominance in the French power market almost four
years after the Paris-based utility lost its monopoly. The
European Commission is examining the law to ensure it complies
with competition regulations.  “We are expecting some further explanation from the French
government,” Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , said by e-mail. Commission and
French government officials have held talks over price, she
said.  Nuclear Safety  French Industry Minister Eric Besson has said the law will
adhere to EU guidelines. The government maintains that the new
law will keep prices on average 40 percent lower than elsewhere
in Europe and allow EDF to invest in maintenance and nuclear
reactor safety.  “They may take months to study its effects on the French
market,” said Jean-Paul Tran Thiet, a Paris-based competition
lawyer at  White & Case , referring to the Commission.  GDF Suez (GSZ) , EDF’s biggest rival on the French market, has
said that the prices for the wholesale power won’t allow
“efficient” competition.  Purchasers of 61.3 terawatt hours of EDF’s nuclear output
from July may include Direct Energie, GDF Suez SA and Poweo as
well as EON AG, Iberdrola, Total SA and Vattenfall, according to
information published on the  web site  of the French regulator.  These companies are included in a list of 32 published by
the regulator as having signed a framework agreement with EDF
for wholesale power purchases. A list of which companies are
buying the power and how much won’t be published.  ‘Pretty Good’  The sale this year of about two thirds of the maximum 100
terawatt hours of EDF’s nuclear output is “a pretty good
start,” Tran Thiet said.  The volume is more than the 40 terawatt-hours sold by EDF
last year under the so-called Tartam system of special rates for
industry. This system will be eliminated under the new law.  “There will be no market opening from Nome this year, the
government has kept a grip on the market,” said Ingo Becker, an
analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in  Frankfurt , referring to the
law. “The whole idea is to deal with EDF’s rising capex in
coming years.”  EDF’s 58 French nuclear reactors generated 407.9 terawatt
hours last year, compared with total French electricity demand
of 443 terawatt hours, according to the regulator. At the end of
March, so-called alternative suppliers of electricity had
captured a market share of just 5 percent from the more than 30
million households in France and about 16 percent by volume of
business customers.  Safety Measures  The French regulator ruled last month that EDF will charge
rivals more for nuclear power next year than generation costs
justify because of spending on safety measures needed after the
meltdown at Japanese reactors following the March earthquake and
tsunami. EDF is also facing higher maintenance costs as reactors
age and spending to extend their operational lifetimes.  The government-set price takes into account spending on
safety that the regulator “can’t evaluate,” the Commission de
Regulation de l’Energie said.  The government sets the wholesale price and the regulator
publishes a non-binding opinion under the new rules. The
regulator said it “approved” the price of 40 euros a megawatt-
hour set for July 1, even though its calculations indicate a
price of 36 euros to 39 euros a megawatt-hour would be justified
based on production costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  