-- 
Hedge Funds Seek a Slice of Japan’s $740 Billion Pension Funds After Quake

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-06-28T06:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/hedge-funds-eye-japan-pensions-post-quake.html
Global hedge funds are vying for
allocations from  Japan ’s corporate pension fund managers, who
oversee about $740 billion and are seeking alternatives to
stocks following the March earthquake.  Prosperity Capital Management , the largest manager of
Russia-focused funds with about $5 billion in assets, plans to
open an office in Tokyo in August.  Van Biema Value Partners LLC ,
a New York-based fund of hedge funds with about $800 million in
assets, is targeting Japanese pensions by offering funds that
buy securities seen as inexpensive relative to the market.  Japanese pension funds are redoubling their quest to offset
the world’s lowest bond yield and a falling birthrate, which
have curbed contributions, after the March 11 temblor sent the
benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average to its biggest intraday drop
since 1987. Thirty-one percent of 135 retirement funds plan to
increase alternative investments such as hedge funds from this
fiscal year starting April 1, according to a JPMorgan Asset
Management (Japan) Ltd. survey in May.  “After the earthquake, there has been strong emphasis on
gaining exposure to investments outside Japan, both for pure
diversification reasons and to try to achieve higher returns,”
said Michael van Biema, a former Columbia Business School
professor and the founder of van Biema Value Partners. “The big
problem is that most of the large pensions still have about 60
percent of their money in Japanese  government bonds . You just
can’t earn a reasonable rate of return doing that.”  Alternative Assets  Of 215 Japanese pension funds in a Daiwa Institute of
Research Survey, more than 26 percent -- the most since 2005 --
said they planned to make additional investments in alternative
asset classes, which include hedge funds. The expected increase
in allocations comes after Japanese pensions shifted to single
managers from funds of hedge funds that suffered from poor
returns following the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
in September 2008.  Among those seeking Japan’s institutional money, D.E. Shaw
& Co., the $20 billion hedge fund founded by  David Shaw , opened
an office in Tokyo last September to offer alternative
investments to pension funds. Robeco Group, the Dutch  money
manager  owned by Rabobank Groep NV, wants to double assets from
Japanese pensions over two years with alternative investments
including managed futures strategies, Tetsuya Tanaka, senior
executive advisory of the firm’s Japan unit said in a telephone
interview on June 13.  Limiting Losses  Hathersage Capital Management LLC, a New York currency
hedge fund, has teamed up with Tokyo-based KTOs Capital
Management LLC to help Japanese pensions hedge against a
strengthening yen. Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, with
$32.6 billion under management, is offering its managed futures
funds to a Japanese pension.  The Nikkei fell as much as 14 percent immediately after the
quake. It rose 0.7 percent today and trimmed its loss since
March 10 to 7.5 percent.  “Having had the investments in the managed futures fund
helped limit losses from the downturn in the stock markets after
the quake,” said Yukou Takahashi, the adviser of the 13 billion
yen pension fund at Tobu Group, which has invested in managed
futures funds including one run by  Brevan Howard . “We want to
lower the risk of our equity investments and we picked macro
funds because they have low correlation to stocks.”  World’s No. 2  Alternative investments, which can include real estate and
infrastructure, now account for 12 percent of the pension’s
total portfolio from 8 percent two years ago, said Takahashi.
Tobu Group includes Tobu Railway Co. and Tobu Store Co.  The U.S. represents more than 60 percent of all pension
fund assets in hedge funds, while Europe accounts for 29 percent
and Japan only 1.75 percent, according to London-based research
firm Preqin Ltd.  Japan has the world’s second-biggest pension market with
assets of $3.47 trillion after the U.S. with $15.27 trillion,
according to Towers Watson & Co.’s 2011 Global Pension Asset
Study. Of the Japanese total, more than 60 trillion yen ($743
billion) is in corporate pensions, according to Daiwa Institute.  Prosperity Capital is bringing to Japan its Russian
Prosperity Fund that invests solely in Russian equities and
employs a “friendly activist” strategy by trying to maximize
the value of the firms it invests in, said Tomas Olsson, a
partner who will become the Asia-Pacific chief representative
based in  Tokyo  later this year.  ‘Great Opportunity’  The fund has had an annualized return of 26 percent since
inception in 1996, according to the firm. Japanese clients,
including high-net-worth investors and some pensions, account
for 5 percent of Prosperity’s investor base, according to Olsson.
The firm started to approach pension funds in November, he said.  “Not only for us, but for other hedge funds, Japan is
still a great opportunity because most portfolios have such a
low level of diversification outside of developed countries,”
Olsson said.  Japanese managers currently account for about 3.5 percent
of the Asia portfolio of van Biema and the firm plans to
increase that to about 10 percent to 13 percent over the coming
months, said van Biema. The van Biema Asia Value Fund Ltd.,
which invests in Asian hedge funds, has had a net annualized
return of about 20 percent since inception in August 2008,
according to a letter to investors.  Reech AIM  Reech AIM Group, the European alternative asset management
group founded by Christophe Reech, is also looking to attract
Japanese investors by offering its so-called CTA strategy that
uses computer systems to invest solely in exchanged-traded
futures, said Philip Catmur, the London-based partner of the
strategy. The offering, which has $85 million, currently does
not yet have Japanese investors, he said.  The Rochester Fund Ltd. has had annualized return of 13.1
percent since inception in November 2002 through, according to a
letter to investors.  “Japanese pension funds and investors are becoming much
more aware of the risks in their portfolios,” Catmur, who was
formerly the deputy head of international fixed income at Tokyo
Mitsubishi International in  London , said in an interview in
Tokyo today. “Japan is obviously a big market, but it’s also a
sophisticated market -- their understanding of the benefits of
the CTAs and which CTAs will achieve their objectives.”  The company’s executives have made three trips to Japan
this year as a sign of “our commitment to the region,” he said.  The planned increase in allocations to alternative assets
was the biggest among 10 investment options, according to the
JPMorgan Asset survey.  ‘Accelerate Diversifying’  “Some of them will likely accelerate diversifying their
assets after the quake as they recognized the risks of investing
in Japanese equities,” said Hidenori Suzuki, the head of the
strategic advisory group at JPMorgan Asset in Tokyo.  Japanese pensions’ focus on steady returns makes them a
less demanding group of investors for overseas funds, said Akira Takahashi, the head of Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Ltd.’s
asset management group in Tokyo.  “Overseas investors tend to expect double-digit returns
from hedge funds, but Japanese pensions are more focused on
stable returns and some as low as 3 to 5 percent,” he said.
“From the hedge-fund’s point of view, it’s important for them
to diversify their investor base because they are now in an
environment where money isn’t automatically flowing in.”  Japanese hedge funds returned 0.7 percent this year through
May, compared with a 1.6 percent gain by the global hedge-fund
index, according to  Eurekahedge Pte . Assets stood at $16 billion
at the end of May, compared with the peak of $39 billion in
April 2006, according to the Singapore-based data provider.  Global hedge fund assets were $1.82 trillion in May, below
the $1.95 trillion peak in June 2008, according to Eurekahedge.  “We’re seeing Japanese pensions that have never invested
in hedge funds looking to do so and the catastrophe is giving
them more reason to seek assets with better returns,” said
Yasuo Sugeno, a senior analyst at Daiwa Institute in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  