-- 
Egypt Debt Risk Rises as Greece Deadline Nears, Aid Declined

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-27T15:21:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/egypt-debt-risk-rises-as-greece-deadline-nears-aid-declined.html
Egypt ’s credit risk rose and its
dollar bonds fell as a deadline loomed for Greece to avoid the
euro zone’s first sovereign default and after the Arab country
declined  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  aid.  Egyptian credit default swaps gained 12 basis points to 319
at 2:03 p.m. in  London , according to data provider CMA. That is
the highest level since May 31. The country’s 5.75 percent
dollar bonds fell, pushing the yield up six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 5.73 percent, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors in emerging market fixed income are demanding
higher yields because of the fallout from the Greek crisis,”
said Cairo-based Mohamed Kotb, regional asset management
director at Naeem Financial Investments. “We should see
Egyptian yields and CDSs continue to rise in the next few days
as this week is make or break for  Greece .”  Greek lawmakers are due to vote this week on a five-year
austerity plan that is crucial for the country to secure more
international aid. Failure to pass the plan may lead to the euro
area’s first sovereign default as Greece needs to cover 6.6
billion euros ($9.4 billion) of maturing bonds in August.  Egypt’s  Finance Minister  Samir Radwan  said June 25 the
country doesn’t need loans from the IMF and World Bank “at the
moment” after cutting its deficit in a revised budget to 8.6
percent for the fiscal year starting in July. It had targeted an
11 percent deficit in a draft budget released on June 1.  CMA is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent if a government or company fails to
adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  