-- 
Emerging Stocks Fall as Index Heads for Quarterly Drop on Greek Concerns

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-27T21:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/emerging-stocks-fall-as-index-heads-for-quarterly-drop-on-greek-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, heading
for the biggest monthly decline in a year as Greek lawmakers
began to debate austerity measures and U.S. consumer spending
unexpectedly stagnated in May.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.3 percent to
1,112.54 at 4 p.m. in  New York , bringing its retreat this month
to 4.7 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa, Mexico’s IPC index and India’s
Sensex rose, partially offsetting drops of more than 1 percent
in the Czech Republic, Egypt and Thailand. Taiwan’s Taiex Index,
Russia’s Micex and South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  also fell.
Hungary’s forint strengthened 1 percent against the dollar,
while the Taiwanese Dollar depreciated 0.2 percent.  Technology companies led the retreat in stocks, with
Samsung Electronics Co. and  Powerchip Technology Corp. (5346)  falling
at least 2 percent.  Greece ’s parliament began a three-day debate
today on a 78 billion euro ($111 billion) package of budget cuts
and asset sales needed for the release of an international
bailout loan payment. U.S. consumer spending grew at the slowest
pace in 11 months, according to a Commerce Department report.  “There’s a high degree of uncertainty about Europe and
about Greece specifically, on top of weakening growth indicators
globally,”  Nick Chamie , global head of emerging markets at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Toronto, said by phone. “Until those two
things are clear, markets are going to remain generally
tentative.”  MSCI’s emerging-markets index has decreased 3.4 percent
this year, while the MSCI World Index of developed-nation shares
is little changed.  Chipmakers, Exporters  The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 318, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of
credit-default swaps for emerging  Europe , the  Middle East  and
Africa fell two basis points to 211.  The Bovespa rose 0.3 percent as Brazilian economists cut
their 2012 inflation forecasts for the first time since
February, a sign they’re more confident that the central bank
will succeed in cooling the economy. Consumer prices will rise
5.15 percent next year, according to the median forecast in a
June 24 central bank survey of about 100 economists published
today. The figure was down from 5.18 percent in the previous
week.  Homebuilder Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes advanced the most in one month, leading gains by
companies that depend on credit growth.  Petrobras  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company known as Petrobras, rose 0.9 percent as it seeks to
borrow about $47 billion by 2014 to develop the largest crude
discovery in three decades in the Americas, Chief Financial
Officer Almir Barbassa said today in Sao Paulo.  Semiconductor companies followed chip prices lower.
Taiwan’s  Inotera Memories Inc. (3474)  lost 3.7 percent,  Nanya
Technology Corp. (2408)  fell 4.7 percent and Powerchip Technology
dropped 5 percent. South Korea’s  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  sank
4.3 percent, halting five days of gains.  U.S. consumer spending was little changed in May, the
weakest outcome since June 2010, according to Commerce
Department figures today. Separate reports this week are
forecast to show manufacturing cooled and housing purchases
picked up even as property values continued to drop.  India,  China   Samsung Electronics retreated 2 percent. Apple Inc. filed a
patent lawsuit against South Korea’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics, escalating the legal dispute between the
two companies regarding designs and technologies used in their
best-selling mobile-phone devices.  Komercni Banka AS, the Czech unit of Societe Generale SA,
and Erste Group Bank AG, Austria’s biggest lender, helped drag
the Czech PX Index down 1.1 percent to a six-month low.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index climbed 0.9
percent, its best three-day rally since May 2010, as falling
commodity prices eased inflation concerns.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.4 percent to the
highest level in a month after a cash shortage in China’s
financial system eased and the nation’s biggest brokerages said
equities are poised to rally. Shares also got a boost after
Premier Wen Jiabao said in comments broadcast today by Hong
Kong-based Cable TV that China could keep full-year inflation
within 5 percent as tightening measures take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  