-- 
Henry Paulson Joins University of Chicago

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-06-27T19:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/henry-paulson-starts-paulson-institute-at-university-of-chicago.html
Henry M. Paulson Jr ., former U.S.
Treasury secretary, will join the University of Chicago as a
senior fellow and start an independent institute located at the
university.  Paulson, 65, also a former chief executive officer of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , will join the university’s Harris
School of Public Policy Studies for a five-year appointment
starting July 1, the university said today in a  statement  on its
website.  He will also form the Paulson Institute to promote
international engagement, with a special emphasis on
relationships between the U.S. and China, Paulson said in a
 statement  released on PR Newswire.  “Every global concern -- economic, environmental or
security-related -- can be addressed more effectively when the
U.S. and  China  work together,” Paulson said in the statement.
“I look forward to devoting my time and energy to building the
knowledge and relationships that can contribute to those
solutions.”  Paulson attended  Dartmouth College  in Hanover, New
Hampshire, and Harvard Business School in Boston. He served as
Treasury secretary from 2006 to 2009 and chairman and CEO of New
York-based Goldman Sachs from 1999 to 2006.  Paulson joins former Chicago Mayor Richard M. Daley as a
fellow at the Harris School of Public Policy starting next
month. Daley’s appointment was announced last month.  The University of Chicago was founded by John D.
Rockefeller and opened in 1892. Its current and former faculty
and alumni have won a total of 85 Nobel Prizes, including the
Nobel Prize for Peace awarded in 2009 to President Barack Obama,
who taught at the  University of Chicago  Law School for 12 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  