-- 
Euro Strength Sustained in Widest Libor Gap Since 2009 as Greek Vote Looms

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-06-27T12:57:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/euro-strength-sustained-in-widest-libor-gap-since-2009-as-greek-vote-looms.html
Euro bears driving the region’s
shared currency to its first two-month loss in a year are facing
rising interest rates, bullish bets in  futures markets  and
Angela Merkel’s determination to keep the 17-nation bloc intact.  The euro slid 4.2 percent since April as mounting concern
that Greece would default drove Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
to change finance ministers amid a push for 78 billion euros
($110 billion) in austerity measures to tap more financial aid.
The yield on 10-year Italian bonds rose to a record relative to
German bunds last week and Spanish yields approached an all-time
high on speculation the crisis will spread.  The bears are confronting the resolve of German Chancellor
Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy to defend the
currency and the widest gap between euro and dollar money-market
rates in about 2 1/2 years as German economic growth outpaces
the U.S. BNP Paribas SA sees the euro at $1.55 by year-end, with
Commerzbank AG saying it may advance to $1.50 before weakening.  “The political desire to keep monetary union alive
continues to be overwhelming,” said Audrey Childe-Freeman, the
head of European currency strategy in  London  at the private-bank
unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co., the second-biggest U.S. lender by
assets. “If we get the debt crisis more under control and we
see more momentum in the global economy, the environment will
become more supportive for the euro.”  Rate Signal  The difference between the three-month euro interbank
offered rate, that European banks say they see each other
charging over the period, and the corresponding London rate for
dollar loans, has increased to 128 basis points, the most since
January 2009. The gap widened this year as the  European Central
Bank  began raising interest rates, while the  Federal Reserve 
kept borrowing costs at a record low.  Hedge funds and other large speculators are betting on a
gain in the euro versus the dollar, figures from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission in  Washington  show. So-called net
longs, or bets on a rise, were 29,771 on June 21, compared with
a net-short bet as recently as January, according to the data.
Net longs reached 99,516 in May.  European Union leaders vowed last week to prevent a Greek
default as long as Papandreou wins the backing of parliament
this week for the proposed budget cuts. Merkel said in Brussels
on June 24 that there was agreement within  Europe  for a new aid
program for the nation.  ‘Important Decision’  “This is an important decision that says once again we
will  do everything  to stabilize the euro overall,” she said,
after backtracking a week earlier on German demands that
bondholders be forced to shoulder a “substantial” share of a
new Greek bailout.  China  will keep investing in Europe’s sovereign bond
market, Premier Wen Jiabao told the British Broadcasting Corp.
in an interview yesterday, saying the purchases “show our
confidence in the economies of Europe and the euro zone.”  The euro strengthened 5.7 percent against the dollar this
year, behind only the 12 percent gain by the Swiss franc. Most
of the common currency’s gain occurred in the first quarter as
ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  indicated in March that higher
 interest rates  were on the way and EU leaders established a
permanent rescue mechanism for the region. The euro is little
changed versus the greenback since March 31.  Trichet Concern  The shared European currency fell 0.8 percent last week to
$1.4188, and weakened 0.3 percent versus the yen to 114.13. The
euro has advanced 2.2 percent this year against a basket of nine
other developed-nation currencies as measured by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro was little changed at
$1.4199 at 8:54 a.m. in New York.  European leaders are struggling to contain the debt crisis
that began in Greece when Papandreou’s Pasok party, elected in
October 2009, discovered the  budget deficit  was more than twice
as big as the previous government had disclosed. A 750 billion-
euro backstop crafted by the EU and  International Monetary Fund 
more than a year ago failed to stem concern that more euro-area
governments would struggle to finance record budget deficits.  Trichet said on June 22 in  Frankfurt  that risk signals for
financial stability in the euro area were flashing “red” as
the crisis threatens to infect banks, posing “the most serious
threat to financial stability in the European Union.”  Italian, Spanish Bonds  Investors are demanding higher yields to hold the bonds of
Italy and  Spain , while the Greek 10-year yield gap over bunds,
Europe’s benchmark sovereign securities, climbed to a record
15.43 percentage points on June 17.  The Italian-German spread climbed to 2.16 percentage points
on June 24, the most since the euro’s introduction in 1999, and
the Spanish 10-year yield difference widened to within 13 basis
points of a record. Bond yields of Portugal and Ireland, which
also sought bailouts, rose to all-time highs versus German debt
last week.  Standard & Poor’s cut  Greece ’s credit ranking on June 13 by
three levels to CCC, the lowest debt grade for any government.
The ratings company said the nation is “increasingly likely”
to face a debt restructuring.  “The worst for Greece is definitely not behind us,” said
Stephen Jen, a managing partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP in
London. “The Europeans and International Monetary Fund have
done things to buy time, but they’ve bought time without a plan.
I see a new low in the euro later this year.”  Fed Forecast  The median of 50 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
shows the euro will end the year at $1.41, little changed from
last week’s close. Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s biggest
currency trader, says the euro has set its 2011 high and low and
will trade between $1.30 and $1.50 through Dec 31.  “There have been distinct forces capping the euro on the
upside this year, and distinct ones capping it on the
downside,” Caio Natividade, the London-based head of foreign-
exchange derivative strategy for Deutsche Bank, said in a
telephone interview.  The slowing U.S. recovery has also provided support for the
euro. The Fed lowered its full-year growth forecast last week,
saying the economy will expand 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent versus
a range of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent estimated in April. The
Bundesbank said on June 10 that German gross domestic product
will rise 3.1 percent in 2011, up from a 2.5 percent increase
predicted in February.  ‘Euro Resilient’  Trichet said on June 9 that the ECB may boost rates next
month even as he damped investor expectations for the pace of
future increases amid slowing forecasts for inflation. European
policy makers raised the main refinancing rate a quarter
percentage point to 1.25 percent in April, the first increase in
almost three years.  The ECB’s benchmark will be 2 percent by the first quarter
of next year, according to the median of 27 economist forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. The Fed, whose target for overnight loans
between banks has been a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008, won’t raise the rate to 0.5 percent until the
first quarter, a separate median survey showed.  “The reason the euro is resilient is that the ECB doesn’t
seem to be affected by all the events in Greece,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy in Frankfurt at
Commerzbank,  Germany ’s second-largest lender. “This is a strong
signal as it shows ECB policy is independent of what’s happening
in the crisis-hit countries.”  Leuchtmann said the euro will probably climb to $1.50,
before weakening to $1.45 by year-end.  Greece Vote  The first session of a three-day debate in Greece on new
budget cuts is scheduled to begin today. A vote is expected on
June 29. An implementation law, which provides the technical
details of how the five-year plan will be applied, is also due
to be discussed and approved by the deadline of June 30.  Merkel said at the June 17 press conference in Berlin that
she “would like to have a participation of private creditors on
a voluntary basis” for more Greek aid, what Sarkozy said was a
“breakthrough.” The two signaled a reconciliation between
German calls for investors to help rescue Greece with warnings
from the ECB and  France  that compulsory participation risked
triggering the euro area’s first sovereign default.  “This whole Greek fiscal drama is going to be resolved in
a manner that is going to be positive for the euro,” said  Mary Nicola , a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas in  New
York . “The fact that Germany has made a concession, and a debt
swap deal has been ruled out, is a huge positive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  