-- 
European CEOs Seek 5.1% Productivity Growth, Hay Says

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-07T16:29:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/european-ceos-seek-5-1-growth-from-productivity-hays-says.html
(Corrects company name in headline, throughout story first
published on June 28.)  European chief executive officers are
looking to achieve 5.1 percent growth this year driven by
increases in productivity, according to a report published by
 Hay Group , a closely held management consultancy.  The growth target compares with the 1.8 percent improvement
in output forecast for western  Europe  by the  International
Monetary Fund , Philadelphia-based Hay said in the e-mailed
report.  “Chief executives have set challenging targets, and are
demanding more from their workforces to deliver them,” Bibi
Hahn, global head of strategic performance management at Hay,
said in the report. “This level of productivity improvement is
a big ask from employees.”  In central and eastern Europe, the same productivity target
compares with the IMF’s forecast for growth of 4.4 percent.
Asia-Pacific is the only region where economic growth is
expected to outstrip improvements in productivity, said the
report.  “Stuck in crisis mentality, business leaders have become
too reliant on the cost lever to stay afloat,” Hahn said.
“It’s time for them to refocus on growth by pulling the
performance lever.”  In  Spain , company chiefs are looking for 6.1 percent growth
compared with the IMF forecast for expansion this year of 0.8
percent in the economy.  North American chief executive officers are planning on 4.9
percent growth compared with expansion of 2.8 percent in the
economy, Hay said. Asian-Pacific economies are to grow 8.2
percent compared with company forecasts of 6.7 percent.  Hay’s findings were based on researching the views of more
than 1,660 senior executives in more than 30 countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  