-- 
Euro Maintains Gain on Greek Debt Optimism

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-06-28T01:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/euro-rises-on-optimism-greek-debt-to-be-rolled-over-budget-cuts-will-pass.html
The euro maintained yesterday’s gain
against the dollar on optimism  Greece ’s creditors will agree to
roll over the nation’s debt to forestall the currency union’s
first default.  The 17-nation euro advanced against 11 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts after  Germany  welcomed proposals from French
lenders on voluntary participation in the debt plan. Greek
lawmakers tomorrow will vote on budget cuts and asset sales
needed to secure a loan payment and future financing. The dollar
dropped against most of its major peers before data forecast to
show  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped in April.  “The initial reaction is fairly positive” for the euro,
said Grant Turley, a senior currency strategist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney. “French banks are
arguably the largest private sector holders of Greece debt.”  The euro was at $1.4297 at 10:15 a.m. in  Tokyo  from $1.4287
in New York yesterday after earlier rising as much as 0.3
percent. The common currency traded at 115.47 yen from 115.58
yen, following yesterday’s 1.3 percent gain. It touched 89.58
British pence, the strongest since June 8, before trading at
89.46 from 89.35 yesterday.  The dollar fetched 80.76 yen from 80.89. It reached 80.98
yen yesterday, the highest level since June 16.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  called on lawmakers
to obey their “patriotic conscience” and back tougher
austerity measures, as they began to debate a five-year budget
plan yesterday. Failure to pass Papandreou’s proposed 78 billion
euros ($111 billion) of cuts and asset sales may lead to the
euro area’s first sovereign default.  French Proposal  France  proposed a target of rolling over 70 percent of
Greece’s debt after talks last week with banks. Half the Greek
debt held by banks and insurers maturing in the next three years
would be swapped for new 30-year bonds. The redemptions from
another 20 percent would be invested in a special purpose
vehicle that would serve as collateral for the banks, two people
familiar with the plan said.  German Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kreienbaum said in
Berlin his government welcomes proposals from the private sector.
German and French lenders are the biggest European holders of
Greek debt.  Euro region finance ministers are set to meet on July 3 in
Brussels to advance a plan that is supposed to be approved at a
follow up meeting on July 11. A deal on the rollovers is needed
to get the new aid package passed, a condition for freeing up a
12 billion-euro payment from the original bailout that Greece
needs to meet 6.6 billion of bond maturities in August.  ‘Band-Aid Measures’  “I think it’s all just band-aid measures at the moment,”
said  Matthew Brady , executive director for foreign exchange at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “I’m still firmly in the camp
that euro will go lower.  Europe ’s not out of its problems at the
moment.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S.
cities fell 3.95 percent in April from a year ago, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the data today.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, was slipped 0.1
percent to 75.238 after falling 0.5 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 