-- 
European Profits Set to Trail U.S. on Lower Cost Reductions

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-27T11:21:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/european-profits-poised-to-trail-u-s-.html
Narrowing margins and slowing sales
at  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and Royal Philips Electronics NV suggest
more European companies may miss analysts’ earnings estimates,
underperforming U.S. peers that cut expenses in the recession.  Stockholm’s H&M, the world’s second-largest clothing
retailer, and Amsterdam-based Philips were among at least five
European companies that last week disclosed less-than-
anticipated sales or profitability. The announcements contrast
with statements from U.S. companies  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  Bed Bath &
Beyond Inc. (BBBY) , which both boosted profit forecasts last week.  “Since the post-recession expansion, U.S. companies have
just trounced Wall Street estimates, and that hasn’t let up
yet,” said Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist for Wells
Capital Management in Minneapolis, which oversees $340 billion.
“Europe’s performance has been far worse than the U.S. in that
regard, and I expect that will continue.”  U.S. companies had more flexibility than European peers to
cut costs in the recession and they are benefiting now even
though both regions have returned to peak pre-recession
operating margins, said Todd Bassion, who helps manage more than
$1 billion in assets at Delaware Investments in Boston.  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the world’s biggest paint maker, said today
it will report an unexpected drop in second-quarter profit
because of higher raw-material costs. Shares in the Dutch maker
of the Glidden and Dulux brands fell the most since 2008.  Labor, Cotton Prices  H&M said last week that profitability shrank in the second
quarter as labor expenses rose in Asia and cotton prices
increased. Philips, the biggest maker of  light bulbs , said it
would need to deepen cost cuts to combat deteriorating demand
for lights and consumer electronics. Broadcaster  Mediaset SpA (MS)  of
Milan, Stockholm-based clothier  RNB Retail and Brands AB (RNBS) , and
 Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  of  Hemel Hempstead , England, were among the
other European companies trailing estimates last week.  Analysts’ estimates for Stoxx  Europe  600 Index companies
are projected to have gained 58 percent in the quarter, while
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index earnings likely rose 14 percent, the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That sets up U.S.
companies to have “bigger and more beats” of estimates than
will happen in Europe, said Burt White, chief investment officer
of Boston-based LPL Financial Corp., which manages $330 billion.  Last week’s results show bifurcation between the regions,
 Kenneth Fisher , the billionaire chairman and chief executive
officer of Fisher Investments Inc. in Woodside, California, said
in an interview.  ‘Getting More Dour’  “America is doing better than we think it is,” said
Fisher, who is “overweight” U.S. equities and “underweight”
European stocks. “Europe has obvious real problems and was too
full of itself, now it’s getting more dour.”  Philips last week said it will likely report next month
that second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization at its lighting unit fell by more than half to 85
million euros ($120 million), from 210 million euros a year
earlier. That compares with a 165 million-euro estimate of
analysts at SNS Securities. A construction slump and weak
 consumer spending  hurt sales of lighting and audio, video and
multimedia products, the company said.  H&M said net income in the three months ended May 31
declined to 4.26 billion kronor ($660 million) from 5.21 billion
kronor a year earlier and gross margin narrowed to 61.7 percent
of sales from 65.9 percent.  Profit Margins  European countries such as the Netherlands and Germany
haven’t laid off workers as aggressively as in the U.S., said
 Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester , Pennsylvania. The result is Europe has yet to go
through the kind of painful restructuring that acts as medicine
to cut costs, Zandi said.  Germany’s unemployment rate fell to at least a 20-year low
in May, 7 percent, while the rate in the Netherlands rose to 5.1
percent from 5 percent in April. Those numbers compare with a
9.1 percent rate in the U.S., which had lost as many as 8.75
million jobs as a result of the recession that began in December
2007 and ended in June 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  “There’s nothing good about losing 9 million jobs, but
American companies are now fundamentally” in a better place
than European companies, Zandi said. “Margins are wide, balance
sheets are strong, leverage is low, and cost of capital is as
low as it’s ever been.”  In 2009, when most companies were scaling back following
the worst recession in more than 70 years, profit margin at  S&P
500  companies rose 7.9 percent, while it slumped 43 percent for
the Stoxx Europe index, according to Bloomberg data.  European Opportunities  “U.S. companies often have a more flexible cost structure,
so this could be part of the reason for the divergence,”
Bassion of Delaware Investments said.  U.S. earnings will also be helped this quarter by a
weakening dollar and sustained low  interest rates , which will
contribute to higher sales, White said, adding that forecasts
will come down for the second half of the year.  Revenue of S&P 500 companies will climb 10 percent this
year, twice the rate of 2010, according to data from analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. That will help to increase 2011 profit
even as companies run out of opportunities to reduce costs by
firing workers or closing factories.  The S&P 500 has dropped 4.3 percent so far this quarter
since March, dragged down partly by  MEMC Electronic Materials
Inc. (WFR)  and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  The best performing stocks in
the index this quarter include  National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM) ,
 Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)   Renewables Drop  The Stoxx Europe 600 also has fallen 4.3 percent this
quarter, hurt by declines in Renewable Energy Corp., Vestas Wind
Systems A/S and Bank of Ireland Plc. The best performers include
Elan Corp.,  Rhodia SA (RHA)  and  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA.  Reports of lowered profit from H&M, Philips and Dixon may
be indicative of industry sector underperformance rather than
geographical, said Luca Solca, global head of European research
at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux in Paris. The results may not imply
broad weakness in Europe, he said.  Part of the reason Germany and the Netherlands have lower
unemployment is because there’s also higher growth, said  Russ Koesterich , global chief investment strategist for the IShares
unit of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which oversees $3.65 trillion as the
world’s largest asset manager.  Using year-over-year data, Germany gross domestic product
rose 4.9 percent in the first quarter, compared with 2.8 percent
in the Netherlands and 2.3 percent in the U.S.  “There are opportunities in Europe, even in the eye of the
hurricane,” Koesterich said in a Bloomberg Radio interview.  The difference between the U.S. and Europe is policy,
Paulsen said.  “The U.S. has never turned off the monetary pump while
European officials have been quick to do so,” Paulsen said.
“At the same time, the U.S. talks about austerity but hasn’t
actually practiced it, while Europe has been doing it all along.
That’s led to bigger profits in the U.S. and a more sustained
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  