-- 
Levin to Oppose Colombia Trade Deal on Labor Plan Exclusion

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-27T20:08:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/levin-to-oppose-colombia-trade-deal-on-labor-plan-exclusion-1-.html
Representative Sander Levin, the top
Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, said he would
oppose a trade agreement with  Colombia  because provisions on
labor rights won’t be included in the legislation.  Levin said that the administration of President  Barack Obama  acquiesced to demands from Republicans not to mention a
negotiated action plan on workers’ rights in legislation that is
required to adopt the Colombia agreement.  “Republicans have rejected reference to the Action Plan in
the implementing bill,” Levin, of  Michigan , said today at a
news conference in Washington. “As such, it is not
satisfactory, and I will actively oppose it.”  Levin’s endorsement of prior trade agreements, including a
pact with  Peru , have helped garner bipartisan majorities in
Congress to pass the accords. In 2005 he was among leaders of
the opposition to the Central American Free Trade Agreement,
which passed by a two-vote  margin  and 15 Democratic votes.  Obama administration officials told Levin that references
to the labor agreement won’t be part of the legislation to enact
the deal, he said today. The measure hasn’t been submitted to
Congress or made public.  Free-trade agreements between the U.S. and Colombia,  Panama 
and  South Korea  are stalled in Congress as Republicans resist
demands from Obama and Democrats that lawmakers also renew an
aid program for workers who lose their jobs because of overseas
competition. Those talks are deadlocked.  South Korea, Panama  Levin, who visited Colombia twice this year, said he
supports pending deals with South Korea and Panama, and praised
the administration of Colombia President  Juan Manuel Santos  for
the efforts taken to curb violence against workers and ensure
that the nation’s laborers have basic protections.  “Santos has begun to take important steps to improve labor
conditions and address violence and impunity, toward fulfilling
obligations outlined in the Action Plan,” Levin said.  On April 6, the administrations of Santos and Obama said
they agreed on the steps Colombia must take before the free-
trade agreement would go into effect. Colombia has met two
deadlines for carrying out actions under that agreement.  Under terms of the labor deal, Colombia said it would
expand protections for union activists and direct the police to
assign 95 investigators to help prosecute crimes against union
members. Colombia also limited the use of cooperatives, which
let companies skirt union protections.  The trade agreement would boost U.S. goods shipments to
Colombia by $1.1 billion a year when in full effect from $12
billion in 2010, according to the U.S. International Trade
Commission. For Colombia, the deal would lock in unilateral
trade privileges that are subject to renewal by Congress,
providing greater certainty to investors. The privileges lapsed
in February, dealing a blow to Colombian textile makers and
flower growers.  Ruby Chagui, a spokeswoman for the Colombian Embassy in
 Washington , declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  