-- 
Blagojevich May Face More Prison Time Than Republican Governor Before Him

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/ex-illinois-governor-blagojevich-found-guilty-in-second-corruption-trial.html
Former Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich , convicted of trying to trade a U.S. Senate seat for
personal favors or campaign cash, may face more prison time than
the 6 1/2-year term his predecessor got for political corruption.  Blagojevich, a twice-elected Democrat who stood trial in
Chicago for the second time, was found guilty yesterday by a
federal jury on 17 counts, among them three crimes that carry
prison sentences of as long as 20 years. A different jury in the
same courthouse convicted the previous governor, Republican
George Ryan, in 2006 on charges he traded political favors for
gifts, trips and cash.  “It’s absolutely a possibility that Blagojevich would get
a stiffer sentence,” said Jeffrey H. Cramer, a former federal
prosecutor who is now managing director of Kroll Inc.’s Chicago
office. “This crime is more egregious. This is like the Ryan
case on steroids.”  Blagojevich was convicted of all 11 charges relating to his
efforts to barter President  Barack Obama ’s Senate seat for a
Cabinet-level presidential appointment, leadership of a
political advocacy group or donations to his Friends of
Blagojevich campaign fund.  Jurors convicted the former governor of 10 wire fraud
counts, two attempted extortion counts and two extortion
conspiracy counts, each punishable by as many as 20 years in
prison. He was also convicted of one of two solicitation of
bribery counts, which carries a maximum sentence of 10 years,
and two bribery conspiracy counts, which carry top sentences of
five years. A sentencing date hasn’t been set.  Bribery Solicitation  The panel of 11 women and one man acquitted the former
governor on the other bribery solicitation count and were unable
to agree on a verdict for two other attempted extortion counts.  U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald, whose office prosecuted
the case, declined at a press conference yesterday to say how
long a prison sentence he would seek in the Blagojevich case.
Fitzgerald said the Ryan case showed that corruption isn’t
tolerable.  “Governor Blagojevich did not get that message,” the
prosecutor said. “Corruption is a serious problem that needs to
be addressed. I hope that that message is heard this time.”  Cramer, in a phone interview yesterday, predicted
Blagojevich will get a sentence of seven to 10 years in prison,
citing the “extreme nature” of the crimes proven against him.  “Blagojevich was literally selling the state of  Illinois 
one decision at a time,” said Cramer, who used to work under
Fitzgerald.  Confined by Judge  U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel confined Blagojevich,
54, to the Northern District of Illinois.  “I frankly am stunned. There’s not much left to say other
than we want to get home to our little girls and talk to them
and explain things to them and then try to sort things out,”
Blagojevich, with his wife Patti at his side, said in a brief
statement to the press after the verdict. He took no questions.  “We were thorough and detailed in examining all of the
evidence for all 20 counts,” the jury’s forewoman told
reporters in a press conference yesterday. Zagel ordered the
panel members’ identities be kept anonymous until later today.  “We feel confident we reached a fair and just verdict,”
the juror said. Opening statements in the trial were delivered
May 2. The jury began deliberating on June 10.  The White House had no comment on the verdict, said Obama
administration spokesman  Josh Earnest .  Deadlocked Last Year  Jurors in Blagojevich’s first trial last year deadlocked on
23 of 24 counts, convicting Blagojevich on a single charge of
lying to federal agents about whether he kept track of campaign
contributions, a crime punishable by as many as five years’
imprisonment.  Prosecutors decided to retry him on 20 of the 23 remaining
counts, dropping two racketeering-related charges and one wire
fraud charge.  During her closing argument, Assistant U.S. Attorney Carrie Hamilton displayed for the jury transcribed excerpts of
Blagojevich conversations that the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  had recorded, which were played during the trial.  In a Nov. 10, 2008, conference call discussion with his
wife, Patti, gubernatorial attorney Bill Quinlan and two other
people, the former governor expressed frustration with the
limitations of his post and the lack of any reward for
nominating Obama friend and adviser  Valerie Jarrett  to fill the
vacant Senate seat.  “Give this m----- f----- his senator? F--- him. For
nothing? F--- him,” Blagojevich said.  Closing Remarks  “Nothing,” was all the prosecution proved, defense
attorney  Aaron Goldstein  told jurors during his own closing
remarks, emphasizing the U.S. hadn’t shown his client had
received any money or benefit in any of the alleged schemes.  “What you’re hearing is a thought process, that is all,”
he said of the Senate seat allegations. “He didn’t decide
anything.”  Blagojevich, who presented no defense case in the first
trial, testified for parts of seven days in the retrial, during
which time he portrayed himself to jurors as a determined, if
often defeated, dreamer who had shined shoes, delivered pizzas
and worked on the Alaska Pipeline project.  He denied specific allegations made by the U.S. and clashed
with Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reid Schar , who asked him if was
true that he often lied when making public statements.  “I try to be as truthful as possible,” the ex-governor
said.  The jury was unable to reach a unanimous decision on the
charge that Blagojevich discussed withholding a $2 million grant
from the  Chicago  Academy as leverage to compel Ari Emanuel, a
Hollywood agent, to hold a campaign fundraiser. The school is
located in what was then the congressional district of Emanuel’s
brother,  Rahm Emanuel , who is now mayor of Chicago. The grant
was paid and the fundraiser wasn’t held, the U.S. says.  Construction Program  Jurors also failed to reach consensus on the charge that he
tried to convince road-paving trade association executive Gerald
Krozel that he wouldn’t sign off on a $5 billion construction
program unless Krozel raised money for him. The jury acquitted
Blagojevich of soliciting a bribe related to the Krozel
allegations.  Jurors found Blagojevich was guilty of attempting to
extract campaign contributions from a hospital executive and
from a race track owner by creating the impression that his
willingness to sign legislation favorable to each industry may
hinge on their donations.  “Lady Justice is blind but she has very sophisticated
listening devices,” said  Robert Grant , the special agent in
charge of the FBI’s Chicago office.  Grant said there was no better evidence for the jury than
Blagojevich’s own voice on wiretap recordings obtained by the
FBI and used against him at trial.  ‘Did It Again’  “We know he’s human and has a family. It was very
difficult,” one juror said of the deliberations. “I’d come in
thinking okay, he’s not guilty and then all of a sudden be like,
‘gosh darn you Rod, you did it again. I mean, he proved beyond a
reasonable doubt that he was guilty.”  Blagojevich, a former U.S. Representative from Chicago, was
elected governor of the fifth-most populous U.S. state in 2002
and again in 2006.  He was impeached and removed from office by the state’s
legislature in January 2009, one month after FBI agents arrested
him at his home on charges he tried to barter Obama’s Senate
seat.  “Once again, the former governor’s pattern of dishonesty
has been confirmed,” Illinois Senate President John Cullerton
said yesterday in an e-mail statement.  “I thank the jury for its public service,” Cullerton
said. “Just as it was sad but necessary for the Senate to
remove him from office, today is another sad event for Illinois.
I would hope that this verdict would further allow us as a state
to move on and ahead.”  The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  