-- 
Extell Sends Loan on Manhattan’s Belnord to Special Servicer, Fitch Says

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-06-27T22:28:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/extell-sends-loan-on-manhattan-s-belnord-to-special-servicer-fitch-says.html
Extell Development Co . transferred a
$375 million loan on a luxury Manhattan apartment building to a
mortgage servicer specializing in restructuring troubled debt,
 Fitch Ratings  said today in an e-mail.  The loan sent to special servicer LNR Partners Inc. is
backed by the Belnord, a 215-unit prewar rental property on the
borough’s Upper West Side that Extell refinanced in 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Underwriters assumed that the building’s rent-controlled
units would “eventually roll to market rents” by April 2012,
Bloomberg data show. Those plans were thwarted by an October
2009 ruling by the New York State Supreme Court that barred
landlords who receive certain city tax abatements from
increasing lease rates on stabilized apartments.  By then Extell, based in New York, had “completely
renovated and upgraded a large number of units that are
currently leasing for $15,000 to $20,000 per month,” according
to loan servicer commentary last month compiled by Bloomberg.
The ruling could force the owner to “roll back the rents on
those units to the stabilized levels,” according to the
commentary.  Extell President Gary Barnett and Tamar Rothenberg, vice
president of marketing, didn’t immediately return phone calls
seeking comment.  The loan’s underwriters assumed the building could achieve
net operating income of $29.9 million, Bloomberg data show. Net
operating income for 2010 was $12.6 million.  A three-bedroom, four-bathroom apartment at the Belnord is
currently being offered for rent at $17,500 a month, according
to the building’s website. A four-bedroom unit is listed for
$18,000 a month.  The building includes ground-floor retail tenants such as
as Gap, Club Monaco, CVS, and P.C. Richard & Son.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  