-- 
Meyer Burger Closes in on Takeover of Roth & Rau With 82% Stake

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-06-28T07:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/meyer-burger-closes-in-on-roth-rau-takeover-with-75-stake.html
Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN) , a Swiss
solar equipment maker, has acquired nearly 82 percent of rival
 Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  since making its 357 million-euro ($509 million)
bid on April 11, the company said today.  Meyer Burger, the biggest producer of solar panel
manufacturing equipment, acquired 81.89 percent in Hohenstein,
Germany-based Roth & Rau and is nearing a formal takeover, it
said in an e-mailed statement.  “We will initiate a consolidation and integration process
as soon as the approval by the Chinese antitrust authorities is
received,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Pauli said in the
statement.  Meyer Burger expects Chinese regulators to authorize the
takeover in July or August, spokesman Werner Buchholz said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions. Meyer Burger may
later decide to continue buying Roth & Rau shares but at a
"markedly" lower price than the 22 euros paid in the official
takeover offer that expired June 22, Buchholz said. German
antitrust authorities have already approved the deal.  Western solar companies are seeking economies of scale to
cope with falling panel prices and competition from Asian
rivals.  Chinese producers such as Suntech Power Holdings Co. and
LDK Solar Co. have ramped up production capacities, a boom that
helped Meyer Burger more than triple its profit to 98 million
Swiss francs ($117 million) last year.  Meyer Burger, which has 60 percent of the market for solar
panel manufacturing lines, aims to increase its presence in the
Chinese market with the purchase, Pauli said in an interview in
April.  “The outcome so far will allow Meyer Burger to pursue its
strategy of expansion along the value chain,” Michael Foeth, an
analyst at  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN) , wrote in a note to clients
yesterday.  With assistance from Corinne Gretler in Zurich and Gelu Sulugiuc
in Copenhagen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 