-- 
JPMorgan, Facebook, Deutsche Telekom, Galleon, Taylor Bean in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-27T11:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/facebook-sabre-deutsche-telekom-galleon-taylor-bean-in-court-news.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  should pay a
minimum of $19 billion in damages for its role in  Bernard
Madoff ’s fraud,  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating the con
man’s firm, said in a revised lawsuit.  The sum represents Picard’s latest estimate of principal
lost by all Madoff investors by the time the Ponzi scheme
collapsed in December 2008, according to the complaint filed
June 24 in federal court in Manhattan. JPMorgan, Madoff’s
primary banker, could have stopped the fraud if it had passed on
its suspicions to regulators, he said in his suit.  Picard previously sought $5.4 billion in damages, plus $1
billion in transfers and fees from the second-biggest U.S. bank.  JPMorgan “was an active enabler of the Madoff Ponzi
scheme,” Picard’s lawyer,  David Sheehan , said in a statement.
JPMorgan “not only should have known that a fraud was being
perpetrated, they did know,” he said.  Picard, who has filed 1,000 suits claiming $90 billion for
Madoff investors, first sued JPMorgan in bankruptcy court in
December. He alleges the bank ignored signs of fraud as billions
of dollars flowed from Madoff’s account at the bank to
investors, and didn’t pass on its knowledge that the broker-
dealer was underreporting cash and bank loans, and neglecting to
disclose assets and liabilities.  In a 2005 report, the Madoff firm should have reported $100
million in securities and only reported $72.2 million. JPMorgan
would have known because the $100 million was collateral for a
loan it made to the firm, according to the complaint. JPMorgan
also “knew” that money flowing through the Madoff account
“could not have been linked to a legitimate business purpose,
and this fact should have been flagged by both JPMC personnel
and its automated monitoring system,” Picard wrote.  “Contrary to the trustee’s allegations, JPMorgan did not
know about, or in any way become a party to the fraud
orchestrated by Bernard Madoff,”  Tasha Pelio , a spokeswoman for
the bank, said in an e-mailed comment.  Picard’s latest complaint is “meritless and is based on
distortions of both the relevant facts and the governing law,”
she said. “At all times, JPMorgan complied fully with all laws
and regulations governing bank accounts.”  JPMorgan had asked U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in
 New York  to dismiss Picard’s suit, amended in April to add names
of JPMorgan bankers who discussed the possibility Madoff was
running a Ponzi scheme. JPMorgan said Picard was misusing the
law to sue for damages, and “never alleges facts showing that
anyone at JPMorgan knew that Madoff was a crook.”  McMahon took the case away from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Burton Lifland  in May, after JPMorgan argued that Picard was
hired to liquidate the Madoff firm and has no legal right to
mount a class action and claim damages for the Ponzi scheme’s
investors. She said she will decide if the trustee is entitled
to sue the bank for damages.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison.  The case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Facebook Claims Zuckerberg E-Mails Disprove Ceglia’s Claim  Facebook Inc. said it is willing to produce more than 175
e-mails between co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and  Paul Ceglia , the
New York man who claims half of Zuckerberg’s Facebook holdings,
only after Ceglia turns over the original contract and e-mails
on which he bases his lawsuit.  Facebook and Zuckerberg reiterated June 24 their request
that a federal judge in Buffalo, New York, order Ceglia to
produce the documents immediately for forensic examination,
along with all of Ceglia’s computers. They claim the action is
necessary to unmask what they say is a fraud on the court.
Facebook contends Ceglia’s e-mails are fabricated and the
contract is a forgery.  Both sides agree that Ceglia, 37, hired Zuckerberg, then a
freshman at Harvard University, to work on Ceglia’s
StreetFax.com project in April 2003. Facebook said it has the
genuine e-mails between Zuckerberg and Ceglia, which make no
mention of Facebook and show Ceglia making a series of excuses
for not paying Zuckerberg money he owed him.  “Defendants have no objection to producing all the e-mails
between Zuckerberg and Ceglia (and/or other persons associated
with StreetFax) that were captured from Zuckerberg’s Harvard e-
mail account,” lawyers for Facebook and Zuckerberg said in the
papers June 24. “These indisputably genuine e-mails directly
contradict Ceglia’s make-believe narrative and demonstrate that
Ceglia’s story is a lie.”  Christopher Hall, a partner with DLA Piper LLP who
represents Ceglia, didn’t return a voice-mail seeking comment on
Facebook’s filing June 24.  Ceglia hasn’t shown the original contract publicly or to
representatives of Facebook. The two-page document is in a bank
safe-deposit box in Hornell, New York, according to Ceglia’s
lawyers.  Ceglia’s lawyers asked the court to order both sides to
turn over evidence, including all of Zuckerberg’s documents, e-
mails and instant messages relating to Facebook before July 30,
2004. Ceglia also asked the court to order the parties into
mediation.  Facebook, which runs the world’s biggest social-networking
site, said it opposes Ceglia’s demand for “a massive production
of documents” unrelated to the question of whether the contract
is genuine.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  Rio Says Claim It Funded PNG Military ‘Completely Unfounded’  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company,
said allegations it helped fund the Papua New Guinean military’s
suppression of rebels in Bougainville are “completely
unfounded.”  The allegations, aired on Australian television June 25,
were in an affidavit Prime Minister Michael Somare wrote when
opposition leader in 2001. Somare claimed Rio and its
 Bougainville Copper Ltd. (BOC)  unit played an “active role in
military operations during the Bougainville war” which ended 14
years ago, and left an estimated 15,000 people dead, Special
Broadcasting Service’s Dateline program reported.  Rio Tinto spokesman Bruce Tobin rejected the allegations in
an e-mailed statement June 26.  Somare’s affidavit is part of a class action in the U.S.
brought by a group of residents against Rio in 2001, Dateline
said. The case remains unresolved, it said.  Bougainville Copper Chief Executive Officer Peter Taylor
said the allegations aren’t true, Dateline reported.  Winklevosses Say Facebook May Have Hidden Evidence  Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, after abandoning an appeal to
the U.S. Supreme Court, are still pursuing claims that Facebook
Inc. founder Mark Zuckerberg stole the idea for the world’s most
popular social-networking site.  A day after the brothers said they won’t ask the nation’s
high court to undo a 2008 settlement with Zuckerberg, they asked
a federal judge in Boston June 23 to let them determine whether
Facebook hid instant messages that might have helped their case.  The Winklevoss twins said in the June 23 court filing they
are seeking to find out whether Zuckerberg or Facebook
“intentionally or inadvertently suppressed evidence.”  Neel Chatterjee, a lawyer for Facebook, said in an e-mail
that “these are old and baseless allegations that have been
considered and rejected previously by the courts.”  The brothers were unsuccessful in federal trial and appeals
courts in California in their effort to revoke the settlement of
their claims in a 2004 lawsuit that Zuckerberg stole the idea
for what became the world’s most popular social-networking site.
They alleged that Palo Alto, California-based Facebook didn’t
disclose an accurate valuation of its shares before they agreed
to the $65 million cash and stock agreement.  Tyler Meade, a lawyer in Berkeley, California, representing
the twins, said in the June 23 court filing that he’s relying on
a federal rule that allows judges to re-open litigation if
important information wasn’t produced. Meade asked a Boston
judge to force the previous attorneys for the brothers to grant
him access to certain documents, saying that they and Facebook’s
lawyers have refused to cooperate.  Meade declined to comment.  The Massachusetts case is ConnectU v. Facebook, 07-10593,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston). The
California case is The Facebook Inc. v. ConnectU Inc., 08-16745,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  Sabre Loses Bid to Stop American Airlines From Seeking Order  Sabre Holdings Corp. can’t stop  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
Airlines from seeking a court order barring Sabre from listing
the carrier’s fare and flight data below that of rivals in
displays for travel agents, a Texas judge said.  Judge Don Cosby in Fort Worth ruled June 23 that Sabre
can’t stop American from requesting an injunction. He rejected
Sabre’s argument that federal law preempts the Texas state
court’s authority to keep it from giving preference to other
airlines’ information.  The Texas court case is part of a broader dispute spurred
by American’s push to provide data directly to travel agents
rather than going through a company such as Sabre, which
compiles the information from airlines and distributes it to
travel agents. Some airlines want to use their own technology to
customize offerings for travelers and boost revenue.  American has filed antitrust claims against Sabre, the
largest U.S.-based so-called global distribution system, and
against Travelport Ltd. US Airways Group Inc. has sued Sabre to
block alleged anticompetitive actions. The U.S. Justice
Department said in May it was investigating possible antitrust
violations by such data distributors.  Nancy St. Pierre, a Sabre spokeswoman, said the June 23
ruling is “one step in the process.”  “Really our goal is to get a new distribution agreement
with American,” she said in a phone interview.  Ryan Mikolasik, a spokesman for American, said in an e-mail
that the company was pleased with the ruling.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Sabre Inc., 67-
249214-10, 67th Judicial District Court, Tarrant County, Texas.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Deutsche Telekom Faces Criminal Fraud Complaint Over Data  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Europe ’s biggest phone company, faces
a criminal complaint filed with German prosecutors over
allegations the company illegally overcharged competitors for
data.  The complaint was filed at the beginning of June, a
spokesman for German law firm  Wilms & Schaub
Rechtsanwaltsgesellschaft mbH  said. The complaint was filed on
behalf of clients that Wilms & Schaub declined to identify. The
filing asks prosecutors to investigate whether Deutsche Telekom
managers fraudulently withheld information about the cost of
directory data.  “Deutsche Telekom for years overcharged its competitors in
the directory and phone book market claiming unsubstantiated
costs,” the Wilms & Schaub spokesman said. “Deutsche Telekom
declines to calculate the fees in a way that takes into account
the actual costs of providing the data.”  As Germany’s former phone monopoly, Deutsche Telekom is
required to share directory data with competitors. Since the
opening of the telecommunication market in the 1990s, the
company has been involved in about 60 lawsuits over the price
Deutsche Telekom charges for subscriber data, Wilms & Schaub
said.  The damages may total almost 800 million euros ($1.1
billion), based on the amounts sought in civil suits, according
to Wilms & Schaub, which represents Deutsche Telekom competitors
in these cases.  Mark Nierwetberg, a spokesman for Bonn-based Deutsche
Telekom, said he couldn’t immediately comment.  Friedrich Apostel, a spokesman for Bonn prosecutors, said
his office had received the complaint and will review the
allegations. Apostel also declined to disclose who filed the
complaint.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Rajaratnam Request for Acquittal Should Be Denied, U.S. Says  Raj Rajaratnam’s request to be acquitted, after he was
found guilty at trial in the largest insider-trading prosecution
in a generation, should be denied, U.S. prosecutors said.  “The evidence against Rajaratnam at trial was
overwhelming,” Justice Department lawyers said in a filing June
23 in federal court in Manhattan. “The jury heard devastating
evidence of Rajaratnam orchestrating numerous insider-trading
crimes and instructing others how to cover them up in his own
voice in multiple recorded conversations.”  Rajaratnam, 54, was found guilty May 11 of all 14 counts
against him. The Galleon Group LLC co-founder faces as long as
19 1/2 years in prison. His lawyers last month asked the judge
to set aside the verdict, saying the evidence against him was
non-existent or so meager that no reasonable jury could have
found him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.  John Dowd, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, didn’t return a call to
his office seeking comment after regular business hours.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  NYSE, Deutsche Boerse Settle Shareholder Suits Over Buyout  NYSE Euronext and  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  settled shareholder
lawsuits challenging the $9.53 billion buyout of the parent
company of the New York Stock Exchange by offering earlier this
month to pay $910 million in dividends, court papers show.  The agreement to pay the dividends helped to resolve suits
in Delaware and New York alleging the all-stock deal provided
too little for investors, according to a filing in Delaware
Chancery Court. The payout totals about 620 million euros, equal
to 2 euros a Deutsche Boerse share or $1.37 a NYSE share,
company officials said June 7.  “We are pleased with the result here, because this
dividend will give shareholders a quantifiable and immediate
payment,” Mark Lebovitch, a New York-based lawyer for NYSE
shareholders, said June 23 in an e-mailed statement.  Deutsche Boerse agreed to buy  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , owner of the
New York Stock Exchange and the Liffe derivatives market, for
$9.53 billion in February.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  dropped a competing bid last month after
the U.S. Justice Department threatened an antitrust lawsuit.  “The settlement allows us to avoid the expense and
distractions litigating would have presented to our company and
our shareholders,”  Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for New York-
based NYSE Euronext, said in an e-mailed statement. “Our sole
focus remains on our upcoming shareowner vote, and working
toward the successful conclusion of the merger.”  Tim Lynch, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse,
declined to comment.  The exchanges agreed to pay the dividends and settle the
suit to win support for the deal in a vote next month. Deutsche
Boerse needs 75 percent of shareholders to approve its purchase
of NYSE Euronext by July 13.  Investors can opt to “terminate the settlement” if the
exchanges decide against paying the dividends, according to
court papers.  NYSE Euronext investors sued in Delaware in February,
calling Deutsche Boerse’s offer “grossly inadequate.” The
shareholders alleged the bid valued NYSE Euronext at less than
targets in similar deals, such as London Stock Exchange Group
Plc’s purchase of Canada’s TMX Group Inc.  Officials of both exchanges acknowledged the lawsuits
“were a factor” in the decision to pay the dividends, lawyers
for NYSE Euronext investors said in court papers. The suits also
helped persuade NYSE officials to give investors an opportunity
to have the value of their shares appraised, according to the
June 17 filing.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine must decide
whether to give the accord final approval. He hasn’t yet set a
hearing date on the matter. If the settlement is approved,
investors’ lawyers will file papers to dismiss the New York
suits, court filings show.  The case is In re NYSE Euronext Shareholders Litigation, CA
No. 6220, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  U.S. Seeks Life Sentence for Ex-Taylor Bean Chairman Farkas  Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp., should be sentenced to life in prison for
leading a $3 billion fraud involving fake mortgage assets, U.S.
prosecutors told a judge in Virginia.  In a filing in Alexandria made public June 24, prosecutors
asked U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema to order Farkas to
prison for 385 years or “a period of years that would ensure
that Farkas will remain in prison for life.” Farkas, 58, is to
be sentenced June 30.  A federal jury convicted Farkas in April of 14 counts of
conspiracy and bank, wire and securities fraud after a two-week
trial. Prosecutors said Farkas orchestrated one of the largest
and longest-running bank frauds in the U.S., which duped some of
the country’s largest financial institutions, targeted the
federal bank bailout program and contributed to the failures of
Taylor Bean and Montgomery, Alabama-based Colonial Bank.  “Farkas fueled his lifestyle of ostentatious wealth by
ripping off banks and attempting to steal from the government,
all with little to no regard for the consequences to TBW’s or
Colonial Bank’s employees, thousands of whom lost their jobs
when TBW and Colonial Bank closed, or to the shareholders of
Colonial BancGroup,” prosecutors said in the filing.  William Cummings , a lawyer for Farkas, in a filing June 24
urged Brinkema to send Farkas to prison for no more than 15
years.  “The whole point of the financial transactions forming the
basis for the charges against Mr. Farkas was not to enrich
himself but to keep TBW a viable company so that the hard
working people who had helped him build TBW from nothing would
continue to have good, stable, well paying jobs,” Cummings said
in the filing.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Conrad Black Must Go Back to Prison Judge in Chicago Rules  Conrad Black, the former Hollinger International Inc.
chairman and chief executive officer, faces more than a year’s
prison time after being resentenced for mail fraud and
obstructing justice, the surviving convictions from his 2007
trial.  The new sentence of 3 1/2 years was imposed June 24 by U.S.
District Judge Amy J. St. Eve in Chicago. Black will get credit
for 29 months already served, a Justice Department spokesman,
 Randall Samborn , said. He was in federal prison from March 2008
to July 2010 before winning a reversal of two convictions and
being freed on bail.  Black’s wife, Barbara Amiel, appeared to faint when the
sentenced was passed and was helped from the courtroom.  It was the second time that Black, 66, faced punishment at
federal courthouse for his role in what prosecutors called the
theft of $6.1 million from the Chicago-based publishing company.
A federal appeals court last year threw out two of three mail
fraud convictions after the Supreme Court told it to consider
whether they conformed to a recent high court decision.  “I have always tried to take success like a gentleman and
disappointment like a man,” Black told St. Eve before she
imposed the sentence.  “I accept that a reasonable person could conclude that I
am guilty,” he said, adding he also believed the same
reasonable person could conclude he had been “adequately
punished.”  Black’s lawyers argued that he showed respect for the law
and did good work in prison by tutoring inmates at the low-
security  Coleman Federal Correctional Institution  in Florida.  His attorney Carolyn Gurland called his efforts “nothing
less than extraordinary.”  A prosecutor countered that Black is “a corporate CEO who
stole from the company and obstructed justice,” and that Black
still stands convicted of two crimes.  The case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  Former Egyptian Bank Chief Pleads Guilty to Sex Abuse Count  The former chairman of Egypt’s Bank of Alexandria pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor charge that he sexually abused a maid at
a Manhattan hotel in exchange for a sentence of five days of
community service at a soup kitchen.  Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar, charged with sexually assaulting
an employee of the Pierre Hotel, pleaded guilty June 24 in New
York state court to sexual abuse in the third degree, a class b
misdemeanor. Earlier June 24, the victim sued him for $5 million
in Manhattan federal court.  The victim alleged Omar groped her in his room on May 29
after asking her to bring him tissues. Police originally charged
Omar with sexual abuse in the first degree, sexual abuse in the
third degree and forcible touching. He faced as long as seven
years in prison if convicted of the most serious charge.  Omar, head of El-Mex Salines, was free on bail after having
been confined at Rikers Island, New York City’s main jail
complex.  Police were called to the Pierre after the maid told
security that he groped her when she went to his room. Omar
“wrapped his arms tightly around the informant’s body and while
holding the informant, kissed the informant’s neck and lips,”
Detective Efrain Curet said in a criminal complaint.  Omar grabbed the maid a second time and groped her,
according to the complaint.  Omar was arrested May 30. The Pierre, where room rates
start at $776 a night according to its  website , is part of the
Taj Group of Hotels. The hotel had said it is cooperating with
police. It suspended a supervisor who stopped the maid from
immediately filing a complaint, the New York Daily News
reported.  In the hearing in criminal court, Assistant District
Attorney Nicole Blumberg told Judge Rita Mella that prosecutors
agreed to the plea deal after carefully reviewing the evidence,
including interviews with more than 20 witnesses, a person who
witnessed the exchange said. Blumberg said the victim was told
of the plea deal and is satisfied with it, the person said.  Omar has performed five days of community service at a soup
kitchen, his attorney Lori Cohen said after the hearing. He
pleaded guilty because he wants to get back to his wife who just
had surgery, she said.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  