-- 
Fed’s Hoenig Sees Economic Danger in Big Financial Firms

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-06-27T20:08:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/fed-s-hoenig-sees-economic-danger-in-big-financial-companies.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig  said the existence of companies whose
failure would threaten the financial system is an obstacle to
economic growth and impedes competition.  Companies deemed systemically important financial
institutions, or SIFIs, “are fundamentally inconsistent with
capitalism,” Hoenig said today in a speech in  Washington .
“They are inherently destabilizing to global markets and
detrimental to world growth.”  The remarks by Hoenig, who has previously called for the
breakup of the biggest financial firms, are among his strongest
as he nears the end of his two-decade tenure as a Fed policy
maker. He said policy makers “must go beyond” the Dodd-Frank
Act of 2010 overhauling regulation, including by shrinking the
government’s safety net.  “So long as the concept of a SIFI exists, and there are
institutions so powerful and considered so important that they
require special support and different rules, the future of
capitalism is at risk and our market economy is in peril,”
Hoenig said at an event hosted by the Pew Financial Reform
Project and  New York University Stern School of Business .  Hoenig spoke after international regulators forged an
agreement over the weekend that requires the world’s largest
banks to hold extra capital. The requirement is aimed at
strengthening the biggest banks’ financial cushions to prevent
another financial crisis.  Extra Capital  Banks considered systemically important would be required
to hold between 1 percentage point and 2.5 points of extra
capital as a proportion of their risk-weighted assets. That’s on
top of the 7 percent capital buffer required for all
internationally active banks.  Responding to an audience question, Hoenig said the
surcharge may not reduce risks to the broader financial system,
compared with his recommendations.  “I don’t have any faith in it at all,” he said.
Discussing the Dodd-Frank law’s authority for the government to
wind down a failing big firm without a bailout, Hoenig said, “I
just can’t imagine it working.”  Hoenig noted in his speech that the biggest banks say they
shouldn’t be held to tougher capital standards for the U.S. to
“remain globally competitive,” calling that view “nonsense.”  The Kansas City Fed chief also reiterated his
recommendations to restrict banks to loans and deposits and to
allow money market mutual funds to have a floating net asset
value instead of being allowed to maintain a fixed value of $1.  Overhaul Law  Last month, Hoenig said provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act,
the financial overhaul law enacted last year, would help put
banks on a stronger financial footing to prevent another crisis.  Specifically, he spoke of his support for the Volcker Rule,
named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker . The provision,
contained in the new law, would force bank holding companies to
cease bets with their own money outside of traditional lending.  Hoenig’s proposals would result in separating primary
dealers, which help the Fed carry out monetary policy, from
commercial banks. The change “would have little effect” on the
Fed’s ability to manage  interest rates , he said.  The central bank could use a former emergency tool called
the Term Auction Facility, which provided loans to banks for
about one to three months starting in late 2007, in conjunction
with primary dealer operations, Hoenig said.  Set to Retire  Hoenig, who is set to retire on Oct. 1, is not a voting
member this year on the  Federal Open Market Committee . As a
voting member last year, he opposed the Fed’s decision on Nov. 3
to launch the $600 billion bond-buying program, its second
effort to stimulate the economy through so-called quantitative
easing.  He also objected to the Fed’s decisions throughout last
year to hold interest rates at record lows for an “extended
period.” Hoenig has expressed concern that those decisions
could kindle inflation and lead to a wave of speculative buying
on  Wall Street . Hoenig cast dissenting votes at each of the
Fed’s eight meetings last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  