-- 
Fed’s Kocherlakota Calls for Tax-System Changes to Discourage Debt Growth

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-06-27T22:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/fed-s-kocherlakota-calls-for-tax-system-changes-to-discourage-debt-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  called on Congress to change the
nation’s tax system in a way that discourages banks and
households from accumulating debt.  Consumer and bank leverage reduce stability in the
financial industry and increase the potential for a crisis like
the one that struck the U.S. from 2007 to 2009, Kocherlakota
said today in a speech in Big Sky, Montana.  Regulators are trying to avert a repeat of the turmoil that
began with the collapse of the U.S. subprime-lending market and
that has led to $2.08 trillion of writedowns and credit losses
at financial firms. The regulatory overhaul signed into law last
year by President  Barack Obama  makes the Fed supervisor for
institutions deemed systemically important.  “The U.S. tax system encourages leverage by providing
incentives for households to take on more mortgage debt and
financial institutions to finance through debt,” Kocherlakota
said in remarks to the Colorado,  Montana  & Wyoming Bankers
Associations. It does so “even though both are potentially
destabilizing.”  The regional bank president called for a reduction in the
fraction of mortgage interest that households can deduct from
their taxable incomes and of interest payments that corporations
are allowed to deduct.  Tax Incentives  “I would assess the costs of providing tax incentives for
leverage to be higher today than such an assessment in, say,
2006,” Kocherlakota said. “Congress should modify the U.S. tax
system to reduce the incentives for destabilizing activities by
banks and households.”  Global central bank governors agreed this weekend on extra
capital rules for banks whose size or systemic importance means
their failure could cause another financial crisis. Regulators
agreed that as many as 30 of the world’s largest lenders should
face surcharges that range from 1 percentage point to as much as
2.5 percentage points of core capital to prevent them from
causing another financial crisis.  Financial industry executives, such as JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , say raising
 capital requirements  will hurt consumers and banks as the  U.S.
economy  struggles with an unemployment rate of 9.1 percent.  More Capital  Higher capital requirements for banks and non-banks
regarded as systemically important is a “valuable” idea,
Kocherlakota said today in response to audience questions after
his speech.  The 47-year-old bank president has led the Minneapolis Fed
since October 2009 and is former chairman of the economics
department at the University of Minnesota. He earned his
bachelor’s degree in mathematics from  Princeton University  and
his doctorate from the University of Chicago.  U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from three days of losses,
with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbing 0.9 percent to
1,280.10 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in  New York .  The regional chief voted with the rest of the  Federal Open
Market Committee  last week to keep the central bank’s balance
sheet at a record level to spur the weakening economy. He did
not comment on the decision or the future path of policy in his
prepared remarks.  The central bank is set to complete $600 billion of bond
purchases this month, and Kocherlakota is among the Fed
officials who want to lift the benchmark U.S. interest rate this
year to combat rising inflation.  The policy maker, in response to audience questions, said
he is keeping a “close eye” on  core inflation , which excludes
food and energy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  