-- 
Fight Against Human Trafficking Loses Ground in 11 Nations

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   P e l h a m
-- 
2011-06-27T20:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/fight-against-human-trafficking-loses-ground-in-11-nations.html
The international fight against
human trafficking, from abuses of migrant workers to organized
prostitution networks, lost ground in the past year, the U.S.
State Department reported.  The number of countries failing to comply with
international standards to prevent human trafficking almost
doubled to 23, according to U.S. State Department’s 2011
Trafficking in Persons  report  released today.  “The problem of modern trafficking may be entrenched, and
it may seem like there is no end in sight,” Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said in a statement accompanying the report.
“But if we act on the laws that have been passed and the
commitments that have been made, it is solvable.”  As many as 27 million men, women, and children are “living
in a state of modern slavery,” she said.  Since many countries have adopted anti-trafficking laws,
the issue increasingly is one of enforcement, Clinton said at a
State Department ceremony honoring 10 “heroes” in the fight
against such abuses. Clinton, while citing advances in countries
such as  Bangladesh  and the  United Arab Emirates , said that the
overall number of prosecutions worldwide “has remained
relatively static.”  Seeking Action  “So the measure of success can no longer be whether a
country has passed laws, because so many have in the last
decade,” she said. “Now we have to make sure laws are
implemented.”  Eleven countries have dropped into so-called Tier 3, those
with the poorest record of fighting trafficking, joining 12
nations previously listed in that category under guidelines set
by the Trafficking Victims Protection Act. One country, the
Dominican Republic, was elevated from the lowest category
because of improvements in its prevention measures.  The ll countries are:  Algeria , Central African Republic,
Equatorial Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Lebanon, Libya, Madagascar,
Micronesia, Turkmenistan,  Venezuela  and Yemen. They join nations
such as  Iran ,  North Korea , Cuba,  Saudi Arabia  with the poorest
records on taking action to prevent human trafficking.  Tier 1 is comprised of countries with strong enforcement
policies, such as the U.S., U.K.,  France  and  Australia . Tier 2
designates countries, such as  Mexico , which do not fully comply
with standards but are making “significant efforts.”  Watch List  “Tier 2 Watch List” countries such as China, Russia and
Thailand promise improvement in light of “significant” number
of victims and a failure to show increased efforts to “combat
severe forms of trafficking.”  The 11 countries that dropped into the lowest category,
Tier 3, “are not making significant efforts” to comply with
international standards, including prosecution of those involved
in human trafficking, protection of victims, and prevention of
future trafficking, the report said. Human trafficking can
include a range of abuses including forced labor and
prostitution.  Political unrest in Arab countries complicated the issue in
countries such as  Libya  and Yemen, whose government did not
provide data for the this year’s report.  Some Improve  Macedonia, recording an increase in trafficking-related
convictions, was elevated to Tier 1 from Tier 2. The Slovak
Republic made the same shift.  The Dominican Republic was raised to Tier 2 Watch List from
Tier 3 because of improved prevention measures under its
National Anti-Trafficking Action Plan, the report noted.  A total of 117 nations have committed to fighting human
trafficking in accordance with the UN’s Protocol to Prevent,
Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, passed by the
General Assembly Nov. 15, 2000.  The State Department report was produced by the Office to
Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, which was created by
the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000.  Ambassador Luis C. deBaca, director of the office, said 130
countries have laws prohibiting all forms of human trafficking.
The problem extends to the U.S., were estimates of the number of
trafficking victims runs “as high as 100,000,” including
children in prostitution, he said in a telephone  briefing  June
24.  “There’s been a lot of advances in the last few years,”
he said. “But we are concerned that the number of victims
identified and the number of traffickers being prosecuted has
flattened out around the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Pelham in Washington at 
 vpelham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  