-- 
Food Crisis Cooperation ‘Doomed’ Unless Action Taken, Annan Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-06-27T04:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/food-crisis-cooperation-doomed-unless-action-taken-annan-says.html
The food crisis that’s left almost 1
billion people hungry around the world, may turn into a
“permanent disaster,” endangering millions of lives,  said  Kofi
Annan, former secretary general of the  United Nations .  “If countries cannot come together successfully to deliver
food security -- this most basic of human needs -- our hopes for
a wider international cooperation looked doomed,” said Annan,
who served as UN Secretary General from 1997 to 2006. “We’ve
seen a worrying rise in protectionism, unilateral export bans,
land grabs and exclusive deals that meet the food needs of the
rich but not the poor.”  The UN Food & Agriculture Organization’s Food Price Index
last month stayed near the record set in February. Rising food
costs pushed 44 million more people into poverty in the second
half of 2010, according to the  World Bank . Over the next decade,
the average prices of cereals will jump 20 percent, and meat
prices will surge 30 percent, according to the 10 year
 agricultural outlook  2011-2020 report published by the FAO and
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Over the past few years, there has been “an ominous
retreat from the idea of a common purpose based on shared
values,” as he cited a rising trend in “land grabbing” by
countries seeking to boost their own food security, Annan said
in a June 25 statement released by the FAO.  “It is very disturbing that a recent report found that
agricultural land that adds up to the size of  France  was bought
in  Africa  in 2009 alone by  hedge funds  and other speculators,”
said Annan, who is now chairman of the Alliance for a  Green
Revolution  in Africa.  ‘Immediate Action’  Annan joined world leaders, including French President
Nicolas Sarkozy, in stressing the need for a concerted effort to
address the problem of rising food costs. Last week, Sarkozy
called it a “plague” that needs immediate action from world
leaders, as he pushed for a central database on crops, limits on
export banks, international market regulation, emergency
stockpiles and a plan to raise global output.  “It is neither just nor sustainable for farmland to be
taken away from communities in this way nor for food to be
exported when there is hunger on the doorstep,” Annan said.
“Local people will not stand for this abuse -- and neither
should we.”  -- Editors: Ovais Subhani,  Richard Dobson   To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  