-- 
Forint Strengthens on Chinese Pledge to Purchase Hungarian Debt

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-06-27T14:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/forint-gains-after-china-s-wen-pledges-to-buy-hungarian-bonds.html
The forint strengthened, rebounding
after three weeks of decline, after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
pledged over the weekend to buy Hungarian government debt.  The currency gained 0.3 percent to 268.46 per euro as of
3:46 p.m. in Budapest, making it the best performer among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg today.
The yield on  government bonds  due in 2022 declined from a three-
month high, falling seven basis points to 7.402 percent.  China will buy a “certain amount” of Hungarian bonds and
remains a “long-term investor” in European debt markets, Wen
said in Budapest on June 25. He did not provide details of plans
to buy the country’s debt.  “The forint could receive a slight boost from Chinese PM
Wen’s comments,” strategists at BNP Paribas SA led by London-
based Bartosz Pawlowski wrote in a report today. “We do not
expect a substantial impact given the global circumstances.”  European stocks traded near a three-month low and oil and
most emerging-market currencies fell as investors sold riskier
assets. Greek lawmakers begin a debate today on 78 billion euros
($110 billion) of spending cuts needed to avert default. Bank
shares led a drop in  Asia  after international regulators raised
capital adequacy requirements for the world’s biggest lenders.  “The  Hungarian forint  is showing an almost unbelievable
stability, unlike other currencies in the region,” Jan Bures,
an analyst at CSOB AS, the Prague unit of KBC Groep NV, wrote in
a report to clients. “Yet Hungary is not immune to contagion
from the euro-area periphery, with credit default swaps
rising.”  The cost of insuring Hungarian government debt against non-
payment with credit default swaps, or CDS, rose two basis points
to 302 basis points at 11:30 a.m. in  London , the highest since
March 11, according to CMA data. CDS rise as perceptions of the
borrower’s creditworthiness deteriorate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  