-- 
Ex-Citigroup Executive Gary Foster Charged With $19 Million ‘Inside Job’

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/former-citigroup-vp-charged-with-embezzling-19m.html
A former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  vice
president, accused by U.S. prosecutor of “the ultimate inside
job,” was charged with embezzling more than $19 million from
the bank.  Gary Foster, 35, was arrested June 26 at New York’s John F.
Kennedy International Airport after returning from Bangkok and
charged with bank fraud, U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
 Brooklyn , New York, said yesterday in a statement. Foster, who
worked in the bank’s treasury finance department, is accused of
transferring money from various Citigroup accounts and
ultimately to his own account at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “The defendant allegedly used his knowledge of bank
operations to commit the ultimate inside job,” Lynch said.  Foster faces a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison if
convicted of bank fraud, according to the statement. He lives in
Englewood Cliffs,  New Jersey , the government said.  “These are obviously serious charges and we will undertake
a serious investigation to defend our client,” Isabelle A. Kirshner, one of Foster’s lawyers, said in a phone interview.  Foster was released yesterday on an $800,000 bond secured
by his parents’ house in Teaneck, New Jersey. His mother works
as a teller for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Kirshner told U.S.
Magistrate Judge Ramon E. Reyes Jr. during the court appearance.  Foster was vacationing in Bangkok and returned when he
learned the government was investigating him, Kirshner said
after the hearing.  Cash Account  From last July to December, Foster, who worked for
Citigroup in the Long Island City section of Queens,  New York ,
caused about $900,000 to be moved from its interest-expense
account and about $14.4 million from its debt-adjustment account
to the bank’s cash account, according to prosecutors.  Then, in eight transfers, his actions led to the money
being wired from the cash account into his personal account,
prosecutors said. During the alleged fraud, which spanned from
May 2009 to the end of 2010, Foster wired out of Citigroup a
total of $19.2 million, according to the criminal complaint.  Foster caused a fraudulent contract or deal number to be
put in the reference line of the wire-transfer instructions to
make it appear the transfers supported an existing contract, the
complaint charged.  Citigroup’s treasury finance department funds loans and
other business transactions within the bank and Foster
supervised the department’s derivatives unit, according to the
criminal complaint.  Foster joined Citigroup in 1999 and left voluntarily in
January, according to a person familiar with his employment.  Internal Audit  A recent internal audit of the department turned up the
wire transfers to Foster’s personal account, prosecutors
alleged.  “We are outraged by the actions of this former employee,”
 Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, said
in an e-mail. “Citi informed  law enforcement  immediately upon
discovery of the suspicious transactions and we are cooperating
fully to ensure Mr. Foster is prosecuted to the full extent of
the law.”  The case is U.S. v. Foster, 11-mj-00645, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 