-- 
Former Ivory Coast President Gbagbo’s Associates Are Charged With Crimes

-- B y   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-06-27T15:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/former-ivory-coast-president-gbagbo-s-associates-are-charged-with-crimes.html
Ivory Coast  charged 15 people linked
to the former president,  Laurent Gbagbo , including the ex-
governor of the regional central bank, with harming state
security and economic crimes, said Simplice Koffi Kouadio, the
prosecutor for Abidjan, the commercial capital.  Philippe-Henri Dacoury-Tabley, who resigned from the Dakar-
based Central Bank of West African States in January, is accused
along with ex-Prime Minister Gilbert Ake N’Gbo and Alcide
Djedje, a former minister of foreign affairs, Kouadio said by
phone yesterday.  They are alleged to have “committed infractions against
state companies, private banks” and the central bank that
manages policy for eight countries in the region including Ivory
Coast, Kouadio said. Charges also include robbery and
embezzlement, he said.  Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest cocoa producer, is
emerging from a 4 1/2-month political crisis that followed a
disputed November presidential election. Gbagbo, who lost the
vote to  Alassane Ouattara , clung to power until he was captured
in Abidjan on April 11. Ouattara was sworn into office on May
21.  ‘Reconciliation’  The 15 people accused are being held at La Pergola, a hotel
in Abidjan, Koudio said. More people may face charges later this
week, he said.  The charges are “not good at all for the reconciliation
process,” Augustin Guehoun, a spokesman for Gbagbo’s Front
Populaire Ivoirien party, said by phone today.  Investigations should be expanded to include alleged abuses
during Gbagbo’s decade-long rule and by supporters of Ouattara
during the post-election crisis, said Patrick N’Gouan, chairman
of the Ivorian Civil Society Convention. “Both camps were
involved in acts of violence,” he said by phone today.  As many as 3,000 people were killed in fighting that
followed the election, according to the  International Criminal
Court , which is looking into the abuses and is set to begin a
one-week visit to the West African nation today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baudelaire Mieu and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 