-- 
Zambia’s First Democratically Elected Leader, Chiluba, is Buried in Lusaka

-- B y   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-06-27T15:40:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/funeral-of-former-zambian-president-chiluba-starts-in-capital-lusaka.html
Former Zambian President Frederick Chiluba, the country’s first democratically elected leader, was
buried today in Lusaka, the capital.  The casket containing his body arrived at the Cathedral of
the Holy Cross in Lusaka at 9:15 a.m. local time and was later
moved to Embassy Park, where he was buried. The televised
ceremonies were attended by regional leaders including Congolese
President  Joseph Kabila  and  Morgan Tsvangirai , the prime
minister of neighboring  Zimbabwe .  Chiluba, 68, died of a heart attack on June 18. In 1991 the
former labor union leader replaced Kenneth Kaunda, the southern
African nation’s first president after independence from
Britain, and ruled the country for a decade, becoming a leading
figure in regional politics and overseeing the start of the sale
of state-owned copper mines to private investors.  Chiluba left office in 2002 after failing to win support to
amend the constitution to secure a third term and later faced
corruption charges. He was found guilty by a U.K. court in 2007
of stealing $46 million. In 2009, a Zambian court dropped more
than 60 charges of theft against him, amounting to more than $40
million, because it didn’t have sufficient evidence to secure a
conviction.  “We must remember the late President Chiluba for his
privatization policies that are benefiting Zambia now,” Rupiah
Banda, the country’s current president, said in a live broadcast
on Radio Phoenix.  Zambia,  Africa ’s biggest copper producer, is aiming to
produce 1 million metric tons of the metal by 2015, according to
Mines Minister Maxwell Mwale. Copper output declined steadily
from the early 1970s to about 250,000 tons in 1999 before
rebounding after the state sold assets in the industry,
according to the government.  “Stop criticizing him now that he is gone and use his
departure to unite the country,” Banda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka at 
 amukwita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  