-- 
Georgia Law Mandating Immigration Status Checks Put on Hold by U.S. Judge

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-27T21:58:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/georgia-law-mandating-immigration-status-checks-put-on-hold-by-u-s-judge.html
A U.S. judge delayed enforcement of
a  Georgia  law that requires employers to verify whether a worker
is a legal resident and allows police to investigate an
immigrant suspect’s legal status.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Thrash in Atlanta said a group
of nonprofit organizations, business associations and
individuals who sued to block the state statute are likely to
prevail on their claim that parts of the measure scheduled to
take effect July 1 are unconstitutional because they are
preempted by federal law.  “Seventy years ago the United States Supreme Court
declared that the federal government had the exclusive right to
legislate in the general field of foreign affairs, including
power over immigration, naturalization and deportation,” the
judge said in today’s ruling. “That remains the law of the
land.”  Georgia lawmakers passed the bill that gives state law
enforcement broader authority to identify undocumented workers
in April, after a similar effort in  Arizona  was blocked in
federal court.  Under the legislation, police are allowed to verify the
immigration status of people suspected of certain crimes and
arrest those in the country illegally. It also would require
businesses with at least 10 employees to use a federal database
to check that new hires are authorized to work in the U.S.  Thrash said in his ruling that it was a myth that the
federal government did nothing about illegal immigration and
that the state government’s characterization of federal
enforcement as “passive” had no basis in fact.  Representatives of Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens,
whose office is defending the lawsuit, didn’t immediately return
a call for comment.  The case is Georgia Latino Alliance for Human Rights v.
Nathan Deal, 11-01804, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 