-- 
Irish Yields Reach Record on Greek Contagion; German Bunds Fall

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-06-27T16:15:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/german-two-year-note-yields-reach-four-month-low-on-greek-debt-concern.html
Irish and Portuguese government bond
yields rose to records amid concern that a deal to provide extra
aid for  Greece  will not be enough to prevent the debt crisis
from spreading to other euro-region nations.  German 10-year bonds slid, pushing up yields from this
year’s lows, on signs European banks are prepared to contribute
to efforts to stave off a Greek default. Spanish and Italian
securities outperformed benchmark bunds before  Italy  sells up to
8 billion euros ($11 billion) of bonds tomorrow.  The Greek crisis is “still very volatile and erratic and
it remains to be seen what the details of a deal will be,” said
 Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “There are hopes that a deal between banks and
governments will be reached on a Greek debt rollover; that’s
causing a bit of relief.”  The yield on Irish 10-year bonds rose 13 basis points to
12.10 percent as of 4:52 p.m. in  London  after reaching a record
12.11 percent. The 5 percent securities maturing in October 2020
fell 0.50, or 5 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 61.565.
Equivalent-maturity Portuguese bond yields jumped 30 basis
points to 11.68 percent.  The yield difference between Greek and Portuguese 10-year
bonds narrowed to 512 basis points, the least since April 15.  Rollover Agreement  The yield on benchmark German bunds was six basis points
higher at 2.89 percent. Spanish 10-year yields increased one
basis point to 5.69 percent and the rate on similar-maturity
Italian debt was little changed at 4.98 percent.  The decline in German bunds trimmed their monthly advance.
Still, yields have fallen more than 45 basis points this quarter
as concern that Greece will become the first euro-region nation
to default roiled financial markets, boosting demand for the
region’s safest assets.  French banks are headed toward an agreement to roll over 70
percent of their holdings of Greek debt between now and 2014,
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said today.  Germany ’s biggest banks
and insurers are weighing the same proposal, a person familiar
with the matter said.  German and French lenders are the biggest European holders
of Greek debt and their participation in the plan is key to
achieving a European Union goal to get banks to roll over at
least 30 billion euros of bonds. The rollover is part of an aid
package that EU leaders have pledged to pass next month to
prevent the euro-region’s first default a year after the 110
billion-euro Greek bailout that failed to stop the debt crisis.  Greek Debate  Greek two-year yields were 108 basis points higher at 29.38
percent, while 10-year yields were three basis points higher at
16.81 percent as lawmakers embarked on a three-day debate on
austerity plans amid protests in  Athens .  The nation’s two-year note yields have climbed more than 17
percentage points since the start of this year as traders added
to bets the nation will default on its debts. Irish two-year
note yields rose above 14 percent for the first time today, and
the yield on equivalent-maturity Portuguese notes jumped 34
basis points to 14.63 percent.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said a rejection
of Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s budget plan could
result in the country foregoing its next loan under a European
bailout, according to an interview today in Bild am Sonntag.
Alexandros Athanasiadis, a lawmaker of Greece’s ruling Pasok
party, said he’s likely to oppose Papandreou’s package this week
after meeting today with Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos.  Austerity Vote  “The Greek vote will increase nervousness,” said
 Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “Even if the Greek parliament doesn’t vote in favor of
the austerity measures, the European Union will probably still
pay out some of the aid tranche but things will get uglier.”  German Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said he
expects the Greek parliament to pass the package of extra
measures this week and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said his
nation will keep investing in  Europe ’s sovereign bond market.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said it’s “probably
inevitable” that a mechanism will be put in place to allow
weaker economies to exit the euro and The  Bank for International
Settlements  urged Europe to find a permanent solution to the
debt crisis.  German  government bonds  have handed investors 1.1 percent
this year, while Treasuries returned 3.8 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian notes made 0.9 percent
while Greece delivered a loss of 19 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  