-- 
Gindalbie Metals Is Top ASX 200 Performer on Oakajee Port Talks

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-27T07:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/gindalbie-metals-is-top-asx-200-performer-on-oakajee-port-talks.html
Gindalbie Metals Ltd. (GBG)  was the top
performer on  Australia ’s benchmark index after  Murchison Metals
Ltd. (MMX)  said funding talks to build the A$4.3 billion ($4.5
billion) Oakajee port and rail project, which Gindalbie plans to
use to export iron ore, are moving ahead.  Gindalbie rose 3 percent to 87 Australian cents at the 4:10
p.m. close of Sydney trading.  Murchison Metals today said it was advancing talks with
investors, including Chinese-related groups, to help fund its
share of the development. Gindalbie needs to use Oakajee to
expand its Karara iron ore mine in Western Australia.  “With Murchison’s release, it indicates that Chinese
parties may be interested in investing in Oakajee, which would
be a positive to help get the project’s development back on
track,” Todd Scott, analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said
by phone from Sydney.  A potential customer Sinosteel Midwest Corp., a unit of
Sinosteel Corp., on June 23 suspended work on a A$2 billion  iron
ore  project because of uncertainty about the timing of port and
rail construction.  “Gindalbie’s prospects are enhanced if Murchison can
obtain assistance in developing the Oakajee port & rail
project,”  Jamie Spiteri , a trader at Sydney-based Shaw
Stockbroking Ltd., said in an e-mail.  Oakajee port, with a planned annual capacity of 45 million
metric tons, is designed to open up Western Australia’s Midwest
region for iron ore exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  