-- 
Goldman Sachs Targets 20% Brazil Hiring Surge for Complex Financing, LBOs

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-06-27T14:20:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/goldman-boosts-brazil-hiring-sees-private-equity-opportunity.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is
increasing its Brazil workforce by about 20 percent this year to
expand in an economy that’s growing more than twice as fast as
the company’s home market.  The Brazilian unit, which raised headcount to about 300
from 200 last year, plans to invest during 2011 in research,
asset management, private banking, sales, investment banking and
trading, the group’s president, Valentino D. Carlotti, said in a
video-conference interview last week from Goldman Sachs’s
headquarters in  New York .  “We have been growing a lot in Brazil over the past couple
of years, but we still see significant opportunities to continue
to build,” said Carlotti, 45, who plans to hand leadership of
the unit to Alejandro Vollbrechthausen, 42, over the next
several months. “We have robust growth plans for every product
and division.”  U.S. and international banks are competing against Brazil-
based companies such as Banco Itau BBA SA and Banco BTG Pactual
SA, which have used their stronger local contacts to squeeze out
foreign firms. Investment-banking fees in Brazil were about $1
billion to $1.5 billion last year industrywide, two dealmakers
said last month, asking not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Full Service  Goldman Sachs only completed its strategy to become a full-
service bank in Brazil in late 2009, after two failed attempts
to buy local firms. In 1998, Goldman Sachs tried to purchase
Banco de Investimentos Garantia SA, which was acquired by  Credit
Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  Seven years later it sought to purchase Banco
Pactual SA, a top investment bank later acquired by UBS AG.
Pactual was sold back to BTG Partners in 2009 and is now BTG
Pactual.  Credit Suisse has continued to grow in Brazil, and in 2007
acquired a majority stake in Brazilian asset manager Hedging-
Griffo for 358 million Swiss francs ($427 million).  Investment banks are turning to emerging markets to tap
faster growth. After expanding 7.5 percent last year, the
highest growth in more than two decades, Brazil’s economy is
expected to grow 4 percent this year, according to central bank
estimates. U.S. central bankers said the economy will expand 2.7
percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from forecasts ranging
from 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent in April.  Convertible Debt  Goldman Sachs didn’t make the top 10 in any Brazil
 investment-banking  categories in 2009 and 2010, excluding
international bonds, according to Bloomberg data. The firm,
which doesn’t separately disclose Brazil revenue or profits,
said its strategy in the country is to focus on more complex
products that generate higher profit margins, such as
convertible debt and receivables securitization.  “They’re going to have a hard time getting market share
from us because we have long-term, well-established
relationships and we have a big balance sheet locally,” Renato Lulia-Jacob, Banco Itau BBA International SA’s head of corporate
banking for  North America ,  Europe  and  Asia , said in an interview
in  London  today.  Itau BBA is the leading adviser of equity sales so far this
year in  Brazil , and ranks fifth in mergers and acquisitions,
according to Bloomberg data.  “We are not planning to do plain-vanilla credit,” Daniel
Wainstein, who heads investment banking for Goldman Sachs in
Brazil, said in a joint interview with Carlotti from Brazil.  Banking Team  Wainstein’s team grew to 40 bankers this year after the
firm hired 10 people, including managing director Rodolfo Soares, previously head of fixed income at Banco J. Safra SA.
Soares is the head of a new division of structured credit. The
bank also hired Marcelo Bernal from HSBC Holdings Plc, where he
was responsible for bond and syndicated-loan transactions.  Zurich-based Credit Suisse has about 36 investment bankers
in the country, and Banco BTG has 49.  Compared with Goldman Sachs’s 300 total employees in
Brazil,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest U.S. bank, has
630, including its investment bankers, and plans to almost
double that figure.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , No. 1 in the U.S.,
employs about 400 in Brazil.  Among Goldman Sachs’s current deals in Brazil is a 300
million reais ($189 million) convertible-bond sale by Minerva
SA, Brazil’s fourth-largest meat producer. The structure allows
the company to sell debt without increasing leverage because the
securities become equity when they mature. Investors receive a
set coupon until the conversion, and then can benefit if the
shares gain.  Private Equity   Goldman Sachs is also betting that its advisory work for
private-equity clients who want to get into Brazil will generate
investment-banking business and help boost fees from initial
public share sales and acquisitions, Wainstein, 41, said.  The volume of M&A transactions reached 85 billion reais so
far this year, compared with 97 billion reais in the same period
last year, according to Bloomberg data.  Goldman Sachs Chief Operating Officer Gary D. Cohn said
earlier this month that  China  was the No. 1 country for new
hiring at the firm, and the top three would also include India
and Brazil.  Brazil,  Latin America ’s biggest economy, is key for Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein ’s strategy “to be Goldman
Sachs in more places,” said Wainstein, who along with Andre
Laport, head of equities for Latin America, became the first
Brazilian partners at Goldman Sachs last year.  Brazilian Shares  With Brazilian stocks underperforming comparable shares in
most other emerging markets, some medium-sized Brazilian
companies are looking instead to private-equity companies for
financing.  The  Carlyle Group , one of the world’s largest private-
equity managers, raised $1 billion to invest in South American
companies with an emphasis on Brazil, according to a June 15
statement. The leveraged-buyout firm closed a $776 million fund
that will target deals across  South America  with a focus on
Brazil, and a 360 million real pool raised with Banco do Brasil
SA dedicated to Brazilian deals.  “We have seen a number of private-equity firms setting up
platforms in Brazil and actively looking at opportunities,”
Wainstein said in a phone interview on June 1. “Given our
global relationships with these firms and other long-term
oriented investors, we have been close to this dynamic and we’ve
been providing them with opportunities and ideas and liaising
them with our clients in Brazil.”  Initial Share Sales  The bank is currently managing two initial public offerings
of companies that are controlled by private-equity firms.
Technos SA, a watchmaker, hired Goldman Sachs as joint lead-
manager and bookrunner with Credit Suisse. Itau BBA is leading
the group. Private-equity firm DLJ South American Partners owns
39.9 percent of Technos, while local asset manager firm Dynamo
has a 32 percent stake. Switzerland-based private-equity firm
Partners Group owns about 5.6 percent of the company and
executives and other investors own the remaining stake.  Qualicorp SA, a Brazilian health-insurance broker
controlled by Carlyle, is also listing shares. Goldman Sachs and
Banco Bradesco BBI are the bookrunners, and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch is leading the group.  Goldman Sachs is climbing in investment-banking rankings in
Brazil, and is back among the top 10 advisers of mergers and
acquisitions and equity sales so far this year for the first
time since 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  Telefonica Deal  The firm’s role in the second-biggest transaction so far
this year was to advise  Telefonica SA (TEF) , a longtime client that
simplified its corporate structure in Brazil in a deal that
included a merger between its fixed and mobile-phone assets. The
assets involved in the restructuring were valued at nearly 9
billion reais, according to Bloomberg data. Banco Santander SA
and HSBC also worked with Telefonica.  The bank worked on only one of the 20 equity sales that
have been priced this year, though it has been hired by two
companies to work on offerings that are expected to be priced in
the second half and would be among the biggest this year,
according to Bloomberg data.  In the first quarter, Goldman Sachs rose to the top of
Brazil’s M&A rankings. It’s in fourth place year-to-date,
compared with 20th for all of last year. Banco Santander SA is
the top-ranked bank. Goldman Sachs climbed to ninth among
underwriters of equity offerings, from 11th last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in Brasilia at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  