-- 
Gold, Jewels Adorn Exhibits of Holy Body Parts in London: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-06-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/gold-jewels-adorn-exhibits-of-sacred-body-parts-in-london-martin-gayford.html
“Treasures of Heaven,” an
excellent new exhibition at the  British Museum  in  London , is
full of precious objects. Gold and jewels glitter in dramatic
lighting.  To the original makers and owners, however, it wasn’t the
value of these sumptuous containers that counted but what was
within: dry bones, splinters of wood and sundry organic remains.  This is about the cult of relics, one of the strangest
aspects of Christianity to those who are non-Christians (and to
quite a few who are). Some of the exhibits, leaving aside the
fact that they are masterpieces of medieval craft, are surreal.  A life-size silver gilt representation of a head, made
around 1210 perhaps in Basel, contains nine pieces of human
skull. Allegedly, these belonged to St. Eustace, a Roman general
who converted to Christianity after seeing a crucifix between
the antlers of a stag.  Stranger still is a “Reliquary of the Foot of St. Blaise”
-- a 4th-century bishop from  Armenia . It’s a highly realistic
model from c. 1260 of what jazz pianist Fats Waller called “the
pedal extremities” of the saint from the ankle down, fashioned
from metals and rock crystal.  A few of the items on view go beyond mere oddity into the
territory of  Harry Potter . Toward the end of the show you come
across the “Griffin’s Claw of St. Cuthbert.” A griffin is a
mythological creature, half-eagle, half-lion. Its claws could
only be obtained by a holy person in exchange for medical
assistance. In 1385, St. Cuthbert’s shrine in Durham Cathedral
had two of them, plus some griffin eggs. Disappointingly, the
talon on display turns out to be the horn of an ibex.  Power of Relics  All of this -- from the point of view of the 21st century,
or even of a 16th-century Protestant reformer -- can seem
foreign to the point of being exotic. If you want to understand
art and life in the Middle Ages, however, knowing about relics
is important. They weren’t just an eccentric detail of medieval
religion. The power of saintly bones was a driving force.  The great Gothic and Romanesque churches had, at their
heart, almost always a shrine full of bones (or, perhaps, some
other holy remnant such as a piece of the True Cross or the
Crown of Thorns). These were the magnets for pilgrims, and a
source of revenue as important as the modern tourist industry.
The economy and political power of  Rome  from the late  Roman
Empire  to the Counter-Reformation was partly derived from the
fact that the city held the largest repositories of saintly
bones in Christendom.  Sacred Symbols  People traveled huge distances -- Kings Canute and Macbeth
from Dark Age Britain, for example -- because these relics
contained enormous spiritual power. They could work miracles or
remove years from a posthumous sentence of suffering in
Purgatory. The gold, silver, crystal and ivory shrines that
contained them were merely symbols of the inner sacred splendor.  That was the official line. At the end of the Middle Ages,
the wealthy were collecting relics with an avidity resembling
the frenzy with which billionaires amass contemporary art today.
By the 1520s, Frederick the Wise of Saxony owned 19,013 relics
(all junked when the Saxon state adopted Luther’s Reformation).  The reverence of relics may appear distant. Is it? Perhaps
we’ve just substituted fame for sainthood. The other day, a
dress that once blew up to reveal  Marilyn Monroe ’s legs changed
hands for $4.6 million. In comparison, valuing the bones of a
martyr, or even St. Cuthbert’s griffin claw, doesn’t seem so
bizarre.  “Treasures of Heaven: Saints, Relics and Devotion in
Medieval Europe” runs through Oct. 9 at the  British Museum . The
show is sponsored by John Studzinski, in association with
William and Judith Bollinger,  Singapore ; Betsy and Jack Ryan;
Howard and Roberta Ahmanson; and the Hintze Family Charitable
Foundation. Information:  http://tinyurl.com/3tb7rk5   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 