-- 
Goodyear Wins U.S. High Court Case on Foreign-Unit Suits

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-27T14:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/goodyear-wins-u-s-high-court-case-on-foreign-unit-suits-1-.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  overturned a
ruling that required three overseas units of  Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Co. (GT)  to face a lawsuit filed by the families of two North
Carolina boys killed in a bus wreck in France.  The ruling was one of two issued today that may give
foreign companies and subsidiaries a stronger shield against
legal claims filed in American courts.  A North Carolina state appeals court said the Goodyear
units had enough of a connection to the state to put them within
the jurisdiction of the courts there, even though the accident
took place elsewhere.  The Supreme Court has said in past cases that, under the
U.S. Constitution, defendants can be sued only in states where
they have significant contacts.  Julian Brown and Matt Helms, both 13, were killed in 2004
when a tire on their bus allegedly blew out, causing the vehicle
to crash into a concrete wall. They were in  France  to play in
youth soccer tournaments.  Goodyear contended that its three units make tires
primarily for European and Asian markets and that the tire at
issue was never distributed in North Carolina.  In a second case resolved today, the Supreme Court said an
English manufacturer can’t be sued over a  New Jersey  accident
involving one of the company’s metal-shearing machines.  The company, J. McIntyre Machinery Ltd., contended that it
never sought to sell its products in New Jersey. The New Jersey
Supreme Court said it was enough that the company had
distributed its machines elsewhere in the U.S., putting them
into the “stream of commerce.”  Robert Nicastro sought to sue J. McIntyre after the machine
severed four of his fingers in 2001.  The case is Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operation v. Brown, 10-
76.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 