-- 
Google Sued for $421 Million by Paris Rival for Ad Policies

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-28T09:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/google-to-be-sued-by-french-rival-over-claims-it-blocked-web-advertising.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  was sued in  France  by a
local competitor over claims the world’s largest search engine
blocks rivals from reaping advertising revenue and gives
preference to its own sites in query results.  1PlusV, a Paris-based web publisher, filed the lawsuit to
the Paris Commercial Court today, seeking 295 million euros
($421 million) in damages and an order that Google post details
of alleged “anti-competitive behavior” on its French home page
for three months, 1PlusV said in an e-mailed statement.  “Google employed a number of anti-competitive practices
and unethical behavior over a period of four years to cripple
1PlusV’s ability to generate business and advertising,” 1PlusV
said in its statement. These practices include “suffocation of
technological competitors” and “manipulation of ‘natural
results.’”  1PlusV has made similar complaints against Google in two
filings to European Union competition regulators last year and
in February, saying the  Mountain View , California-based company
discriminates against so-called vertical search sites like
1PlusV. Other companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have joined
with 1PlusV in asking for a review of Google’s practices.  “We have only just received the complaint so we can’t
comment in detail yet,” Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in
Brussels, said in an e-mailed statement. “We always try to do
what’s best for our users. It’s the key principle that drives
our company and we look forward to explaining this.”  The EU and U.S. federal and state antitrust regulators are
investigating Google to see whether it discriminates against
other services in its search results and stopped some websites
from accepting rival ads. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
subpoenaed Google on June 23 to review its search and
advertising practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 