-- 
GPS Device Used by Police Will Get U.S. Supreme Court Scrutiny

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-27T14:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/gps-device-used-by-police-will-get-u-s-supreme-court-scrutiny.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to
decide whether police need a warrant before they can use a
tracking device placed on a car to monitor a criminal suspect’s
movements for weeks at a time.  The case will mark the first time the high court has
considered how the constitutional ban on unreasonable searches
applies to global positioning systems, better known as GPS
devices. The court, which issued the final decisions of its term
today, will consider the case in the nine-month session that
starts in October.  The Supreme Court in 1983 upheld the use of a beeper placed
on a car to track a suspect during a single trip. The question
now is whether police can use GPS devices continuously over
longer periods.  Lower courts are divided on the issue. In the case before
the justices, a federal appeals court in  Washington  concluded
that “the whole of one’s movements over the course of a month”
indicates “far more than the individual movements it comprises.”  The three-judge panel overturned the drug conviction of
Antoine Jones, whose sport-utility vehicle police tracked for a
month.  The Obama administration contended in its appeal that “a
person traveling on public thoroughfares has no reasonable
expectation of privacy in his movements from one place to
another, even if scientific enhancements allow police to observe
the public information more efficiently.”  Jones countered that “even if an individual may expect that
his discrete journeys will be observed, he does not expect that
his movements will be tracked 24 hours a day for an extended
period of time.”  The Supreme Court has previously said that the central
question under the Constitution’s Fourth Amendment is whether a
person has a “reasonable expectation of privacy” that was
violated.  The case is  United States  v. Jones, 10-1259.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 