-- 
Li Ka-shing’s CKI Says It’s Weighing Bid for Britain’s Northumbrian Water

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-06-27T23:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/li-s-cheung-kong-infrastructure-weighing-bid-for-u-k-s-northumbrian-water.html
Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings
Ltd. (1038)  said it’s in the preliminary stages of assessing a possible
cash offer for the U.K.’s  Northumbrian Water Group Plc. (NWG)   Northumbrian shares jumped 30.5 pence, or 8 percent, to
413.5 pence in London yesterday, valuing the Durham, England-
based company at 2.1 billion pounds ($3.4 billion).  CKI, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , led a
consortium to buy Electricite de France SA’s U.K. power networks
for 5.8 billion pounds in July 2010. The billionaire has been
snapping up power, water and road assets in Australia, Canada
and the U.K. to counter price curbs in Hong Kong’s power market.
Hongkong Electric has assets in countries including  China ,
Thailand and  New Zealand .  The March purchase by U.S.-based PPL Corp. of EON AG’s
power grid suggests CKI may pay as much as 430 pence a share for
Northumbrian, Unicredit analyst Scott Phillips said in a note to
investors yesteroday. The transaction would “make sense” given
that “CKI missed out on the bid for EON’s Central Networks,”
Phillips said.  There can be no certainty an offer will be made, Hong Kong-
based CKI said in a statement yesterday.  Northumbrian Water  serves a population of 2.6 million
people in northeast England with water and sewerage services and
about 1.7 million people in southeast England with water. Before
yesterday’s announcement, the utility’s shares had risen 16
percent this year, boosted by speculation that the Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan is considering increasing its holding.
The pension plan controls a 27 percent stake in the water
utility.  Northumbrian Water has noted the announcement from CKI, and
its board confirms that it has not received any proposal that
could result in an offer or possible offer for the company, it
said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  