-- 
Microsoft Spurs Technology Rally as Amazon Shares Gain 4.5%

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-27T20:51:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/microsoft-spurs-rally-in-technology-stocks-as-amazon-gains-5-.html
Computer and Internet stocks led
gains in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
surged the most since September and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  climbed to
the highest level in six weeks.  Microsoft rose 3.7 percent to $25.20 at 4 p.m. in  New York ,
and Amazon advanced 4.5 percent to $201.25. Technology stocks in
the  S&P 500  increased 1.4 percent, the most among 10 groups in
the index.  Spending on computers by companies and governments in the
U.S. will grow 5.6 percent in 2011, about double the estimated
increase for gross domestic product, according to International
Data Corp. Since the S&P 500 bottomed on March 16, technology
shares have posted the third-worst returns in the S&P 500 among
the 10 industries.  “There probably was a bit more pessimism that was really
merited, and some of that pessimism is coming out,” said
 Michael Yoshikami , chief investment strategist at YCMNet
Advisors, which manages $1 billion in Walnut Creek,  California .
Investors “are putting back on some risk.”  Technology is the biggest industry in the benchmark measure
of U.S. equities, making up 18 percent of its value, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, gained a day
before Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  is scheduled to
discuss Microsoft Office 365, which is a subscription for cloud,
or Internet-based, versions of many of Microsoft’s Office
programs.  ‘Very Good’  “This idea of companies broadly adopting cloud-based
technology is very good for the group in general, and
specifically software,” said Brad Reback, an Oppenheimer & Co.
analyst in Atlanta. “There’s a real opportunity to continue to
drive strong secular growth for many of the software names.”  Amazon rose after Morgan Stanley added the world’s largest
online retailer to its “Best Ideas” list. Revenue and margins
are likely to beat investors’ estimates in the final three
months of 2011, the busiest period of the year for the company,
Morgan Stanley analyst Scott Devitt wrote in a note today.  Amazon is growing at more than twice the rate of the
broader e-commerce industry and will continue gaining market
share over the next five to 20 years, Devitt said. The company
is currently undervalued given its sales momentum and the
potential for margin expansion, he said. Devitt predicted that
Amazon’s stock will rise to $245 a share.  The S&P 500 rose 0.9 percent to 1,280.10 today after losing
2.1 percent in the past three days. The benchmark gauge for U.S.
equities has fallen 6.1 percent since its high on April 29.  “When you have days like this, you’d expect the market to
be looking for the right places to buy, and technology happens
to be a place people have been looking to buy,” said  Hayes Miller , the Boston-based head of  asset allocation  in  North
America  at Baring Asset Management Inc., which oversees about
$51.5 billion. “It’s time to be optimistic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  