-- 
IEA May Avert ‘Toxic’ Mix of Oil Prices, Rates, BP’s Ruehl Says

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-06-27T15:49:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/iea-may-avert-toxic-mix-of-oil-prices-rates-bp-s-ruehl-says.html
The  International Energy Agency ’s
emergency release of oil stockpiles may help avert a “toxic
combination” of rising prices and U.S. interest rates that fed
severe recessions, BP’s Chief Economist  Christof Ruehl  said.  The decline in the oil price after the IEA’s move last week
will persist only if the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries “accommodates,” Ruehl said at a conference organized
by Renaissance Capital in Moscow.  The IEA, an energy adviser to 28 countries including the
U.S.,  Japan  and  Europe ’s biggest economies, said on June 23 that
members would release 60 million barrels of stockpiles over 30
days, the third such move in the agency’s history, after OPEC
failed to reach a consensus on raising output at a June 8
meeting.  Oil prices  have fallen about 8 percent since the IEA’s
announcement.  “There was a recession in 1975 where we had this
coincidence of rising oil prices and rising interest rates and
one in 1983 and both were pretty severe,” Ruehl said. “History
tells us that this has been a toxic combination.”  Supply disruptions following political unrest in  Libya  and
the  Middle East  and Japan’s nuclear disaster helped push Brent
oil to an almost three-year high of $126.65 a barrel on April 8,
raising concerns about the effect on the global economy. Oil
lost as much as $2.84 today before trading down 20 cents at
$104.92.  The move may backfire. If OPEC cuts production, the IEA
will have lost leverage, PFC Energy Chairman Robin West said at
the conference.  ‘Shooting Themselves in the Foot’  The release may also harm the IEA’s relationship with OPEC,
Former OPEC Secretary General Rilwanu Lukman said.  “They are shooting themselves in the foot, because the
strategic reserve is for real crisis, real problems,” Lukman
said at the conference. “It jeopardizes the excellent
relationship that we already had between the IEA and OPEC.”  A price of $80 to $100 a barrel is sufficient to encourage
oil producers to invest while not damping demand, Lukman said.  A gap between oil supply and demand may have kept prices
for the rest of the year in the range of $110 to $115 a barrel,
creating the highest average annual oil price ever, Ruehl said.  U.S. “ interest rates  will have to increase at some point
quite independently of what happens to oil prices, so that half
is there,” Ruehl said. “That’s not a danger, it’s going to
happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  