-- 
Tiger Global, Singapore Are Buyers in Sun Art’s $1 Billion Hong Kong IPO

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-06-28T06:48:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/tiger-global-singapore-are-buyers-in-sun-art-s-1-billion-hong-kong-ipo.html
Sun Art Retail Group Ltd. , the
Chinese hypermarket operator backed by France’s Groupe Auchan
SA, plans to raise as much as HK$8.2 billion ($1.1 billion) in
a  Hong Kong  initial public offering.  The Shanghai-based company, which counts  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  among its competitors, plans to sell 1.14 billion new
shares for HK$5.65 to HK$7.20 each, according to a sales
document obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News. About half the
stock will go to nine so-called cornerstone investors,
including Government of Singapore Investment Corp. and Tiger
Global Management LLC, which agreed to invest $40 million each.  Sun Art is pressing ahead with its offering even after a
slump in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  prompted at least four
companies to cancel Hong Kong IPOs this month, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Casual-wear retailer  China  Outfitters Holdings
Ltd. withdrew a proposed offering yesterday, citing market
conditions. The Hang Seng Index is down 7 percent so far in
June, headed for its worst monthly performance since January
2010.  “China’s consumer market is a red-hot topic among
overseas investors,” said Chang Dongliang, an analyst with
Everbright Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Sun Art is especially
attractive for its capability to control cost and to maintain
profitably with new stores.”  Debt Repayment  At the high end of its offering price range, Sun Art’s
shares would be valued at 31.5 times estimated 2011 earnings,
according to one of the banks arranging the sale. Hong Kong-
listed  Wumart Stores Inc. (8277)  and Lianhua Supermarket Holdings Co.,
which run hypermarkets, supermarkets and convenience stores in
China, trade at 30 times and 20 times projected full-year
profit respectively, according to Bloomberg data.  Sun Art is the largest hypermarket operator in China, with
a 12% share of sales last year, according to a research note by
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , which is one of the banks arranging the IPO.
That puts it ahead of Wal-Mart, state-backed  China Resources
Enterprise Ltd. (291)  and  Carrefour SA (CA) , Morgan Stanley estimated.  The retailer plans to use about half of the IPO proceeds
to open new outlets in China and 30 percent to repay bank loans,
according to a sales document. The company began meeting
institutional investors today and plans to set a final price on
July 7 and start trading on July 15, the document showed.  Auchan, Ruentex  Sun Art made a profit of 1 billion yuan ($155 million)
last year on sales of 56.2 billion yuan, and unaudited first-
quarter profit surged 32 percent to 522 million yuan while
sales grew 27 percent, according to a June 20  filing  to Hong
Kong’s stock exchange.  Group Auchan is among the company’s “ultimate controlling
shareholders”, Sun Art said in the filing. The filing doesn’t
reveal how big Group Auchan’s stake in Sun Art is. Ruentex
Development Co. and  Ruentex Industries Ltd. (2915) , both listed in
 Taiwan , are also among Sun Art’s shareholders, the filing shows.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are managing
Sun Art’s offering as global coordinators.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,
China International Capital Corp.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Morgan Stanley are also arranging the IPO as joint bookrunners,
people with knowledge of the transaction said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  