-- 
Tim Pawlenty Girds for Romney, Embraces Reagan: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-06-27T15:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/tim-pawlenty-girds-for-romney-embraces-reagan-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Here is something I’ve learned you
shouldn’t say to candidates for next year’s Republican
presidential nomination: “So, I guess you represent the John McCain- Lindsey Graham  foreign-policy wing in this race.”  I made this observation the other day to  Tim Pawlenty , the
former governor of Minnesota, and he winced. It wasn’t a run of
the mill wince; it was, as they say, an audible wince. McCain
and Graham are both deeply crosswise with conservative
activists, the sort of people who participate in caucuses in
Iowa and vote in the New Hampshire primaries.  “I prefer that it not be that,” Pawlenty said, as his face
clouded over. “I prefer that it be my own views that are
referenced.” Later, he unaccountably returned to the issue. “I
wish you could think of another way to describe this wing of the
party, other than McCain and Lindsey Graham. I love John, but
that’s like saying we’re embracing Nelson Rockefeller on
economics.”  There is, however, no other way to describe Pawlenty’s
understanding of the world, and of America’s role in it. In a
Republican field that leans toward poll-influenced world-
weariness, Pawlenty embraces the muscular, no-apologies
interventionism of McCain and Graham. He listens to McCain’s
advisers, and he is critical of what he sees as a kind of
creeping fecklessness in Republican foreign policy. (See: Mitt Romney’s equivocating on Afghanistan in the June 13 New
Hampshire debate; also, much of what  Jon Huntsman  says about
foreign policy.)  Lack of Toughness  Before we met, in his sterile campaign headquarters in a
downtown Minneapolis office building, I assumed that I would
annoy Pawlenty most with the often-asked question about his
toughness, or lack thereof. He is seen, at best, as a
congenitally genial Minnesotan. At worst, he’s seen as something
of invertebrate, a reputation he reinforced in the Republican
debate when he declined repeated opportunities to say to
Romney’s face what he had previously said outside his presence.
(“Obamneycare” was the slur in question.)  But Pawlenty wasn’t perturbed when I asked whether he was
up to the challenge of managing the U.S. relationship with
 Pakistan ’s intelligence service, or of outmaneuvering the
Iranian supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. He provided
several reasons why he could handle such challenges.  “My record includes the first government shutdown in 150
years” in  Minnesota , he said. “I set a record for vetoes. I
allotted more money using executive powers out of the budget
than the previous 142 years of governors combined. And I got an
 A rating  from the tough-grading  Cato Institute . There is no one
in the field with that record of fortitude and strength.”  Counterintuitive Views  Even assuming that the Cato Institute is super-tough -- I
mean, Chuck-Norris-meets-Amy-Chua tough -- I’m pretty sure it
pales in comparison to the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps.
But as we spoke, I began to understand that Pawlenty’s approach
to foreign policy represents its own sort of toughness,
precisely because it’s so counterintuitive at this moment in the
Republican race.  Pawlenty isn’t trimming his support for the American
campaign in  Afghanistan , even though voters seem eager for it to
end. He’s frank in his desire to see the U.S. victorious in
Libya (victory defined as a dead or exiled  Muammar Qaddafi ). He
supports foreign aid as a tool of American power. And he is
cool-headed and analytical about the need for the U.S. to
support Pakistan.  “Are they double-dealing us? Of course,” he said, of
Pakistan’s leadership. “Should we demand better behavior from
them? Yes. But if you take away all the levers we currently have
in trying to get better behavior from them, you may find our
situation worse and the challenge bigger than what it is now.”  The  Libya  Question  I then asked him why our national security demands victory
in Libya, a country that poses no serious threat to the U.S. The
intervention, after all, was motivated exclusively by
humanitarian concerns.  “Initially, let’s say that was the case,” Pawlenty said. “A
quick, decisive decision by Obama in days, not weeks, to impose
a no-fly zone would have given us a very different result. But
once the president of the United States says that Qaddafi must
go, you just can’t let him sit there indefinitely and thumb his
nose at us. He’s a third-rate dictator who has American blood on
his hands.”  Pawlenty’s argument is not unpersuasive. “People who are
thugs and bullies respect strength. They don’t respect weakness.
And when you project a foreign policy that is equivocal, tardy,
uncertain, noncommittal, unprioritized, unfocused and naive, you
invite more mischief, more danger and more confrontation.”  Lessons From Lebanon  Lately, some conservatives have taken to praising President
 Ronald Reagan ’s decision to withdraw from Lebanon after the
fatal Marine-barracks bombing in 1983. As George F. Will  wrote ,
“When a terrorist attack that killed 241 Marines and other
troops taught Reagan the folly of deploying them at Beirut
airport with a vague mission and dangerous rules of engagement,
he was strong enough to reverse this intervention in a civil
war.”  Robert C. McFarlane, one of Reagan’s national security
advisers, has called this reversal a tragic mistake. “One could
draw several conclusions from this episode,”  he wrote . “To me
the most telling was the one reached by Middle Eastern
terrorists, that the  United States  had neither the will nor the
means to respond effectively to a terrorist attack.”  This is the lesson Osama bin Laden drew from Lebanon ( in a
1996 fatwa , he cited the U.S. withdrawal from Lebanon as proof
of American cowardice), and it’s the lesson his successors may
draw if Qaddafi remains in power.  Reconsidering Reagan?  I asked Pawlenty if he thought Reagan’s decision to
withdraw from Lebanon was wrong. He went silent.  “Am I putting you in the uniquely uncomfortable position of
criticizing Ronald Reagan?” I asked.  “I guess I would go back and say that my view, without
referencing a particular president, is that once the United
States commits to a mission, it’s really important that we
prevail. Because when you don’t, it diminishes the respect and
credibility and awe that other people view the United States
with. And our goal here is to avoid as many future conflicts as
possible by having our relative position be so strong and so
unquestioned and so certain that nobody dare challenge us.”  Finding a Spine  Pawlenty left me with the impression that his unwillingness
to confront Romney at the New Hampshire debate was aberrational.
He is the candidate who seems most attuned to the threats posed
by  Iran , by global jihadism, by a sudden U.S. withdrawal from
Afghanistan. His eagerness to stand up for a set of views that
seems unpopular among many Republican voters suggests the
presence of a spine.  Of course, his unwillingness to utter a bad word about
Reagan, even in a case in which he obviously believes Reagan was
wrong, suggests there are some conclusions that even the bravest
Republicans are unwilling to make.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 