-- 
IMF Says It Approved $683 Million Precautionary Disbursement to Romania

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-27T22:42:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/imf-says-it-approved-683-million-precautionary-disbursement-to-romania.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
approved a $683 million stand-by payment to Romania after the
Balkan nation trimmed spending to keep its  budget deficit  below
the target set under a precautionary loan.  The IMF board of directors agreed to make the funds
available as the government met the first-quarter budget-deficit
target and approved an increase in natural gas prices for
factories as of July, the Washington-based fund said in an e-
mailed statement today. Romania doesn’t plan to draw on the
disbursement, instead treating it as “precautionary,”
according to the statement.  “The authorities are on track to meet their fiscal targets
for 2011,’”  John Lipsky , acting managing director of the IMF,
said in a statement. “Further efforts are now needed to
implement deeper and challenging structural reforms in the
state-owned enterprise sector in order to secure the economic
gains from earlier reforms and enhance opportunities for
investment and growth.”  The east European country plans to borrow money from
domestic and international markets to fund its budget deficit
and attract investors through sales of energy stakes to help
spur its recovery after using bailout funds to keep the economy
afloat during a two-year recession. The government seeks to sell
minority stakes in the country’s largest oil company  OMV Petrom
SA (SNP) , natural gas producer Romgaz SA and its utilities Transgaz SA
and  Transelectrica SA (TEL)  this year and next to finance
infrastructure investments.  International Bailout  Romania, which had relied on a 20 billion-euro ($28.6
billion), two-year international bailout until this year,
obtained a precautionary agreement with the IMF and the European
Union valued at 5 billion euros. The agreement aimed to provide
a safety net during  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, and Romania
doesn’t plan to draw money from the new agreement as it has
sufficient reserves. Instead, the credit will act to reassure
investors, the government has said.  The government narrowed its budget deficit to 5.2 billion
lei ($1.75 billion) at the end of March. That met the 6.3
billion lei target set under the new agreement, compared with a
shortfall of 8.2 billion lei in the same period of last year,
after it cut public wages and froze pensions since July 2010.
The government plans to reduce  Romania ’s deficit to within 3
percent of GDP in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  