-- 
Indiana Road Burdened by Debt Reveals Public-Private Risks

-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 
2011-06-27T16:04:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/indiana-road-burdened-by-debt-reveals-public-private-risks-2-.html
The  Indiana  Toll Road might have
broken even last year with 10.9 million trucks traveling on it.
The actual count was less than half of that.  So operators of the 157-mile highway across northern
Indiana reported a $209 million loss, excluding some items. It
was the fifth straight annual deficit since they paid Indiana
$3.8 billion in the largest U.S. public-private road lease deal
to date. The venture is meeting its debt obligations only by
borrowing more money, and may default before loans mature in
2015, according to disclosures for a 2010 public offering of
 Macquarie Atlas Roads Group (MQA) , one of the investors.  President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers from both parties have
proposed expanding public-private partnerships, like the one in
Indiana, to close funding gaps for projects governments can no
longer afford. The Indiana experience may prompt investors to
pay less for projects while banks demand more money down,
according to Brad Guilmino, chief financial consultant at HNTB
Corp., a  Kansas City , Missouri-based infrastructure services
company.  “The way our politicians are selling this to us is crazy,
as if public-private partnerships are the answer to all of our
funding problems,” Norman Anderson, chief executive officer of
Washington-based CG/LA Infrastructure LLC, a consulting company,
told Bloomberg Government. “If the structure of a deal isn’t
good there will always be problems.”  Macquarie Atlas dropped 3.1 percent to A$1.71 in Sydney,
valuing the company at A$773.5 million ($806 million) in the
steepest share-price decrease since June 2. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index fell 1 percent.  Cintra, Macquarie  With  public-private partnerships , government agencies work
with investors to design, finance, build or operate roads,
bridges and other infrastructure.  In a recently announced deal,  Puerto Rico  said on June 20
that a group led by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to pay $1.1
billion to operate two toll roads for 40 years and to invest
$356 million more for improvements.  California ,  Illinois ,
 Michigan ,  Kentucky , and Georgia are among states also looking to
involve private investors in road and bridge projects.  Deal Structure  Cintra Concesiones De Infraestructuras De Transporte, a
unit of Madrid-based  Ferrovial SA (FER) , and Macquarie Infrastructure
Partners, an investment fund managed by  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  of
Sydney, jointly won the right to run the Indiana Toll Road after
their $3.8 billion bid  topped  the next closest  bid  by $1
billion. They each owned a 50 percent stake in Statewide
Mobility Partners LLC, the entity created to operate the road.  Crowe Chizek and Co ., now known as Crowe Horwath LLP, a
public accounting and consulting firm based in  Oak Brook ,
Illinois, valued the road at $1.92 billion at the time using
future cash-flow projections.  While Indiana’s toll revenue has almost doubled since the
investors took over, it’s still not enough to cover interest
expenses, according to Statewide Mobility Partners’ financial
statements. A loan default would transfer the road’s operations
to debt holders led by the Royal Bank of  Scotland , according to
the lease agreement.  Macquarie Infrastructure and Cintra put up  $760 million  in
equity and financed the rest through seven banks:  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  of Bilboa,  Spain , Banco Santander SA and
Caja de Ahorros y Monte de Piedad de  Madrid  SA, based in Madrid,
BNP Paribas S.A. and Dexia Crédit Local of Paris, Dublin’s DEPFA
Bank, and RBS Securities Corporation, a unit of the Royal Bank
of Scotland, based in Edinburgh.  ‘Great Deal’  Macquarie Infrastructure bundled several toll roads,
including the Indiana Toll Road, and spun them off last year as
Macquarie Atlas Roads Group, a publicly traded company.
Indiana’s toll revenue was  $164.2 million  last year, up from $88
million in 2005, according to Macquarie Atlas Roads, which after
the spinoff owns 25 percent of the concession.  By turning the road over to investors, Indiana received an
upfront payment and avoided more than $100 million a year in
operating costs.  “The state got a great deal for the toll road lease in
2006,” said Jane Jankowski, a spokeswoman for Indiana Governor
 Mitch Daniels , a Republican. “The lease agreement contains
numerous protections for the taxpayer and travelers and ensures
the continued successful operation of the road.”  Default Potential  Macquarie Atlas Roads’ 2010  prospectus  says revenue from
the highway is “expected to remain insufficient to cover debt
service obligations over the medium term.”  A  $150 million  line of credit had about $71.5 million left
as of Dec. 31, according to Statewide Mobility Partners’ 2010
financial statement.  “These reserves may be insufficient to support the project
until the existing debt facilities mature in June 2015,” the
prospectus said. “Should this occur, any default under the loan
documents may lead to lender actions which may include
foreclosure of the project assets or bankruptcy.”  The banks probably will extend the terms of the loan rather
than allow a default, said John Schmidt, a Chicago-based
attorney with Mayer Brown LLP who worked on the Indiana Toll
Road project.  Should there be a default, the banks would assume the lease
and could assign another operator with the state’s approval, he
said. If the operating standards of the road deteriorate below
parameters set by the contract, the state could take back the
road and assume the operating costs, he said.  Statewide Mobility Partners last year spent  $114.2 million 
on operating expenses, ranging from maintenance to toll
collecting, according to its 2010 financial statement.  ‘Not a Forecast’  The prospectus was prepared in 2009 during the global
financial crisis and deals with potential risks, Paula Chirhart,
a Macquarie spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “It was not a forecast and was never stated as a forecast
or an expectation,” she said. “We expect the Indiana Toll Road
to continue to meet its debt service payments as they fall
due.”  Patrick Rhode, a Cintra spokesman, said more vehicles are
using the Indiana road as the economy recovers. The reserve
account was created to cover financial gaps that occur over long
periods of time, he said.  “Nothing has changed since our last communication to the
market and we do not expect a default,” he said in an e-mail.  Toll road operators try to put as little money down as
possible and take on as much debt as the banks allow, HNTB’s
Guilmino said.  Fingers Crossed  “In this case their revenue projections didn’t pan out
because of the economy,” he said. “They’re going to have their
fingers crossed that traffic picks up and that financial markets
get better.”  About 5 million trucks, or “heavy users,” drive the
Indiana Toll Road a year, according to Kendra York, a
spokeswoman for the  Indiana Financing  Authority.  It would have required 5.9 million additional 5-axle trucks
traveling the full length of the turnpike and paying a toll of
$35.20 each to offset the losses that the lease holders reported
last year, according to calculations by Bloomberg Government.
The $209 million loss excludes derivative liability. Including
the liability, the loss was $260.8 million.  In  Ohio , lawmakers are considering a bill that would give
Republican Governor  John Kasich  the authority to seek a sale or
lease of the Ohio Turnpike, as the state faces a budget
shortfall of as much as $8 billion over two years. Kasich has
suggested the road deal might be worth $3 billion.  “Toll roads are extraordinarily stable over the long term
but they still have some short term risk from the overall state
of the economy and gas prices,” said Schmidt, the attorney who
worked on the Indiana project. “I suspect that if and when Ohio
goes forward you’ll see bidders who keep that more in mind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  