-- 
India Agrees to Allow a Limited Form of Cricket Umpire-Review System

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-06-27T12:56:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/india-agrees-to-allow-a-limited-form-of-cricket-umpire-review-system.html
India  agreed to a restricted form of
umpire decision review, accepting that some technology may be
used to check officials’ decisions, in a move that may defuse a
controversy hanging over cricket.  India’s decision opens the way for a common international
standard on technology use. The  International Cricket Council 
said today that its chief executives’ committee unanimously
recommended using the review system in all Tests and one-day
matches.  The decision, made at the  ICC’s  annual conference in  Hong
Kong , means infra-red devices and audio-tracking may be used,
for example, to judge whether the ball has touched the bat, but
ball-tracking will be excluded. The CEOs’ recommendation still
needs to be ratified by the executive board of the cricket
ruling body later this week.  India was prepared to accept infra-red cameras, such as Hot
Spot, and audio-tracking devices. It opposed ball-tracking
technology, such as Hawk-Eye, often used in leg-before-wicket
decisions, as not being accurate enough for a decision-review
system, or DRS.  The chief executives “agreed that further independent and
expert research will be carried out into ball-tracking
technology and its accuracy and reliability,” the ICC said in
an e-mailed statement. “The continued use of ball-tracking
technology as a decision-making aid will depend on bilateral
agreement between the participating Members.”  The Board of Control for Cricket in India said today that
it “always expressed its willingness to embrace technology, for
the betterment of the game.”  ‘Not Acceptable’  “However, the current ball-tracking technology, on which
the DRS system is based, is not acceptable to the board,” the
BCCI said  on its website . “The BCCI is agreeable to the use of
technology in decision-making, which will include infra-red
cameras and audio-tracking devices.”  “India will, for the first time since 2008, be agreeable
to using the DRS in a bilateral series when it tours  England 
from July onwards,”  Cricinfo website  reported.  The ICC also opened the way for smaller countries such as
the Netherlands and Ireland to take part in the 2015  World Cup 
after the CEOs recommended a qualifying process be used. They
didn’t make a recommendation on how many teams should take part.  Its previous decision in favor of a tournament of 10
“full-member” teams would have excluded the likes of Ireland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 