-- 
Indian Rupee Falls a 4th Day on Greek Concern, Costlier Diesel

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-06-27T05:07:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/indian-rupee-falls-a-4th-day-on-greek-concern-costlier-diesel.html
India ’s rupee fell for a fourth day
as investors favored the dollar’s relative safety over emerging-
market assets on speculation Greek lawmakers will fail to agree
on budget cuts necessary to get financial aid.  The rupee declined the most in a week on concern inflation
will accelerate after the government raised diesel prices on
June 24 for the first time in year. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will seek approval from his parliament on June 29 for
an austerity package to win more financial aid from the European
Union. Foreign funds have pulled $288 million from Indian
equities this month through June 23, exchange data show.  “The rupee remains vulnerable to spells of emerging-market
volatility as investors continue to be anxious about  Greece ,”
said Priyanka Kishore, a Mumbai-based currency strategist at
Standard Chartered Plc. “The Greek austerity vote is crucial.
The diesel price increase may weigh on the rupee too.”  The rupee weakened 0.3 percent to 45.11 per dollar as of
10:16 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency has declined 1.2 percent this quarter, the worst
performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies after the
 Thai baht .  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks dropped 1
percent, while the Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against the currencies of six major U.S. trading partners,
gained 0.3 percent, taking its advance this month to 1.7 percent.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.70 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 45.61
at the end of last week. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 