-- 
Indian Diesel-Price Rise to Stoke Inflation, Interest Rates

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-06-27T11:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/indian-diesel-price-rise-to-stoke-inflation-interest-rates-1-.html
India ’s decision to raise diesel
prices for the first time in a year will stoke inflation and
step up pressure on the central bank to extend its longest
streak of interest-rate increases in a decade, economists said.  Policy makers allowed state-run refiners on June 24 to
increase diesel costs by 3 rupees (7 cents) a liter, kerosene by
2 rupees a liter and cooking gas by 50 rupees for every 14.2
kilogram bottle. The decision, meant to cut government subsidies
and help limit losses at companies selling fuels below cost,
will add about 1 percentage point to India’s inflation rate,
according to Sonal Varma, an economist at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)   Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao raised the
benchmark repurchase rate at his last review on June 16, the
10th increase since the start of 2010, saying “domestic-
inflation risks remain high” and slowing economic growth may be
unavoidable. Nomura and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  predict another
quarter-percentage point move at the next meeting on July 26.  “There isn’t any relief from headwinds to inflation, which
is poised to accelerate after the fuel-price hikes,” Mumbai-
based Varma said in a telephone interview. “This was long
overdue; policy makers are faced with a difficult situation as
they have to control inflation on one hand and curb the deficit
on the other.”  India’s inflation rate is expected to climb to 8.6 percent
for the year ending March 31, instead of an earlier estimate of
8.1 percent, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts Tushar Poddar and
Vishal Vaibhaw said today in a report.  BRICS Inflation  India’s wholesale-price index rose 9.06 percent in May from
a year earlier, following an 8.66 percent gain in April. The
benchmark inflation rate is the highest among the so-called
BRICS nations after  Russia . Consumer prices climbed 5.5 percent
in  China , 9.6 percent in Russia, 6.55 percent in  Brazil  and 4.2
percent in  South Africa .  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government tells state-run
refiners to cap diesel and cooking-fuel prices to shield 75
percent of the population that lives on less than $2 a day from
price pressures.  In turn, companies including Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s
biggest refiner, depend on cash compensation from the federal
government to make up for a part of their losses, estimated at
1.2 trillion rupees ($26.7 billion) for the financial year
ending March 31. The subsidies are threatening Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee’s aim to narrow the  budget deficit  this year to
4.6 percent of gross domestic product, a four-year low.  Crude Oil  Crude  oil prices  in  New York  have risen 17 percent in the
past year, making the commodity more expensive for India, which
depends on imports to meet almost 80 percent of its demand. A 10
percent increase in crude costs may add as much as 2 percentage
points to wholesale-price inflation as input costs rise, the
central bank said in a report on May 2.  Domestic refiners last month raised gasoline prices by as
much as 8.5 percent.  “The current inflation trajectory will prevent the RBI
from lowering its guard,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based
economist at  Standard Chartered  who also predicts a quarter-
percentage point increase in the benchmark interest rate on July
26. With fuel-price “alignments, headline inflation is likely
to stay above 9 percent until November,” she said.  Prices may also come under pressure after the weather
office on June 21 predicted that monsoon rain, the main source
of irrigating farmlands, is likely to be below normal for the
second time in three years, potentially lowering farm output and
accelerating inflation.  Prime Minister Singh is relying on adequate rainfall to
boost harvests and slow inflation. Food inflation accelerated to
a two-month high of 9.13 percent in the week ended June 11, the
Commerce Ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  on June 23.
It gained 8.96 percent the previous week.  Higher fuel prices will result in a “temporary” increase
in the prices of goods, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, the prime
minister’s chief economic adviser, said today in Hyderabad.
Still, it will help to contain the fiscal deficit and was a
“calculated decision,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ; 