-- 
India Bonds Decline as Fuel-Price Increase May Stoke Inflation

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-06-27T11:49:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/india-bonds-decline-as-fuel-price-increase-may-stoke-inflation.html
India ’s 10-year bonds fell on
concern inflation will accelerate after diesel prices were
raised for the first time in a year.  A panel led by Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee allowed
refiners including Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest, to
increase diesel prices by 3 rupees (7 cents) a liter, kerosene
by 2 rupees a liter and cooking gas by 50 rupees for every 14.2
kilogram bottle. Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy made the
announcement after the close of trading on June 24.  “The increase in fuel prices can add to inflationary
pressures,” said R.S. Chauhan, chief dealer in charge of fixed
income and currencies at  State Bank  of Bikaner & Jaipur in
Mumbai. “Investors may refrain from adding to their holdings
for now.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent notes due April 2021 rose two
basis points to 8.26 percent as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai,
according to the central bank’s trading system.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised India’s inflation estimate
for the financial year that began April 1 to 8.6 percent from
8.1 percent after the government increased diesel, kerosene and
cooking gas prices on June 24, analysts Tushar Poddar and Vishal Vaibhaw said in a note to clients today.  Higher fuel prices will result in a “temporary” increase
in the prices of goods, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, the prime
minister’s chief economic adviser, said today in Hyderabad.
Still, it will help to contain the fiscal deficit and was a
“calculated decision,” he said.  Mukherjee aims to rein in the fiscal deficit within 4.6
percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year ending
March, the lowest level in four years.  The wholesale-price index, the main inflation gauge, rose
9.06 percent in May from a year earlier, compared with 8.66
percent in April, according to data published by the commerce
ministry on June 14.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
was little changed at 7.98 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  