-- 
International Court Issues Arrest Warrants for Qaddafi, Youngest Son Saif

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-06-27T15:48:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/international-criminal-court-issues-arrest-warrants-for-qaddafi-son-saif.html
The  International Criminal Court 
issued arrest warrants for Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , his
son Saif al-Islam Qaddafi and military intelligence chief
Abdullah al-Senussi on suspicion of murder and persecution.  The three men are wanted for killing, injuring, arresting
and imprisoning hundreds of civilians during protests against
Qaddafi’s regime that began in February, pretrial Judge Sanji
Monageng said at the  court  in  The Hague . Their arrests will
ensure the men appear before the court and prevent them from
committing further crimes and obstructing the probe, she said.  Following revolutions in Tunisia and  Egypt , “a state
policy was designed at the highest level of the Libyan state
machinery, aimed at deterring and quelling by any means,
including by the use of lethal force, the demonstrations by
civilians against the regime,” Monageng said today.  The U.S. and its European allies say Qaddafi’s four-decade
grip on the country that holds  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves is
nearing its end as economic pressure and NATO-led strikes on
troops and communication centers erode his capacity to resist
the spreading insurgency.  “There are reasonable grounds to believe that Muammar
Qaddafi and Saif al-Islam Qaddafi are both criminally
responsible as indirect co-perpetrators” for murder and
persecution by security forces in Benghazi, Misrata, Tripoli and
elsewhere in Libya, Monageng said.  Misrata Celebrates  Celebrations erupted in the streets of the besieged Libyan
rebel-held city of Misrata after the news of the arrest warrants
spread. Several thousand people, many bearing the Libyan rebel
tricolor, poured into the central Liberation Square while cars
hooted their horns in a long procession around the square and
fighters fired volleys of machine gun fire into the air.  “Today Gaddafi is wanted as a war criminal so everybody is
proud,” said Farouk Bin Hameda, a bearded English translator,
standing amid the crowd. The city, which has been under siege
for more than four months, continues to be struck by missiles
each night fired by pro-Gaddafi forces.  Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo had requested the
arrest warrants. Although  Libya  isn’t a party to the court, the
prosecutor was authorized by the  United Nations Security
Council , which called for an immediate end to violence, to carry
out the investigation in a resolution adopted unanimously.  ‘Ongoing Crimes’  “To prevent them covering up ongoing crimes and committing
new crimes, they should be arrested,” the prosecutor said in an
e-mailed statement today. “This is the only way to protect
civilians in Libya.”  Most African countries don’t recognize the court and aren’t
obliged to arrest Qaddafi. Even some states party to the court
have refused to execute its arrest warrants, allowing for
instance Umar al-Bashir, the Sudanese president indicted in 2009
for alleged war crimes in Darfur, to travel across the region.  “Maybe the National Transitional Council will form a team
to arrest him,” Mohammed el-Alaqee, the Libyan rebels’ justice
minister, told Al-Arabiya. “At least this decision will drive
away many of those surrounding him and so help protect
civilians.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 