-- 
Israel Says It’s ‘Determined’ to Prevent Flotilla From Reaching Gaza Strip

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-06-27T20:41:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/israel-determined-to-prevent-gaza-bound-flotilla-from-breaking-embargo.html
Israel is “determined” to prevent
an international flotilla from breaking its embargo on the  Gaza
Strip , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s office said.  Israel will aim for “minimal friction” with flotilla
passengers, according to a text message today from Netanyahu’s
office after a Security Cabinet meeting.  The Israeli government is concerned that organizers are
bringing on board chemicals they intend to use to attack
soldiers, said an Israeli official, who spoke on the condition
of anonymity. Among the passengers may be Hamas members and
others who “intend to spill blood of Israelis,” he said.  A previous flotilla’s attempt to reach Gaza ended in
violence on May 31, 2010, when Israeli naval commandos dropped
from helicopters onto the deck of the Mavi Marmara, part of a
six-boat convoy, and opened fire after the ship refused to stop.
 Israel  says people on board shot first and attacked with iron
bars, an allegation they denied. Nine Turks were killed.  “The flotilla participants have been very clear that they
are non-violent activists, and all the boats will be searched at
their points of departure to make sure that their cargo consists
only of humanitarian aid,” Akram Bader, flotilla spokesman in
 Jerusalem , said by phone.  Israel Sees Provocation  Israel has called the latest planned attempt to reach Gaza
a provocation and urged the international community to prevent
it from taking place. Netanyahu backtracked on an announcement
from the head of the Government Press Office yesterday that
warned foreign journalists that those who take part in the
flotilla may face sanctions, including arrest and a 10-year ban
from Israel.  “When this was brought to his attention, the prime
minister instructed that normal policies regarding
infiltrators” not be applied to the journalists, according to a
statement e-mailed today from Netanyahu’s office.  Ten ships will be leaving for Gaza over the next few days,
one of the flotilla’s organizers, Dror Feiler, said today at a
news conference in  Athens . He declined to say when he expects
the flotilla to reach the Hamas-controlled territory.  Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
U.S. and the European Union. The group seized control of Gaza in
2007, after winning parliamentary elections the previous year,
ending a unity government with Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas .  Audacity of Hope  The passengers of a boat due to depart for Gaza from Athens
said it was detained by Greek police after an Israeli group
filed a complaint against it. Those on the so-called U.S. Boat
to Gaza, also known as the Audacity of Hope, said in a statement
on their  website  today that they expect Greek authorities to let
them make the journey.  “Israel is trying to outsource the siege of Gaza to
 Greece ,” Feiler said.  If the boat isn’t allowed to depart Athens, the other ships
will still meet up in the coming days in international waters
and sail to Gaza, according to Bader. “If individual ships are
prevented from sailing, the rest will continue unhindered,”
Bader said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomerg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 