-- 
James ‘Whitey’ Bulger’s Bid for Lawyer to Be Heard Tomorrow, Judge Decides

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-06-27T18:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/james-whitey-bulger-s-bid-for-lawyer-to-be-heard-tomorrow-judge-decides.html
James “Whitey” Bulger, the accused
 Boston  mobster arrested last week after 16 years on the run,
will have his bid for a court-appointed lawyer heard tomorrow, a
federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Mark Wolf in Boston set the new date
today. He previously scheduled the hearing for June 29. The
judge scheduled a detention hearing on Bulger’s girlfriend,
Catherine Greig, for June 30.  Bulger, 81, asked the court last week to appoint an
attorney to represent him, arguing that he can’t afford one
because the government seized more than $800,000 from his
 California  apartment after his June 23 arrest.  Prosecutors opposed the request, saying Bulger may have
hidden assets and that his brother, William, a former president
of the Massachusetts Senate, might be willing to hire an
attorney to represent him.  “It is important that the issue of Bulger’s eligibility
for the appointment of counsel be decided as promptly as
possible to permit the case to proceed,” Wolf wrote in a
memorandum and order dated yesterday.  The fugitive mobster and Greig, 60, were arrested in  Santa
Monica , California, by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  after
authorities, acting on a tip, lured Bulger out of their
apartment, where the money and more than 30 weapons were found.  Bulger was wanted in connection with 19 murders and a
variety of crimes including extortion, loan sharking, bookmaking
and narcotics trafficking.  $2 Million Reward  He was one of the FBI’s Top 10 most-wanted fugitives. The
bureau offered a $2 million reward for information leading to
his capture.  The arrests came a day after the FBI’s Boston office aired
public-service announcements about Greig, who fled with Bulger
in 1995. She was wanted for harboring a criminal and isn’t
accused in any of his crimes, the FBI said in a June 20
statement about the ad campaign.  The case is U.S. v. Bulger, 1:94-cr-10287, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston):  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawren@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  