-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Advance as Europe Considers Debt Deal

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-06-27T23:29:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/japanese-australian-stock-futures-advance-as-europe-considers-debt-deal.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  rose on expectation Greece may be allowed to rollover
some of its bonds, helping cushion Europe from a banking crisis
that could destabilize one of Asia’s biggest export markets.  American depositary receipts of Nissan Motor Co., which gets
15 percent of its revenue in Europe, gained 0.7 percent from the
closing share price in Tokyo. Those of Sharp Corp., Japan’s
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, increased 0.7 percent.
ADRs of Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-largest bank,
climbed 1.3 percent.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,665 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,590 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,670
in  Osaka , at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index jumped 1.1 percent today.  “Investors are becoming more optimistic,” said  Fumiyuki
Nakanishi , a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co.
“There’s a sense that Europe is cooperating to avoid a worst
case scenario.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent today. The index advanced 0.9 percent yesterday in  New
York  after regulators issued capital rules to safeguard the
global financial system and technology companies rallied.  Euro Gains  The euro gained to 115.61 against the yen, compared with
114.05 at the close of  stock trading  in Tokyo yesterday, amid
optimism Greece’s parliament will approve austerity measures to
help avert the currency bloc’s first default. A weaker yen
boosts the value of overseas income at Japanese companies when
converted into their home currency.  Lawmakers in  Greece  are due to vote on a five-year
austerity plan this week that must pass for the country to
secure more international aid and avoid a default. Greece needs
loans from Europe and the International Monetary fund to cover
6.6 billion euros ($9.4 billion) of maturing bonds in August.  Greek creditors, the biggest of whom are German and French
banks, may be headed toward an agreement to roll over 70 percent
of their bonds into longer maturity debt. The move would give
Greece more time to meet its obligations and meet politicians’
calls for private business to shoulder some of the bailout costs.  “We’ve been working on this,” and hope other countries
will join the proposal, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said
yesterday at a press conference in Paris. Germany’s biggest
banks and insurers are weighing the French proposal, a person
familiar with the matter said yesterday.  Ricoh, Canon  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index lost 5 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 1.8 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 4.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.4 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.9 times for the S&P 500
and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  Shares of Japanese printer-makers including Ricoh Co. and
Canon Inc. may advance after the Nikkei newspaper reported the
European Union will cut tariffs on multi-function printers. The
decision will be announced June 29, according to the report,
which didn’t cite anyone.  Shares of Ricoh were bid at 874 yen, compared with 857 yen
at the close yesterday. Those of Canon were unchanged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 