-- 
Japan Considers $2.8 Billion for Tepco, Radiation Tracking in Draft Budget

-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-06-27T23:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/japan-considers-230-billion-yen-for-tepco-aid.html
Japan’s government is considering
about 230 billion yen ($2.8 billion) in outlays for aid to  Tokyo
Electric  Power Co. and radiation monitoring in its planned extra
budget, according to a draft outline prepared by the  Finance
Ministry .  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government has yet to release
details of the 2 trillion yen supplementary budget, which will
need parliamentary approval. Officials will apply 1.8 trillion
yen in  tax revenue  left over from the last fiscal year to help
fund the package, according to the document, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The spending would be aimed at a nuclear crisis that
remains unresolved more than three months after Japan’s record
earthquake and ensuing tsunami crippled Tokyo Electric’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactor north of Tokyo. The utility, which
has seen almost $37 billion of its market value erased, will
hold its annual general meeting today.  “The financial future of the company” is “in question,”
U.S. proxy adviser Glass Lewis & Co. said in a proxy paper to be
distributed to shareholders today.  Kan’s Cabinet this month submitted legislation to create a
public entity to help the company, known as Tepco, pay
reparations for the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl. The
budget will set aside 120 billion yen to help with compensation
for damage caused by the Dai-Ichi nuclear reactor disaster.  Health Care Fund  Another 78 billion yen will be used to set up a fund for
health care costs of people that were affected by radiation or
live near the damaged reactor, the document said.  The cost of dismantling the Fukushima plant may reach 20
trillion yen, and compensation for households in a 20-kilometer
evacuation zone may total 630 billion yen over 10 years,
according to the  Japan  Center for Economic Research.  The draft budget also earmarked about 80 billion yen to
help households that were indebted before the quake and now need
to borrow more for repairs. Additional funds will be devoted to
small companies affected by the natural disaster that left more
than 23,000 dead or missing, according to the proposal.  Damage to buildings, roads and infrastructure will be
around 16.9 trillion yen, the lower end of the government’s
initial 16 trillion to 25 trillion yen forecast, the Cabinet
Office said last week.  The government pledged 4 trillion yen in spending it its
first extra budget, which was used to build temporary homes and
clean up debris from the earthquake and tsunami.  Kan said he wants parliament to approve his second disaster
recovery package, authorize the sale of deficit-covering bonds
and enact a renewable energy bill before stepping down.  “I would very much like to see passage of these bills
before relinquishing my responsibilities,” Kan said yesterday at
a late night press conference after announcing some changes to
his Cabinet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoko Shimodoi in  Tokyo  at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net 
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  