-- 
Jefferies’ McCarthy Expects 3% Economic Growth in Second Half

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-27T16:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/jefferies-mccarthy-expects-3-economic-growth-in-second-half.html
Ward McCarthy , chief financial
economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in  New York , said he expects
U.S. growth to pick up during the second half of the year as
inflation without food and fuel costs reaches 2 percent in 2012.  “I do think we can do better than we’ve done in Q1 and
Q2,” McCarthy said this morning in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “I think that 3
percent or thereabouts is doable in the second half of the
year.”  The economy grew at a rate of 1.9 percent in the first
quarter, according to Commerce Department figures released on
June 24.  Consumer spending  unexpectedly stagnated in May as
employment prospects dimmed and rising inflation caused
Americans to cut back, Commerce Department figures showed today
in  Washington .  McCarthy said he expects the core consumer price index, an
inflation barometer that excludes fuel and food prices, to be at
1.5 percent at the end of the year and reach 2 percent this time
next year. The core CPI was running at 1.5 percent in May on an
annual basis while consumer prices including food and fuel, the
so-called headline inflation number, rose 3.6 percent last month
from May 2010.  “What we’re going to see in the months immediately ahead
is the divergence between headline and core inflation, with core
inflation continuing to tick higher and headline inflation
actually easing up somewhat,” he said in the radio interview.  Gasoline Prices  McCarthy said a decline in gas prices, which have retreated
since a $3.99 per gallon high on May 4, will help to bring the
headline inflation gauge down.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a press conference
after a meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee  on June 22
that the current slowdown is in part due to temporary factors
like supply chain disruptions caused by the March earthquake in
Japan and rising commodity prices.  Bernanke also said a “frustratingly slow” decline in the
 unemployment rate  is contributing to sluggish economic growth.
McCarthy said he expects unemployment to be about 8 percent by
Election Day 2012, down from its current level of 9.1 percent.  McCarthy said the “key variable” in Fed policy will be
whether the crisis in Greece affects U.S. economic conditions.  “Bernanke is very concerned about the potential for
financial contagion if there is a European meltdown and were
that to happen he would again open the floodgates rather than
tighten monetary policy,” McCarthy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  