-- 
Johnson Controls Auto Acquisitions on Hold for Now, Finance Chief Says

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-06-27T20:10:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/johnson-controls-auto-acquisitions-on-hold-for-now-finance-chief-says.html
Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , the largest
U.S. auto supplier, said it’s putting automotive acquisitions on
hold while integrating three recent purchases totaling more than
$1.2 billion.  “We need time to digest that,” Chief Financial Officer
Bruce McDonald said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in  Milwaukee . “On the auto side of the business,
we’re probably on little bit of a hiatus for the next, say,
year.”  Johnson Controls has bought three companies to boost its
automotive seating business since McDonald said in October that
executives would focus on auto-parts acquisitions. Now the focus
will likely shift to deals to support its building-efficiency
unit, McDonald said.  The seating and interiors unit had sales of $16.6 billion
last year, comprising 48 percent of Johnson Controls’ $34.3
billion in revenue. The efficiency business, which includes
controls and services for air-conditioning and security in
commercial buildings, had 2010 revenue of $12.8 billion. The
battery unit, the smallest, accounted for 14 percent of the
company’s sales and about 38 percent of pretax profit.  Since October, Johnson Controls has acquired Michel Thierry
SA, a maker of seat fabric; C Rob Hammerstein Group, a maker of
metal seat frames; and Keiper and Recaro Automotive.  Johnson Controls tried to buy part of Visteon Corp.’s
interiors and electronics businesses before Visteon emerged from
bankruptcy proceedings Oct. 1. McDonald said today his company
is no longer interested in acquiring Visteon and hasn’t had
discussions since that company emerged from bankruptcy.  “We were only interested in a portion,” he said. “To buy
a portion you have to have a willing seller.”  Johnson Controls rose 35 cents to $39.52 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company’s shares have
risen 3.5 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  