-- 
L.A. Dodgers Will Pay 10% for Bankruptcy Loan From JPMorgan’s Highbridge

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-27T19:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/jpmorgan-s-highbridge-to-collect-10-interest-on-150-million-dodger-loan.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers, which asked
at least seven lenders for money before filing for bankruptcy
today, will pay 10 percent interest on a loan from  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Highbridge Capital Management LLC, plus fees.  The one-year $150 million loan from Highbridge, a New York-
based hedge fund, sets interest at the London interbank offered
rate, or Libor, plus 7 percent, providing that Libor is no lower
than 3 percent, according to a court filing today.  The team can draw $60 million initially and $90 million
later. Highbridge, which will have first claim on the Dodgers’
assets, gets a $4.5 million deferred commitment fee, plus 0.5
percent of the unused part of the loan, payable monthly.  “This is a very expensive loan” for an entity like the
Dodgers, said  Lynn LoPucki , a bankruptcy-law professor at the
 University of California  at Los Angeles. “If the assets are
worth the $500 million the debtor claims, repayment is virtually
certain.”  The team listed assets of $500 million to $1 billion in its
Chapter 11 petition.  Darin Oduyoye, a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.
Dodgers assistant treasurer Jeffrey Ingram said in a court
filing that the team had “no adequate alternative,” as only
Highbridge “was willing to provide a commitment for financing
of a sufficient amount and within the debtors’ time
constraints.”  Coyotes Loan  The Phoenix Coyotes paid 7 percent for a bankruptcy loan in
2009 with no fees to the lenders, said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy
lawyer at Greenebaum Doll & McDonald PLLC in Louisville,
 Kentucky .  Companies in some industries paid more than the Dodgers for
bankruptcy loans. Borders Group Inc. this year paid as much as
13.5 percent for some loans, and Trico Marine Services Inc. last
year paid 14 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sbarro Inc. and Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. paid 8.75
percent for some loans in the past two years, according to
Bloomberg data.  Highbridge may be charging a higher interest rate because
of “the special nature of a sports team,” said  Stephen Lubben ,
a bankruptcy professor at Seton Hall University School of Law in
 Newark ,  New Jersey .  “The assets are not worth as much to a lender, because the
league can veto sales,” he said.  The  Texas Rangers , sold last year to a group including Hall
of Fame pitcher Nolan Ryan, needed approval of its bankruptcy
auction from owners of at least 23 of the 30 Major League
Baseball teams, as well as Commissioner Bud Selig.  Auction Delayed  The Coyotes had to delay the team’s 2009 auction after the
 National Hockey League  said Chicago Bulls owner Jerry Reinsdorf
and another bidder needed more time to improve their offers. The
NHL was the buyer in the end, paying $140 million.  “The Coyotes’ owner wanted to sell against the will of the
league,” Bowles said. Similarly, the Dodgers, in  discussions
in court filings of a television-rights deal with  News Corp. (NWS) ’s
Fox Sports that was rejected by the league, were “clearly
saying between the lines the Fox contract was a good deal,” he
said.  The Dodgers, which lost money last year as attendance
dropped and the team failed to reach the playoffs, have $40
million in payroll obligations on June 30 and July 1, according
to Ingram. At least four potential lenders of the seven
approached reviewed the team’s finances, and only Highbridge
agreed to provide all it needed, he said in the filing.  Deal Rejected  After the TV rights deal with Fox Sports fell through on
June 20, the team stepped up its effort to find other sources of
money, Ingram said.  Selig last week said the 17-year deal with Fox, which
Dodgers owner Frank McCourt said would have assured financial
stability for the team, would harm the franchise in the long
term. Baseball took over the team’s business operations about
two months ago.  The Dodgers have five bank accounts with  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , according to filings. Manny Ramirez, a former Dodgers
player, is the largest unsecured creditor with about $21 million
owing on a contract, according to court papers.  Andruw Jones is owed $11.1 million and Hiroki Kuroda $4.5
million. Rafael Furcal has a claim of $3.7 million. The Chicago
White Sox team is owed $3.5 million.  McCourt, a Boston real-estate developer who unsuccessfully
bid for the  Boston Red Sox , bought the Dodgers from Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  in 2004 for $430 million. He is fighting
with his ex-wife, Jamie, over ownership of the team. A judge
last year invalidated an agreement that Frank McCourt claimed
made him the sole owner of the Dodgers, leaving the team’s
ownership in limbo.  The case is In re  Los Angeles  Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York 
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 