-- 
Kan Aims for Passage of Japan Quake, Nuclear-Crisis Bills Before Resigning

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-06-28T08:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/kan-aims-to-pass-3-bills-before-resigning.html
Japan ’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said he intends to win passage of three bills responding to the
earthquake and nuclear crisis before stepping down, defining for
the first time conditions for fulfilling his pledge to resign.  Kan said he wants parliament to approve his second disaster
recovery package, authorize the sale of deficit-covering bonds
and enact a renewable energy bill in a session that was extended
until the end of August. Six in 10 voters favor him quitting by
then, according to a Nikkei newspaper poll published yesterday.  “I would very much like to see passage of these bills
before relinquishing my responsibilities,” Kan told reporters
yesterday after announcing changes to his Cabinet that included
naming a lawmaker from the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party .
Kan said today he aims to draft the country’s next stimulus by
mid-July.  Kan is under pressure from both the opposition and his own
 Democratic Party of Japan  to step down over his handling of the
March earthquake and tsunami that caused the biggest nuclear
disaster in 25 years. Katsuya Okada, the DPJ’s No. 2 official,
suggested on June 26 that Kan may leave next month if he can get
his agenda through parliament.  Kan survived a June 2 no-confidence motion after pledging
to resign once the crisis is contained. The conflict over when
he will quit has complicated efforts to push through
legislation, including authorizing 44.3 trillion yen ($547
billion) in  government bonds  needed to fund this year’s record
budget.  Opposition Undermined  LDP leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  said June 25 that “we will
cooperate” in approving the next reconstruction package
“speedily,”  Kyodo News  reported. Kan’s selection of Kazuyuki
Hamada, who yesterday resigned from the LDP, as parliamentary
secretary for internal affairs may undermine that cooperation,
political analyst Yasunori Sone said.  “This will enrage the LDP and make it more difficult for
Kan to get the bills passed,” Sone said. “A reshuffle by a
prime minister who’s already said he will step down is
unthinkable to begin with. The turmoil will continue.”  Ruling and opposition lawmakers today criticized Hamada’s
appointment. National Strategy Minister  Koichiro Gemba  said he
“didn’t understand” Kan’s intention, adding that “this has no
doubt raised a hurdle in negotiations” over legislation. LDP
Secretary-General Nobuteru Ishihara said Kan “seems to be
trying to prevent the passage of the bills.”  Stimulus Plans  The new stimulus to cope with the devastation will be about
2 trillion yen, Okada said earlier this month. The government is
considering about 230 billion yen in aid to Tokyo Electric Power
Co., owner of the Fukushima nuclear plant crippled by the quake,
and for radiation monitoring in its planned supplementary
budget, according to a draft outline prepared by the  Finance
Ministry .  Officials will apply 1.8 trillion yen in  tax revenue  left
over from the last fiscal year to help fund the package,
according to the document, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The prime minister’s approval rating fell to 26 percent
from 28 percent last month, while his disapproval rating rose to
65 percent from 62 percent, the Nikkei poll said. The newspaper
surveyed 893 voters from June 24-26 and provided no margin of
error.  Raising Taxes  The Japanese public is split over whether to raise taxes to
pay for rebuilding from the disaster that left nearly 23,000
people dead or missing and crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant. The Nikkei poll showed 45 percent in favor
and 46 percent opposed.  A government panel on June 25 recommended raising taxes on
income, consumption and corporate profits. Kan’s top economic
advisers are calling for doubling the 5 percent sales levy to
raise revenue and avoid adding to the world’s largest debt
burden.  Kan yesterday named Environment Minister Ryu Matsumoto to
the new position of reconstruction minister, and appointed DPJ
lawmaker Goshi Hosono as minister for nuclear-crisis management.
Justice Minister Satsuki Eda will take on the environmental post
as well.  Kan also met with Shizuka Kamei, head of DPJ coalition
partner the  People’s New Party , who told reporters he turned
down an offer to become deputy premier. Kamei said instead that
he will become a special adviser to the prime minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  