-- 
Khazanah, Temasek to Build $9.8 Billion of Projects in Malaysia, Singapore

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 
2011-06-27T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/khazanah-temasek-to-build-9-8-billion-of-projects-in-malaysia-singapore.html
Khazanah Nasional Bhd. and Temasek
Holdings Pte, the state-owned investment companies of  Malaysia 
and  Singapore , will jointly develop $9.8 billion of projects in
southern Malaysia and downtown Singapore.  The S$11 billion ($8.8 billion) Singapore developments will
include hotels, apartments, offices and shops in 501,020 square
meters (5.4 million square feet) of space in two main areas of
the city’s downtown, the two companies said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The 3 billion ringgit ($980 million)
project in Malaysia’s Iskandar region will have homes, retail
space and “wellness-related offerings,” they said.  “The development in Iskandar with Temasek will be highly
complementary and builds on the momentum of existing and planned
projects in Iskandar Malaysia, in which Khazanah has been
involved since 2006,” Khazanah Managing Director Azman Mokhtar
said in the statement.  The property ventures come as Malaysia agreed to move its
 railway station  in the city-state’s central business district to
a northern Singapore site close to a bridge that connects the
two countries, ending a decades-old dispute over land usage. The
two nations, united between 1963 and 1965, had bickered over
issues including a new bridge to link the two nations and the
price Singapore pays for water from Malaysia.  The joint venture for the Singapore developments, M+S Pte,
will be 60 percent owned by Malaysia’s Khazanah and 40 percent
held by its counterpart Temasek.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  and Mapletree
Investments Pte, both units of Temasek, as well as  UEM Land
Holdings Bhd. (ULHB) , partly owned by Khazanah, will build parts of the
Singapore developments, according to the statement.  Malaysian Project  The Malaysian project, which will be run through a 50-50
venture between Temasek and Khazanah called Pulau Indah Ventures
Sdn Bhd., will consist of 1.4 million square meters of space,
the two companies said.  The Singapore state-owned investment company manages S$186
billion of assets, including controlling stakes in six of the 10
biggest publicly traded companies by market value in Singapore,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Khazanah, which has 75 billion ringgit of assets, said
earlier this year it’s seeking to build new businesses and list
them within five years to accelerate  job creation  and economic
growth in Malaysia.  The train service by Keretapi Tanah Melayu Bhd., Malaysia’s
railway operator, will be moved next month, the governments said
in a joint statement yesterday. Singapore and Malaysia also
agreed to develop a rapid transit link system by 2018.  Singapore  previously  had said that Malaysia, under a 1990
Points of Agreement, agreed to relocate the downtown station to
a north-central site and later a northern location in exchange
for land that will be jointly developed by the two sides.
Malaysia interpreted the agreement differently and negotiations
to settle the issue had stalled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  