-- 
Naspers Looking at 30 Potential Acquisitions, Chief Executive Bekker Says

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-06-27T16:03:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/naspers-chief-bekker-says-company-is-looking-at-30-potential-acquisitions.html
Naspers Ltd. (NPN) ,  Africa ’s largest media
company, is in early talks with about 30 companies on potential
acquisitions to expand its Internet and e-commerce businesses,
Chief Executive Officer Koos Bekker said.  “Whether or not all of those, or any of those, will be
successfully concluded, I don’t know,” Bekker said in a
telephone interview from company headquarters in Cape Town
today. Naspers, the largest shareholder in Tencent Holdings
Ltd.,  China ’s biggest Internet company, held talks last year
with about 200 companies and ended up signing agreements with
only 20, he said.  Naspers acquired a 28.7 percent stake in Russian Internet
company Digital Sky Technologies Ltd. last year in a deal that
included contributing its 39.3 percent in another Russian
 Internet company , Mail.ru, to DST and investing $388 million in
cash. In  Latin America , Naspers acquired 68 percent of
classifieds business  OLX.com  for $144 million in August.  Bekker said he’s looking for similar opportunities, or to
invest more in existing businesses. “We’ll continue to grow
services in Eastern Europe,  Asia , Africa and Latin America.”  Naspers’s cash and equivalents increased 29 percent to 8.73
billion rand ($1.3 billion) in the 12 months through March, it
said in today’s annual earnings statement. Fiscal-year net
income rose to 5.26 billion rand from 3.26 billion rand a year
earlier.  Investing in TV  In Africa, the company will continue to invest in its
television-on-demand operations over the Internet, Bekker said.
“There’s quite a bit of growth left in television,” he said.  Naspers’s pay-television business added 977,000 subscribers
in the year ended March 31, taking the total to 4.9 million,
including 3.5 million in  South Africa .  Naspers is also considering whether it should build
distribution centers for its  Kalahari.net  online store in
Nigeria and Kenya, said Bekker.  The company won’t conduct any share buybacks, Finance
Director Steve Pacak told analysts in a conference call. The
company’s entrepreneurial nature means its priority is
investing, and it won’t seek ways to return cash to
shareholders, he said. “We’re still very focused on developing
the business,” he said.   Naspers gained 0.2 percent to 369.10 rand at the 5 p.m.
close of trading in Johannesburg, giving it a market
capitalization of 149.9 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  