-- 
Nebraska Book Files for Bankruptcy With Noteholders’ Support

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-06-27T17:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/nebraska-book-files-for-bankruptcy-with-noteholders-support-1-.html
Nebraska Book Co., an operator of a
nationwide chain of college bookstores, sought  bankruptcy
protection  with a pre-arranged plan supported by noteholders to
restructure about $450 million in debt.  The company, based in Lincoln, Nebraska, listed about
$657.2 million in assets and about $564 million in debt as of
Feb. 14, including the debt and assets of affiliates, in Chapter
11 documents filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  Nebraska Book reached an agreement on a restructuring with
the support of more than 95 percent of the holders of its 8.625
percent senior subordinated notes and more than 75 percent of
its 11 percent discount noteholders. The company said in a
statement today it will restructure about $450 million in loans
and bonds of its parent, NBC Acquisition Corp., and affiliates.  “This agreement solves balance sheet issues we have been
addressing for months,” President Barry Major said in the
statement. “We are clearing a path toward continued growth.”  “It will remain business as usual,” with little to no
effect on operations, he added.  Nebraska  Book started as a single bookstore in 1915 near
the University of Nebraska college campus, according to court
documents.  The company currently has about 280 stores on and off
campus. It also has one of the largest wholesale distribution
networks of used textbooks, supplying college bookstores with
more than 105,000 different book titles and selling more than
6.3 million books a year.  ‘Stagnant’ Profitability  The company said in court papers it was forced to seek
bankruptcy after “several years of declining or stagnant levels
of profitability” at bookstores, predominately those located
off campus. Debt maturity also constrained liquidity.  The textbook retailer has adapted its business strategies,
catering to the changing market by expanding its online presence
in recent years as well as developing a textbook rental program,
court papers show.  The company has more than $20 million of cash on hand, and
has commitments for a $200 million loan to help fund operations
while in bankruptcy, according to court documents.  Noteholder Control  Nebraska Book has proposed a restructuring that would turn
control of the company over to noteholders, court papers show.
“The plan is a remarkable result under the circumstances and
will result in the highest possible recoveries for all
stakeholders,” as well as a “full recovery by trade creditors
and other general unsecured creditors,” Chief Financial Officer
Alan G. Siemek said in court documents.  Under the proposal, $175 million in 8.625 million senior
subordinated notes would be converted into $30.6 million in
secured notes, $120 million in unsecured notes and 78 percent of
the new equity, according to court filings. Holders of the $77
million in 11 percent discount notes would receive the remaining
22 percent of the stock.  Secured lenders, owed about $26.3 million, and secured
noteholders, owed about $200 million, would be paid in full with
cash.  The case is In re Nebraska Book Co. Inc., 11-12005,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  