-- 
New Jersey Democrats Offer Christie Budget Alternative as Deadline Nears

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-27T14:19:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/new-jersey-democrats-offer-christie-budget-alternative-as-deadline-nears.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
and lawmakers clashed over whether Democrats’ alternative budget
is balanced as debate was to begin today on the plan and on
reviving a “millionaire tax.”  The $30.6 billion spending plan, which was introduced
yesterday, would send $1.1 billion in additional aid to public
schools above the governor’s proposal, according to budget
documents. Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat, said
raising the top income-tax rate by 1.78 percentage points would
yield $550 million more for public schools.  Christie, 48, last week said the state would have available
revenue of $30.3 billion for fiscal 2012, which begins next
month. The first-term Republican said the Democrats’ alternative
spending plan is out of balance by about $300 million, based on
projected revenue collections next year.  “The proposed budget from the Democrats is just more of
the same unrealistic, pie-in-the-sky, fantasy budgeting they
brought to  New Jersey  for the eight years before we arrived,”
Christie said June 24 in a statement. “This proposal reaffirms
the Democrats’ commitment to job-killing tax increases and an
unrepentant addiction to spending.”  Separate legislation authorizing the tax increase on income
over $1 million would raise the state’s top rate to 10.75
percent from 8.97 for the 2011 and 2012 tax years, according to
legislation pending in Trenton. The bill would tie the money to
full funding of the 2008 education-funding law.  Opposed to Increase  The governor has said he wouldn’t sign any tax increases.
By law, Christie can reject specific spending items without
killing an entire budget, using line-item veto authority.  “I know there’s not an appetite in my state for increased
taxes because people think government spends too much in our
state,” Christie said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  “If the governor wishes to dismiss out-of-hand a balanced
budget that does not raise taxes, funds our schools, provides
real property tax relief to seniors and protects our most
vulnerable without even waiting to read it, that is his right,”
Sweeney, 52, said in a June 24 statement. He said doing so is
“irresponsible and an affront to the working families who are
shouldering the burden” of Christie’s past budget decisions.  Spending Freeze  Last year, Christie froze $2.2 billion in spending after
taking office, saying the state’s financial picture had eroded.
He has cut about $1.3 billion in aid to local schools since
taking office in January 2010. New Jersey’s  Supreme Court  last
month ordered a $500 million increase in funding for schools in
poor and urban districts in the next fiscal year.  Christie has said he would consider any plan from Democrats
to comply with the high court directive without raising taxes.  “It’s not theater, it’s about principles,” Sweeney, of
West Deptford, told reporters June 23 when he announced the
proposals for the budget and high-income levy in his Trenton
office. “We’re standing up for our principles.”  Lawmakers and Christie must have a budget in place by June
30 or face a government shutdown when the fiscal year begins
July 1. Both the governor and Sweeney have said they expect to
meet that deadline.  “New Jerseyans cannot afford more of Governor Christie’s
budget policies,” said Sheila Oliver, a Democrat and the
Assembly’s speaker, in a June 24 statement. “His budget
policies have done nothing to improve the lives of working class
New Jerseyans suffering under his property tax increases and
high unemployment.”  ‘Out of Balance’  The Democrats’ budget proposal “will be out of balance the
minute it is introduced,” Senate Minority Leader Tom Kean, a
Republican from Westfield, said June 24 in a statement.
Christie’s 2012 revenue forecast projects added growth of about
$500 million compared with an initial forecast, while the
Democrats’ plan counts on $800 million more than the forecast.  Brigid Harrison , who teaches law and politics at  Montclair
State University , said the Democrats aim to limit voter backlash
to their support for Christie’s curbs on pensions and health
benefits for government workers. The overhaul passed the
Legislature after Democrats including Sweeney and Oliver voted
with Republicans.  All state lawmakers face elections in November. Unions have
traditionally aligned themselves with Democrats in New Jersey.  “There’s a lot of dissension among Democrats and it’s an
attempt to assuage their base,” Harrison said June 24 by
telephone. “This ship is not sailing, but it enables them to
use it as a 30-second sound bite in the election.”  The Democrats’ spending plan also would direct $50 million
for police in high-crime cities and include $1 million for
women’s health care, which both took cuts in Christie’s previous
budget. The Democrats also would expand the earned-income tax
credit for the working poor, Sweeney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 