-- 
New Jersey Democrats Back $30.6 Billion Alternative Budget

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-27T23:07:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/new-jersey-democrats-back-30-6-billion-alternative-budget-2-.html
New Jersey Democrats on Assembly and
Senate budget committees approved a $30.6 billion spending plan
for next fiscal year that’s as much as $1 billion larger than
one proposed by Governor  Chris Christie .  The Democratic plan, approved in Trenton today, adds $1.1
billion more for public schools than the governor proposed. A
separate measure to increase the state’s top income-tax rate
would add $550 million to that. The budget passed the Assembly
committee 8-4 and was approved 8-5 in the Senate, with all
Republicans opposed.  “Unlike the governor’s plan, this budget plan invests in
education in every community throughout the state,” Assembly
Budget Chairman  Louis Greenwald , a Democrat from  Cherry Hill ,
said in a statement.  The Assembly committee also approved legislation
authorizing a tax increase on incomes over $1 million that would
raise the state’s top rate to 10.75 percent from 8.97 percent
for the 2011 and 2012 tax years. Sponsor Assemblyman John McKeon, a Democrat from  West Orange , said about 16,000 filers
would pay the higher rate.  Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat, said raising
the top rate would yield $550 million more for suburban public
schools.  Christie, 48, a first-term Republican, has said he won’t
sign any tax increases. Under his line-item veto authority, he
can reject specific spending items without killing an entire
budget.  Appetite for Taxes  “I know there’s not an appetite in my state for increased
taxes because people think government spends too much in our
state,” Christie said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  The full chambers are scheduled to vote on the Democrats’
plan as soon as June 29. The Legislature and governor must
approve a balanced budget before the July 1 start of the fiscal
year or face a government shutdown. Both sides have said they
expect to meet the deadline.  Christie froze $2.2 billion in spending, including about
$1.3 billion in aid to local schools, since taking office in
January 2010.  New Jersey ’s  Supreme Court  last month ordered a
$500 million increase in funding for schools in poor and urban
districts in the next fiscal year.  Christie has said he would consider any plan from Democrats
to comply with the high court directive without raising taxes.  Standing on Principle  “It’s not theater, it’s about principles,” Sweeney, of
West Deptford, told reporters June 23 when he announced the
Democrats’ proposals. “We’re standing up for our principles.”  The Democrats’ budget proposal “will be out of balance the
minute it is introduced,” Senate Minority Leader Tom Kean, a
Republican from Westfield, said June 24 in a statement.  Christie’s 2012 revenue forecast projects added growth of
about $500 million compared with an initial forecast, while the
Democrats’ plan counts on $800 million more than the forecast.  Brigid Harrison , who teaches law and politics at  Montclair
State University , said the Democrats aim to limit voter backlash
to their support for Christie’s curbs on pensions and health
benefits for government workers. The overhaul passed the
Legislature after Democrats including Sweeney and Sheila Oliver,
the Assembly’s speaker, voted with Republicans.  All state lawmakers face elections in November. Unions have
traditionally aligned themselves with Democrats in New Jersey.  “There’s a lot of dissension among Democrats and it’s an
attempt to assuage their base,” Harrison said June 24 by
telephone. “This ship is not sailing, but it enables them to
use it as a 30-second sound bite in the election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 