-- 
News Corp. Seeks to Limit Release of U.K. Police Files on Phone-Hacking

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-06-27T14:14:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/news-corp-seeks-to-limit-release-of-u-k-police-files-on-phone-hacking.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  is pushing to limit the
number of police files handed over to claimants suing the
company over phone hacking at its News of the World newspaper.  Michael Silverleaf, a lawyer representing News Corp.’s U.K.
unit, told a judge at a pre-trial hearing in  London  today that,
rather than trawl through all the phone records, faxes and
invoices seized by police during its investigation, there should
be limited disclosure.  “We are concerned about the costs and the efficiency of
the exercise,” Silverleaf said, adding that News Corp. has
already admitted it was at fault and wants to “minimize the
scope of litigation and maximize the benefits to individual
claimants.”  While asking lawyers for plaintiffs to consider
Silverleaf’s proposal, Judge Geoffrey Vos said he was concerned
by any attempt to limit disclosure given the amount of public
interest in the case.  News Corp. apologized in April and offered some plaintiffs
settlements in the case, in which journalists and investigators
linked to News of the World are accused of illegally accessing
the mobile-phone messages of politicians, celebrities and
athletes to get stories. News Corp.’s News International unit
agreed to pay sports commentator Andy Gray 20,000 pounds and
actress  Sienna Miller  100,000 pounds.  Four people have been arrested by U.K. police in the latest
probe into phone hacking at the paper, including its former news
editor Ian Edmondson and chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck in
April.  Lawyers for the more than two dozen public figures suing
the News of the World have already been given documents
containing the names of their clients. Names of people not
involved in the case will be redacted to protect their
identities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  