-- 
Nissan Aims to Boost Market Share, Margin

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-06-27T07:25:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/nissan-aims-to-boost-market-share-margin.html
Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s second-
largest automaker, aims to increase its share of the global car
market to 8 percent over the next six years as the company
expands in fast-growing emerging economies.  Nissan plans to boost its share from 5.8 percent in the
year ended March 31 and to widen its operating profit margin to
8 percent from 6.1 percent by fiscal 2016, the Yokohama-based
carmaker said in a midterm plan announced today. The company
will introduce 51 new models over the next six years as it aims
to capture 10 percent of global luxury-car sales, according to
the plan. Nissan will also build a new plant in  Brazil .  The automaker plans to increase sales in emerging economies
and to capture a larger share of the high-margin luxury-car
market as growth slows in Japan. Nissan aims to control 10
percent of  China ’s auto market by fiscal 2016, compared with 6.2
percent now, it said today.  “Nissan’s growth in China is still steady, even as overall
growth is gradually slowing down,” said Takeshi Miyao, an
analyst at consulting company Carnorama in Tokyo. “Their
scenario for expanding in emerging markets such as  Russia  and
 South America  looks solid, too, with plans to build factories in
Brazil and India.”  The company aims for a 25 percent payout dividend ratio in
the six-year period, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said.  Brazil Plant  Nissan aims to expand its market share in Brazil to 5
percent from 1.2 percent now. The new plant in the country will
have capacity to build 200,000 vehicles a year, the company said,
without giving a timeline for construction.  In  India , the carmaker plans to add five new models to be
built in Chennai. In China, it plans to announce a midterm plan
with partner Dongfeng Motor Group Co. next month. In the
Association of South East Asian Nations, Nissan aims to increase
its market share to 15 percent from 6 percent.  Nissan said it also plans to increase its global
dealerships to 7,500 from 6,000.  “Our company has a proven track record of achieving
challenging objectives,” Ghosn said in a statement, calling the
six-year Nissan Power 88 plan “demanding.”  Toyota’s Plan  Larger rival Toyota Motor Corp. announced its mid-term plan
on March 9. Toyota aims to sell half its vehicles in emerging
markets and roll out 10 more hybrid models as part of efforts to
make at least 1 trillion yen ($12 billion) in operating profit
by 2015, compared with 468 billion yen last fiscal year.  Nissan shares rose 0.1 percent to 845 yen as of the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Tokyo, before the announcement. The shares
have gained 9.3 percent this year.  The carmaker plans to introduce seven electric-vehicle
models in addition to its Leaf car, Ghosn said. Nissan and its
French partner  Renault SA (RNO)  aims for 1.5 million cumulative
electric vehicle sales by fiscal 2016, he said.  Nissan, which formed a partnership with  Daimler AG (DAI)  last
year, said today the carmakers are working together on a fuel-
cell model.  Ghosn said he expects industrywide sales of at least 90
million vehicles by fiscal 2016. The automaker plans to sell at
least 10 models under its Infiniti luxury brand in 70 markets by
then, he said.  Profit Decline  Nissan predicted last week full-year profit will fall 15
percent after Japan’s March 11 earthquake disrupted production
and sales and the yen strengthened. Net income may decline to
270 billion yen in the 12 months ending March 31, the company
said at the time.  Nissan expects to resume full production globally by
October. The carmaker’s global vehicle sales may rise 9.9
percent to 4.6 million this fiscal year, it said last week.  The Japanese currency advanced 15 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  last year and reached a postwar record of 76.25 on March
17. Nissan is basing the six-year plan on a rate of 85 yen to
the dollar.  Nissan plans to increase Japanese production of its higher-
value models including Infiniti models, electric cars and light
commercial vehicles to help cope with the yen’s appreciation,
Ghosn said last week. The carmaker will also source more parts
from China and  Thailand  for its plants in Japan, he said at the
time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  