-- 
No Williams Sister in a Wimbledon Quarterfinal Match Is a First Since 2006

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-27T19:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/no-williams-sister-in-a-wimbledon-quarterfinal-match-is-a-first-since-2006.html
For the first time since 2006, there
won’t be a Williams sister in the Wimbledon quarterfinals.  Defending champion Serena was ousted in the fourth round by
 France ’s Marion Bartoli 6-3, 7-6 (8-6) on Court 1 today. Then
her sister and five-time champion Venus lost on Centre Court to
 Bulgaria ’s Tsvetana Pironkova 6-2, 6-3.  The sisters have dominated tennis’s All England Club for a
decade, taking nine of the past 11 singles titles. They also won
four doubles championships together on the London grass courts.  “You win some and you lose some,” four-time champion
Serena, the pre-tournament favorite even after almost a year out
with illness and injury, said in a news conference. “Today just
happened to be the one that slipped under me.”  It’s the fourth time the siblings have lost in a major at
the same stage. They exited the 2008 French Open in the third
round, and the 2008 Australian Open in the quarterfinals. They
went out in the last eight in Paris in 2004, according to the
WTA Tour.  “Definitely not our best day,” Venus Williams said in a
news conference after Pironkova beat her at Wimbledon for the
second straight year. “We both envisioned seeing this day
going a little bit different.”  Serena was playing only her second tournament after missing
49 weeks with a foot injury that required two operations and
then treatment for blood clots in her lungs. She was trying to
equal  Germany ’s Steffi Graf in winning three straight Wimbledon
titles. It was her earliest loss there since the third round in
2005, and she’s the first reigning women’s champion to lose
before the quarterfinals since France’s Amelie Mauresmo in 2007.  ‘Tried Not to Watch’  Venus had heard about Serena’s defeat shortly before
starting her match against Pironkova. It was played in front of
 Prince William , grandson of  Queen Elizabeth II , and his wife the
Duchess of Cambridge in the royal box.  “I tried not to watch the match,” said Venus, 31. “It’s
a little distracting. My loss today is just my own doing. But I
feel positive because I’m still playing great tennis and my
game’s just going better and better, obviously except for this
round,” said the American, who missed five months this season
with hip and abdominal injuries.  Moving  Serena Williams  all over the court from the start
with her ground strokes, the double-handed Bartoli took the
first set 6-3.  “I felt like I could come back,” Serena said. “No matter
what, when I lose a first set, I’m automatically planning on
what I’m going to do in the third set, not even the second. So I
never doubted myself. I just thought, OK, I’m just going to win
these couple points and pull out the tiebreaker, which didn’t
quite happen.”  Volleyed Wide  In the second set, both players held serve until 5-5, when
Bartoli broke as the American hit a backhand volley wide on
breakpoint. In the next game, Williams saved three match points.
In the tie-break, the American saved a fourth match point with
an ace at 5-6. Serving for the match leading 7-6, Bartoli moved
to the quarterfinals with a service winner.  “Especially on the match point in the tiebreak, that serve
definitely helped me,” Bartoli said.  Bartoli, runnerup to Venus in 2007, produced 10 aces, two
more than Williams. Bartoli had 21 winners and 17 unforced
errors. The American had 29 winners and made 20 mistakes.  “She played well,” Serena said. “She should always play
like this, and she would be in the top five at minimum.  It’s
like, Wow, where is this player throughout the rest of the
year?”  Venus Williams  couldn’t explain her loss against Pironkova,
who’d entered Wimbledon having won just four matches in 14
tournaments.  “I missed some overheads and swinging volleys, shots I
never miss, approach shots,” Venus said. “That wasn’t
especially encouraging. It’s just not always easy to find the
rhythm right away. I just couldn’t do it today.”  Unforced Errors  Venus made 16 unforced errors, while Pironkova had nine.
The American hit 20 winners, 10 more than her 33rd-ranked
opponent.  Both Williams sisters said they’re looking forward to the
American hard-court season, which ends with the U.S. Open at the
end of August.  “I haven’t played on the hard courts in what feels like
years,” Serena said. “It’s clearly my favorite surface.”  She’s won the year’s final Grand Slam event three times,
while Venus has taken the title twice.  “I did really well, just being able to come back and play
and win some matches, and just really play tough,” Serena said.
“Today I lost, but I was able to kind of hang in there and play
tough. I can only get better, and that can potentially be really
scary because I can only go up from here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  