-- 
Novo Nordisk Seeks ‘Any Time’ Label for New Insulin

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-09-14T11:26:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/novo-seeks-any-time-label-for-new-insulin-to-woo-diabetics.html
(Corrects executive’s title in second paragraph of story
published June 27.)  Novo Nordisk A/S will seek to have
its newest product degludec approved for use at any time to
boost its appeal compared with Sanofi’s Lantus and other
insulins that have more stringent dosing requirements.  “We would like to have the first insulin that can be used
’any time on any day’,” Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen, chief science
officer at the world’s biggest insulin maker, said. “All other
insulins have to be used ‘same time every day’.”  Novo wants degludec to overtake Lantus as the single best-
selling insulin worldwide. The Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based company
has said it will seek regulatory approval for the drug by Jan.
1. Diabetics inject insulin if they don’t make enough of the
hormone to prevent sugar from building up in their blood,
causing complications including heart and kidney disease.  “There’s a clear battle going on currently,” between Novo
and Sanofi, Michael Novod, a Copenhagen-based analyst at  Nordea
Markets , said today in a note to investors. “Novo with degludec,
given the strong data, will be victorious versus Lantus over
time.”  Results of clinical trials that Novo released June 25
showed sugar levels of patients taking degludec remained steady
even when they waited as long as 40 hours between shots. The
trials also showed patients were less likely to have dangerously
low sugar levels, Novo said.  The inconvenience of injecting the medicine and fears of
too-low blood sugar, which can cause comas and death, lead some
diabetics to delay injections even as the disease worsens. One-
third of patients  surveyed  by U.S. researchers in 2008 and not
yet on the medicine said they were unwilling to take it.  “We now hope that this insulin will become the first that
allows, for example, people forgetting to inject their morning
dose to take it when they come back from work,” Thomsen said in
a June 24 e-mail in response to questions.  The number of people with the disease climbed to 347
million in 2008, compared with 153 million in 1980, according to
new estimates by researchers funded by the  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation  and the  World Health Organization  and published June
25 in the medical journal  The Lancet .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  