-- 
Obama Wants to Scrap $72-Billion Business Tax Break as Republicans Balk

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-06-27T18:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/obama-targets-72-billion-business-tax-break-republicans-balk.html
Barack Obama’s proposal to end a
business tax break worth $72 billion is among the tensions the
president may confront as he meets today with Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  in an effort to revive bipartisan talks
over reducing the debt.  Ending the so-called last-in-first-out, or LIFO, provision,
a method of accounting for inventory costs, was among options
offered by White House officials for raising $400 billion in
revenue over 10 years during seven weeks of negotiations led by
Vice President  Joe Biden , three persons familiar with the issue
said on the condition of anonymity because they weren’t
authorized to comment publicly.  “We think this is part of simplifying the  tax code ” and
leveling the playing field for companies, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said today. He used the example of an  oil
company  that bought oil when prices lower and sells it when the
price is higher, declaring its profit based on the higher price.
“We just don’t think that’s right,” he said.  Approximately 12 percent of the companies on the  S&P 500
Index  have a total of $62 billion in LIFO reserves in 2010, and
energy companies account for more than 82 percent of these
reserves, according to an analysis by Bloomberg Government. They
make up 8 of the top 10 firms with the largest LIFO reserve.  Debt Limit  Republicans want a multitrillion-dollar debt-reduction
package as part of a vote to increase the nation’s $14.3
trillion borrowing limit by Aug. 2. The LIFO provision was among
possible revenue increases that Republicans opposed when the
Biden talks, which included two Republicans and four Democrats,
collapsed last week. Biden criticized Republicans for trying to
keep President George W. Bush-era tax breaks while advocating
cuts in Medicare.  “We’re never going to solve our debt problem if we ask
only those who are struggling in this economy to bear the burden
and let the most fortunate among us off the hook,” Biden said
at the Ohio Democratic Party’s annual dinner at the Greater
Columbus Convention Center June 25. “Not only is it unfair to
do what they’re calling for, but I think it borders on being
immoral.”  An administration official told reporters June 24 that
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  and Senator  Jon Kyl , the
chamber’s No. 2 Republican, walked out because they were
unwilling to accept any tax increases.  Oil and Gas Subsidies  Among these were ending subsidies for oil and gas companies
and breaks for corporate jets and tax breaks for Americans
earning more than $500,000 a year, according to Representative
 Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat who participated in the
talks.  Obama and Republican leaders now must bridge the divide as
pressure builds for a deal. Moody’s Investors Service this month
said it will put the U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under
review for a downgrade unless there’s progress on raising the
debt limit by mid-July. Pacific Investment Management Co. LLC
Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian said on CNN that a
short-term U.S. default on its debt might have “catastrophic”
legal consequences.  Administration officials including Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  have said they are confident a debt-limit deal
can be reached by Aug. 2. Still, Democrats and Republicans so
far are dug in on their negotiating positions.  McConnell said his goal at today’s White House meeting is
to get agreement from Obama that tax increases won’t be part of
the negotiations.  ‘Seen the Consequences’  “We have seen the consequences of giving Washington a
blank check,” McConnell said today on the Senate floor. “My
message to the president is simple: It’s time for Washington to
focus on fixing itself. It’s time Washington take the hit, not
the taxpayers.”  Democrats aren’t backing down. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi yesterday said tax subsidies for companies must be on the
table.  Cantor “walked away from the table because he doesn’t want
to deal with the special interest tax subsidies,” Pelosi said
on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  House Speaker John Boehner and McConnell have said
Republican conditions for raising the debt ceiling include no
tax increases, spending cuts and a government spending overhaul.  California Representative  Kevin McCarthy , the third-ranking
House Republican, not only rejected any tax increases, he
insisted that limits on Medicare must also be included in a
bipartisan deal.  Golf Course  Obama has “got to get off the golf course, and he’s got to
get engaged,” McCarthy said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  The outcome of the tax subsidy issue hinges on whether
Republicans decide to break with Americans for Tax Reform’s
 Grover Norquist , who insists that any elimination of tax breaks
must be accompanied by an equal reduction in taxes elsewhere.
Forty of 47 Republican senators have signed Norquist’s no-tax-
increase pledge.  The LIFO proposal “does put the lie to the idea that Obama
and Democrats only wish to tax high-income earners,” Norquist
said in an e-mail.  The White House official who briefed reporters said that
two separate bipartisan commissions, including the president’s
fiscal commission, recommended at least $1 trillion in revenue
beyond the expiration of the Bush tax cuts.  10 Bills  The official also cited more than 10 bills signed by former
President  Ronald Reagan , a Republican, from 1982 through 1988,
that included revenue increases along with spending cuts, as
well as a 1990 agreement that included more than one-third
revenue and two-thirds spending reductions.  Ending LIFO in 2012, which the White House considers a
loophole in the code, would raise  $72 billion  by 2016, according
to the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office . The accounting
method assumes that the less expensive inventory remains on hand
for calculating taxable income.  As part of his Feb. 14 budget, Obama proposed $357 billion
in revenue raisers, many of which were offered by White House
officials as part of the Biden talks.  While it included strengthening research and development
tax credits as well as other pro-business initiatives like
funding for the next generation of broadband, it also included
repealing LIFO and deductions for oil and gas companies worth
$46 billion.  Retroactive Tax  Repealing LIFO “would be tantamount to a retroactive tax
on the savings a company accrued over time,” and could be
“devastating” to some companies, according to a March 2 letter
to members of Congress from a group of trade associations,
including the American Forest & Paper Association and the
 National Association of Manufacturers .  Democrats are trying to telegraph a renewed commitment to
creating jobs and a focus on the manufacturing sector.  Following a June 23 meeting with a group of Fortune 500
chief executives, Schumer and other Democratic leaders said
they’re open to new tax preferences for employers, including a
partial payroll tax holiday and tax credits for manufacturing
and research and development.  In his weekly radio address on June 25, Obama touted a $500
million government program to help companies and universities
develop new manufacturing technologies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  