-- 
Obama Plan Makes Victory in Afghanistan a Reality: Noah Feldman

-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/obama-plan-makes-victory-in-afghanistan-a-reality-noah-feldman.html
The surge in  Afghanistan  was
supposed to change the incentives of the Taliban so that they
would choose to join the government rather than fight it.  That was how the Iraq surge of 2007 worked to end the civil
war there, and that was the main objective in Afghanistan. But
it didn’t succeed. The great bulk of the Taliban are still in
fighting mode, and negotiations with the insurgents are nascent
at best.  President  Barack Obama ’s decision to speed up withdrawal
confirmed what was already clear to most observers. The Taliban
have relatively little to gain by negotiating now because the
eventual withdrawal of all U.S. troops will put them in a better
position to dictate terms for the country’s future.  So how can President Obama say the U.S. has achieved most
of its goals in Afghanistan? The answer is hiding in plain
sight: Obama is aiming, as he said in his Afghanistan  speech , to
“refocus on al-Qaeda” -- that is, to redefine the struggle in
Afghanistan not as a fight against the Taliban, but as a war
against al-Qaeda.  This reframing is not only politically necessary, but
strategically necessary. The war against al-Qaeda -- at least in
its original form as created by  Osama bin Laden  -- is one that
the U.S. can plausibly claim to have (almost) won. The war
against the Taliban is one that, the Taliban can plausibly
claim, the U.S. has (almost) lost.  It was always a serious mistake for the U.S. to claim for
itself a “war on terror,” much less a global one. Terror is a
technique, not an enemy. And the globe is a very large place.  Jihadi Franchises  As for al-Qaeda, it didn’t even need to start its own local
chapters because it was a decentralized, nongovernmental entity.
Jihadi entrepreneurs could create  terrorist  cells, then simply
start using the al-Qaeda brand. The various franchises -- al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb
and so forth -- have relatively little organizational connection
with the mother ship. They certainly don’t take orders. After
all, how could such orders be enforced?  The upshot is that it will never be possible to eliminate
all terrorists who call themselves al-Qaeda. It is, however,
possible to disrupt and even defeat the core group that
initially formed around  bin Laden  and that has been on the run
or in Pakistan and its environs since 2001.  Getting bin Laden himself was, of course, the symbolic key.
It enabled the U.S. to claim victory over those who perpetrated
the 9/11 attacks. Lest we forget, those are the people against
whom Congress authorized the use of military force -- not
terrorists generally, not terrorists everywhere, but those who
“planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks
that occurred on September 11, 2001, or harbored such
organizations or persons.”  Melt Away  The Taliban certainly harbored bin Laden (after the U.S.
encouraged the government of  Sudan  to expel him). It wasn’t, in
principle, impossible to defeat them. They fled quickly after
the initial U.S. bombings in Afghanistan and took some time to
regroup across the border in  Pakistan  and establish a classic
insurgent strategy alternately striking and melting away.  Counterinsurgency , though, is extremely difficult in the
absence of a functioning, legitimate state to whom fighting and
administration can eventually be transferred. The U.S., even
expending vast resources, has been unsuccessful in creating such
a state in Afghanistan.  It is a matter of debate whether the objective of a stable
Afghan state was ever reachable -- after all, the nation has no
tradition of strong central government. That debate is now
strictly historical. Shifting responsibility for fighting and
administration to the local government is the aim of any
counterinsurgency fought by a foreign power. I know of no expert
on Afghanistan who would say with confidence that the U.S. can
hand over war-fighting and governance within the next two years
and expect a good result.  Taliban Thinking  More to the point, the Taliban don’t think that the
government of President  Hamid Karzai  is likely to rule the
country or fight the insurgency successfully on its own. Their
strategic interest is to wait us out: to weaken Karzai and make
ready for the final push, which can take place after U.S. troops
are gone.  What is, perhaps, most frightening is that Karzai seems
already to be planning for this moment by trying to reposition
himself with his own population as anti-American. That is the
only explanation for his recent histrionic suggestions that the
Afghan people should deal with the U.S. as an occupying power.  Given this situation, Obama is acting creatively and wisely
in trying to recast our decade of involvement in Afghanistan as
though it had been about bin Laden all the time. It will
certainly be bad for U.S. interests if the Taliban re-emerge as
the government of Afghanistan. It will be very bad for ordinary
Afghans too.  U.S. Withdrawal  Yet it would be even worse for the U.S. if al-Qaeda and its
affiliates could credibly claim that they defeated the U.S. in a
global jihad. Bin Laden himself cited the U.S. withdrawal from
Somalia as a reason to assess us as a weak enemy.  So the U.S. can’t afford to be perceived as having lost to
the forces of jihad. But failing to establish a successful,
U.S.-friendly government in Afghanistan isn’t quite so bad for
our interests. We would simply be joining the list of imperial
powers that didn’t manage to subdue the fractious country. The
U.K.’s failures in Afghanistan didn’t bring down its empire, nor
did the  Soviet Union ’s defeat there bring the “ evil empire ” to
its knees, whatever bin Laden may have fantasized.  Obama, then, is providing the script for the coming years
of gradual withdrawal and Taliban re-encroachment: We didn’t
lose in Afghanistan. We got the people we came for -- those
responsible for Sept. 11. This may not represent the whole
historical truth. But global politics is about the future.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard, is a Bloomberg
View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Bloomberg View columns.  To contact the writer of this column:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts at
 noah.feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  