-- 
Oil Falls on Outlook for Slowing Demand; IEA May Release More Stockpiles

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-06-27T12:52:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/oil-falls-on-outlook-for-slowing-demand-iea-may-release-more-stockpiles.html
Oil fell in  New York  on concern
economic expansion in the U.S. and China is slowing and as the
 International Energy Agency  said it’s prepared to release
additional crude from stockpiles.  Futures dropped as much as 1.5 percent. A U.S. government
report showed consumer spending stagnated last month and a
preliminary purchasing managers’ index showed China’s factory
output may rise at the slowest pace in 11 months in June. In
Europe, Greek lawmakers will vote on a five-year austerity plan.
Failure to pass the plan may lead to the euro area’s first
sovereign default.  “People are now looking critically at the three biggest
consuming regions,” said Axel Herlinghaus, a Frankfurt-based
senior commodities analyst at DZ Bank AG, which trades crude
contracts in New York and London.  Crude for August delivery fell as much as $1.34 to $89.82 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , and was at $90.42 at
1:41 p.m. London time. Brent oil for August delivery was down
$1.02 at $104.10 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London after dropping as much as $2.84 to $102.28.  New York futures dropped the most in six weeks on June 23,
dipping below $90 a barrel for the first time since February,
after the IEA said its member states including the U.S. and
Germany would release oil stockpiles for the third time in the
agency’s history. The U.S. will provide 30 million barrels of
the IEA release, European members will contribute about 20
million and Asian nations about 10 million barrels.  Risk Aversion   The IEA will act again if needed,  Nobuo Tanaka , the
agency’s executive director, said on June 25.  “If necessary we’ll continue,” he said in Beijing.  Brent, the European benchmark contract, traded at a premium
of $13.60 a barrel to U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil to the lowest level in
more than six months. The funds and other large speculators
reduced wagers on rising prices by 14 percent in the week ended
June 21, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report. Bullish bets have dropped
46 percent from a March 8 record amid disappointing U.S.
economic reports on employment and housing.  “We are seeing risk aversion in stocks and commodities,
combined with a stronger dollar,”  Eugen Weinberg , head of
commodities research at Commerzbank AG, said from Frankfurt.
“The outlook for the U.S. and  China  is worsening.”  Brent Bets  Some investors view the dollar as a safe haven. Commodities
often fall when the dollar rises.  Bets among managed-money investors on gains in the price of
 Brent crude  also fell last week, the ICE Futures Europe exchange
said today. Net-long positions dropped to 89,058 contracts from
111,357 in the previous week, ICE said on its website today.
Bets on rising prices still outnumbered those on declines by
39,391 contracts, the data showed.  The  Federal Reserve  is unlikely to start a third round of
quantitative easing, known as QE3, when a $600 billion purchase
program ends this week,  Jan Loeys , chief market strategist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., told Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s
“First Up.” The world’s biggest crude user may release oil
stockpiles to drive prices lower and stimulate consumption
instead, he said.  “Instead of QE3, we have IEA1, which is the release of
strategic oil reserves,” Loeys said. The IEA’s decision “is
really pushing  oil prices  down and will provide a good boost to
consumption in the second half of this year,” he said.  Consumer spending  in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in May
as employment prospects dimmed and rising inflation caused
Americans to cut back.  Purchases were little changed, the weakest outcome since
June 2010, after a revised 0.3 percent gain the prior month that
was smaller than previously estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington. The median of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.1 percent gain. Prices
excluding food and energy rose more than forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  