-- 
Oil Slides on Outlook for Slower Demand as IEA May Release More Stockpiles

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-06-27T19:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/oil-slides-on-outlook-for-slower-demand-as-iea-may-release-more-stockpiles.html
Oil fell to the lowest level in more
than four months as data showed U.S.  consumer spending  stagnated
last month and after the  International Energy Agency  said it’s
prepared to release more crude from stockpiles.  Crude dropped 0.6 percent after a U.S. report showed
consumer spending was little changed last month, raising concern
that a slowing U.S. economy will reduce energy demand. The IEA,
which announced June 23 that it would release 60 million barrels
from strategic reserves, said it will decide in 30 days whether
to tap those stockpiles again.  “The market’s been struggling because of economic concerns
both in the U.S. and globally,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with
BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc in New York. “When these
strategic reserves come to the market, they’re going to compete
directly with  Brent crude , which is the market that led us up
and is leading us back down again.”  Crude for August delivery fell 55 cents to $90.61 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement level
since Feb. 18. Prices have tumbled 15 percent in the second
quarter.  Brent oil for August delivery rose 87 cents to $105.99 on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. Brent, the European
benchmark contract, traded at a premium of $15.38 to U.S.
futures. The difference between the front-month contracts
reached a record $23.32 June 15.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending was little changed in the U.S. in May,
the weakest outcome since June 2010, after a revised 0.3 percent
gain the prior month that was smaller than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .  The median of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a 0.1 percent gain. Prices excluding food and energy rose
more than forecast.  The IEA, which announced June 23 that members would jointly
tap strategic reserve for the third time in the organization’s
history, will act again if needed,  Nobuo Tanaka , the agency’s
executive director, said on June 25.  “If necessary we’ll continue,” he said in Beijing.
Previous releases were in response to the first Persian  Gulf War 
in 1991 and  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005.  New York futures dropped the most in six weeks on June 23,
dipping below $90 a barrel for the first time since February.
The U.S. will provide 30 million barrels of the IEA release,
European members will contribute about 20 million and Asian
nations about 10 million barrels.  ‘No Need’  Iran sees no need for last week’s release of emergency oil
stockpiles by the IEA because the balance of consumption and
production is at a “desirable” level, the country’s acting oil
minister,  Mohammad Aliabadi , told reporters in Vienna.  In  Europe , Greek lawmakers will vote on a five-year
austerity plan. Failure to pass the plan may lead to the euro
area’s first sovereign default.  “The market dropped below $90 once again on fears about
the economy and the Greek issues,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.
“Just below $90 is pretty strong support, so it’s trying to
hold last week’s lows.”  Earlier, crude rose as much as 14 cents in New York and
Brent advanced as the euro rose to a one-week high against the
dollar, boosting commodities’ appeal as an alternative to the
U.S. currency.  The euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.4274 in  New York . It
touched $1.4294.  ‘Chasing the Dollar’  “Right now, it seems like everybody’s chasing the
dollar,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and
research with Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in New York. “It’s the
week before the holiday, and you’re going to get a lot of
volatility.”  The number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. gained by
19 to 1,003 last week, the 10th consecutive week the count has
reached the highest level since Houston-based Baker Hughes Inc.
separated the oil and natural gas rig counts in 1987.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil to the lowest level in
more than six months. The funds and other large speculators
reduced wagers on rising prices by 14 percent in the week ended
June 21, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report.  Bullish bets have dropped 46 percent from a March 8 record
amid disappointing U.S. economic reports on employment and
housing.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 455,083
contracts as of 3:16 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 707,352
contracts on June 24, 5.3 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.53 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 