-- 
U.S. Money Funds Risk Losses If Europe Crisis Sparks ‘Wildfire’

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-06-27T23:03:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/money-funds-in-u-s-unfazed-by-greek-crisis-watch-out-for-spain-contagion.html
The European debt crisis would pose
a threat to U.S. money-market mutual funds if a rash of
sovereign defaults caused big banks to fail to meet obligations
within the next three months.  “It would take a very rapid decline and not just in the
smaller European countries” for the debt crisis to threaten
U.S. money funds, George “Gus” Sauter, chief investment
officer at Vanguard Group Inc. in  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania,
said in an interview. “You’d probably have to see  Spain  and
Italy get into difficult shape.”  Greek lawmakers are scheduled to vote this week on a five-
year austerity plan for the cash-strapped nation to secure more
international aid and avoid the euro-area’s first sovereign
default. Money funds could be hurt by a default because they
have lent to European banks that, in turn, have lent to  Greece 
and other heavily indebted European countries.  U.S. money funds eligible to buy corporate debt had about
$800 billion, or half their assets as of May 31, in securities
issued by European banks,  Fitch Ratings  estimated. European
lenders held more than $2 trillion at year-end in loans to
Greece,  Portugal , Ireland, Spain and Italy, the most indebted
European countries, the Bank of International Settlements
estimated.  “It’s not about whether Greece defaults, it’s what happens
after that, and there’s uncertainty behind that,”  Alex Roever ,
head of short-term fixed-income strategy at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  Austerity Package  European Union leaders vowed June 24 to prevent a Greek
default as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes a $78
billion euro ($111 billion) package of budget cuts and asset
sales through Parliament this week. Greece needs to cover 6.6
billion euros ($9.4 billion) of maturing bonds in August.  “Money-market mutual funds still remain vulnerable to an
unexpected credit shock that could cause investors to doubt the
ability to redeem at a stable net asset value,”  Eric Rosengren ,
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, said in a June
3 speech. Some funds have “sizable exposures” to European
banks through short-term debt, he said.  The $2.68 trillion money-fund industry is the biggest
collective buyer in the commercial paper market.  The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. led to the
Sept. 16, 2008, closure of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund when it suffered a loss on debt issued by the bank. Reserve
Primary triggered a wave of redemption requests when it became
the first money-market fund in 14 years to expose investors to
losses.  Scaling Back  Customers were denied access to most of their cash for
months as the fund liquidated. Investors, fearing that other
funds might fail, withdrew $230 billion from the industry by
Sept. 19 in a run that threatened to cripple issuers of short-
term debt.  Money market funds are limited to securities that can be
converted into cash within 13 months.  JPMorgan’s Roever and Peter Rizzo, senior director of fund
services at credit rater  Standard & Poor’s  in New York, said
U.S. managers have been reducing their European bank holdings
and shortening the average maturities of those remaining. That
would allow them to withdraw more quickly without having to sell
securities into a potentially illiquid market.  S&P estimated that 80 percent of European bank holdings is
limited to three months or less, and 95 percent to six months or
less among the 500 U.S. and European money funds it rates.  Multiple Defaults  “The risk is if something takes the crisis from Greece to
Portugal, Ireland and beyond and it spreads like wildfire,”
Deborah Cunningham, head of taxable money-market funds at
Pittsburgh’s  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , said in a telephone
interview. Federated is the third-biggest money-fund provider
after  Fidelity Investments  and JPMorgan.  Multiple sovereign defaults could be managed if the banks
don’t have to write down the bonds’ full value, said Anthony Carfang, a partner at Chicago-based Treasury Strategies Inc.,
which advises corporate treasurers.  “A whole lot of very bad things would have to happen very
quickly for this to even approach a problem for money funds,”
Carfang said in an interview.  Rules adopted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission after the Reserve Primary debacle would also protect
funds if investors spooked by the European crisis suddenly began
withdrawing money, Carfang said. Funds now must keep 30 percent
of holdings in securities that can be converted to cash within
seven days.  The risk from securities issued by European banks has been
“mischaracterized,” said Mercer Bullard, founder of Fund
Democracy, a consumer group that advocates on behalf of U.S.
mutual-fund investors.  “There is no empirical basis for the assertion that these
holdings pose a threat to money-market mutual funds’ net asset
values,” Bullard, a law professor at the University of
 Mississippi , said in testimony June 24 before a subcommittee of
the House Financial Services Committee in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in  Boston  at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  