-- 
Mortgage-Bond Slump Widens as Jumbo, Alt-A Debt Extend Losses

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-06-27T14:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/mortgage-bond-declines-widen-in-u-s-as-jumbo-alt-a-debt-extend-losses.html
U.S. mortgage bonds without
government backing are extending losses as signs of a weakening
U.S. economy and concern that  Greece  may default on its debt
curb risk-taking.  Typical prices for the senior-most securities backed by
prime-jumbo mortgages that started with a few years of fixed
rates fell 1.5 cents on the dollar to 79 cents last week,
bringing losses over the past three months to 6 cents, Barclays
Capital data show. Similar bonds linked to Alt-A adjustable-rate
mortgages dropped 1 cent to 60 cents, bringing their three-month
slump to 7 cents, the data show.  A rout in the $1.2 trillion market for so-called non-agency
home-loan securities has widened in recent weeks after the
 Federal Reserve ’s auctions of bonds once held by American
International Group Inc. helped roil debt backed by subprime
mortgages. Non-subprime securities may face further challenges,
analysts at  Barclays Capital  wrote in a June 24 report.  “It is more likely that the Fed will continue the sale of
the prime/Alt-A part of the portfolio” than the subprime-tied
portion, the New York-based analysts led by  Ajay Rajadhyaksha 
wrote. “With continued supply and better price performance (vs.
subprime) in the past couple of months, Alt-A/prime might face
relatively more price pressure in the coming weeks.”  This month, “as with other risky assets, macro concerns on
incoming data and the outcome in Greece continue to weigh on the
asset class,” they said.  Greek Debate  Bonds of  Europe ’s most-indebted nations fell today and
debt-insurance costs jumped to records before Greek lawmakers
started debating spending cuts. The cost of protecting U.S.
company bonds from default rose to the highest level since
October after a report showed  consumer spending  unexpectedly
stagnated in May.  The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  has sold $10 billion
in face value of the mortgage securities assumed in the U.S.
rescue of AIG and held by a vehicle called Maiden Lane II,
leaving it with about $21 billion to be auctioned, Barclays data
show. Subprime-mortgage bonds tied to the weakest home-loan
borrowers represent about $12 billion of the remaining holdings.  So-called Alt-A debt, which ranks between prime and
subprime in terms of expected defaults because the loans were
often granted to property investors or without proof of
borrowers’ incomes, account for most of the rest. Jumbo
mortgages are larger than government-supported  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  can finance, currently from $417,000 in most places
to as much as $729,750.  Smallest Losses  Fixed-rate prime-jumbo mortgage bonds have generally
suffered the smallest losses this quarter, with typical prices
for the senior-most securities falling 1 cent over the past
three months to 89 cents, Barclays Capital data show.  A Markit ABX index tied to subprime-mortgage bonds rated
AAA when issued in 2006 fell 2.2 to 46.4 last week, down from
58.8 on April 1, according to London-based administrator Markit
Group Ltd.  Holdings by Wall Street’s primary dealers of fixed-income
assets including non-agency home-loan securities, corporate debt
and commercial-mortgage bonds swelled to a 13-month high of
$94.9 billion in the week ended May 25, helping spark a stampede
by investment banks to dump risk this month, Fed data show.  The total, which had climbed from $85.7 billion at the end
of last year and includes only notes maturing in more than one
year, tumbled to $83.6 billion in the week ended June 15, the
lowest since August, according to the latest data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  