-- 
Los Angeles Dodgers File For Chapter 11 Bankruptcy, Seek Television Deal

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-27T21:21:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/los-angeles-dodgers-file-for-chapter-11-bankruptcy-seek-television-deal.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers filed for
 bankruptcy protection  after Major League Baseball rejected a
television deal with  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox Sports, leaving team owner
Frank McCourt unable to make payroll this week.  Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig last week said
the 17-year TV-rights deal, which McCourt valued at about
$3 billion, would harm the franchise in the long term. Baseball
took over the Dodgers’ business operations about two months ago.  “He’s turned his back on the Dodgers, treated us
differently, and forced us to the point we find ourselves in
today,” McCourt said today in a statement. “I simply cannot
allow the commissioner to knowingly and intentionally be in a
position to expose the Dodgers to financial risk any longer.”  The team listed assets of as much as $1 billion and debt of
as much as $500 million in a Chapter 11 petition filed today in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware . Manny Ramirez,
who last played for the Dodgers in 2010 and retired in April, is
listed as the largest unsecured creditor with a claim of about
$21 million. Ex-Dodgers player Andruw Jones has a claim of about
$11.1 million.  The Dodgers received a commitment for a $150 million loan
from Highbridge Principal Strategies LLC, a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
unit, to support operations during the bankruptcy, according to
court documents. The loan’s interest rate is the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, plus 7 percent, “provided
that at no time shall Libor be less than 3 percent.”  Payroll Due  The team doesn’t have enough cash to make payroll June 30
and needs access to at least $20 million to do so, according to
court papers. Earlier this year, McCourt obtained a $30 million
personal loan from Fox Sports and used $23.5 million of it to
fund the Dodgers’ payroll and other expenses, according to court
papers.  “Based on the commissioner’s refusal to approve the
proposed Fox transaction, LAD does not have sufficient cash on
hand to meet substantial payroll expenses that come due on June
30, 2011,” the team said.  The bankruptcy “does nothing but inflict further harm to
this historic franchise,” Selig said today in a statement.  “We have consistently communicated to Mr. McCourt that any
potential solution to his problems that contemplates mortgaging
the future of the Dodgers franchise to the long-term detriment
of the club, its loyal fans and the game of baseball would not
be acceptable,” Selig said.  ‘Expensive Loan’  “This is a very expensive loan” for a company like the
Dodgers, said  Lynn LoPucki , a bankruptcy-law professor at the
 University of California  at  Los Angeles . “If the assets are
worth the $500 million the debtor claims, repayment is virtually
certain.”  Darin Oduyoye, a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.
Dodgers assistant treasurer Jeffrey Ingram said in a court
filing that the team had “no adequate alternative,” as only
Highbridge “was willing to provide a commitment for financing
of a sufficient amount and within the debtors’ time
constraints.”  The Dodgers will pursue a sale of the TV rights while in
bankruptcy, the team said in court documents. The Fox Sports
agreement included a $385 million loan, of which $211.5 million
was to go toward the team’s operations and working capital,
according to court papers.  “The value of those rights is enormous, and when it is
able to unlock that value, LAD will be in a position to satisfy
all of its existing claims, pay debts as they become due, and
generate a substantial return for its equity holder,” the team
said.  ‘Substantially Solvent’  The team is “very substantially solvent” given the value
of the rejected Fox Sports contract, Bruce Bennett, the team’s
bankruptcy attorney, said today in an interview in Wilmington.
The goal of the Dodgers’ bankruptcy is to buy time to negotiate
a new TV rights contract and use the money to exit court
protection, he said.  The Dodgers are one of the most storied franchises in
American sports. While based in  Brooklyn ,  New York , the Dodgers
became the first  Major League Baseball  team with a black player
when Jackie Robinson took the field in 1947. They started play
in 1884 as the Brooklyn Atlantics, and didn’t win their first
championship until 1955. Even with devoted fans that lovingly
called them “Dem Bums,” they joined the  New York Giants  in
moving to the West Coast in 1958.  The Dodgers have won six  World Series , tied for fifth-most
in baseball. Five of them came in Los Angeles, where Duke
Snider, Sandy Koufax, Steve Garvey, Fernando Valenzuela and Kirk Gibson led them to championships.  Free Agents  This year the team hired no marquee free agents in the off-
season, and manager Joe Torre, who won four championships with
the  New York Yankees , stepped down after last season. He led the
team to the National League Championship Series in two of his
three years at the helm.  The Dodgers are 35-44 this season, 9 1/2 games behind the
 San Francisco Giants  in the  National League West .  The team is worth about $800 million, making it the third
most valuable baseball team after the New York Yankees and the
 Boston Red Sox , according to Forbes. The bankruptcy follows the
Chapter 11 filing last year of the  Texas Rangers  baseball team.
The Rangers were sold at a bankruptcy auction to a group that
included Hall of Fame pitcher Nolan Ryan.  McCourt, a Boston real-estate developer who unsuccessfully
bid for the Red Sox, bought the Dodgers from  Rupert Murdoch ’s
 News Corp. (NWSA)  in 2004 for $430 million. He is fighting with his ex-
wife, Jamie, over ownership of the team. A judge last year
invalidated an agreement that Frank McCourt claimed made him the
sole owner of the Dodgers, leaving the team’s ownership in
limbo.  McCourt Distributions  Court documents filed in the divorce case said the McCourts
took $108 million in personal distributions from the team from
2004 to 2009, almost half for mortgages and real estate.  “Today’s bankruptcy filing is disappointing and
disturbing,” David Boies, a lawyer for Jamie McCourt, said in a
statement issued on her behalf. “The rule or ruin philosophy
that appears to have motivated today’s filing is bad for
everyone who cares about, or has an interest in, the Dodgers.”  McCourt put the Dodgers into bankruptcy as a way to hold on
to the team, said Thomas Salerno, an attorney with Squire,
Sanders & Dempsey who represented the Phoenix Coyotes hockey
team during its Chapter 11 case. Bankruptcy blocks Major League
Baseball from taking over and selling the team to a preferred
buyer, said Salerno, who isn’t involved in the case.  ‘Maintain Control’  Baseball may ask the bankruptcy judge to appoint a trustee
to take over the Dodgers or seek permission to propose a
bankruptcy plan based on a sale of the team, he said.  “He wants to hold on to his team,” Salerno said of
McCourt. “The presumption in Chapter 11 is that he does in fact
maintain control.”  In April, Selig said he was appointing a representative to
oversee the team’s business and day-to-day operations because of
“deep concerns regarding the finances and operations of the
Dodgers.” He later named Thomas Schieffer, former president of
the Texas Rangers, as the team’s monitor.  Meanwhile, McCourt pushed Selig to approve the Fox Sports
agreement. He accused Selig in a letter of making “a conscious
decision to put the Dodgers in this state of distress.”  The deal “assures the financial health and stability of
the franchise for the next two decades,” McCourt said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television.  Deal Rejected  Baseball said it was withholding approval until completing
an investigation into the club and its finances. On June 20,
Selig said he was rejecting the transaction, saying it was
“structured to facilitate the further diversion of Dodgers
assets for the personal needs of Mr. McCourt.”  “Given the magnitude of the transaction, such a diversion
of assets would have the effect of mortgaging the future of the
franchise to the long-term detriment of the club and its fans,”
Selig said in a statement.  The case is In re  Los Angeles Dodgers  LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 