-- 
Lower Commodities, Policy Reforms to Boost Stocks, Motilal Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-06-27T05:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/lower-commodities-policy-reforms-to-boost-stocks-motilal-says.html
Manish Sonthalia, who manages $300
million in equities at Motilal Oswal Asset Management Co. in
Mumbai, comments on the impact of a fuel-price increase on
 India ’s stocks. He spoke today in a phone interview.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange
climbed 1 percent to 5,527.65, at 10:27 a.m. local time. Policy
makers allowed state-run refiners on June 24 to increase diesel
costs by 3 rupees (7 cents) a liter, kerosene by 2 rupees a
liter and cooking gas by 50 rupees per 14.2-kilogram bottle.  On the fuel-price increase:  “The government has set the ball rolling with the fuel-
price hike. It is the first bold economic reform taking place.
The government is now in a sweet spot to fully decontrol diesel
prices. Oil marketing companies will not incur any losses if
 Brent crude  comes to $90 per barrel. Lower commodity prices are
the biggest positive. The market will gradually build in the two
positives in stock prices. The fuel-price hike will raise
inflation but it will be more than offset by declining global
commodity prices.”  On further reforms:  “If the government follows up on reforms by introducing
legislation on foreign direct investment in retail and insurance
and the Lokpal Bill in the monsoon session of the Parliament,
stocks will rally. We expect the oil and gas space to see more
reforms in the coming days.  Sector recommendations:  ‘‘We are bullish on pharmaceutical and infrastructure
stocks. Infrastructure stocks have declined to ridiculous
levels. Expected government reforms on coal availability, cement
pricing and real-estate regulations will provide a boost to
infrastructure stocks. We are also finding pockets of value in
banking and real-estate stocks. Banking stocks may recover as we
expect the interest-rate cycle to peak soon.  On the outlook for stocks:  ‘‘Once the Greece crisis is over, we expect incremental
buying to come back in stocks, which will take the Nifty to
5,700 levels. Barring euro-zone worries, all negatives are
discounted for in the price. Stocks today are driven by short-
covering and there is no major buying. The indices are being
single-handedly pulled up by Oil and Natural Gas Corp.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  