-- 
Greek Police Fire Tear Gas as Strike Overshadows Budget Vote

-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-28T19:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/papandreou-urges-greek-lawmakers-to-back-austerity-steps-as-unions-strike.html
Greek police fired tear gas to
disperse protesters in the center of  Athens  as labor unions shut
down government services before a vote on austerity measures
that may determine if the nation can avoid a default.  Lawmakers debated Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s five-
year plan of budget cuts and asset sales for a second day before
a vote tomorrow at 2 p.m. Athens time. A crowd estimated by
police to number 20,000 thronged outside Parliament in protests
that descended into violence as riot police fired tear gas in
battles with hooded youths who smashed windows at a  McDonald’s
Corp (MCD)  restaurant and set two vans on fire.  “We are determined to stop this plan from passing and if
it does pass, we will continue our efforts,” said Dimitra
Oikonomou, 50, a schoolteacher who joined today’s rallies. “The
government might not listen to us now, but in the end they will
hear it all at once.”  The vote tomorrow will be Papandreou’s second survival test
in a week and has to succeed for the cash-strapped nation to tap
a fifth loan payment from last year’s 110 billion-euro ($157
billion) rescue. Failure to pass the government’s 78 billion-
euro plan may lead to the euro area’s first sovereign default.  ‘Chapter of Uncertainty’  “Voting for the medium-term plan means we can close this
chapter of uncertainty for the Greek people,” Papandreou told
lawmakers at the start of a three-day debate late yesterday.
“From the brink of catastrophe we are securing, colleagues, the
great opportunity to change our country.”  The final session of the three-day debate will begin at
9:30 a.m. tomorrow, Grigoris Niotis, the deputy speaker of the
legislature, said in comments setting out the timetable that
were televised live on state-run Vouli TV.  Papandreou’s Pasok party has 155 of the 300 seats in the
legislature, and his ability to keep his lawmakers united in two
votes this week on budget cuts and asset sales will be critical
to his victory. Two of them have said they may vote against the
legislation, in part due to their opposition to plans to sell a
stake in Public Power Corp. SA.  One of the dissident lawmakers, Thomas Robopoulos, told
Skai TV today that he was moved by Papandreou’s comments
yesterday and that  Greece  faces critical times. He said he will
decide on how to vote during the final debate tomorrow.  Support Hope  In a move that may help Papandreou secure approval in
Parliament, the Democratic Alliance group of lawmakers, a party
founded by former foreign minister Dora Bakoyannis, said its
five lawmakers in Parliament should vote “according to their
conscience” taking into account “the immediate danger of
bankruptcy facing the country.”  Workers at the former electricity monopoly have held
rolling 48-hour strikes for the eight days, leading to power
cuts around the country.  State-asset sales are the “first pillar” in any new
financing package for Greece and an important factor for its
European Union and International Monetary Fund partners, who are
supplying the aid, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said in
parliament today. He spoke as a debate on the second bill, the
so-called Implementation Law, began under a fast-track process,
to make a June 30 deadline.  Air Disruptions  Air traffic controllers are ceasing work for eight hours
today and tomorrow, according to a statement on the union’s
website. That has caused the cancellation of all flights into
and out of the  Athens International Airport , the country’s
biggest, between 8 a.m. and midday and 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. today.  Aegean Airlines SA (AEGN)  will reschedule 97 flights and cancel 26
today. Another 17 routes will be cut tomorrow and flight times
for 82 domestic and international destinations changed. Olympic
Air will cancel and reschedule 52 flights today.  Bus, trolley, and tram workers in Athens have joined the
strike, as have staff at Hellenic Railways Organization,
Greece’s state-run rail company. Dockworkers, journalists,
health-care and municipal workers are also participating.  Protesters chanted slogans against the government as they
marched. One banner read “Bankers are PIGS, not the people,” a
reference to the acronym for countries in the EU that have
sought aid.  Police deployed 3,000 officers to protect the Parliament
building that is the focus of demonstrations. In the square
below, they used tear gas to fight protesters throwing pieces of
marble chipped with hammers from the sidewalk.  Riot Injuries  Thirty people were injured in today’s demonstrations, 21 of
them police officers, according to information from the Greek
police and the health ministry. Five people were arrested in the
clashes.  The situation has calmed down now, police spokesman Takis
Papapetropoulos said by telephone. The so-called Indignants, the
group that has drawn crowds to Parliament for several weeks, has
vowed not to leave and urged protesters to return for an evening
rally, according to an e-mailed statement.  Workers at the capital city’s subway called off plans to
strike, keeping the service open to allow protesters to
participate in the rallies.  Papandreou, whose support has slid in opinion polls, has
spent the past 15 days trying and failing to muster opposition
backing for the package, while keeping his own party in line. He
appointed a new finance minister to stem defections, survived a
confidence vote and outlined 5.6 billion euros of additional
budget measures.  Bailout Condition  On June 24, he won a pledge for a second bailout from EU
leaders, on the condition that he delivers domestic support for
the retrenchment.EU finance ministers meet on July 3 to approve
the release of the 12 billion-euro tranche of aid.  Greek government officials say they may not have money past
mid-July to pay wages and pensions. The country needs to cover
6.6 billion euros of maturing bonds in August.  Implementing more austerity measures threatens to deepen a
three-year recession and complicate efforts to boost government
revenue and has stoked discontent among Greeks.  The economy contracted 4.4 percent in 2010 and will shrink
a further 3.8 percent this year, according to a report from EU
and IMF inspectors in June. The nation’s debt load will peak at
166 percent of gross domestic product next year, and is already
the biggest in the euro region’s history.  Papandreou’s plan includes higher taxes on restaurants and
bars, higher heating-oil taxes and lowering the tax-free
threshold to 8,000 euros from 12,000 euros presently. Greek
newspaper  To Vima  calculated the additional burden for an
average Greek family of four at 2,795 euros a year, about the
same as one month’s income.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  