-- 
Papandreou Appeals to Greek Patriotism

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-27T18:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/papandreou-calls-on-greek-lawmakers-to-back-austerity-steps-in-budget-vote.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  called on lawmakers to obey their “patriotic
conscience” and back tougher austerity measures, as they began
to debate a five-year budget plan that will determine whether
the cash-strapped nation can avoid default.  “Voting for the medium-term plan means we can close this
chapter of uncertainty for the Greek people,” Papandreou said
at the start of a three-day debate on the program in Parliament
in Athens today.  Papandreou will face his second survival test in a week on
June 29 when lawmakers vote on the package of budget cuts and
asset sales that’s needed before Greece can tap a fifth loan
payment from last year’s 110 billion-euro ($157 billion) rescue.
Failure to pass Papandreou’s 78 billion-euro plan may lead to
the euro area’s first sovereign default.  “I am fully aware of the reality, fully aware of the risks
for the average Greek and their quality of life and for the
country as a whole,” Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said
in Parliament in the same debate. “We have to stabilize the
situation so that we can immediately in a short time improve the
situation. But we must first survive on a fiscal basis to be
able to improve this situation.”  With 155 votes in the 300-seat legislature, Papandreou
needs to unite his lawmakers in two votes this week on wage cuts
and asset sales. Two ruling-party lawmakers have said they may
vote against the legislation, in part due to their opposition to
plans to sell a stake in  Public Power Corp SA (PPC) , the former
electricity monopoly. Workers at  Public Power  have held rolling
48-hour strikes for the past week, leading to power cuts around
the country.  General Strike  The austerity measures have prompted the fourth general
strike this year by unions from midnight. The 48-hour walkout
will affect government services, flights and public transport.  Air traffic controllers will cease work for eight hours on
both days, according to a statement on the union’s website. That
will force carrier Aegean Airlines SA to reschedule 97 flights
and cancel 26 of them tomorrow and Olympic Air to cancel and
reschedule 52 flights.  Bus, trolley, and tram workers in Athens will join the
strike, as will staff at Hellenic Railways Organization,
 Greece ’s state-run rail company. Dockworkers, journalists,
health-care and municipal workers will also participate.  Backing Sought  Papandreou has spent the past 15 days trying and failing to
muster opposition backing for the package, while keeping his own
party in line. He appointed a new finance minister to stem
defections, survived a confidence vote and outlined 5.6 billion
euros of additional budget measures. On June 24, he won a pledge
for a second bailout from European Union leaders, on the
condition that he delivers domestic support for the
retrenchment.  “The lack of political seriousness, responsibility and
accord costs and will cost a great deal,” said Venizelos, who
was named finance minister by Papandreou on June 17. “It has a
fiscal cost and costs the pocket of each Greek. All this weighs
on incomes, the pensioner, the unemployed, each company, each
household.”  Greece needs to cover 6.6 billion euros of maturing bonds
in August.  An accompanying law on the five-year plan which was
submitted to Parliament on June 27 must also be approved this
week by the deadline of June 30.  Recession Impact  Implementing more austerity measures threatens to deepen a
three-year recession and complicate efforts to boost government
revenue. Greek gross domestic product, which contracted 4.4
percent in 2010, will shrink a further 3.8 percent this year,
according to a report from EU and IMF inspectors in June. The
nation’s debt load will peak at 166 percent of GDP next year,
and is already the biggest in the euro-region’s history.  Papandreou’s plan includes higher taxes on restaurants and
bars, higher heating-oil taxes and lowering the tax-free
threshold to 8,000 euros from 12,000 euros presently. Greek
newspaper  To Vima  calculated the additional burden for an
average Greek family of four at 2,795 euros a year, about the
same as one month’s income.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  