-- 
Petrobras Discovers Natural Gas Near Auction Areas

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 
2011-06-27T18:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/petrobras-discovers-oil-in-campos-basin-natural-gas-in-sergipe.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil company, discovered natural gas in an
onshore field near an area where Brazil plans to auction
exploration licenses later this year.  The gas discovery at the Ilha Pequena block in the Sergipe
Basin hasn’t been declared commercial yet, the National
Petroleum Agency said on its website. Petrobras also found oil
at an offshore well in the Campos Basin, where the company
produces more than 85 percent of its oil, the agency said.  Brazil plans to auction 174 blocks onshore and off the
nation’s northeastern coast, which have similar potential to the
“huge reserves” discovered in the Gulf of Guinea in West
Africa, according to a report last month by Tauil & Chequer
Advogados, a Brazilian law firm that focuses on energy. Brazil
and West Africa may hold some of the same oil deposits developed
millions of years ago before the Atlantic Ocean was created by
the separating continents.  “Much has been said about the geologic similarity between
Africa’s west coast and Brazil,” Max Bueno, an analyst at
Spinelli SA in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “You
should expect greater participation in the blocks from operators
who are in Africa.”  Tullow Oil and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  are developing the
250,000 barrel-a-day Jubilee field in deep waters of the Gulf of
Guinea. Oil companies including BP Plc,  Total SA (TOT) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) 
and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  have said they may compete in Brazil’s so-
called 11th bidding round, set to occur in September or October.  Brazil aims to more than double oil production by 2020 as
Petrobras and other producers develop offshore reservoirs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  