-- 
Poland Said to Price JSW’s $2.1 Billion IPO Above Mid Point of Range

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-06-27T10:30:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/poland-said-to-price-jsw-s-2-1-billion-ipo-above-mid-point-of-range.html
Poland  may price the initial public
offering of Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA, the European Union’s
largest coking coal producer, higher than the middle point of
its range, said two people familiar with the matter.  The country, which is selling 33 percent of the company and
is aiming to earn as much as 5.77 billion zloty ($2.1 billion)
from the deal, received orders for all stock on sale at 135
zloty apiece, said the people, who declined to be named because
the information is private. JSW shares have been on offer at 114
zloty to 146 zloty.  The transaction is part of a government plan to raise 15
billion zloty from asset sales in 2011 to help finance the
 budget deficit  and curb public debt. The country has earned 6.2
billion zloty from stakes in power utility Tauron Polska Energia
SA, Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA and insurer PZU SA.  Maciej Wewior, a spokesman for the Treasury Ministry,
declined to comment on JSW’s pricing when contacted by phone
today. The government will finish collecting bids tomorrow, in
what is set to be Poland’s largest IPO this year, according to
the company’s sale prospectus.  The  Warsaw Stock Exchange  is central Europe’s fastest
growing, with 91 IPOs so far this year, more initial offerings
than all of western Europe and ranking second after China among
emerging markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Coal Producers  JSW will be the fourth coal producer listed in Warsaw when
it starts trading on July 6, with a market value set to exceed
that of New World Resources Plc of the  Czech Republic , Poland’s
 Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA (LWB)  and Ukraine’s Sadovaya Group SA.  The next offering in the industry will probably come from
Ukraine’s Coal Energy SA, which today announced plans to sell
new shares in Poland to raise funds for expansion. The company
gave no details, saying in an e-mailed statement that it awaits
a regulatory approval of its IPO plans.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and UniCredit SpA are joint global coordinators and joint
bookrunners for the JSW sale of 39.5 million shares. PKO Bank
Polski SA, Ipopema Securities SA, Societe Generale SA, BRE Bank
SA and Wood & Co. are also helping to manage the IPO.  -- Editors: John Kohut, Linda Shen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 