-- 
Posco-Samsung Venture, CJ Group Submit Korea Express Bids; Lotte Drops Out

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-06-27T09:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/posco-samsung-venture-cj-group-submit-korea-express-bids-lotte-drops-out.html
A Posco-Samsung Group venture and CJ
Group made final bids for a stake in Korea Express Co. as they
compete for control of  South Korea ’s biggest logistics company.  Posco (005490) , the nation’s biggest steelmaker, and Samsung unit
 Samsung SDS Co.  filed their bid ahead of today’s deadline, Chung
Jae Woong, a Posco spokesman, said by phone, declining to
elaborate. Foodmaker CJ Group didn’t reveal its offer in a
statement confirming that it had made a bid.  The groups are the only bidders left after Lotte Group
dropped out today following Korea Express’s sale of three units
in a separate deal. Asiana Airlines Inc. and Daewoo Engineering
& Construction Co. intend to raise as much as 2 trillion won
($1.8 billion) from selling about 40 percent of Seoul-based
Korea Express, a person familiar with the matter said in March.  “Buying Korea Express will help lower logistics costs,”
said Yoon Gwan Cheol, an analyst at Hanyang Securities Co. in
 Seoul . The company “has the best infrastructure and network in
the country.”  Korea Express has terminals in South Korea’s busiest ports,
a nationwide network of about 10,000 express-delivery outlets
and a fleet of more than 5,000 trucks, according to its website.  The company dropped 4.7 percent to close at 130,500 won in
trading in the city. The stock has risen 39 percent this year,
compared with a 0.9 percent gain for the benchmark Kospi index.
A 40 percent stake would be worth about 1.19 trillion won at
today’s closing price, according to Bloomberg data.  Asiana and former affiliate Daewoo Engineering both own 24
percent stakes in Korea Express.  Korea Development Bank  and
Nomura Holdings Inc. are arranging the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  