-- 
Presidents Alone Can’t Decide When and Where to Wage War: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-27T04:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/presidents-alone-can-t-decide-when-and-where-to-wage-war-view.html
Both U.S. political parties are now
split on the issue of our military adventure in  Libya .  In general, Democrats reflexively support their president,
except for those who reflexively oppose most assertions of
American power. Republicans have been vacillating for decades.
They were isolationist in the 1930s, then internationalist and
hawkish during the  Cold War . In 2000,  George W. Bush  ran against
the idea of “nation building,” then in office fell into
ambitious plans to build the nation of Iraq into a showcase for
democracy and freedom. In their first debate this month,
Republican presidential candidates swung back the other way, as
some found themselves channeling George McGovern’s “come home
America” theme from the Vietnam era.  Both parties, it’s safe to say, are confused. Why are we in
Libya?  Afghanistan ? When should the U.S. use its military power?
This seems like a good moment to state some general principles.  America is the world’s only superpower. That is good. Our
most urgent obligation as a superpower is to stay that way. If
America mismanages its affairs to the point where its military
superiority is no longer axiomatic, the world will be the worse
for it. When America acts, it does so with good intentions.
Military actions by the U.S. may sometimes be a mistake, but
they are not evil. Nor are the individual Americans on the other
side of sometimes bitter foreign policy debates.  Approval Needed  Except in truly urgent circumstances, military action
should have the approval of Congress. It isn’t good enough for a
president to start hostilities and then demand that Congress go
along in order to “support our troops.” The Constitution wisely
gives Congress the power to declare war, a provision that recent
presidents of both parties have ignored or tried to explain
away. They have done something similar with the  War Powers
Resolution of 1973 , a post- Vietnam  attempt to codify the general
language of the Constitution. It passed over  Richard Nixon ’s
veto, and every president since has objected to it, while
occasionally obeying it anyhow.  President  Barack Obama ’s approach has been typical. He says
the War Powers Resolution doesn’t apply to our Libya
involvement. His reasoning: The act refers to “introducing”
American troops into “hostilities,” but there are no hostilities
because we’re only attacking Muammar Qaddafi’s military regime
from the sky and that regime can’t fire back. This isn’t
serious. It is the argument of a lawyer not a leader.  Obviously, the U.S. should use its overwhelming military
might when our nation is attacked. There was no significant
opposition to chasing down al-Qaeda after the Sept. 11 attacks.
Nor should there have been. When America’s interests are
seriously threatened, of course America must act.  Values at Stake  The hard question is what if only American values --
freedom, democracy, human rights -- are threatened, or if an
opportunity arises to establish those values somewhere new, as
in the current Arab Spring. In such cases, we urge caution.
America’s track record, from Vietnam to the  Iraq  War, vividly
demonstrates that good intentions aren’t enough. War is too
costly, in blood and money, and too uncertain in its outcome, to
use merely because a genuine opportunity to do good has arisen.  We must concede honestly what this means: We are sometimes
willing to let injustice fester, to see human rights crushed, to
watch democracy die, rather than send U.S. soldiers to perish in
faraway lands.  “Soft power” -- sanctions,  information technology ,
propaganda, helping opposition groups, and so on -- is
different. It should be allowed to do what it can do. We should
never be afraid of speaking out in support of our values. And
there will be opportunities and moral challenges -- imminent
genocide, for example -- to which a military response will be,
and should be, irresistible.  When and Where  We cannot say exactly when such occasions arise. We can say
that consistency shouldn’t be a requirement. The answer to the
inevitable question, “Why intervene here and not there?” is “It
depends.” It depends on the circumstances, some of which will be
political and unconnected to the moral case for intervention. In
Libya, the answer was yes, but for  Syria , sadly, it is no. The
only totally consistent policy would be “never.” If we are
willing to tolerate a more inconsistent policy, we may be able
to do some good on occasion.  America is the indispensible nation (the phrase used by
President  Bill Clinton  and his secretary of state,  Madeleine Albright ) when it comes to using force. For better or worse,
little is likely to happen if America doesn’t take the lead. We
have no principled objection to unilateral action by the U.S.
This nation must be prepared to act alone to protect its
interests, and its values, too. But we should have a strong
prejudice in favor of international support. Among other
reasons, this is -- like the requirement of congressional
approval -- a reality check. Maybe if the president can’t put
together a posse, there’s a good reason.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  