-- 
Qaddafi Charges Raise Stakes for U.S. Leadership on Libya: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-27T20:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/qaddafi-charges-raise-stakes-for-u-s-leadership-on-libya-view.html
The chances of a diplomatic
resolution to the war in Libya are now close to zero.  Today, the  International Criminal Court  in  The Hague  issued
arrest warrants on charges of crimes against humanity for the
country’s leader,  Muammar Qaddafi , one of his sons and his
intelligence chief, who is also his brother-in-law.  Although there was little evidence Qaddafi and his cronies
were considering political exile abroad before, the threat of
arrest makes it even harder to imagine they would do so now.
There is no precedent under international law for giving Qaddafi
immunity as part of a mediated, peaceful solution -- and he is
unlikely to accept such a proposal.  That leaves very few possible outcomes. From Washington’s
standpoint, there are several acceptable alternatives: The
Libyan leader could be killed by an airstrike or by one of his
loyalists; alternatively, he and his security forces might be
defeated by the rebels who control the east of the country.  But there is also another, less palatable, possible
outcome: that Qaddafi and his cohorts could outlast the rebels
and  NATO  forces, and survive for a long time in the part of
 Libya  they hold around the capital, Tripoli.  Having made the decision to join the U.K. and  France  to
prevent the imminent slaughter of tens of thousands of innocent
men, women and children by Qaddafi’s forces, the U.S. should
step up its involvement in NATO’s air campaign. The sooner
Washington takes on a leadership role -- rather than just
supporting NATO as it does now -- the sooner this war can be
brought to a successful conclusion.  Shrinking Alternatives  Although the original rationale for U.S. military action
was the moral imperative to prevent mass murder in Benghazi,
U.S. national security interests are now at stake. With Qaddafi
having no alternative but to fight for his life and those of his
family members,  Washington  should consider the danger of leaving
in power a dictator who has sponsored terrorist attacks that
killed hundreds of Americans and had an active nuclear program.  President  Barack Obama  has said preventing the spread of
weapons of mass destruction to terrorist groups is the most
immediate and extreme threat the world faces. Libya is no
theoretical case. If Qaddafi were to outlast the NATO effort,
Western nations could face a dictator bent on revenge, who may
have the wherewithal to bring about that frightening
combination.  Washington shouldn’t run that risk. Preventing this will
require Obama to make a strong case to a skeptical Congress and
American public, but inaction presents an even greater danger.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 