-- 
Qaddafi Out of Options as War-Crimes Indictment Limits Exile Destinations

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-28T17:28:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/qaddafi-out-of-options-as-war-crimes-indictment-limits-exile-destinations.html
The indictment of  Muammar Qaddafi  on
charges of crimes against humanity leaves the Libyan dictator
almost out of options.  The International Criminal Court yesterday issued arrest
warrants for Qaddafi, his son Saif al-Islam Qaddafi and military
intelligence chief Abdullah al-Senussi. The three men are wanted
for killing, injuring, arresting and imprisoning hundreds of
civilians during anti-regime protests that began in February.  “This is an instance where an indictment may hasten, not
slow down, his demise by motivating more defections,” said Mark Quarterman, director of the Program on Crisis, Conflict and
Cooperation at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington.  Three months ago, countries such as  Uganda  publicly offered
Qaddafi political asylum. Since then,  Africa ’s self-proclaimed
“king of kings” has rapidly lost friends in the continent.  “It will be pretty difficult to have that exile option
anymore,” said Louise Arimatsu, associate fellow in
international law at the Chatham House international-affairs
institute in London.  The U.S. and its European allies say Qaddafi’s grip on the
country that holds Africa’s biggest oil reserves is nearing its
end as economic pressure and NATO-led strikes on high-level
military command and control centers erode his ability resist
the spreading insurgency. The court, in The Hague,  Netherlands ,
does not have police powers. That would have to be done by the
Libyan rebels or by another nation’s police if he leaves  Libya .  Left to Fate  “After the ICC ruling, there is no place for talking with
someone who is considered a criminal domestically and
internationally,” Mahmoud Shammam, a spokesman for the rebels’
leadership council, told reporters today in Paris. “He must be
left to his fate.”  The U.S. joined NATO allies such as  France  and  Italy 
yesterday in praising the ICC’s decision. North Atlantic Treaty
Organization Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said the
indictment was further evidence that “time is rapidly running
out” for Qaddafi and his henchmen.  While “we hear lots of reports of feelers this way and
that way, emissaries this way and that way,” Qaddafi needs to
first end the violence and step down from power, State
Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters in
 Washington .  Dodging Arrest  What exile options remain for Qaddafi will now be strictly
limited to a handful of countries that did not ratify the Rome
treaty that set up the court in 2002, according to Maurizio
Massari, a spokesman for the Italian Foreign Ministry.  “It’s highly unlikely that Qaddafi will let himself get
arrested so he will be looking for another way out,” Massari
said in a telephone interview.  Qaddafi has immunity as head of state based on
international customary law, Themba Langa, a South African
lawyer representing Qaddafi and his government, said in an e-
mailed statement from Johannesburg today. The ICC has no
jurisdiction in Libya as the country never signed or ratified
the Rome treaty, he said.  Rogue States  Notable non-ICC African countries include  Angola , Cameroon,
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,  Ethiopia , Ivory Coast, Mauritania,
Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia,  Sudan , Swaziland, Togo, and
 Zimbabwe .  Chad , Djibouti, and Kenya are among the 31 African
countries that ratified the ICC yet have ignored their
obligations.  In exploring his limited options, Qaddafi has a few recent
precedents he can look to, as he mulls his next step.  Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic was indicted by a UN war
crimes tribunal in 1999. Yet he was not arrested by Belgrade
authorities until 2001, after the U.S. demanded the Yugoslav
government capture the former president or lose economic aid.
Milosevic died in prison in March 2006, four years into his
trial.  In Africa, two indicted war criminals suffered different
fates.  Liberian President Charles Taylor was granted asylum in
2003 by Nigeria as part of a negotiated end to a 14-year civil
war. About three years later, the Nigerian authorities buckled
to outside pressure and handed him over. Initially flown to
 Sierra Leone  for trial, he was eventually moved to a Dutch
prison to stand trial in  The Hague .  Travel Options  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir is the first sitting head
of state to be indicted by the ICC, charged with genocide.
Bashir has been able to travel, including to ICC member states
such as Egypt and Chad, which have refused to hand him over.
Still, his travel options have narrowed as human rights groups
including Amnesty International and  Human Rights Watch  pressed
countries to withdraw invitations or arrest him on arrival.  “In Taylor’s case, he was thrown out of power while with
Bashir, he still enjoys legitimacy in the region,” said
Quarterman, who was chief of staff to the UN under-secretary-
general for legal affairs and legal counsel.  Celebrations erupted in the streets of the besieged Libyan
rebel-held city of Misrata yesterday as news spread of the
arrest warrant. Several thousand people, many bearing the Libyan
rebel tricolor, poured into the central Liberation Square while
cars hooted their horns in a long procession around the square.  “Qaddafi is wanted as a war criminal so everybody is
proud,” said Farouk Bin Hameda, a bearded English translator
standing amid the crowd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  