-- 
Rank Board Changes Recommendation on Offer From Guoco Group

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-27T15:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/rank-board-changes-recommendation-on-offer-from-guoco-group.html
Rank Group Plc (RNK) , the operator of
Mecca Bingo clubs, changed its stand on  Guoco Group Ltd. (53) ’s bid,
recommending that shareholders who aren’t worried about the Hong
Kong investment company canceling Rank’s stock listing should
reject the offer.  On June 23, Rank said its board advised shareholders to
accept a final offer of 150 pence per share from Guoco, even
though it undervalued Rank. That advice holds if stockholders
are worried Guoco will cancel the listing, yet doesn’t apply if
they aren’t concerned, Maidenhead, England-based Rank said in a
Regulatory News Service statement today.  Guoco, controlled by billionaire Quek Leng Chan, made a bid
May 6 that was only a 0.8 percent premium to the share price.
Today the board said Guoco’s June 24 announcement that it had no
plans to cancel Rank’s listing voluntarily “does not provide
the board with certainty” the listing will go ahead if Guoco
decides continuing it is “not commercially feasible.”  “You could say they’re saying you should make up your own
mind,” said Jeffrey Harwood, an analyst with Oriel Securities
who has a “buy” recommendation on Rank.  Rank said today Guoco wouldn’t supply an “unconditional
commitment” to continue the listing, or to guarantee
shareholders an 18-month period for Rank shareholders to sell
out at a minimum of 150 pence per share, following a
termination.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is advising Rank.  Rank was little changed at 149.9 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London . The shares have gained 19 percent this year,
giving it a market value of 585.5 million pounds ($935 million).  Guoco said June 24 that it owned shares or had acceptances
from holders representing about 57 percent of Rank. Its offer
closes 1 p.m. July 1.  The U.K.’s Office of Fair Trade said today it wouldn’t
refer the proposed merger to the  Competition Commission .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  