-- 
Transitory Gloom Clouds Deere Boom as U.S. Shows Resilience

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-27T15:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/transitory-gloom-obscuring-deere-boom-as-u-s-data-show-latent-resilience.html
The strength of the  U.S. economy 
depends on whether you believe optimists like  Mark Zandi  or
pessimists like  David Rosenberg .  Economists Zandi and Neal Soss, who project sustained
growth during the next six months, agree with Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that the recent slowdown in consumer
spending, manufacturing and gross domestic product will be
transitory. They point to two years of expansion in the world’s
largest economy and rising corporate profits as signs that GDP
is poised to pick up.  The U.S. is “measurably stronger today than a year ago,”
said Zandi, chief economist for Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester, Pennsylvania. “You can see it in the job market. At
that time, job growth had just started to resume; now 2 million
private-sector jobs have been created.”  Rosenberg and  Ethan Harris  predict the U.S. will struggle
as some fiscal-stimulus programs end and federal, state and
local governments continue to slash budgets. Companies aren’t
likely to use their record earnings to accelerate hiring, the
economists say, while no one knows exactly how long it will take
to resolve the European debt crisis and repair factories in
Japan following the earthquake and tsunami.  “To say that the air pocket that we hit in the first
quarter was all transitory is a mistaken view,” said Rosenberg,
chief economist at Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc. in Toronto.
“The whole recovery’s been a soft patch.” Another recession
“is practically baked in the cake, barring another round of
policy stimulus.”  More Resilience  Investors see more resilience, particularly for
manufacturers such as  Deere & Co. (DE)  that will gain from domestic
sales and exports. The reversal of temporary restraints such as
supply disruptions from Japan and a spike in  oil prices  means
“we’ll not just go from the negatives to neutrals but from the
negatives to positives” in the second half of this year, said
 James Paulsen , chief investment strategist at Wells Capital
Management. That will boost share prices, especially for
industrial, technology and emerging-market companies, he said.  “The stock market is going to be higher as expectations
about economic growth go from 2 percent to 3 percent to 4
percent,” said Paulsen, whose Minneapolis-based company
oversees about $340 billion. “It might take until August before
we see a firm turn in the economic data. The market is going to
start to pick that up around July.”  Outpacing  S&P 500   The  Industrial Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLI) , an exchange-traded
fund including Moline, Illinois-based Deere and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) 
in Peoria, Illinois, climbed 23 percent in the 12 months to June
24, outpacing an 18 percent rise in the broader Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of stocks.  Deere, the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, raised its
2011 earnings forecast in May to $2.65 billion for the year
through October from a $2.5 billion estimate in February. U.S.
and Canadian farm-machinery sales may increase as much as 10
percent this year and construction-equipment shipments are
growing, with the U.S. at the start of a rebound, Deere said.  Similar gains are expected in foreign markets, with sales
of farm gear forecast to rise about 15 percent in the European
Union, Deere said. That outlook comes on the heels of record
U.S. exports in April.  “Markets for construction equipment in the U.S. and for
farm machinery in  Europe  are in the early stages of recovery,”
 Samuel Allen , Deere’s chairman and chief executive officer, said
in a May 18 statement. “We’re optimistic about the longer-term
opportunity for further improvement in these and other key
areas.”  ‘Moderate Pace’  Two years after the 18-month recession ended in June 2009,
the expansion is “continuing at a moderate pace, though
somewhat more slowly” than anticipated, Fed policy makers led
by Bernanke said on June 22 after a two-day meeting in
 Washington .  That “reflects, in part, factors that are likely to be
temporary, including the damping effect of higher food and
energy prices on consumer purchasing power and spending, as well
as supply-chain disruptions associated with the tragic events in
 Japan ,” the Federal Open Market Committee said in its
statement.  The weak rebound so far “means the wounds heal very
slowly, said Harris, head of developed-markets economic research
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York . He also is
concerned about Democratic and Republican wrangling over the
record $1.6 trillion federal deficit. Congress may settle for a
“front-loaded debt-reduction plan,” which the economy “cannot
handle,” he said.  EU Rescue Package  Another unknown is the success of a rescue package that EU
leaders are working on to stave off a Greek default.  “ Greece  and the fiscal impasse in the U.S. are huge wild
cards, with tremendous uncertainty about how long they last,”
said Harris, a former manager of the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s research division. They’re “a psychological headwind
that restrains the stock market and makes everyone a little more
nervous about the world.”  A deceleration in growth to 1.9 percent in the first
quarter from 3.1 percent in the previous three months highlights
how vulnerable the U.S. still is, Harris said. Setbacks such as
higher energy prices are “small shocks” the economy would
“motor through” in better times, “but in the current
environment, it doesn’t take a lot to convince companies and
consumers to pull back,” he said.  Rising Unemployment  Consumer spending  unexpectedly stagnated in May, with
purchases little changed from the prior month, as payrolls grew
at the slowest pace in eight months, and the  unemployment rate 
climbed to 9.1 percent from 9 percent in April and 8.8 percent
in March, according to Commerce and Labor Department data.  While private employers have added 2.14 million workers
since hiring resumed in March 2010, the recession caused the
loss of about 8.8 million jobs.  Soss, a former New York Fed economist and now chief
economist at Credit Suisse in New York, said he expects
improvement in the labor market later this year that may
strengthen household spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of GDP.  Purchases will rise at a pace that “will be enough to give
us moderate growth,” he said. “Compared to this time last
year, the economy is on safer ground. That is good news from the
point of withstanding a shock.”  ‘Near Zero’  Soss projects expansion of 2.8 percent this year and 3.9
percent in 2012, while Zandi’s forecast is 2.7 percent and 4.2
percent. Harris predicts growth of 2.4 percent for 2011 and 3
percent next year. Rosenberg said he sees 1.5 percent this year
and “near zero” for 2012.  Bernanke straddled both sides of the debate between the
optimists and pessimists during his press conference after last
week’s Fed meeting.  “It’s an appropriate balance to attribute a slowdown
partly to these identifiable temporary factors, but to
acknowledge the possibility that some of the slowdown is due to
factors which are longer-lived,” he said in response to a
reporter’s question. At the same time, “we will see greater
growth going forward.”  Some of the shocks already are waning. Crude oil for August
delivery was $91.16 a barrel as of June 24, down from this
year’s peak of $113.93 April 29. That means consumers are
getting relief at the pump. The average price of a gallon of
regular gasoline fell to $3.565 on June 26 from $3.99 on May 4,
the highest since July 2008, according to AAA, the nation’s
largest auto club.  Poised to Rally  Manufacturing, which grew last month at the slowest pace in
more than a year, is poised to rally in the second half as
Japanese companies recover from the March earthquake and
tsunami, easing a parts shortage, Zandi and Soss said. Exports
also are showing strength, helped by rising demand in markets
such as  China , the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Shipments climbed 1.3 percent to a record $175.6 billion in
April, according to Commerce Department data. The value of the
dollar has fallen 8.5 percent in the past 12 months against a
trade-weighted basket of currencies from America’s biggest
trading partners. This makes U.S.-made goods cheaper for
overseas buyers.  While manufacturing jump-started the rebound, the expansion
has become more broad-based, allowing corporate America to
repair its finances. Companies in the S&P 500 had $2.58 trillion
in cash and short-term investments at the end of the first
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Question of Willingness’  “It’s no longer a question of can businesses invest and
hire?” Zandi said. “It’s a question of willingness. That’s a
big distinction. I could not have said that a year ago.”  Some companies are adding both machinery and workers.
Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, said this month it will spend an additional $70
million at a hydraulic-excavator plant under construction and
add about 100 jobs to the 500 originally planned for the
Victoria, Texas, facility. Production is slated to begin in mid-
2012, according to a June 17 statement from the company.  The outlook for the next three to six months, as measured
by the index of leading indicators from the Conference Board,
underscores the optimists’ view. The gauge rose 0.8 percent in
May, exceeding the 0.3 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey and following a drop the prior month.  “Cyclically, the economy is continuing to grow,” Soss
said, adding that he hopes for even faster progress. “It’s the
difference between doing better and doing well,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Sho Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  