-- 
Treasuries Drop as Record Low Yield Saps Demand at Two-Year Note Auction

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-06-27T21:22:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/treasuries-drop-as-greece-optimism-deters-2-year-auction-demand.html
Treasury two-year note yields
increased the most since April as speculation  Greece ’s lawmakers
will approve austerity measures reduced demand at the U.S.
government’s $35 billion auction of the securities.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 22 percent of the notes, the lowest in
more than three years. Thirty-year bonds were the worst
performing Treasuries, increasing the difference in yields with
two-year securities to the widest since March.  “A lot of people weren’t prepared for a bad two-year
auction,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of
Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in  New York .
“Now it’s all hands on deck for tomorrow to see if we’re going
to get hit again with a bad five-year note auction. I guess
rates really do matter to the average investor.”  Yields on current two-year notes gained seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 0.39 percent at 5:20 p.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 0.5 percent
security maturing in May 2013 fell 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 6/32.  The two-year note yields advanced the most on an intraday
basis since April 27, when the  Federal Reserve  said it would
complete its $600 billion program of debt buying on schedule at
the end of June. The yields fell on June 24 to 0.32 percent, the
lowest level since Nov. 4, the day after the central bank said
it would resume buying debt.  Long Bonds  Yields on 30-year bonds climbed 11 basis points to 4.3
percent, the highest level since June 15. The extra yield
investors demand to hold 30-year bonds instead of two-year notes
increased to 3.90 percentage points, the widest since March 14.  Four-week bill rates traded negative today for the first
time in more than a year on quarter-end buying amid a shrinking
supply of the securities. The rates decreased to negative 0.005
percent, the lowest level since January 2010. The rates reached
a record negative 0.09 percent on Dec. 4, 2008.  At today’s note auction, the securities produced a record
low yield of 0.395 percent, compared with the average forecast
of 0.386 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of the 20
primary dealers obliged to participate in U.S. debt offerings.
The previous record low yield for an auction of this size is 0.4
percent, attained Oct. 26.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with amount of securities offered, was 3.08, compared
with 3.46 last month and an average of 3.39 at the past 10
government debt offerings.  Indirect Bidders  Indirect bidders purchased 22 percent of the notes, the
lowest since February 2008 and down from 31.3 percent in May.
Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place their
bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 13.5 percent of the
notes, compared with 19.1 percent last month and an average of
14.1 percent at the last 10 auctions.  “It doesn’t look like it was a tremendous auction,” said
 David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in New York at
Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional investors.
“We were probably a little overdone last week on the flight-to-
quality bid.”  The Treasury Department is scheduled to auction $35 billion
in five-year debt tomorrow and offer $29 billion of seven-year
notes on June 29.  Bonds dropped earlier today as the German government
welcomed proposals from French banks and insurers on voluntary
participation in a roll-over of Greek debt.  Sarkozy on Greece  At a press conference in Paris, President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said French banks and insurers proposed rolling over 70 percent
of their holdings of Greek debt.  Greek lawmakers begin a three-day debate today on the 78
billion euro ($111 billion) austerity measures, with a vote
expected to be on June 29. Failure to pass the plan may lead to
the euro area’s first sovereign default.  “Even though the vote will be tough, the market still
thinks it will go through,” Wunderlich’s Franzese said. “The
world’s not coming to an end.”  The Fed purchased $4.578 billion of securities maturing
from June 2015 to September 2016 today as part of its program of
debt buying.  The central bank said on June 22 that it will continue to
buy Treasuries with proceeds from the maturing debt it currently
owns. That could mean purchases of as much as $300 billion of
government debt over the next 12 months without adding money to
the financial system.  U.S. consumer spending unexpectedly stagnated in May after
an increase of 0.3 percent in the previous month, the Commerce
Department reported. The median forecast of 70 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1 percent increase.  Fed Speaker  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  urged
Congress today in a speech in Big Sky,  Montana , to change the
nation’s tax system in a way that discourages banks and
households from accumulating debt.  “The U.S. tax system encourages leverage by providing
incentives for households to take on more mortgage debt and
financial institutions to finance through debt,” Kocherlakota
said.  It does so “even though both are potentially
destabilizing,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  