-- 
Retail Banks’ Behavior to Be Focus of New Regulator, FSA Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-27T10:27:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/retail-banks-behavior-to-be-focus-of-new-regulator-fsa-says.html
The agency replacing the U.K.’s
financial regulator will intervene earlier to prevent the
introduction of risky products and use enforcement powers to
study banks’ conduct in selling retail investments.  The Financial Conduct Authority, which is due to start work
by 2013, will “aim to protect and enhance confidence in the
firms and markets it regulates,” the  Financial Services
Authority  said in a  report on its website today .  “Trust in the financial-services sector is at an all time
low and the new regulatory arrangements provide the opportunity
to restore confidence in an industry which has generated in
excess of 15 billion-pounds ($24 billion) detriment over the
last two decades,” Hector Sants, FSA chief executive, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The FSA, the U.K.’s financial regulator, will be abolished
by the end of 2012 and replaced by at least two new authorities
as part of an overhaul of financial supervision. The Financial
Conduct Authority will have new powers to ban risky financial
products or intervene in how they are marketed and to publish
information about disciplinary investigations earlier.  The FCA “will deliver significantly higher levels of
protection than consumers have enjoyed over the last 20 years,”
Margaret Cole, interim managing director of the FSA’s conduct
business unit, said in an e-mailed statement.  The FSA has stepped up its consumer-protection efforts.
U.K. banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  may face
costs of as much as 4.5 billion pounds ($7.2 billion) after
losing a bid earlier this year to stop the FSA from imposing
rules on customer compensation for improperly selling loan
insurance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 