-- 
Tribune Competing Creditors Make Final Pitches on Reorganization Plans

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-27T21:58:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/tribune-creditors-make-final-pitches-on-rival-reorganizations.html
Tribune Co.’s creditors, divided
over whether to settle with or sue  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , made
their final pleas to the judge overseeing the newspaper
publisher’s bankruptcy.  After more than five hours of argument, U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Kevin J. Carey ended a hearing today in Wilmington,
 Delaware , without saying which of two reorganization plans he
favored. One plan sues and the other settles with JPMorgan and
other senior lenders who funded the $8.2 billion buyout that
took Tribune private in 2007.  “This is a case that you ought to settle,” said James Sottile, an attorney for the creditor alliance led by JPMorgan
and hedge funds Angelo Gordon & Co. and Oaktree Capital
Management LP.  That group is opposed by pre-buyout noteholders, led by
hedge fund Aurelius Capital Management LP. They argue that
lawsuits related to the buyout would pay them more than the
settlement, which is valued at about $488 million.  Under both plans, New York-based JPMorgan and the other
senior lenders would be Tribune’s majority owners. The company
filed for bankruptcy in 2008, one year after the buyout led by
real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  Tribune’s settlement plan is supported by conclusions of a
court-appointed examiner, who found only part of the buyout was
vulnerable to challenge by noteholders, Sottile said.  Creditors already have filed lawsuits related to the LBO,
including cases against Zell and Tribune’s shareholders.  ‘All the Evidence’  “The bottom line is, the examiner looked at all the
evidence,” Sottile said.  Tribune, based in  Chicago , is now valued at about $6.75
billion, according to court papers filed by the company. It has
about $13 billion of debt, mostly from the buyout.  Tribune owns eight newspapers, including the  Los Angeles
Times  and the  Chicago Tribune , with a combined daily circulation
of 1.9 million last year. The company’s 23 TV stations include
sites in  New York , Chicago and  Los Angeles .  Carey should reject the JPMorgan settlement because there
is evidence lenders knew the two-step buyout would fail before
arranging the loans used to pay shareholders, noteholder
attorney Abid Qureshi said in court today.  The company’s February 2007 projections were so
“outlandish” that they weren’t taken seriously by people
involved in the buyout, Qureshi said. In a video deposition
played in court today, an official with one of the banks
involved in the transaction said that the bank made its own
projections. That was because the company’s projections were so
unreliable, Qureshi said.  Financial Goal  For the publisher to meet its 2007 financial goal Tribune’s
top six newspapers needed to increase weekly cash flows by 44.5
percent, Qureshi said. At the time, analysts and media
executives believed the industry had begun a long-term decline
in revenue that would last 10 years, he said.  During the noteholders’ argument, Carey said he was less
interested in their complaint about how the settlement was
negotiated than in the deal itself, which would prevent an LBO-
related lawsuit against the lenders.  “I am more focused on the question, ‘Is this a good
deal?’” Carey said.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington. Delaware, at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 