-- 
Richmond Fed Survey of Agricultural Credit Conditions (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-06-27T12:07:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/richmond-fed-survey-of-agricultural-credit-conditions-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Richmond Fed’s Survey of Agricultural Credit Conditions:  Overview  Results from the Richmond Fed’s latest survey of Fifth District
agricultural banks indicated that weakness in agricultural
credit lending conditions eased during the first quarter of 2011.
Bankers reported that farm loan demand contracted at a slower
pace than in late 2010. However, contacts generally noted that
requests for loan renewals or extensions increased at a slower
pace than indicated in our last report, while requests for loan
repayment rates declined further. Moreover, agricultural lenders
reported that farm loans were generally less available and that
collateral requirements tightened further. Reports indicated
that  interest rates  increased for feeder cattle loans but eased
for all other categories. Turning to farmland values, first-
quarter land prices were above both the previous quarter and
year-ago levels.  Demand for Farm Loans  Lenders attributed the moderation of weakness in loan demand to
higher cattle prices, farmland values and global food demand
driving up commodity prices. However, significant increases in
input costs raised concerns regarding profitability in 2011.
Moreover, lenders continued to express concerns about escalated
feed costs for poultry and livestock producers. Also, lenders
indicated that the forestry industry continued to suffer due to
weak economic conditions, although signs of improvement were
noted in specialty markets. In addition, many of the nursery
operators reported a positive first quarter.  Contacts in the Carolinas and West  Virginia  reported that cattle
prices continued on an upward trend. They noted, however, that
increased feed costs affected profits, but that operations had
posted modest gains. A banker in  North Carolina  mentioned that
global food demand is the driving factor in future commodity
prices. He indicated that weather-related events will not only
affect production, but also alter food demand around the world.
Lenders in North Carolina and Virginia cited declines in demand
for forestry products due to relatively low housing starts, but
indicated that niche markets were managing to survive.
Furthermore, a contact in North Carolina indicated that nursery
operators had reported improvement in contracts for spring sales
with existing homeowners improving “curb appeal.”  Looking forward, lenders expect farm loan volumes generally to
contract at a slower pace in the second quarter of 2011, led by
less weakness in the demand for crop storage and farm machinery
loans. The reading for crop storage loans moved up twenty-nine
points to −27, and the expected demand for farm machinery loans
rose sixteen points to −16. In other categories, the expected
demand for feeder cattle loans lost sixteen points to −44, and
the reading for dairy loans edged up three points to −38. In
contrast, the reading for operating loans added twenty-six
points to 31.  Interest Rates  Interest rates for agricultural loans by category were mixed
during the first quarter. Compared to fourth-quarter levels,
rates for long-term real estate loans moved down 26 basis points
and rates for intermediate-term loans declined 18 basis points.
In other categories, interest rates for operating loans fell 11
basis points while rates for feeder cattle loans moved up 15
basis points.  Availability of Credit  In the first quarter, 77 percent of lenders reported that they
had actively sought new farm loans -- up from 63 percent in the
previous quarter. Moreover, lenders reported that farm loans
were generally less available -- the funds availability index
declined sixteen points to 16.  Credit Quality  During the first quarter, the quality of agricultural credit
demand was mixed. Loan repayment rates fell further, as the
index moved down twelve points to −23 and the loan renewals
index dropped fourteen points to 23. In addition, the index for
collateral requirements picked up eleven points to end the first
quarter at 69.  Farmland Values  The market value of good farmland averaged $3,565 per acre in
the first quarter, 9.3 percent above the fourth quarter reading
and 2.9 percent higher than a year earlier. Looking ahead,
however, bankers anticipate that farmland prices would grow at a
slower pace during the second quarter of 2011; the index for
expected land values lost three points to −8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  