-- 
RIM Loses Miami Dolphins Fans as Software Developers Defect

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-27T20:45:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/rim-loses-miami-dolphins-fans-as-software-developers-defecting-to-iphone.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , struggling
to compete in the smartphone market with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , is losing support among some software developers who have
been making programs for the company’s BlackBerry.  Seesmic Inc. , a developer of social-media applications, and
Mobile Roadie LLC, which makes apps for fans of the  Miami
Dolphins  and country singer  Taylor Swift , have decided to stop
making products for RIM.  Purple Forge Corp. , which makes
programs for political campaigns and polling, will stop building
BlackBerry versions of its apps unless customers request it.  “You have to put your resources where the growth is,”
Seesmic Chief Executive Officer Loic Le Meur said in an
interview. “It’s coming down to the explosive growth of the
iPhone and the Android operating systems.”  RIM has been trying to build support among developers to
fight back against Apple and Google’s Android, which have drawn
away users with greater varieties of applications. RIM last week
said quarterly revenue may drop for the first time in nine years
and unveiled plans to cut jobs.  The Waterloo, Ontario-based company’s share of global
smartphone sales fell to 12.9 percent in the first quarter from
19.7 percent a year earlier, as Apple gained and Android more
than tripled to 36 percent, according to researcher  Gartner Inc.   RIM said it continues to increase the number of programs
for customers. There are more than 35,000 apps in the company’s
online store, up from the more than 25,000 in March, said Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman. There are more than 200,000 apps in the
 Android Market  and more than 425,000 in Apple’s  App Store .  Expensive ‘Gotchas’  RIM fell 40 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $28.17 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has dropped
52 percent this year.  The developers are stepping back from BlackBerry because
they say creating apps is too complex and costly for the size of
the market. RIM’s devices have different screens sizes, varied
operating systems and several ways to navigate, from a physical
keyboard to touchscreen to a scroll button.  “As soon as RIM brought in a touchscreen and mixed it with
a thumbwheel, a keyboard and shortcut keys, it made it really
difficult and expensive to develop across devices,” said Purple
Forge CEO Brian Hurley. “What Apple scored big on is having a
touch screen and a button and that’s it.”  There are also costly surprises that turn up during
development for RIM, Hurley said in an interview.  “In deploying Apple applications, there are very few
surprises,” said Hurley. “In Android, there are increasingly
more surprises. But in BlackBerry, there are immediately lots of
gotchas across the board.”  ‘Whoa’  When Seesmic’s Le Meur tried to load his San Francisco-
based company’s application on the new BlackBerry Playbook
tablet, the application wouldn’t run, he said.  “To me it was like, ‘Whoa.’ BlackBerry isn’t even an
option,” Le Meur said.  For  Mobile Roadie , which allows its customers to design and
build their own applications, the variation across devices was
particularly frustrating. In an interview, CEO Michael Schneider
said users would blame the Beverly Hills-based company for
inconveniences like distorted images on different-sized screens.  “At the end of the day, I even felt like developing for
BlackBerry could be hurting our reputation,” Schneider said.  The decision to back away from BlackBerry was made easier
by waning user engagement, developers said.  “When we put an application in the field, there was a 20-
to-1 difference between Apple and BlackBerry downloads,” said
Purple Forge’s Hurley. The Ottawa, Ontario-based company devotes
about 80 percent of its investment to Apple development.  Growing Challenge?  Schneider said less than 2 percent of BlackBerry users
interacted with  Mobile Roadie’s applications , compared with more
than 50 percent of iPhone and Android users.  “We were putting a ton of resources into something users
were not engaging in,” he said.  The challenges for RIM may grow with a new operating system
it’s planning to use across all its devices. The company, after
buying QNX Software Systems last year, introduced its BlackBerry
PlayBook tablet in April on a new QNX operating system and plans
to introduce BlackBerry phones built on QNX next year.  That switch will only encourage more developers to not
bother with the BlackBerry OS used on current devices and adopt
a wait-and-see approach to RIM, said  Peter Misek , an analyst
with Jefferies & Co. in New York.  “The vast majority of developers build for Android and iOS
and have no plans to build for RIM until QNX is fully up and
they can evaluate it,” said Misek, who has an “underperform”
rating on RIM. “Until then, they are unlikely to support QNX in
any meaningful way as an active platform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  