-- 
RIM Investors Should Vote to Split Top Roles, ISS Says

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-27T21:51:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/rim-investors-should-vote-to-split-top-roles-iss-says-1-.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s investors
should back a proposal to split the roles of chief executive
officer and chairman, said Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc., the second major proxy adviser to recommend the move.  “The board’s mandate is to represent the interests of
shareholders through overseeing management and instilling
accountability,” the Rockville, Maryland-based firm said today
in an e-mailed statement. “Conflicts of interest may arise when
one person holds both the Chair and CEO positions.”  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis  are both co-CEOs and co-
chairmen at Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM.  ISS, which provides advice on corporate governance issues
to more than 1,700 clients, weighed in amid increasing calls for
RIM to shake up its leadership structure to lead a turnaround.
The company is losing share in the smartphone market to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and handset makers that use Google Inc.’s Android operating
system. RIM said on June 16 quarterly revenue may decline for
the first time in nine years, sending its stock down 21 percent
the next day.  Glass Lewis & Co., which advises investors that manage more
than $15 trillion, said last week that RIM shareholders should
support the split proposal from Northwest & Ethical Investments
LP. Shareholders will vote on the measure at RIM’s annual
meeting on July 12. Billionaire RIM investor Stephen Jarislowsky
also called for a split earlier this month.  ‘Financial Underperformance’  RIM fell 40 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $28.17 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has dropped
52 percent this year.  The BlackBerry maker’s “financial underperformance
strengthens the idea that the separation” is in the best
interests of RIM’s shareholders, ISS said.  Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to comment
beyond the company’s earlier filing on the issue. RIM said
shareholders shouldn’t support separation because management
already has sufficient oversight from independent directors,
including its lead director who has a role similar to chairmen
at other companies.  ISS said that  John Richardson , a director since 2003, has
been lead director since March, 2007, when Balsillie stepped
down as chairman following an Ontario Securities Commission
investigation into stock-option backdating. Balsillie returned
as co-chairman in December.  ‘Satisfactory Balance’  The lead director structure does not provide a
“satisfactory balance” to the unified co-CEO and chairmen
positions, and RIM’s board “does not possess the
counterbalancing governance mechanisms to ensure independent
oversight of management and accountability to shareholders,”
ISS said.  Ultimately, the company appears to have no grounds to argue
against the resolution, ISS said.  “There seems to be no compelling rationale for the company
to resist handing over all the duties of Chair along with that
title to an independent director.”  Egan-Jones Ratings Co., which provides proxy services and
ratings, today disagreed with ISS and  Glass Lewis , issuing a
recommendation to reject the shareholder proposal. RIM has done
enough to address the concerns raised and there are no U.S. or
Canadian rules that require a company to have a separate CEO and
chairman, the Haverford, Pennsylvania-based firm said in its
statement.  “We do not believe that implementing the proposal would
justify the administrative costs and efforts, nor would it
provide a corresponding meaningful benefit to the company’s
shareholders,” Egan-Jones said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  