-- 
Roche Faces Odds on FDA Cancer Drug Reversal

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-06-27T17:51:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/roche-may-face-long-odds-getting-fda-cancer-drug-reversal.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  may face long odds
convincing a U.S. advisory panel to let the company’s top-
selling drug Avastin be used against breast cancer.  The company is making its case tomorrow and Wednesday in
appealing the  Food and Drug Administration ’s Dec. 16 decision to
withdraw Avastin’s conditional approval in breast cancer after
follow-up studies failed to show the drug produced enough
benefit. The case is unusual because FDA rejections and appeals
focus on failed treatments, not drugs that don’t live up to the
agency’s expectations, said Ed Lang, a Roche spokesman.  The FDA’s decision probably cost the Swiss drugmaker $1
billion in sales, about half from the U.S., according to  Michael Leacock , an analyst at Royal Bank of  Scotland . An agency
reversal to keep allowing Avastin sales for  breast cancer  with a
warning would probably let them recover “a few hundred million
francs” in sales, he said.  “We’ve made the assumption, perhaps harshly, that Avastin
is not used in metastatic breast cancer” based on the FDA
maintaining its position, Leacock said in a telephone interview
from  London . “Anything other than the FDA sticking to its guns
would be a benefit to our Roche view.”  The FDA could keep the drug available with a warning while
Roche conducts another study to prove its benefit in a group of
patients, Leacock said. The agency will consider new evidence
that concentrations of a protein in the blood may help identify
patients whose health would most benefit from the treatment.  Unusual Proceeding  Six outside advisers to the FDA on cancer drugs are
scheduled to vote at this week’s hearing, five of whom voted
against Avastin in breast cancer last year. The panel’s patient
representative, Natalie Portis, is the only one who also
participated in a 2007 hearing, where she said the data didn’t
support approval.  Roche petitioned unsuccessfully to get a new panel for
Avastin. Karen Midthun, head of the FDA’s center for biologic
drugs and the presiding officer at the hearing, told the company
in March that the regulations required the use of the advisory
committee at the hearing, though some members have rotated off
since the earlier meetings on Avastin in breast cancer.  The unusual proceeding will feature testimony from expert
witnesses for the FDA and Roche and cross-examination from
lawyers. After the deliberations, the panel will make
recommendations to FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg .  “We don’t view this as a courtroom,” said  Karen Riley , a
spokeswoman for the FDA, in a telephone interview. The
recommendations aren’t binding and there’s no timeline for
Hamburg to make any final ruling, Riley said.  Two Rejections  Doctors and scientists on the advisory panel have twice
voted against approving Avastin for breast cancer. The panel
will be asked this time to decide whether the studies used as
the basis for its December recommendation fail to verify
Avastin’s benefit in breast cancer, and if the drug is safe and
effective.  Avastin had global sales of 6.46 billion Swiss francs last
year ($6.22 billion), or 14 percent of Roche’s revenue. The drug
is also approved for kidney, colon, lung and brain tumors.  Leacock stripped $1 billion from his Avastin peak sales
estimate after the FDA proposed to withdraw approval in breast
cancer. While European regulators opted to allow further
marketing of Avastin, the FDA scrutiny and unprecedented debate
has raised concern among doctors around the world, he said.  Roche, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , has little precedent to
use in preparing its challenge, said Lang, the company
spokesman.  2008 Decision  The FDA gave Avastin accelerated approval in breast cancer
in February 2008 over the objections of its advisory panel.
While the panel voted 5-4 that the data were mixed, the agency
focused on one study that suggested the drug slowed disease
progression.  Two required follow-up trials showed Avastin didn’t improve
symptoms or help patients live longer, and it had a smaller
effect on tumor growth. The panel met again in July 2010 and
voted 12-1 that approval should be withdrawn.  Recent data suggest higher levels of a protein in blood
known as VEGF-A may help identify patients who may derive
substantial benefit from Avastin, according to Roche. The
company is still working on the logistics of a new trial.  If the FDA upholds its policy and withdraws Avastin’s
approval in breast cancer, conducting a study with the drug
raises ethical concerns, Lang said.  “There is some suggestion that there might be patients who
respond better to Avastin,” said Nicholas Turner, a London-
based analyst for Mirabaud Securities, in a telephone interview.
“If they can make that argument, there might be grounds for the
drug to remain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ; 