-- 
Ron Paul’s Anti-Fed Message Drives 2012 White House Bid Gaining Respect

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-06-27T18:09:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/ron-paul-s-anti-fed-message-drives-2012-white-house-bid-gaining-respect.html
When Ron Paul announced four years
ago that he was running for president, the congressman from
 Texas  had a tough time attracting attention.  Paul -- known for his calls for a significantly limited
government, opposition to the Iraq, Afghan and Libyan conflicts
and his drive to get rid of the Federal Reserve -- stayed in
Washington to declare his candidacy for the 2008 Republican
nomination on C-Span, the cable television station devoted to
government proceedings. His entry earned a one-sentence mention
near the end of a Washington Post political story, and little
notice elsewhere.  Last month, his venue for announcing another presidential
bid was an appearance on ABC’s “Good Morning America” -- a
program with more than 4.5 million viewers. He spoke from a
rally in New Hampshire, where hundreds of backers drawn to
Paul’s message of shrinking government and limiting its reach
cheered the 75-year-old great-grandfather.  “During the last campaign people weren’t too interested in
what I was saying,” Paul said in an interview. “There’s some
respect for it now.”  Growing Clout  Paul, a former obstetrician who estimates he’s delivered
about 4,000 babies, also has seen his clout grow within
Congress, where during most of his 11 full terms he had little
influence. This year, he ascended to the helm of the House
subcommittee that oversees the Fed. Rand Paul, his son and a
Tea-Party favorite who follows his father’s anti-tax, anti-debt
politics, joined Paul in  Washington  in January as a Republican
senator from  Kentucky , elevating the family brand.  Although political analysts give the elder Paul little
chance of emerging as President Barack Obama’s challenger, his
limited-government goals echo through the Tea Party movement,
the cadre of activists that helped Republicans gain control of
the House in the 2010 election.  “He is one of the most long-standing advocates of a policy
that is at its apex in the  Republican Party ,” said  Bruce Buchanan , a political scientist at the  University of Texas  in
Austin. “He doesn’t look as much like an off-the-wall,
cartoonish figure as he did in recent efforts to go national.”  For decades -- and mostly from the margins -- Paul has held
fast to his Libertarian message of limited government, giving
him authenticity.  Drug Legalization  His positions include a return to linking the dollar to
gold. He doesn’t see a federal role in education and health
care. He supports legalizing drugs, including heroin; this month
he co-sponsored a bill to allow states to legalize marijuana. He
urges a non-interventionist foreign policy, which is the basis
for his opposition to the U.S. involvement in Iraq, Afghanistan
and  Libya .  He was critical of the mission that killed  Osama bin Laden 
in  Pakistan , saying the U.S. should have worked with Pakistan
and shown more respect for international rule of law.  “He says what he believes, and he believes what he says,”
said Dean Spiliotis, a New Hampshire-based political analyst.
“You can’t underestimate the extent to which people appreciate
that.”  Fundraising  Paul, an avid exerciser, gained a loyal band of followers
in his 2008 campaign, including a large number of college
students. His grassroots support fueled Internet donations,
including a one-day $6 million haul. He raised a total of $34.5
million, more than double what former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  collected in his failed 2008 bid. And his backers even
launched a  Ron Paul  blimp.  He’s building on that support now. “We used to have to
actively lobby and push to get him on a handful of cable news
shows,” said campaign aide Jesse Benton. “Now we get more than
we can handle.”  At the Southern Republican Leadership Conference in  New
Orleans , an annual gathering of party activists that this month
featured speeches by several White House aspirants, Paul won a
June 18 presidential preference straw poll. The day before, he
took the stage at the event to a thundering chant of “Ron
Paul” from supporters. Minutes into his speech, several hundred
began shouting “Kill the Fed.”  Paul looked on with a smile. “This is wonderful; this is
where we have made our greatest stride,” he said. “It’s time
we not only audit our  Federal Reserve , but in due time get rid
of the Federal Reserve.”  Fed Legislation  The heightened appeal of his efforts was evident in 2010,
when the House cleared his legislation to require audits of the
central bank’s interest-rate decisions. It was Paul’s ninth
attempt at passing legislation to rein in the Fed. A watered-
down version of Paul’s measure was included in the financial-
regulation law enacted last year, and Paul has vowed to push for
greater oversight.  “Anybody who ever thought Ron Paul was a joke was not
paying attention,” said Charlie Black, a veteran political
strategist who advised Republican presidential nominee  John McCain  in 2008. “His stature is elevated because his followers
did play a big role in the Tea Party movement and the victories
for Republicans in 2010.”  Paul is scheduled to return June 30 to  New Hampshire , the
state that conducts the nation’s first presidential primary, for
two days of campaign events.  In his current campaign, Paul said, rivals no longer
dismiss him.  ‘Laugh or Snicker’  “In the debates last go-around, if I brought up monetary
policy they literally would laugh or snicker,” he said. “I
don’t think that’s there anymore because people are realizing
the current system isn’t working that well.”  Still, little evidence exists that he can win any of the
early primary contests, let alone the Republican nomination.
Paul has rarely hit double digits in national polls of
Republican-leaning voters on their presidential preferences; an
aggregate of surveys by the  RealClearPolitics website  shows him
with 6.9 percent support.  The rise of the Tea Party and a growing anti-government
sentiment will probably lead to only slightly better results for
Paul this year, said Mark McKinnon, a political consultant who
advised Republican President  George W. Bush .  ‘Gadfly’  “Paul is really a Libertarian, and while they are
committed and passionate about Ron Paul, Libertarians represent
at best about 10 percent of the vote,” McKinnon said. “He’ll
stir the pot and add some entertainment at the debates. But he’s
more gadfly than threat.”  Judson Phillips, founder of Tea Party Nation, disputes
Paul’s influence on the movement. He said that while he agrees
with some of Paul’s ideas, others -- such as in foreign policy -
- are “just nuts.”  “This idea that Ron Paul started the Tea Party movement is
revisionist history,” he said. “People say Ron Paul is the
godfather of the Tea Party. No, he isn’t.”  It’s  Rand Paul , the Kentucky Republican, who Phillips and
some political analysts see as more polished and electable,
should he seek the presidency.  “He’ll be a force to contend with if he has ambitions to
be in the White House,” said Dave Carney, a Republican
consultant who was political director for former President
 George H.W. Bush .  Until recently, the two shared an apartment in suburban
 Virginia , outside Washington. Rand Paul moved closer to the
Senate so he wouldn’t have to fight traffic and could walk to
work. Ron Paul said he prefers to be farther from the city,
where he enjoys morning walks of three to four miles and 12-mile
bike rides at day’s end, when his schedule allows. He also swims
regularly.  ‘My Therapy’  “It’s my therapy,” he said. “I complain if I don’t get
to do that.”  Rand Paul campaigned for his father in 2008 and will act as
a surrogate again. “That’s how a lot of people got to know
him,” said his father.  Ron Paul said his son has studied many of the same
teachings and books on topics such as economic theory that have
influenced his views. “Intellectually, it’s a continuation of
what I’ve been doing,” he said.  Still, the patriarch of five children, 18 grandchildren and
five great grandchildren shrugs off any notion of a political
dynasty in the making:  “I don’t use those terms, especially since we are trying
to get rid of power in Washington.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  