-- 
Russia’s RTS Futures Gain on Greek Debt Optimism, Oil Above $90

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-27T21:42:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/russia-s-rts-futures-gain-on-greek-debt-optimism-oil-above-90.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
gained, signaling shares may rise today in Moscow, as oil held
above $90 a barrel and U.S. stocks advanced amid optimism Greek
lawmakers will approve austerity measures.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September gained 0.7 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO Rosneft
and OAO Lukoil, Russia’s top two oil producers, each added 0.4
percent. Agreements on OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas
producer, climbed 0.7 percent, while those on OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s biggest lender, increased 0.5 percent.  “S&P’s recovering ground is quite encouraging,” Yan Gloukhovski, a trader at Alforma Capital Markets, the New York
branch of Russia’s Alfa Bank, said in a telephone interview.
“Oil held at the key $90 a barrel level for a third session in
a row, also offering support to the market.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.9 percent
yesterday in  New York  as Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
called on lawmakers to back tougher austerity measures, as they
began to debate a five-year budget plan that will determine
whether the cash-strapped nation can avoid default. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of shares added 0.4 percent after
falling as much as 0.4 percent earlier in the day.  Greek lawmakers are scheduled to vote June 29 when
lawmakers decide on the package of budget cuts and asset sales
that’s needed before  Greece  can tap a fifth loan payment from
last year’s 110 billion-euro ($157 billion) rescue. Failure to
pass Papandreou’s 78 billion euro plan may lead to the euro
area’s first sovereign default.  Micex Drops  Russia’s Micex Index fell for the second day in three
yesterday, dropping 0.4 percent to 1,626.95. The dollar-
denominated RTS Index lost 0.8 percent to 1,842.2.  Crude for August delivery fell 0.6 percent to settle at
$90.61 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, gold, palladium and
aluminum. Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic
output.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities lost 0.3 percent as
hogs, silver and wheat also dropped. Gold closed below $1,500 an
ounce for the first time in more than a month. Gold futures for
August delivery fell $4.50, or 0.3 percent, to settle at
$1,496.40 an ounce at 1:41 p.m. on the Comex in New York, the
lowest settlement since May 19.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, gained 1.3 percent.  Sberbank’s American depositary receipts traded for the
first day yesterday.  “Sberbank’s ADRs will allow funds that previously could
not own the stock to buy it,” Gloukhovsky said. “Given that
Sberbank is the second-largest stock in the market by market
capitalization, it should attract a fair amount of inflows.”  -- Editors:  Brendan Walsh , Richard Richtmyer  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  