-- 
SABMiller’s $9.9 Billion Purchase of Foster’s Will Help Both, Moody’s Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-06-27T07:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/sabmiller-takeover-of-foster-s-would-benefit-both-companies-moody-s-says.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s A$9.5 billion
($9.9 billion) takeover offer of  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  would
benefit both companies’ earnings and help them cut costs if a
deal is completed, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  SABMiller, the world’s second-largest brewer by volume,
would get access to a profitable cash-generating business and
reduce its reliance on developing markets, Moody’s said in an
e-mailed report today. Melbourne-based Foster’s would benefit
from being part of a materially larger and higher-rated company,
Moody’s said.  Foster’s rejected SABMiller’s conditional cash offer last
week as too low, in what would be the biggest takeover in the
beer industry since 2008. London-based SABMiller said it would
pursue Foster’s as it seeks a brewer with about half the
Australian market and the top-selling brew in  Victoria Bitter .  “SABMiller has historically been an acquisitive company
with a good track record at integrating purchased assets,”
Yasmina Serghini-Douvin and Maurice O’Connell, Moody’s analysts,
wrote in the report. “If the acquisition proceeds, it would be
credit positive for both companies with expected benefits in
terms of diversification, scale and cost savings.”  Moody’s rates Foster’s Baa2, two levels above junk status.
SABMiller is rated one level higher at Baa1.  The offer by SABMiller “significantly undervalues”
Foster’s, the Australian brewer said June 21.  An acquisition of Foster’s would be SABMiller’s biggest,
giving the maker of  Peroni  and Grolsch seven of  Australia ’s top
10 selling beers. It would be the biggest takeover of a
beermaker since 2008, when InBev NV acquired St. Louis-based
Anheuser-Busch Cos. for $52 billion to form Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV, the world’s largest brewer by volume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  