-- 
Salgado Says No Spain Rescue Needed as Yield ‘Worries’ Her

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-06-27T11:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/salgado-says-no-spain-rescue-needed-as-yield-worries-her-1-.html
Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said
 Spain  won’t need a bailout even as a surge in borrowing costs
“worries” her, with the yield on the country’s benchmark 10-
year bond at its highest level since 2000.  While demand for Spanish debt remains strong, “of course”
the yield “worries me,” she said in an interview today on TVE
television in  Madrid . “We are not, nor will we be, on the verge
of any bailout.”  Spain’s government, facing general elections in March that
polls indicate it will lose to the opposition  People’s Party , is
trying to convince investors it can reorder its public finances
and avoid following Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  into a bailout.
Spain’s 10-year bond yield climbed to an 11-year high of 5.77
percent today as the cost of insuring against default on
European sovereign debt rose to a record.  “Each time we ask for money, there are lots of people
willing to lend us the money we need, many funds, many
sovereign-wealth funds, many countries, many investors,”
Salgado said.  Uncertainty over the Greek government’s ability to secure
parliamentary support for its austerity program is pushing up
Spanish borrowing costs, Salgado said, adding that she’s “not
contemplating” the possibility of lawmakers rejecting the plan.  “For a day and a half, till the result of the vote on
austerity measures is known in  Greece , this uncertainty is going
to be there in the markets,” she said.  The first session of a three-day debate in Greece on new
budget cuts is scheduled to begin today. A vote is expected on
June 29 on the plan, which European leaders have said is a
prerequisite for further aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  