-- 
Same-Sex Marriage and America’s Expanding Ideal of Freedom: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-27T19:15:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/same-sex-marriage-and-america-s-ever-expanding-ideal-of-freedom-view.html
In 1960  Martin Luther King Jr .
banished Bayard Rustin from his inner circle. Rustin was a major
 civil rights figure  and also (it was widely and correctly
whispered) a gay man. According to King’s biographer, Taylor Branch, King felt he had “to avoid public accusations that he
associated with a homosexual.”  If you had told King that less than a half-century after
his death, the New York State Legislature would vote to legalize
marriage between two people of the same sex -- and that this was
the result of a social movement widely regarded as having been
modeled on his own -- he might well have been perplexed, or even
offended.  We like to think he would have come around. After all,
millions of Americans less visionary than King have done so. The
revolution in perceptions has been profound and unbelievably
quick, compared with the century-long struggle of blacks in
America.  In fact, the speed of the same-sex marriage movement
arguably had much to do with having the civil rights movement as
a role model. From its predecessor, it learned to be nonviolent,
to appeal to people’s basic decency, to plot a careful legal
strategy.  The marriage movement, too, was helped by hard data: In the
states where it has been put in place, it has proved to be a
commercial boon. Social justice, it seems, confers  economic 
benefits.  Above all, the marriage movement has been driven by family
relations (which is to say, love). It’s hard to think of someone
as “other” if he or she turns out to be your son or daughter.  What civil rights and gay rights have in common is that
they are both chapters in the still-unfinished American project
of freedom. One after another come the claims: of blacks, of
women, of Latinos, of the disabled, of gays. At first they’re
met with incredulity, then formal resistance, then ultimate
submission as other citizens come to realize that, “You know,
these folks have a point.” And so they’re added to the list.  It’s a learning process, among other things. The typical
conservative of today probably has more advanced views on
homosexuality than even King had a half-century ago.  Rest assured, this process is not over. A new chapter will
always be waiting to be written.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  