-- 
Serena Williams’s Wimbledon Comeback Ended by France’s Marion Bartoli

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-27T14:49:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/serena-williams-s-comeback-is-ended-by-bartoli-in-wimbledon-s-fourth-round.html
Defending champion  Serena Williams 
lost to  France ’s Marion Bartoli in the fourth round of
Wimbledon, ending her comeback after almost a year away from
tennis because of injuries and illness.  The 29-year-old American, a four-time champion at the All
England Club, was beaten 6-3, 7-6 (8-6) by the No. 9 seed on
Court 1. It was her earliest defeat at Wimbledon since 2005.  “To beat Serena is almost like a dream come true,”
Bartoli told the British Broadcasting Corp. shortly after the
match. “Serena is very imposing, is a huge opponent over the
net. I was trying to stay in my own bubble, trying to forget who
I was playing.”  Williams won last year’s tournament, and then lost almost a
year, dropping out of the top 10 last month and is now ranked
25th. Because of her success on the grass courts in  London , she
had been seeded No. 7. Serena and her older sister Venus, who
could only have met in this year’s finals, have won nine of the
last 11 Wimbledon singles titles. After today’s loss, Serena’s
ranking is projected to drop to around No. 180, according to the
women’s WTA Tour.  Williams was trying to equal  Germany ’s Steffi Graf in
winning three straight titles at the All England Club. It was
her earliest loss at Wimbledon since a third-round defeat in
2005, and she’s the first reigning women’s champion to lose
before the quarterfinals since Amelie Mauresmo of France in
2007.  Four Match Points  Moving Williams all over the court from the start with her
ground strokes, the double-handed Bartoli took the first set 6-
3. In the second set, both players held serve until 5-5, when
Bartoli broke as the American hit a backhand volley wide on
breakpoint. In the next game, Williams saved three match points
as Bartoli served. In the tie-break, Williams saved a fourth
match point with an ace at 5-6. Serving for the match leading 7-
6, Bartoli moved to the quarterfinals with a service winner.  “It was not easy mentally,” Bartoli said. “But I am in
the best shape of my life and I’m playing the best tennis right
now.”  The Frenchwoman produced ten aces, two more than Williams.
Bartoli struck 21 winners and made 17 unforced errors, while the
American had 29 winners and committed 20 mistakes.  No. 7 seed Williams had only returned to the women’s tour a
week before the start of Wimbledon. She lost in the second round
of a grass-court warmup event in Eastbourne,  England , to now
third-ranked  Vera Zvonareva . Bartoli, a 2007 runnerup at
Wimbledon, had won the Eastbourne event.  Injuries  Shortly after beating Zvonareva in last year’s Wimbledon
final for her 13th major, Williams hurt her foot after walking
through glass in a restaurant in Germany. The injury required
two operations, and then came treatment for blood clots in her
lungs in February. Williams had been sent to hospital by her
physiotherapist when she had difficulty breathing while on her
way to a party in  Los Angeles .  The week before the start of Wimbledon in Eastbourne, she
described her condition as “possibly career-ending” and even
“life-threatening.”  In an interview in Eastbourne, she said the experience
changed her outlook on tennis and life.  ‘Toughest Moment’  “I think my toughest moment was just mental,” she said.
“I went through so much and I thought, ‘Will I be able to play
tennis again? Do I even want to play tennis again, or do I just
want to get healthy again?’ That was the first and foremost
thing on my mind.”  Bartoli, 26, was the runnerup to Serena’s older sister and
five-time champion  Venus Williams  in 2007 at Wimbledon. It’s the
first time she’s beaten Serena Williams in three tries. She’s
ranked ninth by the women’s WTA Tour after winning at Eastbourne
and reaching the finals in  Indian Wells ,  California , and
Strasbourg. Earlier this month, she reached the French Open
semifinals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  