-- 
Signature U.S. Bankruptcy Trustee Objects to Proposed Asset-Sale Procedure

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-06-27T19:14:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/signature-u-s-bankruptcy-trustee-objects-to-proposed-asset-sale-procedure.html
Signature Styles LLC, the owner of
the Spiegel catalog, shouldn’t receive approval of proposed
bidding procedures for the “rushed” sale of its assets, the
U.S. Trustee overseeing the bankruptcy case told a judge.  U.S. Trustee Roberta A. DeAngelis asked the  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Wilmington, Delaware, to reject the proposed procedures
filed by the company, according to documents filed June 25.  Signature Styles asked for permission to designate Artemiss
LLC the stalking-horse, or lead bidder, to buy the company. The
fund, affiliated with Patriarch Partners LLC, has a contract to
buy the business in return for assumption of about $30 million
in financing obligations and as much as $10 million in customer
obligations, court papers show.  “Such a brief sale process is insufficient to allow the
debtors to reach all potential purchasers, and for all potential
purchasers to adequately perform due diligence,” DeAngelis said
in court papers. The trustee also objects to the request to pay
Patriarch an expense reimbursement of as much as $300,000.  “Regardless of the outcome of the auction, Patriarch will
benefit,” DeAngelis said. “Either Patriarch will be the
winning bidder, or if it is outbid, the additional proceeds will
be used to pay down Patriarch’s secured claim,” she added.  Signature Styles, based in  New York , listed assets of $48.6
million and debt of $87.6 million in Chapter 11 documents filed
June 6. It purchased the Spiegel business for $21.7 million at a
 foreclosure sale  in June 2009.  ‘Chilling’ of Bidding  “The net result will be a chilling of competitive bidding,
and the elimination of competition to Patriarch’s bid”
DeAngelis said. The lenders and equity holder are Patriarch
affiliates, court documents show.  The company’s other businesses include  Newport News  and
Shape Fx. Spiegel produces 75 percent of revenue, a court filing
said.  The case is In re Signature Styles LLC, 11-11733, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  