-- 
Eskom Profit More Than Doubles on Prices; Expansion Progressing

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-06-27T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/south-african-power-utility-eskom-s-profit-doubles-after-increasing-prices.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd., a South African
state utility supplying about 95 percent of the nation’s power,
said full-year profit more than doubled after it raised prices.  Profit jumped to 8.4 billion rand ($1.2 billion) in the
year ended March 31, from 3.6 billion rand, Johannesburg-based
Eskom said in its annual report released today. Sales rose 29
percent to 91 billion rand, while volumes gained 2.7 percent.  The regulator allowed the company to boost average tariffs
about 26 percent this year to fund 500 billion rand of spending
through 2017 to expand capacity and avoid a repeat of 2008
shortages that shut gold and platinum mines. Eskom has warned
supplies will be “tight” at least until the first unit at its
new Medupi plant begins generating power late next year.  “Eskom is well on track to be financially sustainable,”
Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dames  said in Johannesburg.
“Profit has increased, essentially driven by the tariffs.”  The company, whose biggest customers include  Anglo American
Plc (AAL) , Xstrata Plc and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., raised charges by
an average 25 percent last year and 31 percent in 2009, saying
prior increases lagged behind generating costs. It had struggled
to fund the expansion program, prompting the government to
provide about 350 billion rand of loan guarantees last year.  The expansion is “progressing well” and a “clear funding
plan is in place,” Dames said. Eskom raised $1.75 billion in
its first U.S. denominated bond issue this year and gained loans
from the  World Bank , the  African Development Bank  and the U.S.
Export-Import Bank, among others.  Bond Issue   Eskom isn’t planning to issue its second international bond
in the “short-to-medium term,” Paul O’Flaherty, Eskom’s
finance director, told reporters. Eskom will consider the issue
when market conditions become “favorable” to do so, he said.  Eskom’s primary energy costs, mainly coal purchases, jumped
23 percent to 35.8 billion rand in the year under review as
prices for the fuel rose and the volume of coal burnt climbed
1.6 percent to 124.7 million tons. Future coal cost increases
will probably be about 12 percent to 14 percent a year, Dames
said. Eskom, which generates more than 80 percent of its
electricity from the fuel, had an average 41 days of stockpiles
as of March 31, according to the annual report.  The generator isn’t expecting power outages, even as demand
climbs towards an expected winter peak of 37,500 megawatts next
month and after the utility couldn’t carry out enough plant
maintenance in the summer, Dames said. “There is a growing
maintenance backlog that will require plant shutdowns and this
must be addressed over the coming year,” he said.  Eskom, looking to double its 41,194 megawatt capacity,
would like to build a nuclear plant with a partner, he said.  Eskom expects to conclude talks with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  for
a revised electricity supply agreement for the mining company’s
aluminum smelters in  South Africa  by March 31, Dames said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  