-- 
South Korean Won Weakens Most in a Month as Europe Debt Concerns Broaden

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-06-27T06:55:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/south-korean-won-weakens-most-in-a-month-as-europe-debt-concerns-broaden.html
South Korea ’s won dropped the most
in a month as concern the European debt crisis won’t be
contained prompted investors to flee emerging-market assets.  European finance chiefs will decide on July 3 whether
 Greece  has met conditions for its next aid payment. South
Korea’s Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan on June 24 urged
contingency planning for potential external shocks to the
economy, including from  Europe .  “Concerns that Greece’s debt crisis may spread to other
European nations including Italy and Portugal is keeping
investors from emerging-market assets,” said Byeon Ji Young, a
foreign-exchange analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul. “The
concerns are weighing on stocks and the currency.”  The won dropped 0.6 percent to 1,085.63 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Earlier, the won fell 0.9 percent, the biggest
decline since May 23. South Korea’s Kospi index of shares
slipped 1 percent and foreign investors sold more stocks than
they purchased.  The  European Central Bank  has warned a Greek collapse would
cripple the nation’s lenders and hurt banks across the region
that are already under pressure to bolster capital. Bank default
swaps have surged on speculation a Greek bankruptcy would drag
down Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy, which have more than
2.7 trillion euros ($3.8 trillion) of bonds outstanding.  The yield on South Korea’s 4 percent bonds due March 2016
was unchanged at 3.96 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc. The government sold 800 billion won ($737 million)
of 20-year bonds at a yield of 4.37 percent, the Ministry of
Strategy and Finance said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  