-- 
South Korea’s Current-Account Surplus Widens as Car Makers Boost Shipments

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-06-27T23:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/south-korea-may-current-account-surplus-widens-to-2-26-billion.html
South  Korea ’s current-account
surplus widened to seven-month high in May as car and
steelmakers boosted overseas shipments and dividend payments to
foreign shareholders shrank.  The surplus was $2.26 billion, compared with a revised
$1.28 billion in April, the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement in
Seoul today. The current account is the broadest measure of
trade, tracking goods, services and investment income.  South Korea ’s exports have climbed at a double-digit pace
since November 2009 and hit a record in April even as the won
appreciated. A slowdown in U.S. growth and the fallout from
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis risk weighing on shipments.  “The talk of a soft patch in the global economy should bode
ill for exporters,” Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at
Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul , said before the
release.  The won dropped 0.6 percent to 1,085.63 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency has gained about 3.7 percent so far
this year, more than most of its Asian peers. The Kospi share
index fell 1 percent.  The stronger won may help ease inflation pressure, which
the Bank of Korea has tried to contain by raising  interest rates 
three times this year.  Imports Climb  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis rose 22.4 percent
last month from a year earlier, compared with a revised 23.7
percent gain in April, according to today’s statement. Imports
climbed 30.3 percent after expanding a revised 24 percent in
April.  Kia Motors Co. reported a 30.5 percent rise in its overseas
sales by volume last month from a year ago while shipments
abroad of steel products by POSCO and other steelmakers
increased 34.9 percent on global demand.  Overseas shipments probably rose 17.6 percent this month,
the smallest gain in four months, according to the median
forecast of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The latest
monthly trade data will be released on July 1.  The central bank raised the benchmark interest rate to 3.25
percent this month, the third advance this year, to respond to
inflation exceeding its target since January and record
 household debt . Governor Kim Choong Soo’s policy board meets
July 14 to decide whether to raise borrowing costs again.  The surplus on traded goods narrowed to $1.71 billion last
month from a revised $3.33 billion in April, today’s report
showed. The services account, which measures the flow of travel,
transport costs and royalties, posted a surplus of $15.5 million
in May, compared with a revised deficit of $179 million in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  