-- 
South Korea Agrees on Terms to Lift Eight-Year Ban on Canada Beef Imports

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-06-28T04:26:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/south-korea-agrees-to-terms-to-lift-eight-year-ban-on-canada-beef-imports.html
South Korea  agreed to conditions for
the resumption of beef imports from Canada, paving the way for
the lifting of an eight-year-old ban imposed after an outbreak
of mad-cow disease.  The government agreed to restrict shipments to beef from
animals younger than 30 months, the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said in an e-mailed
statement today. Imports may resume before the end of the year
if procedural steps are completed, it said.  Before the ban was imposed in 2003,  Korea  was the fourth-
biggest market for Canadian beef, with exports valued at C$50
million ($51 million) a year. Korea reopened its market to beef
from the U.S. in June 2008.  Canada  filed a complaint with the  World Trade Organization 
in April 2009 asking Korea to lift the ban. Canada agreed to ask
a WTO panel to suspend processing of the complaint once the
Korean government puts out an official notification on details
of the agreement to the public, today’s statement said.  The decision to lift the ban requires a review by
parliament, after which the government must implement on-site
inspections in Canadian packing houses before the market can be
reopened, the Korean statement said.  Scientists have said humans who eat certain parts of
animals infected with bovine spongiform encephalopathy, known as
mad-cow disease, may contract variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease,
a similar brain-wasting ailment.  Canada Beef  The World Organization for  Animal Health  in 2007 declared
Canada a “controlled BSE risk” country, the same status as the
U.S. That designation has allowed Canada to ship beef to 55
countries.  South Korea imported 12,000 metric tons of the meat from
Canada, or about 4 percent of purchases from overseas, in 2002,
today’s statement said. The nation bought 245,000 tons of
foreign beef last year, worth $1.1 billion, with  Australia  the
biggest supplier followed by the U.S., it said.  Cattle futures are up about 24 percent in the past year.
The price reached a record $1.21625 a pound on April 4 on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange and was last traded at $1.1130 a
pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul  at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  